Author of

9^»,

iWOOIMGtfTlBkc

[f < *■ ,%t It>-<

•• * f ! 'J ici t

ri J- r^ i^ '■i

'SlAiiSXtjM

VOL. L.

a

A NO V EL.

BY

MRS ALEXANDER,

AUTHOR OF

THE WOOING O'T,' ' HER DEAREST FOE,'

THE admiral's WARD,' 'AT BAY,' 'BY WOMAN'S WIT,

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1887.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

Vel

CONTENTS.

Now ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, ss.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth gilt, gs. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of ' The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

'Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

F. Y. WHITE & Co., 31 Soutliaiiiptoii Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

A PROPOSAL.

HE * up ' train was expected
momentarily at the little junction
of Galesford, from whence
a line branched off to some
villages and the county town.

A couple of commercial travellers,
whose large neatly-strapped cases were
piled on a hand-truck, stood at one end
of the platform, in conversation of an
amusing description, for they laughed loud
and frequently.

VOL. I. A

A gentleman, covered from head to foot
in a large dark ulster, walked to and fro
smoking a cigar, and peering sharply into
the thick mist which hid the line up to
a few yards beyond the station.

The loose wrap he wore did not conceal
his air of distinction. The eyes that
watched so eagerly for the train, were
light steely blue, his colouring was sunburnt
brown, somewhat too dark for his
hair and moustaches.

Five minutes behind time,' he said,
glancing at the clock over the door of
the booking-office, and addressing one of
the two porters who were waiting about.

It often is, sir ! You see they have
often to wait at Breton for the Alton-borough
passengers. It's express after
this.'

Look after my luggage ! It is in the
waiting-room. My name is on it — Captain
Lisle — I'll be back by the six-twenty, and
will not forget you.'

Thank ye, sir ! I'll take care of it
right enough.'

Two-fifteen ! and here it comes ! ' exclaimed
Captain Lisle, throwing away his

cigar as the engine rushed screaming out
of the dim distance, and approaching the
edge of the platform he peered sharply
into the carriages.

In a first-class compartment a young
lady sat alone. Lisle proceeded to open
the door.

Beg pardon, sir,' said the urbane guard.
This is a ladies' carriage — there's plenty
of room in the next.'

All right ! I know the lady ; she will
permit me to travel a few miles in her
company. Will you not '^ ' raising his
deer-stalker's cap.

Oh, Captain Lisle ! ' she exclaimed,
with a swift blush. ' Yes ! of course.'

Don't cram in any women or babies,'
said Lisle aside quickly to the guard,
pressing some coin of the realm into his
hand.

All right, sir ! ' significantly. ' Jump in.'
A shrill whistle, and they were off

I hope you will forgive my intrusion.
But as I had no chance of seeing you after
that telegram came, I thought I would try
to say good-bye en route!

He unfastened his ulster, and removed

his cap, showing a close crop of crisp
brown hair, and a rather good-looking resolute
face. His keen eyes grew softer
as they dwelt on his companion. She
was worth looking at. Her height, even
as she sat reclining in the corner of the
carriage, was evidently above the average ;
the eyes with which she regarded him
were very deep grey — large, liquid, and
at the moment pathetic, almost solemn ;
her eyebrows were many shades darker
than her hair, which admirers called
golden, and detractors red, both having
a fair show of reason for their opinions.
Indeed the contrast between her sunny
locks and her nearly black brows and eyelashes,
generally struck those who met her
for the first time. Her complexion was
of the purely fair description which goes
with hair of her colour, — and when in
reposes there was a haughty, refined expression
about her mouth, which, though
finely formed, was not small. Her travelling
dress of dark green cloth, simple and
compact, and a velvet hat of the same
colour, with a small plume of black-cock's
feathers, was most becoming. As Captain

Lisle spoke, a quiet smile parted her lips,
and she said gently, —

I have nothing to forgive : you are very
good to take the trouble. I fancied you
were at Chatsworth Castle by this time,
you started so early.'

I started at that unearthly hour to secure
some private conversation with you!

Indeed!'

Again a blush, fainter this time, flitted
over the lady's cheek.

Yes. I am going to say what may
perhaps offend you, — to interfere where
I certainly have no right, but my sincere
interest in you — my — my ardent regret
that fortune should treat you so unkindly,
urges me to risk making an ass of myself.'

You puzzle me ! I feel vaguely there
is something I do not quite understand
behind this sudden illness of my poor
grandmother. Everyone seemed so
sorry for me, — and Lady Mary, who is
kindness itself, said she feared she had
lost a great deal of money. Do tell me
what you know. You always seem to me
to know everything ! '

I wish I did not know the present state

of affairs, — and I wish sou did not look as
if those grand eyes of yours had been
wide awake all night.

Again she smiled, a somewhat tremulous
smile this time.

'Indeed I could not sleep! I was
haunted by the recollection of my many
quarrels with grannie, — who is really fond
of me, and has been very, very good to me!
I must try and make up to her for the past.'

I can imagine that Mrs Newburgh's
rule is of the iron rod order,' said Captain
Lisle. * Nor do I suppose that you are too
meek a subject ! I fear,' he added gravely,
softly, ' that a terrible reverse awaits her —
and you. The speculation in which she
has invested her whole capital has come to
grief, — and I fear she has lost everything.'

How do you know ? '

Sir Robert Everard told me all particulars
last night — when the other men had
left the smoking-room. Mrs Newburgh's
solicitor is also his. The sudden shock
has been too much for her, and brought
on a feverish attack.'

Do you mean to say that we shall
have no money at alle*'

I fear you will not ! Everard spoke
openly to me, knowing the interest I take
in you, of which I hope you too are
aware.'

We have always been very good
friends,' she said shyly, with quivering
lips.

Yes ! and for that friendship's sake I
am about to break my usual habit of not
interfering with what does not absolutely
concern me, — to risk the snubbing you are
quite capable of administering.'

He paused, and gazed for a moment at
the delicate, downcast face opposite to him,
his brows contracting in a sudden frown.

Why should I snub you?' she asked,
without looking up.

Wait till I have finished. Will you believe
me when I say that I was as sleepless
as yourself last night ? My fancy — no,
I am not an imaginative man — my experience,
depicted all the hardship of your lot ;
for I have known difficulties — money difficulties
; poverty, too, is a hundred-fold
worse for a woman, a proud, delicately-nurtured
woman, like yourself ; and for
you there is no escape, such as a man can

find In a good appointment — I hope for
one myself in India before many weeks
are over.'

But women can work too,' she said
wonderingly. * Why do you try to frighten
me ? '

Because I want you to seize the only
way of escape that offers.'
Escape ? How ? '

Hear me out ! I am going to rush in —
probably like a fool — where angels might
hesitate to tread ; but I know what life is,
and I must open your eyes. After Everard
had told me all he knew, I went to ray
room, and Waring, who had been dosing
over an evening paper — '

Was he a confidante of our troubles
too ? ' she interrupted, with a slight curl of
the lip.

He was! — that need not affect you.
Waring followed, and asked for a few
words with me. You know what a shy,
awkward fellow he is. Well, I was
amazed at his clearness and fluency — pray
hear me out. He said he came to consult
me, knowing that I had been on tolerably
intimate terms with Mrs Newburgh and

yourself all last season — in short, he confessed
— what I already guessed — that he
was desperately in love with you ; that he
was afraid you did not think much of him ;
and asked me if, under the circumstances,
I thought it would be good form to propose
for you ! He said it cut him to the
heart, to think of your being deprived of
anything that could give you pleasure or
comfort, — I must say he spoke like a
gentleman.'

It was very strange his consulting jj'^^ / '
she exclaimed, with unconscious emphasis.

I do not think it was,' he returned, with
studied composure, while he watched her
varying colour ; * we have become rather
chums.'

'And you?'

I advised him to make the venture,
and I made this opportunity to advise you
to accept him.'

Ah ! ' exclaimed the young lady, suddenly
pressing her handkerchief to her
brow. 'There must be an east wind. Such
a sharp pain shot through my temple !
Would you draw up that window .'* '

The pain was so severe that her voice

sounded unsteady. He obeyed — and resuming
his seat and his argument proceeded,
—

Waring is not a bad fellow, and he is
rich, really rich, no matter if the richness
is new or old. He is not as dull as he
seems, though dulness is no drawback to
a husband. He adores you ! — but he is
half afraid of you; you may reign supreme;
you can help your grandmother ; you will
even thank me hereafter for showing you
this way to escape from the horrors of
genteel poverty, only you must not hesitate
in your acceptance of him.' Lisle went on
impressively. ' He is a shy bird ; if you
are not kindly, he will flutter away ; you
need not affect any passion, simply promise
to be his wife. He has a high opinion of
your integrity and honour. He will trust
you, and when I come back after a few
years of broiling, I shall see you, I hope,
what you ought to be, a leader and an ornament
of society, perhaps to be rewarded
for my enormous unselfishness by a renewal
x)f your friendship and confidence ! '

While he spoke, his companion had
opened her travelling-bag, taken out a

flask of eau de Cologne, and dropped some
on her handkerchief, which she applied to
her forehead.

*Ah!' she said, ' it is a Httle better!'
She raised her eyes to his with a smile,
a polite smile. ' You are really very good
to take all this trouble for me : it is more
than I could expect ! You need not exhaust
yourself in persuasion : I really do
not dislike Mr Waring ; on the contrary,
he is evidently malleable, and by no means
bad-looking, — rather young perhaps, but
that is a fault which corrects itself. I
had no idea he thought of throwing the
handkerchief to me ! I am much obliged
for your warning not to scare a shy bird !
It is not always that a man is gifted with
a figure as well as a fortune.'

She spoke with languid composure,
keeping her eyes on his.

I am very glad you take so sensible a
view of my suggestion,' he returned, with
slight suppressed surprise ; * as to looks,
that is a matter of taste : I do not admire
the "prize-fighter" style myself; but
Waring is quite six or seven years older
than you are ! I assure you it is a relief to

my mind that you deign to accept my
counsel, and do not snub me for meddling.'


That would be a bad return for your
disinterested friendship. I do not think
many people would imagine you capable
of so Quixotic an effort to succour a damsel
in distress ! You do not do yourself justice,
Captain Lisle ! Now, do tell me something
of your own plans ! for I reciprocate your
friendly interest, I assure you.'

My plans,' he repeated, in a different
and less steady tone. * They are simple
enough. My uncle, General Forester,
has promised me an appointment on
his staff. It may keep me in India
the best part of my life ; but I shall
have leave of absence from time to time,
and so keep in touch with civilisation.'

That will be delightful ! And you
really have known common-place money
troubles like other people ? '

Yes ; very decidedly yes.'

He was feeling curiously displaced from
his position of superior firmness and
worldly knowledge. The unexpected
acceptance of his suggestion by this fair

gentle creature, who was barely nineteen,,
threw him off his balance.

Then I hope they are over for ever
she remarked, in a kindly tone. ' You
must pick up a Begum in India. Yet, not
I should not like to be less bountiful than
you are. I would give you a pretty, as well
as a wealthy wife. Mr Waring is handsome,
or rather he will develop into a handsome
man. I think you have chosen well

I did not choose at all. I simply did
my best to induce you not to throw away
a good chance. Are you serious ? I do
not quite understand you, Mona.'

She raised a warning finger playfully.

As I am not, according to you, to keep
my name much longer, pray let me hear
it always ; it is far prettier than Waring
Miss Joscelyn, if you please.'

She had grown quite animated ; a faint
colour replaced her extreme pallor ; her
large eyes sparkled ; she dominated the
conversation. Captain Lisle watched her
closely ; her manner was quite natural,
while his lost the curt decision which characterised
it at first. She questioned him
as to how many horses Waring could

keep, as to where they should live, — said
she was glad he was not encumbered with
landed estates, as she would like to ramble
about, and much more to the same effect,
half in jest. At length he looked at his
watch.

In ten minutes I must say good-bye,'
he said. ' I get out at the next station, and
wait for the four-fifty train to Galesford.'

What a long tiresome wait. You really
have sacrificed yourself to friendship.'

I have,' he returned emphatically. ' I
wonder if you exactly appreciate the sacrifice.'


I do indeed.'

May I not call and learn from your
own lips how you are going on ? '

You see it is a little uncertain where you
may find us. I fear they do not allow visitors
at the workhouse, which may be our destination,
if Mr Waring has not the goodness
to charge himself with our support.'

It is too bad that these wealthy new
men get the pick of everything ! Ah !
here we are. Do you know, it is awfully
hard to say good-bye ; I really feel a little
murderous towards Waring.'

Beware ! I have taken him under my
protection.'

*It is not good-bye, however; I will see you
in ten days or a fortnight. Till then, actio!'

He pressed her hand close, she withdrew
it in fierce haste ; the next moment
he was standing on the platform, yet
another, and the train was again in motion.
Miss Clifford kissed her hand with a saucy
smile as she passed out of sight. The
only other passenger who alighted gave
up his ticket, and Lisle was left to pace
the damp gravel, and think over the conversation
he had just held.

I am well out of it,' was his first
thought ; ' but she took my advice rather
differently from what I expected. I fancied
we would have had high-frown sentiment,
perhaps tears and despair. I suspect I
do not quite understand my fair friend.
How beautifully fair she is. I did not
dream she had so much pluck. By Jove!
she turned my flank by her ready acceptance
of my suggestion : but I fancy it
was a tremendous blow, for all that ! She
was growing fond of me — I know it, I feel
it — and / never was so near making a fool

of myself about any woman as about Mona
Clifford ; but it would not do ! Matrimony
is a hideous institution. Even Mona's fine
eyes, and general charm (she is charming !)
would lose their effect in a few years — perhaps
in a few months, and I might be a
brute, or she would think me one. Women
are so terribly unpractical and illogical 1
If they are worth their salt, they expect
the same constancy they bestow ; if they
are capable of making allowance, they
demand a wide margin for their own
vagaries. Now I really am loyal and
disinterested in wishing her to marry Waring.
I couldn't possibly undertake her
grandmother ! She would be too expensive
a luxury. Waring can afford to
pension her off; at any rate, Mona will
clearly understand that in arranging her
future I don't count. It would have been
wrong to allow her to make any mistake
or lose a good chance. I feel I have done
my duty. I wonder If we can renew our
platonic at any future time ? Mona at
the head of a good establishment would be
quite irresistible, and Waring is one of
those happy individuals who thinks no

evil. Yes, I have certainly done the
right thing for her and for myself, but
there's both force and fire under her indolent
softness. I wonder how she will
turn out. She surely does not admire
that big, rugged, overgrown schoolboy.
But she may choose to assert she does,
till she believes it. Women defy one's calculations.
Anyhow, I did not make my
early start this morning for nothing.'

Meanwhile Mona was carried deeper
and deeper into the gloom of the fast
closing October evening. Alone — unwatched,
she let loose the reins of her
self-control, and yielded to the storm of
shame and despair which rent her soul.

She had indeed ' grown fond ' of Lisle,
after months of frequent intercourse,
during which he had sought her with
so much carefully-veiled assiduity — and
won her confidence by a happy assumption
of elder-brotherly authority, flecked
with gleams of passionate admiration,
which seemed to flash out in spite of
himself, and were real enough. He had
roused her interest, and flattered her
youthful vanity — for St John Lisle was

VOL. I. B

a man of good position, a favourite with
fine ladies, a smart cavalry officer, of
whose success in life no one had a doubt.
To feel that she, a simple ddbutante,
exercised an influence and attraction on
such a man — was infinitely exhilarating.
Lisle had been the chum and favourite
brother officer of Mrs Newburgh's favourite
nephew, and this was an excuse for
an unusual degree of intimacy — which
had increased as time rolled on, and
reached a dangerous pitch during their
stay at Lady Mary Everard's, the last
blissful days enjoyed by Mona. Captain
Lisle had beofun to fear that he was
going too far, and was annoyed with
himself for his reluctance to draw back,
when the news of Mrs Newburgh's misfortunes
— the confession of young Waring,
came to relieve him from the gathering
difficulties of his situation. Now, a kind
of lurid light from the burning of Mona's
indignant heart seemed to bring out the
bitter truth with stinging distinctness.
She seemed to be present at that interview
between Lisle and Leslie Waring.
She knew, as though she had heard the

words, that Waring — having noticed the
understanding between her and the man
who was all but her avowed lover, had
asked him if they were engaged, — If it
would be interfering with his (Lisle's)
rights were he to offer himself to her
in this crisis of her fortune. Lisle had,
no doubt, disclaimed all wish to make
her his wife, and coolly given his approval
to Waring's pretensions. More, he had not
hesitated to recommend his rival ! What
a reverse to the picture her fancy had
hitherto presented, of Lisle vainly struggling
against his love for her, — hesitating
lest her relatives or herself should not
think him a sufficiently good match for
her, — of his ecstasy when the time came,
and she permitted him to see how dear
he had grown. Now behold ! the time
of trial came, and he was eager to hand
her over to another. How could she
have been so blind — so deluded ? Her
rage was more against herself than against
him. Her long slender fingers clutched
the arms of the seat with feverish force, in
her agony and self-contempt. How could
she have been so weak, so conceited, as

to suppose that she had become all In
all to such a man as St John Lisle ? Yet,
yet he did admire her and seek her ! A
hundred instances crowded on her memory
which might well have misled her ; important
trifles which could not have
occurred had he not loved her at the
time. If he had, why did he change
so suddenly ? What had she done to
forfeit the tenderness of which she was
so sure ? No ! She was not all self-deceived.
He was false, fickle, cruel —
she might be less hard upon herself!
Then she questioned the prudence of
her own action on hearing his astounding
proposal. Was it well to have played
the part she did, in affecting to entertain
it ? Would it have been wiser and more
dignified to have rebuked him for his
interference, and refused to listen to his
pleading ? For the present, every desire
was merged in her passionate wish to
hide her wounds, and make Lisle believe
she was as strong, as worldly, as indifferent
as himself, — that his conduct did
not cost her a pang. What a lesson he
had taught her of her own insignificance,

of the delusions she had trusted. As to
poor Waring, she bestowed small consideration
on his honest affection for her.
Of all the house-party at Harrowby Chase,
she had taken least notice of him. Their
previous intercourse had consisted of a
few meetings at evening parties, where
he had perseveringly asked her to dance,
and she had as perseveringly endeavoured
to evade him. Of this he was unaware,
as her manners were softly gracious, and
she hated to give pain.

Now this ungraceful, shy, inarticulate
young man was thrust upon her by Lisle,
who had so often turned him into ridicule.
Anything was good enough for a girl who
was penniless and almost unprotected ! It
would go hard with her, she thought, while
her cheeks glowed, and her heart beat
fast, — very hard, before she would consent
to marry him. It was almost impossible
he could desire such a union himself,
he always seemed so ill at ease in her
presence. She wished him a better fate !
Then the vision of Lisle rose before her,
distinguished, self-reliant, strong, always
ready to say the right thing — a man with

whom the highest dared not take a liberty,
and his voice vibrated again on the chords
of memory, his eyes looked into hers. No !
she had not deceived herself — there had
been moments when St John Lisle had loved
her passionately, and they had gone by
for ever. Grannie might regain her little
fortune, wealth might pour in upon them,
but nothing could ever be to her what
it had been. Between the present and
the past a great gulf yawned — which
nothing could fill up. And poor grannie !
Mona's heart reproached her for having
utterly forgotten grannie, who had been
so stunned by the terrible loss which had
befallen her. How her proud worldly
yet sound nature would wither under the
disgraces of poverty. Grannie who loved
her so well, even while she tyrannised over
her — she had often been rebellious, selfish,
now she would try and comfort the poor
old woman. She had built such hopes
too on Mona's success, now everything
was crumbled In the dust. The blank
dreariness of the future appalled her.
How could she live on — and If grannie
succumbed to this attack, what was to

become of her ? At the thought of her
isolation, of all the benefits she had received
from her aged protectress, her
grief and agitation found vent in a flood
of tears, which lasted for many miles,
yet brought relief and the calmness of
exhaustion.

The Honorable Mrs Newburgh, sister
of the late and aunt of the present Viscount
Sunderline, had had much disappointment
in her long life. Beginning
with all the advantages of rank and
beauty, she refused numerous excellent
offers — to accept, at the mature age of
thirty-five, the good-looking horsey son
of a Yorkshire squire. He loved her,
but he also feared her — which condition
of mind led to much concealment of
difficulties, and their consequent complication.
Mrs Newburgh was a woman
of strong will, and some business capacity,
and she always held on firmly to her own
small fortune. Her only son went into
the army, and was killed at Inkerman.
Her only daughter, who resembled her
father in character, formed a strong
attachment to an obscure young Scotsman,

whom she met accidently in the
Highlands, under somewhat romantic circumstances.
Mrs Newburgh set her face
against so disgraceful a union ; she dragged
her pretty daughter from one Continental
court to another, and finally tried to force
her to marry an Englishman of high
position and large fortune. This was too
much, and the weak, simple, frightened girl
fled to her Scotch lover. Her mother renounced
her, and never saw her face again.

From this time Mrs Newburgh devoted
herself to increasing her fortune, both by
saving and speculating. She returned to
London, and once more took her place
in society.

The announcement of her daughter's
death made little or no change in her
way of life ; she made no attempt to communicate
with the bereaved husband, and
seemed to forget she had ever had a
daughter. About five years later she
was startled by a letter from the minister
of a church in the neighbourhood of
Glasgow, describing the last moments of
Kenneth Craig, who had been a broken
man ever since the death of his wife,

and enclosing a brief letter to Mrs Newburgh
from the deceased. In it he simply
said that the pay of a bank clerk had
been too small to permit him to lay
anything by for his little girl, that his
own people were poor, that he trusted
her mother's mother would so far forgive
as not to punish the innocent, and begged
her to give the child sufficient education
to earn her bread hereafter. She was
named, he said, Mona Jocelyn, after her
mother and her uncle.

Mrs Newburgh answered this appeal by
sending for the little bright-eyed six-yearning,
and placing her at a school specially
arranged for children whose parents were
either dead or absent. It was in the
country, and kept by a quiet motherly old
maid. For some time her grandmother
never saw Mona, but one spring, when the
child had nearly attained her tenth year,
scarlet fever broke out in the school, and
little Mona was sent off without a word of
warning to Mrs Newburgh, who had been
spending a few months in town, and was
packed up and ready to start for the
Continent.

Though dreadfully annoyed by the
contretemps, Mrs Newburgh was struck
and pleased with the improvement and
promise of her granddaughter, especially as
she was very like her late uncle, her reddish
hair being a legacy from the plebeian
Craigs. Finally she took her abroad, and
placed her first at a convent school in
Paris, and after in an educational establishment
of a very superior description at
Dresden. Here Mrs Newburgh occasionally
visited her, and she remained till she
was seventeen, when she went to reside
with her grandmother in London ; she
continued to study music under the best
masters, and was always present when
Mrs Newburgh received. The spring
before the opening of this story, she had
been presented, her grandmother was well
satisfied with her social success, and hoped
for a brilliant marriage, when the blow fell
which ruined all.

It was quite dark when Mona reached
St Pancreas ; she was utterly weary, and
profoundly still.

As a porter threw open the carriage
door, a respectable foreign-looking man.

somewhat tan-coloured in complexion, and
pear shaped In figure, going small to the
feet and spreading out roundly above, put
him aside. Raising his hat, he said in
German, —

Welcome, my fraulein ! I hope you are
not fatigued.'

'Yes, a little, Wehner! How is my
grandmother ? '

Better, my fraulein ! but weak ! ah,
very weak. She is looking anxiously for
you. If you get into the cab, I will find
your baggage.'

>^^^^

ANOTHER.

O N A employed the interval
passed in the darkness and solitude
of the cab which conveyed
her home, in a resolute effort
to regain her self-possession. She dreaded
to meet grannie's keen, observant eyes ;
she dreaded too, the mood which her severe
losses would most probably have induced.
Mrs Newburgh, though generally keeping
herself well in hand, had her tempers, and
Mona became a favourite chiefly because
she was not frightened by them. She was
far from realising as yet the total loss
which had befallen.

The door was opened by Mrs Newburgh's
maid, a very important person, with whom

Mona had not unfrequent differences of
opinion. Her face was expressive of ill-temper
and disgust.

Mrs Newburgh has been writing
herself and everyone else because she
fancies you are late, miss,' was her
salutation.

I do not think I am, Hooper !'

I daresay not ; only you see she is all
wrong about time — a minute or an hour,
it's all one to her. I never thought you
would see her alive. After she read about
that cruel deceitful, swindling company in
the paper, she sent off Mr Wehner for Mr
Macquibble. After they had talked a bit,
the bell rung sharp ; I was called, and there
was Mrs Newburgh in a dead faint. I
thought she would never come to. We
called the doctor and put her to bed, but
she had three more faints before night.
Then we telegraphed for you, miss. Nothing
would keep her in bed this afternoon,
— she got up and dressed.'

Poor, dear grannie ! I will go to herat
once ! '

Won't you have a cup of tea first, miss ?"
you are looking dreadful bad ! '

No, thank you, Hooper ! '

She went quickly upstairs to her grandmother's
room, and having paused for a
second at the door, went In softly.

Mrs Newburgh sat at a writing-table
covered with letters, papers, account and
cheque books — some notes and gold at
her right hand. She was wrapped in a
morning-gown of dark red cashmere, and
her grey hair was neatly arranged under
her lace cap ; but Mona was startled by
the ghastliness of her face. Mrs Newburgh
had borne the wear and tear of time
well, and having accepted her age without
a struggle for youthful appearance, did
not look her seventy-six years. Now she
miorht have been a hundred. Her cheeks
seemed thinner and more sunken; wrinkles
had come about her mouth, the muscles of
which were relaxed into a downward curve;
her face was deadly white ; her keen dark
eyes were dim and frightened ; the hands
which lay on the table were yellow and
tremulous. Mona's heart thrilled with
pity at the sight of such a wreck.

Oh, grannie ! — dear grannie ! ' was all
she could say, coming quickly to her, and

gathering up the cold, withered hands into
her own, as she kissed her cheek.

The old lady clasped her almost convulsively.


I thought you would never come,' she
whispered brokenly. * Do you know that
everything is gone ? — everything ! We
cannot stay here. This is the last money
I can call my own ' — and she freed one
hand to clutch the gold and notes. ' I
don't seem able to understand the
figures or anything! You will not leave
me, Mona ? Hooper is so cross that ' —
gathering force by a supreme effort, and
speaking with something of her natural
decision—' I should in any case dismiss
her ; for me all is over. I am too old
to struggle any longer. I have fought
a brave fight, but Fate is against me.
Mona, my child, can you forgive me for
losing the little fortune I intended for
you ? Somebody told me I ought to
draw out of that company — I forget who
I forget all the names ; but I thought I
might wait a little longer — the interest
was so high — and I have beggared you !
Can you forgive ? '

Forgive you ! ' cried Mona, sinking on
her knees and clasping her arms round
her trembling grandmother. ' What have
I to forgive ? Rather let nne pray your
forgiveness for my want of obedience and
suggestiveness ! Where should I be but
for you ? I owe you everything ! Send
away Hooper — I will be your maid, your
nurse, your servant, — anything that can
help or comfort you ! '

Foolish, hasty child!' murmured Mrs
Newburgh, laying her hand tenderly on
the young head pressed against her. ' I
believe you love me a little.'

And the poor, deathlike face brightened
for a moment, as the sceptical, world-hardened
woman caught a breath of the
divine consolation human love alone can
give, and which all the kingdoms of this
world and the glory of them cannot replace.

I do love you, dear ! I will do whatever
you wish ; and do not be so cast
down — something will be arranged for us.
We can go away and live in the country,
then we shall not want expensive dresses,
and — '

You little know ! — you little know ! '

murmured Mrs Newburgh. ' Thank God,
I have few debts ! I think I have paid
every one — intending to go abroad for
some months. This has been an expensive
year, and there was no time for you to
make a good alliance. No time — no time!'

But, grannie dear, you do not know
what prince in disguise I may captivate
said Mona, rising and drawing a chair
beside her. ' Penniless girls marry often.'

She would have said anything to cheer
her.

Ay ! but no jewel looks well if it is not
well set. Men may not want money with
their brides, but they are almost always
repulsed by mean surroundings. I see no
hope anywhere. None — none ! '

There was a long pause. Then Mrs
Newburgh began with an effort to explain
how matters stood. It was pitiable to
hear how she lost the thread of her narrative
and struggled to regain it — how she
called people by wrong names, and repeated
herself over and over again, — insisted on
having the money counted out before her,
and strove to separate it into different portions.
At last she perceived her own in-vol.

I. c

ability to convey her meaning, and leant
suddenly back in her chair.

Everything fades from me,' she said ;
yet I am not imbecile.'

No, no ! dearest grannie ! This confusion
is only from physical weakness.
Do not try yourself any more. I will
write to Mr Oakley — to your solicitor —
to come here tomorrow ; he will put
things in order, and tell me what we
ought to do. Let me lock up all these
papers and the money, and give you
some dinner or tea or something. Thinking
will do us no good. To-night I will
tell you all about Lady Mary and my visit,
then I will sit by you till you are asleep.
Hooper shall put the chair bed beside
yours. I shall sleep here to-night.'

*It would be best,' murmured Mrs Newburgh,
gladly resigning herself to her
grand - daughter's guidance. * I do not
want much ; but for you, — ah, Mona !
it is hard ! You must pay Hooper and
send her away, and Wehner too : we
want no men-servants now.'

The explanations of Mrs Newburgh's

oo

trusty solicitor were indeed a revelation
to Mona. The mysteries of the stock
market were unfolded to her wondering
gaze ; and she learned that besides the
considerable sum absolutely paid on the
purchase of shares, there was a terrible
liability in the shape of ' calls ' to the full
value of these shares ; and as a banking
business was connected with the gold
mine association, Mrs Newburgh's whole
property was subject to the demands of
depositors, and that she could not call a
farthings her own.

The house in Green Street having been
bought by her, Mr Oakley advised Mrs
Newburgh remaining in it till obliged to
turn out, as she was rent free. He was
most useful in paying and dismissing
the servants. The German major-domo,
Who had been for many years with Mrs
Newburgh, begged to be allowed to remain
till his mistress left — without wages ;
it was, he said a bad season to find another
engagement, and he thought he could
be useful to the ladies, even while looking
out for a situation, and so he proved himself.

While these changes were going on,

Mona was profoundly anxious about her
grandmother. At times she was keen,
eager, fully alive to what was going on ;
then a cloud would gather over her poor
brain, and things seemed to slip from her.
She could not bear Mona out of her sight,
and was reluctant to let any other relatives
approach her. When urged by Oakley to
acquaint her nephew, Lord Sunderline,
with the state of her affairs, she asked
sharply what good that would do ?

He has little enough for himself, and
never forgave me for adopting Mona.'

But, my dear madam, some steps must
be taken to provide for the future.'

I wish Nature would provide for me,'
returned Mrs Newburgh, with a deep sigh ;,
I am a helpless encumbrance now.'

I am sure no one else thinks so,' said the
solicitor soothingly. ' Is there not some
balance at your bankers that you might
place in — say Sir Robert Everard's hand,
just to secure some ready money ? '

I will see ; I will look into my accounts,
but for the present I am too tired to discuss
anything further.'

Mrs Newburgh could not, however, complain
of any want of interest on the part
of her numerous friends and acquaintances ;
she was overwhelmed with letters of condolence,
of inquiry, of the most impossible
suofCTestions.

These were generally read aloud by her
grand-daughter, or as much of them as she
would listen to. Sometimes she would
grow feverish over attempted calculations ;
sometimes she would sit for hours deadly
silent.

The fourth day after her return home,
Mona was as usual in attendance on her
grandmother, and making out a list of such
necessaries as they might take with them,
when two letters arrived by the second delivery.
One was from Sir Robert Everard
a distant cousin of sirs Newbury's —
and offered her a cottage which used to
be occupied by one of the curates of the
parish, suggesting that she might remove
some of her furniture there before the
final crash came, and adding much kindly
counsel. The other was in a bio, firm but
unknown hand. Mona turned to the signature
— it was ' Leslie Waring.' She had

almost forgotten him in the painful excitement
of the last few days, though the bitter
remembrance of Lisle's advice never left
her. Every night u^hen she had read or
softly talked her grandmother to sleep,
when all was still and dark, she lived over
again the fiery ordeal of that conversation
in the train, and looked, shuddering, at the
dreary, lonely future, through which she
must do battle alone. To whom could she
turn, on whom could she lean, when the
man who seemed to hang on her words —
whose eyes spoke the warmest devotion,
shrank from her at the first muttering of
the storm ? But as to when Mr Waring
would declare himself, or whether he ever
would, she gave no thought. Now the
momentous question on which she would
be called to decide stared her in the face,
and filled her soul with fear and disgust.

I cannot read this letter to you, grannie ;
could you read it yourself 1 '

Why ? What is it ? '

It is marked private, and is, I see, from
Mr Waring ; do you remember him ? '

Yes, I do ! Give it to me. Where are
my glasses '^. '

Mona sat and watched the haggard,
hopeless face, as her grandmother perused
the Ones, gradually growing less drawn,
less desponding, while her own heart sank
lower and beat faster.

Thank God,' murmured Mrs Newburgh
at last, heaving a deep sigh as she laid down
the letter; ' all is not quite lost yet.' Mona
did not speak. * Mona ! read it,' she continued
; ' I suppose you know the contents ;
read it, I say repeated Mrs Newburgh
impatiently.

Mona took it and read with nervous
rapidity, —

Dear Mrs Newburgh, — I venture to
trouble you with a letter, because I have
twice tried in vain to see you or Miss
Joscelyn. I feel it is awkward and difficult
to approach the subject on which I am
about to address you, when I have had so
few opportunities of making myself known,
but I earnestly hope you will exonerate me
from the charge of presumption, and that
Miss Joscelyn will not refuse to let me explain
myself to her personally. If I dare to
be somewhat premature, it is because I believe

I might be of some use in the present
crisis, were I so fortunate as to be accepted
by the lady to whose hand I aspire. Indeed,
under any circumstances, I should be
proud to be of the smallest service to you,
and beg to assure you that I am ready to
meet your wishes In all ways. Looking
anxiously for your reply. — I am, yours
faithfully, Leslie Waring.'

There was a short silence when Mona
ceased.

A very good letter,' said Mrs Newburgh,
with a little gasp, looking with
pitiful, Imploring eyes at her grandchild.

I wonder if he composed it himself,'
observed Mona quietly.

My child, could you make up your
mind to marry this young man ? I have
noticed his admiration of you. He writes
like an honest gentleman. Let me have
the comfort of knowing that you have
escaped the ills of poverty.'

Oh, grannie, It is a tremendous price
to pay for safety ! Mr Waring maybe
a better man than I deserve ; but I
do not care for him. He seems to mean

awkward big boy, — dull and unformed.'


Mrs Newburgh sighed deeply, and
closed her eyes.

I leave it to yourself. I am such a
failure, I dare not urge my advice on anyone.
I was too urgent with your mother.
Do as you will, Mona.'

Oh ! what ought I to do ? ' exclaimed
Mona. * It is awful to think of spending
one's whole life with a man to whom
you are indifferent ; it is cruel to refuse
the only efficient help for you, dear
grannie.'

Think of yourself — yourself only ; as
for me, I — ' her voice grew feeble, her
words inarticulate, her head fell back, and
to Mona's dismay she became insensible.


All other considerations were forgotten
in the efforts to recover her. The faithful
Wehner went swiftly for the doctor, who
happened to have returned from his morning
rounds and came at once.

It's a bad business these repeated
attacks,' he said to Mona, after he had
seen his patient. ' Her nerves are all

wrong. Her mind must be kept at ease
somehow. Get her out of this ! '

We expect Sir Robert Everard the
day after tomorrow, and then we shall
decide what to do,' faltered Mona.

The sooner the better, my dear young
lady,' returned the doctor, who knew Mrs
Newburgh well. * She will go off in one
of these attacks, or her mind will become
seriously impaired. A woman of her age
can hardly stand the shock of such a reverse.
Keep her very quiet ; she seems
drowsy — the best thing for her is a good
sleep ; do not leave her ; she must be
watched. I will look in this evening
about seven.'

Mona's thoughts were sorely troubled
as she kept watch at her grandmother's
bedside. She knew that her marriage
with Waring — or even the prospect of it,
would be the best restorative for her only
friend, the woman who had been a mother
to her, who had saved and worked to
amass the means of independent existence
for her, who had loved her after her
own hard but tenacious fashion. She recalled,
with a swelling heart, her grandmother's

watchful economy, her self-denial
in all things necessary to herself. She did
not doubt that any niggardliness towards
her grandchild was for her future good.
How wise and judicious she had been in
her guidance of their lives. If she had
shown too strong a tendency to marry her
grand-daughter as soon as possible to the
highest bidder, she only acted according
to her lights — to the creed of her world
and her period. Was it well for Mona to
refuse the means of giving her a longer
and brighter spell of life ? Dare she incur
the responsibility of her possible death ?
What would she gain — what had she to
hope for, in an unmarried life, that she
should reject this kind-natured man who
only asked leave to devote his fortune to
her service. With the tendency of youth
to believe in the perpetuity of the present,
she thought that love with her was over
for ever. She could never believe anyone
again. She was not angry with Lisle, so
much as disenchanted ; her anger was
more against herself, for her weakness and
credulity.

A soft tap at the door attracted her at

tendon ; she rose and cautiously opened
it.

Madame Debrisayay is below, wanting
to speak with you, ma'am said the woman
who had replaced both cook and housemaid.


^ I should like to see her ; could you
stay for a little with Mrs Newburgh while
I eo downstairs.'

Yes'm. I think Mr Wehner is just
come in. I will ask him to answer the
door, and come back directly.'

Having given a few directions, Mona
ran downstairs lightly, well pleased to have
a confidential talk with her visitor.

Madame Debrisayay had been her greatest
friend when she was at school in Paris.
There she had been the junior music mistress,
and Mona had been immensely attracted
by the kindliness and good-humour
of the hard-working teacher.

When Mona left, Madame Debrisayay
moved to London, and with Mrs Newburgh's
help contrived to make a good
connection as a music and singing mistress.
She gave Mona lessons, or rather assisted
her in practising for an expensive master,

and continued her warmest admirer and
devoted friend. Both Madame Debrisayay
and her late husband the Captain were
British subjects, being natives of the
Emerald Isle, but she deemed it wise to
pose as a foreigner, with a view to obtaining
a better position in her profession; and
possessing dramatic instincts, she played
her part artistically, speaking English with
a foreign accent, and even brokenly at
times, a proceeding she justified by asserting
that the late Debrisayay and herself were
really French, being descended from the
Huguenots who had fled from the persecutions
of Louis the Fourteenth.

The small fireless dining-room looked
so dismal and dark that chill November
afternoon, that Mona called Wehner to
light the gas, that she might see her
friend's face.

Oh ! me dear child 'sounded like child)
her native accent came out when she
was much moved, ' I have only just come
back from the sea side, and heard some bad
news, so I ran round to get at the truth
from yourself.'

You cannot have heard anything worse

than the truth, Deb,' returned Mona.
^ Poor grannie has lost everything. I
scarcely know what is to become of us.'

Dieu des Dieux! you don't say so.
Don't tell me you have to face the black
death ! for that's what poverty is. There
is no misfortune like it, and / know. Oh,
my dear — my jewel, can you see no way
out of it ?'

No ; no way I should care to try.'
Ha ! there is a blink of hope somewhere
then ? How is your dear good grandmother
? How will she ever bear 'going
down ? " '

She is very unwell and weak : I am
quite frightened about her.'

And no wonder ! '

Madame Debrisayay untied her veil, and
sat down with a despondent air. She was
a plump woman, under middle height, with
dark eyes, iron - grey hair, a decidedly
turned-up nose, a wide, smiling mouth,
which was rarely quite closed over her
beautifully white teeth.

Tell me all about everything.'

And Mona explained as far as her
imperfect knowledge permitted.

Those promoters and scamps who getup
these companies to rob and plunder the
world ought to be hung ! I know the
cruel way they work. You pay a few
pounds on each share, and all goes swimmingly
for a bit, and then you take more,
and chuckle over the good income they
bring in, never doubting that their value
will double by-and-by ; then comes the
crash, and you find all you possess clawed
up by those villains — and I'm afraid they
will make a clean sweep of poor dear
Mrs Newburgh's money, that she was so
fond of. Not but that she was generous
and kind too,' added Madame Debrisayay,
hastily correcting herself.

I am afraid they will ! I try hard to
think what will become of us, — of what I
ought to do,' returned Mona, with a deep
sigh. ' I fear I am very useless. What
can I do to earn money ? '

You earn money ! Why, it is hard
enough for those who have been trained
for work to find the means of existence ;
and you — ' here she found her handkerchief
necessary. ' That I should live to hear
you speak of such a thing ! Not that the

work Itself is hard — an idle life is the
worst of all ! — it's the looking for it, and
the failures, and the waiting. No, my
dear, you must make up your mind and
marry some nice rich man.'

Mona laughed, but her laugh was not
merry.

Dear Deb ! you are as imaginative as
ever ! Nice rich men are not plentiful,
nor are they ready to marry penniless girls.'

Yes, Englishmen are. And you must
not be too hard to please. I remember
that night I went to Mrs Vincent's soirée
musicale, to play the accompaniments, there
was a fine, elegant, distinct man talking
to you, and watching you. I asked you
about him after, but you would only
laugh. You told me his name, but I
cannot think of it.'

Mrs Vincent's party,' said Mona, blushing.
' There was a crowd of very polite
gentlemen there,' she added evasively.

How well she remembered that blissful
evening — what a thrill of pain the mention
of it sent through her heart.

Ay ! but this one was more than polite.
He was a Captain — Captain Lisle, that's

it. Now, why wouldn't you take
him?'

Because he never asked me for one
thing said Mona, nerving herself to
speak lightly and smile carelessly. * I
suspect he is a man who wants a
great deal of money, and has very
little.'

Oh ! he isn't badly off! I know they
were talking of him, and of a rich widow
who wanted to marry him, and Mrs Vincent
said he was too independent to be a
fortune-hunter, — that he had six or seven
hundred a year, to say nothing of his
pay.'

That is not being rich,' returned Mona,
trying to evade the subject, but making a
mental note of the fact that Lisle was not
poor ; then a sudden impulse prompted
her to confide her difficulties to her shrewd,
sympathising friend. * But I am in a painfully
undecided state of mind about a really
rich man who has written to my grandmother
asking leave to '* pay his addresses
to me," as old-fashioned people
say.'

Thank God ! ' exclaimed Madame

VOL. I. D

Debrlsay devoutly. * And will he do,
dear ? '

A week ago I should have said certainly
not! Now,' her voice broke, 'when
I think of poor grannie's wistful eyes when
I hesitated, I feel I ought not to refuse !
Then she fainted away, as if she could bear
no more. How can I rob her of her last
hope, I, who have been so much trouble ?
And yet, the idea of marrying this man is
horrible.'

Her lips trembled, the long pent-up despair
and anguish of her heart would be no
longer controlled. Covering her face, she
burst into tears, struggling hard to suppress
the bitter sobs which would come.

'Why, my darling', is he a monster?'
asked Madame Debrisayay, dismayed.


< No — o,' said Mona, when she could
articulate. 'He is a good-natured, well-meaning
young man, rather tiresome and
heavy. I used to dance with him last
season, and he called here a few times.
Then he was staying at the Chase (oh !
it was such a pleasant party !), but he did
not seem to notice me much. Then this

morning came a letter from him expressing
a wish to marry me.'

Small blame to him!' ejaculated Madame
Debrisayay. ' And are you quite sure
he is rich ? '

I know nothing about it, but grannie
seems quite sure.'

Is he a fright ?'

Well, no. Lady Mary thinks him rather
handsome ; but I have seen some quite
ugly men I thought better looking.'

I'll ask you just one question more ;
don't think I want to pry into your heart,
but, do you love anyone else '^. '

No, Deb, I do not,' said Mona, believing
she spoke the truth, and meeting her
friend's eyes steadily.

Then, my dear, you marry him out of
hand, and turn your back on misery. That
man is the right sort : he stands by you in
the time of trouble ; before a year is out,
you will be ready to eat him — mark my
words ! '

If I could hope to do so!' said Mona,
with a deep sigh.

Ah ! Mona, my dear child ! it's better
to find love growing after marriage than

■"S?5»

to watch it die out, and rake the ashes
together, and try and try to keep it alight,
and burn up your own heart in vain I
Take this honest soul, and make him
happy, and you'll be happy yourself. A
good man is not to be found every day.
As for the sort of poetical, graceful, mutual
love young creatures dream about, I'll not
say it never exists, but it is as scarce as
blue roses. My dear, for one heart that
can give it, there are a thousand made
of coarser stuff. You marry this man,
and give your poor dear grandmother a
bright sunset before she goes. What's
his name ? ' concluded Madame Debrisayay
abruptly.

Leslie Waring — '

Hem ! I never heard it before — and
I hear a lot of gossip. Is he a new
man ? '

I fancy he is, but I know very little
about him.'

You are looking ill, very ill, dear. I
suppose you never go out ? No ? I
thought not. Now my pupils have not
come to town yet, so while I have time
I'll come over and stay with Mrs Newburgh,

so that you may take a little walk ;
nothing like fresh air for keeping the
nerves in tune.'

Thank you very much — and now I am
afraid I must go back to grannie. Have
you changed your rooms yet .^ How have
you been ? I am so selfish about my own
troubles that I have forgotten to ask you.'

I am as fresh as the flowers in May.
I was dead beat at the end of the season
but it was a good one — so I went to
Southey to stay with the Winklemans.
He is bandmaster to one of the regiments
there. She is a sweet little Frenchwoman,
I knew her in Paris. I had a very nice
time, and it freshened me up. I have
found very good rooms in Melbourne
Villas, and cheaper than what I had.
I have a big bedroom, and a nice parlour.
The woman of the house is a
widow, and glad to have a permanent
tenant. You'll come to see me, dear,
one day ? '

Oh, yes ! It is such a comfort to talk
to you, and tell you things. You dear,
good Deb ! All I have told you is a dead
secret.'

Of course it is. I know I talk a good
deal, but I never let out anything I was
trusted with. Now, God bless you.
Mind you write me word tomorrow that
you have agreed to marry Mr Waring.
There's my address. Ain't my new cards
pretty ? '

YES.

Keep partially restored Mrs Newburgh
; but next morning her
grand-daughter observed that
she was restless and watchful
especially of herself. The doctor forbade
her leaving her bed, as the weather
was extremely cold, and a chill might be
fatal.

When Mrs Newburgh's toilette de lit
was made, and her pillows properly arranged,
Mona took her work and sat down
beside her — feeling quite sure that her
grandmother was making up her mind to
speak. This change in the somewhat
abrupt, domineering old woman touched

her — It was such a confession of utter
defeat.

You will be glad to see Sir Robert,
grannie,' she began. ' He will give us
some good advice.'

Not half so good as Mr Oakley can
returned grannie querulously. 'He is a
mere country gentleman, and nothing can
save me from total ruin. What troubles
me is that letter of Mr Waring's. It
ought to be answered. I think I could
manage to write, if you bring me the large
blotting-book.'

Yes, of course, it ought to be answered,'
returned Mona, very gravely.

But how ? ' asked Mrs Newburgh. ' If
you refuse to see him, all is over. If you
consent, it implies acceptance.'

Not quite, grannie. I have been
thinking all night long what I ought
to do — what I can do. It seems impossible
to decide. I believe I could
make up my mind better if I had some
conversation with Mr Waring. I am
so indifferent, that I do not think his
presence would even confuse me.'

Do see him, Mona ; your feelings

may be touched when you find yourself
face to face with a man who sincerely
loves you. And this man has proved
his sincerity.'

Or his determination to gratify his
whim, cost what it may,' added Mona.

You have no right to impugn his
motives. Great as my desire is to see
you lifted safe above the bitter flood of
poverty, I would not urge you to a
repulsive marriage.'

Forgive me, grannie. I am ungracious,
selfish. If I marry Mr Waring,
I will do it cheerfully.'

She rose and brought the writing
materials. ' I will see him, but I do
not promise to accept him, unless — '

Let him plead his own cause,' interrupted
Mrs Newburgh, stretching out
her hand for pen and paper. ' He will
induce you to take a different view, I
am sure.' With difficulty she traced a
few lines, excusing their brevity on the
score of illness, and asking him to call
on the following day, when Miss Joscelyn
would receive him. ' You must address
it, dear. He does not know your hand.'

It is of no consequence,' said Mona ;
removing the writing materials ; and taking
out an envelope, she sat down to
direct it.

It is not natural, Mona, to be so
cold and indifferent. Yet I have not detected
any liking on your part for any
other man, except, indeed — '

No, no,' interrupted Mona quickly.
I have no preference for any one, rest
assured, dear grannie.'

Then, Mona, you will love young
Waring when he is your husband.'

Oh ! yes, I daresay I shall. Now,
grannie, I am going to read you the
paper, try and listen — it may rest your
brain a little.'

I will, Mona, I will, because you have
given me a little hope.'

The rest of the dull, drear November day,
Mona moved slowly perhaps, but firmly,
as if keenly alive to the work she had
to do. But side by side with her clear
perception of duty and responsibility, was
another sense of coming pain and sacrifice.
Were she alone, with only self to provide
for, she could launch herself upon the

ocean of life — fearlessly, if hopelessly. But
she must not desert her grandmother ! and
if she could provide for her in no other
way, she was almost bound to provide
for her by 'accepting service' — so she
termed it in her own mind — with Mr
Waring. If only — it was not to be marriage.


Late in the afternoon a card was brought
her. 'Captain St John Lisle, — th Hussars.'
She thought an instant, pencilled a line on
it, ' So sorry ! I cannot leave Mrs Newburgh,'
and sent it back to him.

This incident was in Waring's favour.

I should like to tell him that I am
engaged to his protege, when we next
meet,' she thought. ' Yet how base it is
to be thus influenced by pique against
one man, in my acceptance of another, —
another who perhaps really loves me,
for I suppose I shall accept him. As
George Elliot says, " One may rave upon
the heights, but you know that your persistent
self awaits you on the plain," the
terrible dead level of necessity to which
I am fast sinking. But, right or wrong, I
will pose to Captain Leslie as a hardheaded

worldling. He shall not pity me,
or suspect my contemptible weakness.
He shall not fancy he was In such danger
of being dragged down by my misfortunes
that it was necessary to pass me on to
someone else. Could I have betrayed
my feelings so completely, that he should
think it necessary to take decided measures
for self defence ? Yet how utterly I believed
in him ! Was I self-deceived, or —
but I will not think any more of myself,
and my folly, my contemptible folly ! I
ought to forget self altogether. It is the
best way to be happy. Ah ! shall I ever
be happy again ? '

Captain Lisle was not the only visitor
to Green Street that day. Late in the
afternoon, Sir Robert Everard was announced.


I cannot see him,' murmured Mrs
Newburgh. ' You must go, Mona — explain
how incapable I feel.'

Sir Robert was a thorough country
gentleman. He seemed to bring an
atmosphere of the woods and fields with
him into the chill, dull dining-room, which
had a deserted air. A middle-aged.

middle-sized man, plump and rosy, with
pepper - and - salt - coloured mutton - chop
whiskers, looking always as if he had
come fresh from a bath. His shirt fronts
were the knowest, his clothes the glossiest,
his voice had a mellow ring in it, which
atoned for the loud, authoritative key in
which he usually spoke.

Well ! ' he exclaimed, taking Mona's
hand in one of his, and patting it with
the other, ' how is the poor grannie ?'
I protest I never was more cut up than
when I found how desperately she has
been swindled ! She would stick to the
ship, in spite of all that Oakley or I
could say. The few solvent shareholders
backed out some time ago, and the rest
are mostly men of straw, so they'll not
leave Mrs Newburgh a rap.'

Poor dear grannie is very, very miserable,
Sir Robert. It is curious that so
clever a woman should have believed in
what many of her friends and advisers
doubted ? '

She was always obstinate, my dear,
devilish obstinate ! However, I have a
bit of good news. A friend of mine wants

to buy the house. He will give a decent
sum too ; and I want your grandmother to
convey the money to me for you, or some
legal jugglery of that kind. Go, ask her
if she will be able to see me and Oakley
tomorrow, that we may settle about it.
It will be a something between you and
want'

I will go and tell her,' said Mona,
hastening away. ' Will it be enough to
save me from the necessity of marrying
anyone ? ' she thought.

Sir Robert Everard put his hands In his
pockets, and paced the room whistling
softly.

Poor old soul ! won't last long, I daresay.
The girl will marry : no doubt of
that ; she is deuced handsome — a well-bred
one too. Would run smooth and easy
in double harness. Fellows are cooler and
more cautious than they were in my days,
but there are plenty of rich ones who
might indulge themselves in a handsome,
penniless wife.'

My grandmother will be glad to see
you tomorrow at twelve,' said Mona,
coming back.

^ All right ; just sit down and write a
line to Oakley, asking him to meet me
here. We will have a consultation, then
we'll see what is best to be done ; we
must secure whatever money Mrs Newburgh
gets for the house from the claws
of the liquidators. Lady Mary wants
her, — both of you — to come down to the
Chase. I am going to shoot in Ross-shire
; Evening comes with me. The
other two are going for a month with
their aunt to Biarritz ; so you will be
quite quiet. A change will do your
grandmother a lot of good, and set her
up again, hey ? '

Thank you so much ; it would indeed.
I am afraid it will be some time before
she can be moved,' returned Mona, who
shrank from the idea of visiting the Chase
again.

You would be all the better for being
turned out to grass yourself, my dear,' he
resumed kindly. ' It's hard lines for a
young thing like you to be plunged
into such trouble. Why, you are not
as old as Evening. I suppose grand-mamma
is not in the sweetest temper ;

a little hard in the mouth just now,
eh?'

Oh, no, Sir Robert ; she is an angel.
She seems to have lost faith in herself ;
she has not the force to insist on anything
; it breaks my heart to see her so
pitifully gentle

She must be badly hit. I am awfully
sorry for her — for both of you. Just write
that, my dear, will you ? I'll post it as
I go along. And I must leave you now.
I am going to dine with Rivers. You
remember Rivers who was at the Chase
when you were with us ? Rich old dog —
won't spend a penny on anything but
his dinners — they are first-rate. He is
a crotchety old sinner ; seldom goes to
any one's house. Lady Mary was rather
proud of his staying nearly a week with
us ; but he did not get such dinners in
my house as he has in his own.'

Sir Robert Everard talked on in his
kindly, easy way while Mona wrote the
note.

Mr Oakley obeyed the summons.
Mrs Newburgh, revived by her new
hopes, was up and dressed when Sir

Robert and the solicitor arrived. She
had, with the help of Wehner's arm,
descended to the drawing-room ; but she
looked like the ghost of her former self.

Then ensued a long, melancholy discussion,
at which Mrs Newburgh insisted
her grand-daughter should be present, and
from which the latter gathered that it was
of no use endeavouring to save anything
out of the wreck — that whatever the unfortunate
shareholders possessed must pass
into the clutches of the company's creditors
; a call had already been made, and
would be followed by others, until all was
swallowed up. It was therefore deemed
more prudent for Mrs Newburgh to reside
in the house she had bought, than to
move to another for which she would have
to pay rent. Her income had of course
been narrowed to a miserable eighty or
ninety pounds a year, and even on that
she could not long count.

You see, Mona, the condition to which
we are reduced,' said Mrs Newburgh,
when their friendly counsellors, with grave
faces and kindly-expressed sympathy, had
withdrawn. * I purposely asked you to be

VOL. I. E

present at this conference, that you might
understand the true state of the case. I
leave you to draw your own conclusions.
No, dear, do not re-open the discussion.
I trust to your own common-sense and
right feeling. I am quite exhausted.
Ring for Wehner to help me to my room.
I can see no one else to-day — no one —
remember, Mona.'

Thus cut off from remonstrance, Mona
felt she was left to her fate and Mr
Waring ; grannie was resolved to leave
the decision — the responsibility — to her.

Mrs Newburgh had not long returned
to her own room, and had just taken
some refreshment, when Mr Waring's
card was brought. A strong feeling of
humiliation and disgust rose in Mona's
heart ; the calm indifference of which she
boasted the previous day failed her at the
moment of trial.

Do not keep the poor young man
waiting,' said Mrs Newburgh.

It is frightful, having to go deliberately
to listen to an offer of marriage ! ' cried
Mona, starting up and walking to the
window instead of the door.

I thought you would not mind.'

I thought so ; but I will go, dear
grannie.'

She came back quickly, kissed the
old woman's cheek, and disappeared.

Mona went rapidly downstairs, and
straight into the dining-room, without
allowing herself to pause for a moment
half frightened, half angry, at her
own faintness of spirit.

Mr Waring stood on the hearthrug.
He was not so tall as Lisle ; his broad
shoulders and rather short neck further
diminished his height. He was built
more for strength than grace, and though
not fat, was, it must be admitted, fleshy.
His hair was dark, almost black, abundant
and wavy, and his broad, good-humoured
face was redeemed from absolute plainness
by a pair of fine soft dark brown eyes.
He was in general ruddy and fresh-looking,
but the excitement, indeed it may be said
the terror of the moment, had blanched
his cheeks, till he met Mona's eyes, when
he blushed furiously.

She hesitated after she had crossed
the threshold, and closed the door, standing

tall, stately, infinitely sad, in the
simplest morning dress of black silk and
cashmere she possessed, a lace scarf
pinned round her throat with an old-fashioned
brooch, her bright hair turned
loosely back surmounting her fair pale face
like an aureole.

I am so much, so very much obliged
to you for seeing me ! ' exclaimed Waring,
starting forward to take her hand, which
he shook nervously, and dropped immediately.
Mona murmured something,
he did not hear what, and sat down beside
the fire.

Waring resumed his position on the
hearth rug. An awful pause ensued. Mona
gazed at the glowing coals, and thought
of Lisle's expressive voice and perfect,
easy self-possession. Waring cudgelled
his brain for some suitable phrase to
open the dreaded yet longed for conversation.
The result was a restless change
of attitude, and the words. ' Awful nasty
weather.' His voice was strong and harsh.
I hope you took no cold on your journey
to town.'

It was an unlucky allusion.

Not a cold; I had a slight c/n/l,' returned
Mona, who had some sense of humour.

She raised her eyes as she spoke, and
meeting his, could not restrain a kindly
smile, feeling no little sympathy with his
uneasiness and evident sense of difficulty.

You are amused, I daresay,' he cried,
his power of speech unlocked by the
magic of her smiling eyes ; ' you 77ius^ be
amused, to hear me blundering like an
idiot about the weather, when my heart
and mind are filled with hope and fear.
Tell me. Miss Joscelyn, did Mrs Newburgh
show you my letter?'

She did.'

And will you — will you let me tell
you how awfully I was taken with you
the very first time I ever saw you
at that Richmond dinner Lady Mary
Everard gave last year, — before you
were presented, you know ? '

Were you there? ' asked Mona dreamily.

At that dinner she had first met Lisle.
He had not spoken to her, but she had
even then felt a degree of attraction to
him which surprised her, and he had
remarked her — or — said so.

Oh, I don't suppose you saw me. I
never can push. Young Everard and
some other fellows were round you all
the time; but I have thought of you ever
since. Do you know, last season's balls
were the first I ever went to. I thought
they were all rot. I like the racing set
better. I used to go only for the chance
of meeting you, — and you would scarcely
ever dance with me. To be sure, I
am a stupid beggar about dancing.'

A pause.

I think I always gave some dances,'
said Mona, rather at a loss what to reply.

Oh, you were always civil ! ' exclaimed
Waring, taking a little cup from the
mantelpiece and turning it round and
round as if examining the pattern.
Not like some girls, who are either
killing sweet, or snub you right and left.
You are gentle and grave. I used to
think I should never have the pluck to
ask you to marry me, but — a — you see,
when Mrs Newburgh came to grief, I
was ashamed of not offering at least to
be of use to you.'

And are you content that I should

accept you as a refuge from the Ills of
poverty ? ' asked Mona, looking gravely,
calmly at him.

I am,' said Waring, after a minute's
pause, putting down the cup, and speaking
more collectedly. ' It's not pleasant,
of course, but I have faith in you. If you
promise to be my wife, you will try to
like me, and I'll try to please you withall
my soul and with all my strength, as
somebody says in the Bible, I think,'
added Waring, to enforce his professions
his religious studies were slight, and
somewhat mixed. ' And it will go hard
if I don't get you to love me, unless — unless,'
his large brown eyes grew imploring
— ' you care for some other fellow !
For God's sake, don't say you love any
other fellow ! I never fancied you did.'

I do not indeed.' Her tone carried
conviction to her hearer.

Then — then, Miss Joscelyn, could you
make up your mind to marry me ? I
think you might grow to like me by-and-by,
and I need not say I would
be delighted to carry out any plan, a7iy^
with emphasis, ' that you think would

be best for Mrs Newburgh's comfort?'


It is a tremendous question to answer,'
said Mona, hesitating, yet feeling she
must accept him. There was no other
way left, and she was touched by his
unaffected humility. * Yesterday or the
day before I looked on you as a stranger ;
to-day I am to decide if I am to pass
my whole life with you or not. I must
say what sounds unkind, that I do riot
love you, that if this great misfortune
had not befallen Mrs Newburgh, I should
probably have refused you — so I do not
deserve your love ! '

But I cannot help giving it to you !
And if you do make up your mind to
take me, you might just let me forget
that you were driven to it.'

Yes ; I am very ungracious. There
is another circumstance I ought to mention
; you may not like to know that
my name is not Joscelyn. My grandmother
always called me by my second
baptismal name ; I am really Mona Craig.
My father was of very humble origin, I
believe; and Mrs Newburgh never forgave

my mother for marrying him ; but
I dearly loved him as a little child,
though I have forgotten what he was
like.'

I don't care what your name is, as
long as you will take mine. / am no
great thing as regards family myself. I
have heard something of Mrs Newburgh's
whim before.'

Is it possible ?'

I don't fancy that anything is a secret,'
said Waring. ' Perhaps it is not fair to
press you for an answer to-day. But
you see time flies, and I long to be able
to tell Sir Robert Everard that I have
a riorht to discuss with him what is best
to be done. Don't you fancy that I
would hold back because you refused
me. Whether you say yes or no, I would
ask nothing better than to be of use to
you ; but not being a relation, it would
be awkward for — '

It would be impossible,' interrupted
Mona, in a low tone ; then pressing her
clasped hands together tightly, she said
with some solemnity, — * Since you believe
I could make you happy — '

You will be my wife ? ' interrupted
Waring eagerly in his turn.

I will, Mr Waring, and try to be a
good one.' She grew very pale as she
spoke.

You are a great deal too good forme
; and as you do not care for any other
fellow, perhaps you may end by caring
for me.'

There was an awkward pause, then
Waring walked over to the writing-table
and took up a paper-knife with which he
played nervously.

There are one or two things I should
like to tell you, if you do not mind '^.

What can he be going to confess ? '
thought Mona. She however only bent
her head in silence.

I have not been as steady as I ought
to be,' resumed Waring, looking down
and growing red. ' You see, my brother
and myself were brought up by an old
bachelor guardian. We had no women
in the house, and that made us rather
rough. Then I have lost a good bit at
cards and races. I'm a little too fond
o play, but — now that you are so very

good as to promise me your hand, I
have an object to live for, and I will
never touch a card again, and never lay
anything beyond a pony on a race, and,
and I'll try to be — not unworthy of you.
I will indeed ! Now, have I your permission
to go and tell Sir Robert
Everard ? He is a good fellow, and
we'll settle something about Mrs Newburgh.
She ought to get out of town
away from annoyances.'

Thank you,' returned Mona, touched
by his eagerness to serve her. ' I am
most grateful to you, Mr Waring.'

Couldn't you manage to call me
Leslie?' he said entreatingly. 'If you
knew how I long to hear my name from
your lips ! and to call you Mona. It's nota
happy enough name for you, but I
love it all the same. I can't call you
Mona, if you say Mr Waring.'

It seems so strange,' murmured
Mona.

Well, never mind to-day ; but I may
go to Sir Robert ? '

You may,' said Mona, with white
lips.'

Thank you ! ' cried Waring, his eyes
lighting up, his whole face radiant, and
so far carried away with joy that he took
and kissed her hand, letting it drop
directly. * I suppose I ought to go
away now ? ' he said humbly, ' but 1
should like to stay. It is almost impossible
to believe that you have really promised
to marry me, that I may stay and talk
to you, and will not have to give up
my place to anyone ! That fellow Lisle
always came and turned me out when
we were at Harrowby Chase ; but he
isn't half bad. Do you know, it was he
that advised me to try my chance with
you ? '

Did you want advising ? ' said Mona,
in an unsteady voice.

No, not advising, only heartening up !
Tell me — would you like to travel on
the Continent ? I haven't been much
abroad myself. Of course I always goto
Paris for the Grand Prix, and to the
Baden Races — but you ? '

Everything must depend on my grandmothers
condition,' interrupted Mona.
'And, Mr Waring — if you do not think

it very rude — I think I must go to her
now.'

You are looking very white,' he said
tenderly, ' so I will leave you ; but I
hope you are not unhappy, and if there
is anything you would wish me to do,
you will say so ? '

Poor Mona longed to cry.

I only wish you to go away ! ' she
said, pressing her hand to her heart. ' I
am a good deal shaken and upset ; tomorrow
— '

Oh, yes ! I may come tomorrow !
And Mona (I may call you Mona, mayn't
I ? ), when you are talking to Mrs
Newburgh, just say to her from me
that it would be so much better if we
if, that is, if the marriage was to take
place soon — quite soon ! I should be so
much better able to be of use. You'll
not think me a bore for insisting on
this ? but it would really be better, putting
my feelings quite out of the question.'

I shall be guided by what you and
Sir Robert and grannie think best,'
faltered Mona. ' I am afraid I must
go now.*

When may I come tomorrow ? ' asked
Waring, lingering.

Oh ! at two or three ! '

Well, I see you are tired, and you'll
think kindly of me ? You know I would
do anything for you, anything ! '

Oh, yes, I will ! And now goodbye


Waring caught her hand and looked
eagerly at her. For one dread moment
her heart fainted within her. Was he
going to ask for a kiss ? If he had aspired
to such a favour, he wisely postponed
the demand, and again pressing
her long, slight fingers to his lips, he
left the room.

Mona ascended the stairs very slowly
and deliberately, painfully conscious that
she had fully committed herself. It now
remained to complete the sacrifice by assuming
a cheerful aspect before her grandmother.
Then, when she had satisfied
her, she might escape to regulate her
own thoughts, to face the situation she
had accepted.

'Well, Mona?' said Mrs Newburgh,
looking eagerly with her pitiful eyes into

her grand-daughter's face as she approached,
while her thin, tremulous hands
grasped the arms of her chair nervously.

Well, dear granny,' sitting down by
her and taking one of her hands in both
her own, ' I have heard all Mr Waring
had to say, and I have promised to marry
him.'

Mrs Newburgh did not reply. She
pressed Mona's hand, and, leaning back
in her chair, the tension of her muscles
relaxed, and a peaceful expression stole
over her face.

You have done well, Mona,' she said,
after a minute's silence. ' You will yet
thank me for urging you to this. Yet I
did not dirge ; I only recommended you.'

That was all. Mr Waring and I
have been making our confessions. I
told him that I was not in love with him,
and that had we not met with such a reverse
of fortune, I should probably have
refused him ; and he told me that he had
not been too steady, and was addicted to
gambling.'

You were imprudent, Mona. It is
not wise to be too frank with the man

you are going to marry. He, no doubt,
will overlook everything now ; but wait
till the first cloud comes between you,
and he will remind you that you did not
care for him.'

I think Mr Waring is a man who
would forgive anything except deceit ;
and as I have nothing to hide, I shall
try to be absolutely truthful with him.'

Yes, it is best ; but, Mona, be truthful
with me. Are you quite free from
any fancy for — for anyone else ? '

Perfectly free, dear granny,' this very
steadily.

Thank God ! ' ejaculated Mrs Newburgh.
* You have always been a sensible,
cool-headed girl, and I firmly believe
you will be a prosperous, happy
woman. Your conduct in this matter
has repaid me for all I have done.'

It is very sweet to hear you say so,'
said Mona gently.

Tell me,' resumed Mrs Newburgh,
is Mr Waring anxious that his marriage
should take place soon ? '

He is ; he begged me to say so when
speaking to you. He left me to see

Sir Robert Everard, and consult with
him.'

That is well. He is our nearest of
kin in town. Do not oppose this excellent
young man's desire for a speedy
union, Mona. " There's many a slip 'twixt
cup and lip." '

Young ! ' repeated Mona dreamily.
He is almost too young for me.'

Nonsense ! ' cried Mrs Newburgh
with something of her former briskness.

He must be seven or eight years older
than you are. What more would you
want ? '

He seems a kind of overgrown schoolboy
— so unfinished and undecided. I
feel quite an old woman of the world-near
him.'

So much the better. The superior
ripeness of your nature will give you influence
over him. But I do not think
he is so much a boy as you fancy. I
know he is a favourite among men, and
that always is a good sign.'

And so on for half-an-hour and more.
Mrs Newburgh was quite talkative ; she
arranged her grand - daughter's future

VOL. I. F

household, greatly to her own satisfaction,
and settled the amount of pin
money she ought to have.

At last Mona was set free to commune
with her own heart in her chamber,
where she sat very still, reviewing her
brief past, and trying to sketch the probable
future.

The immediate past was too delightful
to be dwelt upon, yet it had been a
delusion. She had grown to believe
that she was an object of tender interest,
of admiration bordering on adoration,
to a man of wide experience, of
acknowledged taste, and behold, his
mode of showing sympathy with her in
her sudden eclipse was to pass her onto
another. She had been but a moment's
amusement to this man, and she
it shocked and frightened her to perceive
how dear he had become. No
doubt, in her inexperience, she had exaggerated
much, and accepted many
things as meaning more than he intended.
She was too proud to complain
of him even to herself; all she cared for
was to hide the depth of the impression

he had stamped upon her heart, — to
make him believe that she too had but
amused herself, and that she was quite
ready to seize an advantageous opportunity.
She was not revengeful or resentful, only
ground to the dust of self-abasement, and
ready to adopt any expedient to hide
her gaping, bleeding wounds! Then,
as to the future, was it right or high-principled
to seize upon the honest,
generous affection of Leslie Waring, and
turn it into a shield behind which to hide
her total rout ? She thought she could
bear everything, if only ^/iz's ingredient
could be eliminated from the witches'
cauldron of mischief which had been
outpoured on her unoffending head.
He tuas an honest gentleman ; she could
have liked him well as a friend or a
brother — but as a husband ! The idea
was almost intolerable ! How could she
honour and obey a mere boy, to whom
she felt infinitely superior in tact and
knowledge ? What support or guidance
could he afford her ? But she was
pledged to him ; she must not fail him ;
she was still more profoundly pledged to

her kind grandmother. Like a Roman
who was unable to pay his debts, she
could but sell herself into slavery, Not
that poor Leslie Waring would make a
slave of her ; he only asked to enslave
himself. How was she to live through
the weary interval of her engagement ?
How could she brace herself to affect
an interest in life '^. And then the recollection
of his appealing look at parting
made her cheek grow pale and her
heart beat. Could she again refuse him
the kiss he would certainly ask ? — the
man she had promised to marry, to love
and cherish till death ' did them part.'
She shuddered, and turned from the
thought, leaving the future — its sufferings,
its obligations — to the chapter of accidents
as poor puzzled mortals so often must.

ON THE BRINK.

T JOHN LISLE had not, however,
come off as deathless as
Mona imagined. He had never
been so hard hit by a girl before.
His taste and ambitions led him to bestow
his devotion generally on married women,
as easier, safer, and more amusing.
Hitherto his love had been from his
life a thing * exceedingly apart.' Mona's
ordinary reserve, broken by occasional
gleams of enthusiasm and earnestness, interested
him, by the constant suggestion
of discoveries yet to make ; while her
style of face and figure were delightful
to his eye. In short, her attraction was
irresistible ; he was angry with himself

for yielding to it as he did — for marriage,
even the most brilliant marriage, would
not suit his views and plans for years
to come. Still it grew more and more
delightful to be with Mona, to watch for
the slight, reluctantly-granted indications
of preference which he from time to time
won from her ; nothing ever flattered him
so deliciously as the first drooping of her
white eyelids over the proud, steady eyes
that had for months met his gaze so
calmly ; the slight tremble of her hand
as it lay in his ; the sweet composure
which veiled what he perceived from
all the world. He was absurdly occupied
with this quiet, inexperienced girl, who
was so womanly, though so young. She
cost him some uncomfortable moments
too ; still he never so lost his head as
to think seriously of marriage. Years
hence, when he had attained a high
position, and wanted a dignified, well-regulated
home, he might look out fora
richly-dowered, highly-connected wife.
Now, Mona, though well born, on one
side at least, was for all purposes of
advancement the merest nobody ; yet

what a disturbance influence she exercised
on his heart or circulation, or whatever
it was that throbbed in his pulses, and
prompted him to unpleasant spasms of
imprudence ! All this irritation had reached
its highest pitch during his visit to Harrowby
Chase ; and so softened was the
cool-headed man of the world, that, when
the blow fell on Mrs Newburgh, which
he knew meant life-long poverty to Mona
were she not soon rescued, he really
thought how he could best serve her,
after he had considered how he could
soonest disentangle himself from the
meshes which he felt were weaving
themselves round him in the pleasant,
free intercourse of country-house life.

He therefore caught eagerly at Leslie
Waring's proposition, and resolved that
no illusions about himself should interfere
to prevent Mona accepting the
deliverance offered to her.

Resolute as he was, both by nature
and cultivation, he half-dreaded the interview
he had planned so cunningly.
He expected tears, agitation, despair,
however she might seek to hide their

real source. He even anticipated some
delightful moments. When sympathising
in her distress, and deploring the exigency
of his own narrow circumstances,
he might offer consolation in a tender
embrace, and a few — perhaps a good
many — passionate kisses.

Her mode of receiving his communication
amazed him. He did not know
what to think. He felt almost sure
that she loved him, and even more sure
that at the present stage of her existence
she was unworldly, and remarkably
indifferent to rank and riches. He could
not understand how it was that she fell
in so readily with his suggestion, and
was, in truth, mortified in no small degree,
when he found that the elaborate scheme
of soothing caresses and ingenious reasoning
he had prepared, was so much
trouble wasted. If she had cared for
him, she could not be so good humoured
composed, — some stinging words
would have escaped her lips, some indication
of the rage and pain that must
be gnawing her heart would have been
visible.

He was absurdly anxious to see her
again — to ascertain if she still kept up
the same friendly ease which had baffled
him. Meantime he waited in London
while his uncle was engaged in arranging
with the military big-wigs the details
of his new command. It would be much
better to go out to India free and unfettered,
to know Mona was unable to
reproach him. Still, an odd soreness
surrounded her image, which was so
deeply stamped upon his mind. He
was determined to see her again.

A few days after having called in
vain at Mrs Newburgh's, Lisle had been
breakfasting with General Stafford, and
had remained for some time discussing
plans. Walking down Piccadilly to his
club, he found himself face to face with
Sir Robert Everard.

Ha, Lisle ! did not know you were
in town ! ' cried the Baronet.

And I did not expect to see you
at this season, too ? '

I was obliged to come up on account
of Mrs Newburgh's business. They
won't leave the old woman a rap. First

call made yesterday — fifty pounds a share.
That will pretty well clear her out. Very
foolish to have gone so deep as she
did. However, all's well that ends well.
Leslie Waring has proposed to Miss
Joscelyn, is accepted, and I can tell you,
Haste to the Wedding " is the tune
now, ha, ha, ha ! — most lucky. Capital
fellow, Waring ! going to do the thing
handsomely ; but he and the grandmother
are in such a deuce of a hurry
that he has decided on a post-nuptial
settlement, so I fancy the marriage will
come off in a week or so — no grass
growing allowed.'

Very glad to hear it. Miss Joscelyn
is far too charming a person to be subjected
to the revolting ills of poverty.
Waring is a lucky fellow to be able to
seize what is no doubt a fortunate opportunity.'


Ay, the fair lady might have given
a different answer had this crash not
come. No matter, Mona was always a
good, quiet girl, — one of the domesticated
sort, that will stick to her house and
her man.'

A somewhat cat-like character,' said
Lisle, laughing. ' To me, Miss Joscelyn
is an ideal woman.'

I suspect a little ideal goes a long
way with you.'

Oh ! I am a more imaginative person
than you think. I must call and offer
my congratulations.'

Well, you had better look in for tea.
Mrs Newburgh comes down when the
house is shut up, and the lights are
lit — then you won't interrupt the billing
and cooing, ha, ha, ha ! Good-bye.'

Well-meaning old idiot,' muttered
Lisle, as he went on his way with knit
brows. ' *' The billing and cooing," — how
infernally suggestive. I will just drop
in at that particular period, and see if
I can interpret the indications aright.'

Lisle was, however, too impatient to
calculate time accurately, and Mona was
talking with a lady when he was announced.
A dark-eyed well-dressed lady,
in black cashmere, and bugles with many
touches of yellow in tufts of ribbon, and
chrysanthemums in her bonnet, enlivening
the whole.

Mona had a slight colour, and looked
remarkably well. She received Lisle
with quiet civility, and immediately introduced
him to ' Madame Debrisay/
Lisle bowed low, while he mentally consigned
the objectionable third party to
the infernal regions. Madame Debrisayay
looked very keenly at him, and closed
her lips with unusual tightness.

Having inquired tenderly for Mrs
Newburgh, Lisle said, in a soft tone, —

I presume, from what Sir Robert
Everard told me, I may venture to offer
my very sincere congratulations on your
approaching marriage with my good friend
Leslie.'

Thank you very much,' returned Mona,
with sweet gravity.

There was a pause — mercifully broken
by Madame Debrisayay, who, with a marked
French accent, observed, —

He is most amiable, the young gentleman,
and deserves the good fortune which
has befallen him.'

Those concerned in affairs of this kind
are usually considered angels all round,'
said Lisle cynically. ' In this case, I only

feel inclined to believe in the angelic
qualities of one. May I hope to have
the pleasure of seeing Mrs Newburgh ? '

She rarely comes down till past three,
I will let her know you are here ; you
were always a favourite of hers.'

Mona rang, and sent a message to
Mrs Newburgh to that effect ; then
Madame Debrisayay began to make her
adieux.

I ought not to take up any more of
your time, chdrie!

Pray do not go away yet,' cried
Mona, with suspicious eagerness.

She does not want to be alone with
me,' thought Lisle. ' Why does not that
horrid woman go ? She must know she
is in the way.'

'Indeed, dear, I have one or two
things to do before I go home, for next
week I shall be in harness again ; but I
will be with you by ten o'clock tomorrow.
Nothing like the early hours for
shopping ; and make my compliments
to— '

Mr Waring,' announced Wehner,
and Wearing entered, with an eager, not

to say anxious, expression, as if not too
certain how he would be received.

Madame Debrisayay, who was near the
door, made him a respectful courtesy,
and he greeted her first.

How do you do, madame ? Not going,
I hope, because I have come in.'

Here he paused, for Mona turned to
him with a kind, welcoming smile, so
much the sweetest she had ever bestowed
on him, that he grew positively radiant,
and evidently forgot there was anyone
else present. Lisle took it all in, and
gazed with surprise and admiration at
Mona. If this was acting, it was a marvellous
imitation of nature ; if not, what
a weather-cock this grave, gently-dignified
young creature must be !

I think grannie would like to see you,'
said Mona, following Madame Debrisayay.
Excuse me for a moment,' looking
back to her visitors. ' Oh ! why do you
pfo, Deb ? I dread these tete-tete interviews.'


But Captain Lisle is a third, dear.'
Oh, he will go away directly.'

Ah ! my child, don't give way to these

whims. Sure you'll have to pass your
whole life tete-astute with him ; and he
is good — real, downright good. Make
much of him. Go back now, and I'll not
fail to be with you tomorrow at ten.'

At the other side of the door, Lisle
was congratulating Waring in the frankest
and most cordial manner.

I consider a great deal is due to me
for spiriting you up, my dear fellow.
Nothing venture, nothing have — so you
won a prize any man might be proud
of.'

Haven't I though ! I went to the
right man for advice. I say, Lisle, won't
you be my best man ? '

I am afraid I'll be half way to India
when the happy event comes off.'

Oh ! we are going ahead at a great
rate. We — or I should say I — hope to
fix it for Tuesday fortnight.'

Sharp work, eh ? '

Here Mona returned.

I do not think my grandmother will
come down just yet, Captain Lisle.'

Sorry I shall not have the pleasure
of seeing her. I shall be going to India

In about six weeks, and I have to go to
Paris to see my sister, etc., etc' The
talk flowed on in ordinary channels for a
few minutes, and then Lisle rose to take
leave. * Should I not see you again as
Miss Joscelyn,' he said, as he pressed
her hand, ' you will remember that you
have my warmest good wishes for your
happiness. I shall pay my respects to
Mrs Newburgh on my return to London ;
so goodbye.'

Mona flushed, and paled quickly.

And I wish you all possible success ;
so goodbye,' she said slowly.

Waring, in his gratitude, went with
him downstairs, and bid him an effusive
farewell at the hall door, returning in
high glee to Mona, who was putting
some more coal on the fire.

Oh, let me do that. Why do you
trouble? Isn't the room hot enough.'^'

Grannie will be down soon, and she
never finds it warm.'

Not just yet, I hope. Somehow or
other I never seem to get a moment
alone with you, Mona. I was glad to
see the back of Lisle, though he is a

capital fellow. I don't know that I like
any fellow better ; but I was dying to
tell you how happy you made me just
now when I came in ; you really looked
as if you were glad to see me. If I
thought you were going to be fond of
me, even half as fond of me as I am of
you, why, I should be almost off my
head with joy.'

You are too good to me,' she returned
sadly, for his words and tone touched her.

I know,' he went on, ' that you do not
care much for me now, but I begin to
hope you will. Give me your hand : how
honos and slender it is ! You could not
do much with it, Mona. Why do you
draw it away ? Hallo ! your ring has
slipped off! I don't like that. Let me
put it on again. Now, give me a kiss
for luck ; you have never given me but
one kiss, and I have dreamed of it ever
since — just one more, Mona ! '

And Mona — shocked at her own reluctance,
ashamed of her own coldness
towards the man who had given her his
whole heart — compelled herself to turn
her pale, fair face to him.

VOL. I. G

Clasping her hand in both his own,
Waring bent down and pressed his lips
lingeringly on hers. He scarcely dared
to embrace her. His frame trembled;
his eyes were moist.

Say Leslie, I will try to love you,'
he whispered.

I will try — I will indeed, Leslie,' she
repeated. ' I have been so uneasy and
unhappy about poor grannie ; and I never
thought of marrying so soon ; and altogether
I have been shaken and nervous
so you must forgive me if I seem
stupid.'

Stupid ! You stupid ! What an idea ! '
Meanwhile Lisle walked down the

street in anything but pleasant self-commune.


I certainly troubled myself unnecessarily
about my charming young friend.
She has thrown me over easily enough ;
the must think me a soft idiot to have
troubled myself advising or directing
her. Were I to remain in town, I
might teach Mrs Leslie Waring that
I was no foolish stripling, to be tossed
aside with indifference and impunity

when fate offered her fairer fortune !
She knows that it cost me a bad
quarter of an hour to give her up for
her own good. Who can calculate on
the strange variations of feminine nature ? '

So argued Lisle, with the degree of
logic usual in men whose vanity has
been wounded. He was quite willing
that Mona should be taken out of his
way, but he should have liked to see
her weeping — broken-hearted at the loss
of his fascinating self. Yet, although
horribly irritated, he probably never
longed more passionately to be in
Waring's place — always provided the
engagement, marriage, what you will,
was not to be permanent.

Both Mrs Newburgh and Sir Robert
Everard were very urgent that the
wedding should take place as soon as
possible. Waring, though eager on
this point, was too fearful of incurring
Mona's displeasure to express himself
as warmly as he felt. It was always,
What would you like, Mona ? ' ' Whatever
you choose, dear ! ' This excessive
deference to her wishes almost wearied

her. In her present mood she did not
care to think or decide about anything.
Nor did she oppose the wishes of her
relatives. She had fully committed herself
; perhaps the sooner the question of
her future was fixed beyond recall, the
sooner she would throw off the disturbing
pain which the possibility of escape
created, so long as she was still unmarried.
Moreover, she hated to receive
the presents with which Leslie Waring
tried to overwhelm her. It cost her an
effort to thank him, and still another
to explain that it would be more pleasing
to her to take them from her husband's
hands.

She was completely cured of her love for
the man St John Lisle had proved himself
to be ; but both heart and fancy
clung still to the being her imagination
had depicted. It was too soon to endure
the thought of another lover. Had
time been granted her for the effervescence
of her spirit to subside — for
her cruel wounds to heal, she might
have been won to regard Waring with
kindly affection ; as it was, her whole

nature revolted from being forcibly
plunged into the tremendous intimacy
of married life with a stranger.

This period of engagement was by
no means as blissful as Waring anticipated.
Mona, though gentle and
complaisant, was cold — colder than she
knew — and Waring was sometimes
tempted to ask her if the sacrifice to
which she had consented was too cruel.
Then some strain of compassion would
steal over her heart, and thrill her voice
or soften her eyes, and the poor boy —
for he was but a boy, in spite of his
years — would be lifted to the seventh
heaven of joyous anticipation. He had
the most unbounded faith in Mona, and
he had her assurance that she did not
love anyone. His devotion, then, must
win her. How formidable the rivalry
of that first unfulfilled dream of love
was, he could not know. Would he
learn it hereafter '^.

Well, Mrs Nevvburgh,' said Sir Robert
Everard, who had again come up to town
on his relative's account, ' I am very
glad that everything is so satisfactorily

settled. I must say Mona is a capital,
sensible girl, and makes no fuss or
bother about clothes. Waring's idea of
doing their shopping together in Parisis
first-rate. He will sign a will in his
wife's favour as soon as they return
from church ; and meantime the post-nuptial
settlement is being prepared.
Really, Waring is most generous. What
are you going to do ? '

I am going to stay on here. I think
my poor house is tolerably safe for a
few months. Mr Waring talks of renting
a place in some good hunting county
indeed, I think he is in treaty for one —
and he has very courteously invited me
to make my home with him. For the
present, I have accepted. So old a
woman as I have become in the last
month, cannot be much in the way,
and probably I shall not trouble them
long. Though infinitely relieved, and
thankful that Mona is provided for so
happily, I do not gather strength.
These terrible, palpitations and faintness
seem to sap my life ; but I am not
uneasy ; my work is done — quite done 1 '

Come, come ! I hope to drink your
health on your eightieth birthday, my dear
lady ! we must have no doleful ideas of
that kind. So the happy day is fixed
for the first. Lady Mary and the girls
will come up the day before, and that
will be all the company.'

Yes, all ! It is very good of you to
curtail your visit to the moors on our
account.'

"Blood is thicker than water'" returned
Sir Robert, and after a little further
cheerful talk and gossip, which did not
seem to interest Mrs Newburgh as much
as it used, the Baronet took leave.

Your mistress does not pick up as
fast as we could wish,' he said to Wehner,
who helped him on with his overcoat
in the hall.

No, Sir Robert. She is not strong ;
she is very weak — weaker each day. It
grieves me to the heart.'

Ay ! she is a good mistress. Now
you will be sent adrift before long, I
am afraid.'

Yes, sir.'

Well, I'll bear you in mind.'

Thank you, Sir Robert.'

This conversation had taken place
when Mona was engaged in some unavoidable
shopping with Madame Debrisayay.
Having done all they could before the
light failed them, Mona begged to be
allowed to take tea with her friend.

'You know I have never seen your
new rooms, Deb.'

Then come, and welcome. We will go
into Whiteley's and get some tea-cakes.
Tea-cakes are, to my mind — or maybe I
ought to say to my palate — the ne plus
ultra of goody ! I suppose Mrs Newburgh
will not mind your being late ? '

No ; she knows I am with you ; besides.
Sir Robert Everard is to be in town today,
and she likes to have his visits all
to herself. They have many memories
in common, — though he is much younger.'

And Mr Waring ? '

He has gone down to Leicestershire
to look at a place that is to be let there.'

*Well, well, you are the lucky girl,
Mona ! '

I suppose so.'

They drove on in silence to the

Universal Provider's, and thence walked
to Madame Debrisayay's new quarters.

'How nice and quiet it is here!' cried
Mona, taking off her hat and drawing a
chair to the fire, which Madame Debris
stirred and incited to burning, with
some sticks drawn from a cupboard beside
the fireplace. * Quite a good-sized
room too; but, Deb dear, it might be
tidier ! '

So it might ; but, ma belle, I have
no time ; and what does the poor slave
of a girl know of tidiness ? besides, if
she tried her hand, I'd never find my
bits of things.'

Mona's remark was not uncalled for.
The apartment was sadly littered. A cottage
piano had an old Indian shawl arranged
as a drapery at the back, one
side of which was unfastened ; piles of
music lay on it, and on a broken-backed
chair ; a heap of crumpled newspapers
on another ; a small round table was
crowded with plants, many of them withered
; and sundry garments in process of
mending or making were loosely rolled
together on the ottoman. This, and a

generally untasted aspect, did not improve
the appearance of the room. It was on
the ground floor, and looked out on a
general garden, which at that season was
anything but cheerful.

I have an elegant bedroom to the
front resumed Madame Debrisayay. 'Come
and look at it.' Passing a glass door
at the top of the kitchen stair, she
opened it, and called, — ' Amelia, bring
up the tea kettle ; I'll boil it myself.'
It's a great convenience being able to
cry down for what you want. Now,
there's my bedroom. I am afraid it
is not in much better order than the
other.'

I can't say that it is, Deb, but it is
nearly as large as the other. I wonder
you do not make this your salon. The
lookout is more cheerful.'

I am not much in by daylight. Then
you see the other room has a fine white
marble chimney-piece. It was intended
for the drawing-room. These houses
used to be expensive, but they have
come down like myself. Come along,
and I'll make the tea.'

I think,' said Mona presently, as
she slowly stirred her cup, ' it would
be nice to do some of the housework
oneself.'

I suspect a little of it would go a
long way with you. It's little work
you'll have to do. There's an easy life
before — '

" To sit on a cushion and sew up a
seam, and eat ripe strawberries, sugar,
and cream " all day long, is not exactly
my idea of a blissful existence,' said
Mona.

Now, my darling, I am going to
give you a good scolding. You are
looking pale and thin, and your eyes
are as solemn as if you were going to
a funeral. Is that the way to treat the
dear, generous, elegant young man who's
ready to worship the ground you walk
on ? What is it you want ? I did
not think you where the sort of girl who
would cry for the moon.'

Nor am I,' returned Mona thoughtfully.
' I know, Deb, that Mr Waring
is too good for me — '

I don't say that. No one on earth

is too good for you, in my mind interrupted
Madame Debrisayay.

But — let me confess myself to you.
I would give anything — anything not to
be obliged to marry him. It is foolish,
unreasonable. I know it is. Yet I
have such a vision of weariness before
me. I know I shall be sick to death
of being with him. I never know what
to say to him.'

I warrant he knows what to say to
you I ' cried Madame.

No ! indeed he does not! He can
only tell me I am perfection, and that
he adores me.'

It's a style of conversation few young
ladies would object to.'

Well, I do. Yet I am so sorry for
him. Poor fellow, he does love me.'

Ah ! well you see some of that
will rub off when he is married. A
lover is one thing, and husband is quite
another. Then lightened you to be
glad to make a human being happy ? '

Shall I make him happy ? I doubt
it. Oh, Deb, Deb ! I would give
the world for freedom and work. I

am tired of pleasure and an aimless
existence.'

Diet des Diettx ! Does that mean
you are in love with some penniless,
scamp ? '

No, dear. At least I am guiltless
of marrying one man while my heartaches
for another.'

Then there is something underneath
I do not understand. If you don't
care for anyone else, all will come
right. You talk to me a year hence,
and you'll have a different story to tell
Now, ril not speak another word on
the subject. I hate talking of what 1
don't understand. Take another cup, my
angel.'

For all reply, Mona burst into tears
not a violent outburst, but a quietly
bitter flow, with deep suppressed sobs.

My dear child ! what's all this
about ? ' cried Madame Debrisayay, with
unfeigned concern. ' What's troubling
you ? Sure, you used to tell me all
your sorrows when you used to come
to me for your music lesson in Paris.
Tell me now,'

^ I really have nothing to tell,' said
Mona, struggling with her tears. ' It
is just a nervous attack, — a " crise," as
you used to call it. I have felt tearful
and unstrung ever since I was startled
by grannie's telegram at Harrowby Chase,
and I have been on the stretch ever
since. I suppose it sounds very foolish,
Deb, but I wish I could come and
live with you, and help you in someway,
rather than — '

Oh ! hush — hush — my darling. You
are meant for better things. There's
no one would be so welcome as yourself;
but there is a different life before
you.'

Should I really be welcome to you.
Deb, suppose everyone turned from me ? '

Hoot toot ! Yes, of course. Come
I must not let you talk any more
nonsense. I'll make the girl call a
cab, and take you straight away home.'

THE GREAT KING.

Sh(

I ME flew swiftly. A red frosty
sun, rose on the morning before
Mona was to be changed into
Mrs Leslie Waring,
had been persuaded to sleep in
her own room again, as Mrs Newburgh
seemed so much better, and quite reconciled
to a nice new maid — sent her
from the country by Lady Mary
Everard.

How is my grandmother?' was Mona's
first question, when this functionary
brought her hot water.

Nicely, miss ; she was fast asleep when
I left the room.'

I will ring as soon as I am dressed.
Did you speak to Mrs Newburgh ?'

'No, miss; she looked so still and
quiet, I thought it best not to disturb
her.

Perhaps you are right ! I will come
directly.'

Mrs Newburgh's eyes were open when
her grand - daughter approached, she
smiled, kindly and faintly. When Mona
asked her if she would like to get up,
she smiled a peculiar dreamy kind of
smile, and murmured in a muffled
voice, —

Yes, dear, of course I should.'
Mona therefore put her arm under
her shoulders to help her in rising, which
was always a little difficult.

Thank you, my love,' she said, in
the same indistinct way, smiling as she
spoke, and sitting on the side of the
bed ; her feet did not at first touch the
floor.

Assisted by Mona, she put them dowry
resolutely, but fell back immediately,
silent and motionless.

It took all Monas strength to keep

»>

her inert form from slipping off the
bed, while she stretched her hand to the
bell-rope which hung beside it. The new
lady's-maid came running at the summons.

Help me to lay her down ! ' whispered
Mona.

She felt terrified ; this was somehow
different from sirs Newburgh's usual
fainting fits.

The maid assisted to place her in bed.
She was rigid, and very heavy.

Fan her, Ellen,' said Mona, as she
turned away to get some restorative.

Lord bless us, ma'am ! ' exclaimed the
woman, in an awe-struck tone ; ' I do
believe she is gone ! '

'Impossible!' cried Mona, rushing to
her side. ' Why she has only just been
speaking to me. She often faints ; send
for the doctor.'

Ah ! no doctor will do her any good,
poor lady ; her heart is quite still,' laying
her hand on it, 'and her eyes, — just look
at them, miss — open and glassy.'

Mona took one of the helpless hands
in both her own : the touch chilled her.

I cannot believe it. Try and give

VOL. I. H

her this,' hastily measuring out the prescribed
quantity of medicine.

Ellen shook her head — and obeyed.
It was in vain. Wehner was despatched
for the doctor, but before he came —
Mona's hopes were over. Her grandmother,
her one real friend was dead.
She could not doubt what that grey
pallor, the deadly stillness, the stiffened
form meant — still she could not realise
that she should never hear her speak,
never turn to her for guidance, never
attend to her little wants again.

The doctor came quickly, and at once
declared that life was quite extinct, — that
he had always anticipated a sudden death
for his patient. Her heart was weak,
and so much emotion as had tried her
of late, had rendered all exertion, all
agitation, dangerous ; and probably the
effort to rise, and stand up, was the
final feather which broke the strained
cord of life.

There was no more to be done ! What
desolation there is in that sentence. All
the warmth of the most glowing love,
all the force of the strongest will, are

powerless to roll away the stone from
the sepulchre of our hopes, once death
has placed it there !

It seemed to poor dazed Mona that
Sir Robert and Lady Mary Everard
appeared as if by magic. What a solace
it was to throw herself into kind Lady
Mary's arms, and tell her brokenly how
deeply she mourned the thoughtful — if
tyrannical protectress, to whom misfortune
had linked her so closely.

Well, dear, you may rest assured that
the near prospect of your marriage
soothed and brightened her last hours ;
and it is a great comfort to know she
was in a happy frame of mind. Sir
Robert has sent round to Mr Waring.
He will be here immediately, no doubt,
and will be your best support.'

Oh ! no, no ! You are best. You
knew poor dear grannie so well, and she
was so fond of you.'

Dear old lady ! Of course, at such
a painful crisis, old friends count for a
great deal. I think, dear, you must come
back with me to Charles Street. I cannot
leave you here alone.'

No, Lady Mary, I will not leave the
house while poor grannie lies helpless
here. I feel bound to keep by her to
the last.'

A message from Sir Robert brought
Waring as fast as a well-paid driver could
urge his horse. He was quite sorry for
the old lady, who had always treated him
with kindly deference. He was deeply
sympathetic with his peerless Mona, du
he was principally put out because he
knew that in commonest decency his
marriage must be delayed. Mona was
not in the drawing-room when he reached
it, and he was somewhat discomfited
when Lady Mary came and explained
that Mona was too much overcome to
see him, — that she was in her own room.

But she 7i>z// see me presently, will
she not ? ' he asked appealingly. ' I
thought it might be a comfort to her
to talk to me.'

No doubt it will be. At this moment
she is terribly upset.'

It was not till considerably later — after
Waring and Sir Robert had arranged
the details of the funeral, and all that

appertained to it — that Mona was induced
to see her affianced husband.

Lady Mary thought it was kindest to
leave them alone, for which poor Waring
thanked her from the depths of his heart,
but the interview was productive of little
pleasure to him.

Mona was ready enough to speak of
her sorrow. She was gently grateful for
his sympathy, but she would not sit
beside him, her head on his shoulder,
and his arm round her, nor did she
permit a course of consolation compounded
of whispers, kisses, and assurances
that the whisperer would be brother
and sister and grandmother and everything
to her. She was so dazed and
overwhelmed that Waring was gravely
uneasy about her, and it was an immense
relief to him to know that Madame
Debrisayay (who had heard of the sad
event in some occult manner) was in
the house, and would spend the night
with her favourite pupil.

Established custom governs all things
the deepest grief — the wildest joy.

The dreary days — which Angered yet
went so swiftly — sped on, and poor Mrs
Newburgh was laid in her grave. Her
will, leaving all she possessed to Mona,
was duly read — her few jewels and personalities
packed up. The former went
with Mona to Harrowby Chase. Her
books, her favourite chair, a few pieces
of plate and china, were taken charge
of by Madame Debrisayay, and the Green
Street house, pending the action of the
liquidators, was to be let.

Mona took cold on her journey, and
for a fortnight was very unwell — so
feverish, in fact, as to wander in her
speech, and to cause her kind hosts a
good deal of anxiety. Her nerves had
been greatly shaken ; she was weaker
and more depressed than could have
been anticipated. She was very averse
to speak, and used to sit brooding for
hours.

She was utterly lonely. She had no
near relative. The Everardss were more
closely allied by friendship than by blood
to Mrs Newburgh. She had heard of
many other cousins in her grandmother's

lifetime, but she felt they did not count.
Of Lord Sunderline, her nearest of kin,
she knew but very little, nor was that
little attractive.

Pondering these things, she grew affrighted
at the stern aspect of the world
she was going to face, for, as she collected
her faculties and studied her circumstances,
she grew more and more averse
to fulfil her engagement with Leslie
Waring. The great motive was gone,
and an irresistible longing for freedom,
however poverty stricken, seized her.
The idea of so close a union with a
mere good - natured sportsman, who in
no way touched her imagination, whose
offensive affection wearied her, whose
personal appearance was unpleasant to
her eye, became infinitely repugnant as
she dwelt upon it. It was hardly fair
to him either to let him plunge into the
irrevocable in ignorance of her aversion.
Better let him bear a temporary pang
now, than incur the misery long drawn
out of an ill - assorted, unsympathetic
marriage.

Her resolution to break with him grew

rapidly stronger almost before she was
aware she had formed it. Then she
began to see that she was enjoying
Lady Mary's kind hospitality under false
pretences. She did not for a moment
doubt that her refusal to marry Waring
would bring down, if not a storm of
wrath — for Lady Mary and her family
were far too well - bred to be violently
angry — but an iceberg of disapprobation.
She must remove herself from the shelter
of their roof before she struck the blow
that would give poor Waring so much
temporary pain. (She felt sure it would
be but temporary.) And where could
she go ? There was no one but her
faithful Madame Debrisayay on whom she
could count, and even she would be very
very angry. Still her purpose grew clearer
and firmer as her nervous system began
to recover the shock it had sustained.

Pray, dear, did poor Mrs Newburgh
leave any ready money ? ' asked Lady
Mary, coming into her husband's dressing-room,
where he was occupied with his
toilette, after a sharp and satisfactory
run with the Cheshire hounds.

Yes ; a few hundreds, which she put
in my hands to meet immediate expenses.
Why do you ask ? '

Oh, Mona told me to ask you ! She
came downstairs to luncheon to-day,
looking very white and miserable, poor
child ; she seems restless, and anxious
to go out of the way of our Christmas
gathering. She proposes to spend a
short time with Madame Debrisayay — a
very respectable person ; she gave
Evelyn music lessons, and — '

Why the deuce doesn't she marry
Waring straight off, and go away with
him } that's the sort of change that
would set her up.'

Well, you see, she feels it would be
indecently soon after her grandmother's
death.'

Pooh ! nonsense ! Why, nothing
would please the old lady so much,
even if she were in heaven, as to know
the knot was absolutely tied ! You
make her hear reason. Let us send
for Waring ; she has her wedding-gown,
and we will marry them next
week.'

I wish I could,' ejaculated Lady
Mary.

By the way, what has become of
Waring ? '

^ He has gone to see his old guardian
about some business ; to pass away the
time, I fancy, till Mona is well enough
to see him. He was quite distracted
about her at first, poor fellow. I really
do not think she is half as grateful to
him as she ought to be.'

No ; I daresay not — it would be unfeminine
! But he ought not to put up
with such rubbish. Who is this woman
she wants to go to ? '

I told you, my dear. She is a professor
of music, well known to us all.'

Well, you ought to ascertain what
Waring thinks about it — he has a right
to be consulted.'

I do not think he would object. Then
he could stay in London and see her
every day ; whereas a man so much in
love is rather a nuisance in a house.'

Oh, manage it your own way !
Marry them out of hand if you can.
Perhaps it might be as well to let her

go ; for I want a really nice party to
meet Lord Finistoun, who is a capital
fellow, and it is his first visit here.
Mind you, I don't think Mona is treating
Waring well ; you ought to influence
her.'

That is not so easily done. She
has some of the Newburgh blood, you
know, and thinks she knows her own
mind.'

Bah ! I thought better of Mona.'

The jovial country gentleman was too
much occupied with his pleasures and
affairs to trouble about feminine crotchets
all that was Lady Mary's work.

Meantime, Mona had not been idle.
She wrote to her ' dear Deb,' begging
leave to visit her, as she felt herself
an impediment to the party Lady Mary
wished to assemble, and also because
she had more to say than she could
write.

This brought a speedy, rapturous reply.

Then Mona applied herself to compose,
re-write, and copy her difficult letter to
Leslie Waring.

It was even a worse task than she

anticipated. All her selfish longing for
deliverance was for the moment swallowed
up in sorrow for the pain she
was about to inflict. Nothing kept her
steady to her purpose so much as her
conviction that she was doing right, —
that she was delivering Leslie as well
as herself. She was more than one
day over her task ; for Evelyn Everard,
an exceedingly girlish girl, who had taken
a violent fancy to her, was constantly
running into her room with her work,
or book, or for the avowed intention
of * enlivening' her.

It was accomplished at last, however ;
but Mona waited to post it till she was
safe in town, even though she left two
of Waring's epistles unanswered. Indeed,
her replies had always been few
and scanty — so much so, that even he
had become restless and dissatisfied.
He hoped, however, that a personal interview
would put all matters right.
Mona had had so severe a shock in
the sudden death of her grandmother
in her very arms, that she must be shown
all patience and consideration.

It was with a nervous sense of guilt,
of being a deceiver, that Mona took
leave of Lady Mary and her daughters.
She took advantage of the Vicar's wife's
company, as she was going to town fora
rare visit, and she thus avoided the
cost and worry of having a smart lady's-maid
sent with her.

It was a grey blustering afternoon
when she reached St Pancreas, and found
Madame Debrisayay waiting for her.

My dear, you do look bad ! Come,
get into the cab. I will find your
things.'

I have only this small portmanteau
and bonnet-box for the present.'

That's right. I am sure you are
not fit to be out in such weather, get
in ; dear.'

I must post this letter first,' said
Mona, her lips quivering.

Very well. Give it to me. Oh,
yes ; quite right,' glancing at the address.
You must keep him informed of your
whereabouts. It's hard times for him,
poor fellow, all this delay.' The long
drive to Westbourne Villas passed almost

in silence on Mona's side. To Madame
Debrisayay silence was abhorrent, and she
poured out much information respecting
the changes she had made in her dwelling
— the additional pupils promised her
next month. ' I am glad I have the
rest of this one comparatively free. I
can give a little time to you, my dear
child. And here we are, thank God !
You will be the better of a cup of tea.'
Mona was, indeed, thankful to have,
so far, accomplished her purpose as to
be under the roof of her only sympathetic
friend ; but her heart fainted within
her at the thought of the confession she
had to make. If Madame Debrisayay
refused to harbour her, what was she todo
? Meantime that busy woman flitted
to and fro. She stirred the already
glowing fire, made the kettle boil up,
infused the tea, and cut brown bread
and butter with immense energy, while
Mona — having put aside her bonnet and
cloak — lay back in a comfortable little
basket-chair — indescribable despondency
expressed in every line of her slight
form — her hands clasped and motionless.

There now,' said madame, placing
a small table with a cup of tea and
plate of bread and butter beside her
young guest, ' take that, and get warmed.
Then say your say, for I can see your
heart is full. It's like a ghost you are
an uneasy ghost, dear, that hasn't
contrived to deliver its message.'

I have no doubt of it,' returned
Mona, with a faint smile. ' You describe
what I feel myself to be, exactly.'

Madame Debrisayay looked at her with
kind, compassionate eyes, and stirred
her own tea reflectively — remaining silent
for an unusual length of time.

Now,' she said, when the refection
was finished — having rapidly packed up
the cups and saucers, and popped (no
other word conveys the action) the
tray outside — ' now, come, open your
heart to me, dear, for I know you are
in trouble.'

I am indeed,' returned Mona, in a
voice that faltered and shook in a way
far more touching than the most violent
burst of tears. ' I have determined to
break off my engagement ! '

And you within a day of being his
wife, if your dear sainted grandmother
hadn't been swept away in a minute !
No, I won't listen to you. It's mad,
and bad, and not like yourself at all !
What will Sir Robert say, and — and
Lady Mary ? Who'd have thought you'd
be so cruel and false ? I must say it,
dear ! Indeed, I knew there was
misfortune coming, since I had your
note. And something told me you
wouldn't marry him. Ah ! my poor
Waring ! you deserved better at her
hands ! '

I knew you would be angry,' said
Mona sadly, ' but I cannot help it. I
cannot marry him, or anyone. Life
is too hard ! '

Ah ! then do you think you'll make
it softer by keeping single } I know
better. Life is cruel to a single woman
that's poor, and pretty, and delicately
reared, as you are. How do you mean
to live ? What can you do to earn
a crust ? '

Not much, certainly ; but I have
the will, and I am persevering ; and don't

speak so cruelly, Deb, for I feel heartbroken.'


God forgive me,' said madame solemnly.
' He knows I would share my
last loaf with you, and will too ; but I
am angry with you, my darling. You
are flying in the face of Providence,
and driving an excellent young man to
an early grave.'

I do not think that. Deb. Nay,
I suppose in a month or two he will
be in love with someone else. I do
not think he is the sort of man who
will destroy himself for an ideal.'

Tell me the truth, Mona, my dear child.
Are you in love with another, — some
poor creature you can't marry ? '

No ; in truth I am not. There is
not a man on the face of the earth at
this moment I would willingly marry.'

I believe you, for I never knew you
speak falsely yet ; but there is something
under it all I can't make out. I always
thought there was. Maybe you will tell
me one day. Now, listen to me. If
you ever cared for your dear, good,
generous grandmother, don't be in a

VOL. I. I

Monas Choice,

hurry ; just say your prayers, and think.
Believe me, it's awfully hard to pick up
a living, especially when you haven't
anyone to take you by the hand. And
you have turned everyone against ye, or
you will. Don't quarrel with the poor
young fellow that has given you his
whole heart. Take a day or two to
think what you're doing.'

I have done it, Deb,' stretching out
her hand, and laying it on her friend's
plump arm. ' You posted the letter to
him yourself, just now.'

Ah ! that was base of you — base, to
take my hand to deal the blow. I'll
never forgive you, never ! '

Yes, you will — you must,' rising and
kneeling beside her, while she clasped her
arms round her waist. * I have no one in
the world to turn to but you. Deb, and I
cannot marry this man — I cannot indeed.'

And you have written to him ? Then
he will never rest satisfied without seeing
you ; and when he comes, in the name
of God, let him persuade you.'

I cannot promise that Deb, dear. I
will not see him if I can help it ; but if

he insists, why, I will. He has a right
to so much, and I cannot refuse.'

Oh ! that is something. No, don't refuse
; you let him persuade you when he
does find. I'll be bound when he opens
his lips and tells you how he has trusted
to your word, he will bring you round.
Promise me you will hear him.'

I will,' said Mona gently ; ' and if he
insists on keeping me to my word, I will
keep it ; but — but after reading my letter,
I do not think he will.'

Don't be too sure of that. Now tell
me, have you told Lady Mary } '

Not yet. I thought I would wait
till I had his answer.'

That's right. He'll come and speak
his answer himself, or I am much mistaken,
and — well, we'll wait and see what
it will be.'

He will not hold me to my word ? '

I am not so sure. Anyway, I'll talk
no more to you about him this day.
You are just tired and done for. We'll
leave the matter to Heaven ; and you
must rest. Do you remember what you
said in your unlucky letter ? '

Monas Choice.

Yes. I told him I was driven by
my grandmother's position to accept
him ; that I was heartily ashamed of having
misled him ; that I felt it was only
just to tell him that I did not, and could
not, love him as a wife ought to love ;
that I deeply deplored the pain I gave
him, and humbly begged his forgiveness ;
that I thanked him for his goodness,
and prayed that he would forget me, and
soon be happy with someone more
worthy than myself.'

Ah ! I know — the usual sort of thing.
It would serve you right if he never replied.
Ah, Mona, Mona ! this is the
biggest mistake ever you made. Still,
I'll not turn my back on you, my poor
child, and maybe — maybe your luck
won't leave you yet.'

THE TUG OF WAR.

she change from the luxurious
elegance of the ' Chase ' to
Madame Debrisayay's London
lodgings, was about as great
as can be imagined.

Yet the house was not mean. The
widow woman ' who owned it had a
certain refinement. Instead of the usual
extremely unlaced and unkempt ' slavey,'
she had an elderly servant of neat and
imposing aspect, who had been with her
for years, and who was rather a terror
to Madame Debrisayay.

The lodger who occupied the upper
floor was a steady elderly city clerk, of
remarkable punctuality and precision.

Still the tone of the homely dwelling
was new to Mona, who had been accustomed
to the aristocratic, if narrow,
nicety of her grandmothers house, or the
distinction of her relatives' establishments.
The only members of the family who
had accepted Mrs Newburgh's granddaughter
frankly and cordially, were Sir
Robert and Lady Mary Everard. The
rest looked on her as an interloper, an
offshoot tainted by an admixture of blood
that was anything but blue. Of this she
was but dimly conscious. While under
her grandmother's wing, she had been
received with decent civility ; now, she
felt keenly that she was about to alienate
the only real friends she possessed
to sink from the level of the Newburgh
traditions to that of struggling,
almost adventurous, nobodies. Yet she
did not regret the desperate step she
had taken. Why, at her age, should
she link herself for a long life to a
thraldom that would irk her soul }
Youth demands so much. It takes the
friction of a life-time to teach moderation
and the wisdom of compromise.

To Mona, the notion of temperate
liking, instead of devotion to an ideal
hero, and the importunate adoration of
a man whom she considered commonplace
and dull, was intolerable. Above
all, she was so disenchanted with life,
and love, and dreams of perfection, by
St John Lisle's conduct, that she fancied
it was impossible the scattered fragments
of imagination's shining temple could
ever be reformed — not knowing the
marvellous recuperative powers of time
and nature.

Fatigue made her sleep so profoundly,
that it took some moments of waking
consciousness before she recognised where
she was. The sound of someone moving
reminded her that she was sharing
Madame Debrisayay's room, and presently
that lady came out fully dressed from
behind a large Japanese screen, which
converted one corner into a dressing
closet.

And how did you sleep, dear ? '

Oh, well ; too well ! ' exclaimed Mona.

Well, stay where you are. I'll bring
you a cup of coffee and a bit of toast,

for I have a long, busy day before me.
I go to Mrs Ardell's grand establishment
first, over at Kensington. I am therefor
four mortal hours, then I get a bit
of food ; and give two private lessons in
the same neighbourhood, so I am obliged
to leave you nearly all day. But business
is business.'

Of course it is ; do not mind me ! '

My good landlady will give you something
to eat at her dinner time, and we
will have a cosy tea together when I
come in.'

Thank you. Deb.'

You see I have taken your advice,
and changed my rooms. I was just
ready in time for you, my lamb ; the
front room is better for a sitting-room.'

She hurried away, and returned sooner
than Mona could have expected, with a
fragrant cup of card au lait and a slice
of buttered toast.

Once more she put in her head with
a cheerful —

'I'm off now, make yourself comfortable,
dear ; there are some books and a
lot of Family Heralds in the next room ;

there are splendid stories in them, they
make your hair stand on end, and forget
the time. Take the hand-bell if you
want anything — none of the other bells
will ring. Good-bye, dear.'

Mona dressed slowly, and went into
the sitting-room. It was a stormy, wet
day. The rain beat against the one large
bow window which lighted it, and which
looked over a small square of grass, with
a flower-bed in the middle, and a couple
of trees next the railings, that divided
it from the street. It was a fairly well-kept
front garden, but at the present
time, being strewn with dead leaves, and
sodden with rain, it was not a cheerful
prospect. The fire had been hastily
loaded with coal, and had succumbed to
the load. The table-cover was crooked ;
a very irregular pile of newspapers.
Heralds programmes of concerts, overflowed
an occasional table ; but the
furniture was good and in good order,
though extremely mixed as to style and
pattern ; some of it, in fact, was Madame
Debrisayay's, and some her landlady's.

The hand-bell evoked a tall, hard-featured

woman, with thick grizzled halr»
a spotless cap, and a dark print dress.

The fire's gone out ? ' she repeated, ina
high-pitched tone. * I daresay madame
thinks coals '11 light of themselves ; she
just pitches them on, whether there is
a spark alive or not. I'll fetch a few
sticks, miss.'

The fire burning, the hearth swept, and
a few tidying touches bestowed on the
room, made a vast improvement.

Mona threw herself into an arm-chair,
and tried to think what was best to do.
What pressed most upon her mind was
the painful necessity of communicating
with Lady Mary. She ought not to be
left in ignorance of her intentions, but
would it not be well to hear first what
Leslie Waring would say. Yes, she would
wait.

The previous evening she had posted
a few lines to the Chase, announcing her
safe arrival, she might therefore postpone
her next letter for twenty - four
hours.

By this time, her refusal to ratify her
engagement had been read by her lover

and she quivered at the idea of the
pain and mortification she had inflicted.
Ke would be awfully angry. Indeed,
she hoped he would. It might help him
to throw off his grief. He would write
severely : she dreaded his letter — but
surely he would be too bitterly offended
to come in person to reproach her ; that
possibility was unspeakably terrible.

The dreary hours went slowly by —
slowly, yet fast. She could not form
any conception of what her future might
be. Her powers of imagination, of conjecture,
paused, paralysed, before the
bristling difficulties of the present.

She could hardly expect a letter from
Waring till the next day. He was
staying — not very far away, in Hampshire
— with the gentleman who had
been his guardian, and for whom he
had a great regard. This man was —
Mona felt, rather than knew — opposed
to his marriage with herself. She was
convinced that he considered her not
sufficiently well off or important to bea
suitable match for his ex-ward. He
would assist to rouse Waring's wrath.

against her, and would not let him
lower himself by a personal Interview.

She strove to swallow a morsel or
two of the dinner set before her ; she
tried to gather the sense of an agonising
tale In the London Reader, and Interest
herself In the tremendous persecutions
of the heroine. All In vain. Time, however,
was rolling on ; she might soon
expect Madame Debrlsay. Four o'clock
struck when she had gone Into the
bedroom to seek for some piece of fancy
work (which Madame Debrlsay infinitely
preferred to mending her clothes), when
the sound of the front-door bell, followed
by a step in the next room, made her
hope that her kind hostess had returned.
Going quickly in to greet her, she beheld
Jane, the servant, in the act of
lighting the gas, while by the window,
looking paler — sterner than she thought
he could, stood Leslie Waring !

^ Good-morning,' he said stiffly. * I
thought I should find you in.'

This while Jane pulled down the
blind and retired. Then he made a
step forward to where Mona stood,

motionless — her trembling hands locked
together, her eyes wide-opened, gazing
at him.

Do you seriously mean what you
have written here ? ' he asked, in a
thick, unsteady voice, as he drew forth
and opened her letter.

Yes,' she said ; ' I do.'

Then I have a right to ask the reason
of this sudden change. What have 1
done to deserve it ? '

You have deserved nothing but good
and gratitude from me,' faltered Mona,
sinking into a chair, for she felt her
limbs unable to support her.

Then why do you desert me ? '

I told you in my letter — the whole
truth ; I can not love you as a wife
ought to love.'

We agreed to get over that difficulty,
I hoped to win your affection, if you
were quite free from any other attachment.'


And I am, Mr Waring ! There is
not a man in existence whom I would
accept at this moment. But ' — she was
growing calmer under the desperate necessity

of explanation — ' I also told you
what, indeed, I blushed to write — that
my grandmother's wish, her overpowering
need, induced me to consent to what,
otherwise, I should not have accepted.'


I understand. Then, Mona, you
have treated me very badly. You took
me when I was necessary to you ; you
throw me aside when you think you
can do without me ! And I love you
so ! I thought I was going straight
into heaven when you promised to be
my wife ! I had faith In your promise
to try and love me ; and, after all, you
were only sacrificing yourself to maintain
your grandmother — a sacrifice you
gladly escape as soon as you can ! You
have broken your contract ! '

You are justly angry. I cannot defend
myself. But do you not think you
will be happier with some woman fairer
and better than I am, who will love you
heartily, and — '

No one will ever be so fair and good
as you seem to me ; and as you reject
.me, how am I to believe that anyone

will love me ? You had every reason to
love me, yet you could not.'

Love cannot reason.'

Then you know what love is ? * cried
Waring sharply. ' There is something
still in your heart which you will not
speak out! Ah, Mona ! why can I not
please you ? Why are you so cruel ?
You have destroyed my life ! '

There was such passionate despair in
his voice that Mona was profoundly
moved. That she had cruelly, selfishly,
wronged him was borne in upon her
with constraining force. She felt guilty,
culpable, to the last degree ; and wavering
in her resolution, — wishing, if possible,
to do the right thing, she stammered, —

If — if you think it worth accepting,
I will retract that letter, and — and do
my best.'

No ! ' interrupted Waring, with a
dignity of which she did not imagine
him capable. * You cannot endure me !
I do not want a victim ! I love you
too well for that. But, ah, Mona, it is
an agony to think you will have to face
the roughness of life ! Whether you love

me or not — whether you desert me or
not — I would gladly give half I possess
to shield you from all you dare to face.
Promise you will let me help you if you
need help — promise, Mona ! '

Surely,' she cried, greatly touched —
surely Heaven has cursed you with
something of a woman's heart, or you
would not feel so tenderly and generously
for one who has pained and
wounded you ! I feel your superiority,
and I humbly beg your forgiveness. I
will always think of you as a true
gentleman. May you find greater happiness
than I could bestow. Here —
take this back ! '

Pray keep it,' he said, as she held
out her engagement ring of diamonds.

I cannot, Mr Waring ; you must take
it back ! '
He thrust it on his finger.

Then it is all over between us ! ' he
said passionately ; ' all quite over ! Perhaps
it is better so. It would have broken
my heart to try in vain to win )our love ;
and, dear as you are, I would not have
you without it. Good-bye, Mona ! you

have taught me how unlovable I am ;
yet I might have made you happy.'

With a slight despairing gesture of the
hand he turned and left her.

Left her in a state of terrible agitation
and doubt.

She did not expect to be so completely
routed, so utterly ashamed. He was
stronger and nobler than she thought.
She had broken with him, and she had
lost him. She had offered to retract, and
he had rejected her.

It pained her infinitely to think that his
opinion of her had been lowered, — that
she had been so faithless to her promise.

Yet she knew that had she renewed,
or kept to the engagement, she would be
miserable.

He will forget me soon,' she told herself.
' To-day his bearing was dignified
and earnest, his feelings were deeply
moved — tomorrow, his eye will be caught
by some one of the many charming girls
he meets, and he will be far happier than
with one whose heart is dead, like mine.'

She sat long quite still, thinking painfully,
confusedly. Then she nerved her-vol.

I. K

self to seek her writing materials, and
begin a letter to Lady Mary.

What a task it was. How worthless and
ungrateful her own conduct seemed to her
as she strove to explain it and excuse
herself. How insufficient, how puerile
her objections must seem to those who
had not the key to the puzzle — that key
none should ever get. She knew that
had she never met Lisle, had she been
heart whole, she might have grown to
like Waring sufficiently well to be happy.
But Lisle had lifted a corner of the veil
which hides the mysteries of life from
young eyes, and given her a glimpse of
human passion and the enchantment of it ;
now nothing less glowing could satisfy
her — all else was tame and weak. And
this hero whom she had invested withall
the attributes of noblest manhood,
strength, and tenderness, the masterful
decision of a fine intellect, the gentleness
of a knight-errant, he had shown himself
to her in his true colours, and swept
away the illusions which had gathered
round his image in her mind for ever.
She said truly there wa not a vestige

of love in her heart for any man, nor
did she believe she could ever believe in
another.

She did not dream of the enormous
recuperative powers which youth possesses.
Still it was a bitter blow, that
sent her reeling back from the threshold
of life, to recover as best she could her
vanished hopes of truth and tenderness
respectful love, everlasting constancy.

She had not completed her difficult
letter, when Madame Debrisayay came in.

I am quite done up ! ' she cried. ' Such
vile weather ! I will change my boots,
and be with you in a minute. But I have
a new pupil, so my Wednesdays will be
well filled at Kensington. We'll talk over
everything at tea.'

The kindly woman's horror and amazement
when Mona disclosed the dreadful
fact that Waring had come to answer
her letter in person, and had gone away
in sorrow and indignation, can be better
imagined than described.

She was too deeply affected for speech.
She pushed back her chgiir from the table,
and sat a silent image of grief. , \

And is there nothing to be done ! ' she
ejaculated. ' Dieu des Dieux ! It was my
last hope, that when he came himself and
you saw him face to face, drowned in
sorrow, you'd have given way. How had
you the heart to refuse him again ? '

But he did not ask me, dear Deb.
He very properly said he did not want a
victim. I think more highly of him than
I ever did before ; but I am sure I have
done right in acting as I have, and he
will thank me yet ! '

It is a downright tempting of Providence.
Ah ! Mona, you'll rue the day
yet. And to make me post that letter I
Ah! if I had known what was in it, I'd
have torn it into smithereens before your
face. What will become of you now '^
Everyone's hand will be against you.'

Except yours, dear friend.'

I tell you what. My hand is just
itching to box your ears, though it will
never put you from me. If I only knew
the truth. You are keeping back something
— I know you are. Ah! and Sir
Robert Everard. Won't he be in the
fury, and Lady Mary. Well, well! I've

had many a sore disappointment ; but I
think this is about the worst. If your
poor dear grand mamma could look from
her grave — I mean down from heaven
I wonder what she would say ! '

Enlightened as she probably is by
the knowledge of another world, she
would, no doubt, approve of what I have
done.'

It would be queer knowledge ! '

For the rest of the evening Madame
Debrisayay kept silence, or nearly complete
silence, which was, of course, pain and
grief to her — while Mona finished and
despatched her letter.

In due time it was answered, in rather
a distracted fashion, by Lady Mary. She
said she thought dear Mona must be
under the influence of temporary insanity ;
that Sir Robert was going up to London
to see what was really the matter ; and
that she prayed Heaven there might not
be any secret mischief at the bottom of
this unfortunate affair.

The idea of facing Sir Robert alone
was too much for poor Mona.

He will certainly be here tomorrow.

Could you manage to stay at home, dear,
dear Deb ? ' she said imploringly.

Well, and I don't wonder you are
frightened to see him ! He will be like
a raging lion — small blame to him!
There, don't turn so white. I am a bit
of a wild beast myself to speak so harsh
to a bit of a girl like you ! If I did not
dread a hard, poverty-stricken life for you,
I wouldn't be so mad. God knows, if
my own baby girl had lived, I couldn't
love her better than I do you ! Yes, I
will stay by you, my lamb. It will be a
tolerably free day tomorrow. I'll write
and put off my early lessons, for you maybe
sure he will come up hot foot the first
thing in the morning to row us out of the
place.'

This assurance was some stay to Mona.
She was very low — she had been for sometime
unable to eat, and her nerves had
suffered severely from the shock of her
grandmother's sudden death. It made
Madame Debrisayay's soft heart ache to see
how thin and white her pet pupil had
grown, how she started and trembled at
any sudden noise, and, above all, at her

steady effort to be calm and helpful. It
was almost too much for her, this waiting
for what the morrow should bring forth.
She knew Sir Robert, though kind, was
choleric, and, like all sensitive creatures,
she shrank from rough words ; she strove
to strengthen herself by reflecting that she
was the best judge of what was best for
her own happiness, — that she had a right
to decide for herself, — that she was not
bound to obey Sir Robert, though she
hated to contradict him.

Madame Debrisayay put on her best black
silk dress, and a pretty little morning cap
of Brussels lace, in honour of the occasion ;
and Mona swept away the confused mass
of papers into the bedroom, and put the
place into order, adding a few Christmas
roses and geraniums, which she had persuaded
Madame Debrisayay to let her buy.
She knew how revolted the orderly baronet
would be by any untidiness or a
sordid lodging-house look, and she had a
vague fear that he might take her from the
asylum she had sought.

As Madame had anticipated. Sir Robert
came between eleven and twelve. A

glance at his broad, usually good-humoured
face, showed how great was the
wrath he had accumulated.

He came abruptly into the room, and
without a word of greeting, exclaimed, —

What the deuce is the meaning of your
extraordinary conduct, Mona ? Have you
quite lost your senses ? '

No, Sir Robert. I have been making
up my mind to break off my engagement
ever since my grandmother died,' she said,
gaining courage when absolutely under fire.

By George ! you ought to be ashamed
to confess it. To throw off a young
fellow that is a great deal too good for
you, the moment a pressing necessity was
removed. I never was so humiliated in
my life as when Waring came to speak
to me last night. You have settled yourself
in his estimation : there will be no
drawing him on again — a pretty position
you have landed us all in. What's to
become of you, I'd like to know ?'

I will try to take care of myself and
not to trouble anyone.'

Take care of yourself! Why, you
have acted like a perfect idiot.'

Well, Sir Robert,' put in Madame
Debrisayay, ' I must say it is the first time
Miss Joscelyn has ever been told so !
Marriage is a very serious undertaking,
and though it miorht have been more
satisfactory to her friends if she had
married Mr Waring, she has a right todo
what she feels is best for her own
happiness, and Mr Waring's too.'

Sir Robert Everard stared at her, with
a ' Who are you ? ' expression, as if
amazed at her daring to speak.

Oh, indeed ! Perhaps she is acting
under your advice ? '

No, indeed. Sir Robert ! Madame
Debrisayay has been dreadfully angry with
me. I confess I deserve that you should
all be angry with me ; still I do not
regret what I have done.'

I haven't patience to listen to you, and —
and I wash my hands of you. I don't suppose
Waring would accept any overture now.'

*And I shall certainly not make any,'
said Mona quickly.

Then what is to become of you ? You
haven't a rap, and my doors shall be closed
against you ! '

But mine are open to her,' said
Madame Debrisayay, with dignity.

I suspect, and I told Lady Mary so
he continued, without heeding her, ' that
there is some clandestine love affair under
all this. You have inherited your mother's
taste for a low-born lover.'

If I find as good a husband, I shall
be fortunate,' cried Mona, with spirit ;
nor should / be marrying beneath me.
/ have no wish to deny my kind, good
father.'

Then, why did you drop his name ? '

I did not ; poor grannie called me
by my second baptismal name before I
knew what a surname meant; but from
this time forward, I will resume my
father's.'

But you are known as a connection
of my wife's. I will not have you disgrace
us ; and I will not support you,
unless I know we shall be spared
that—'

Disgrace you, indeed ! ' cried Madame
Debrisayay. * Who mentions disgrace in
the same breath with Mona's name. You
are forgetting yourself, Sir Robert ! You

may have a right to be angry perhaps,
but don't let your anger make you forget
you are a gentleman.'

By George ! it's enough to make a
saint swear, to see you prefer a place
like this to a good position. I can't take
the charge of your future ! You are too
headstrong ; and, after Lady Mary and
myself, Mona, you haven't a friend on
earth ! '

I suppose / count for nothing ? ' said
Madame Debrisayay. ' I am certainly a
mere doorkeeper. I can't offer my dear
young friend the splendours of Harrowby
Chase, but I have an unblemished character,
and owe no man a farthing. I
work for my living, and I make it independently.
Moreover, I can put Mona
in the way of doing the same, if she
is in earnest. Though I am not worth
a word or a look, my ancestors were
Norman knights when I daresay yours
herded their cattle, Sir Robert Everard ;
so your young kinswoman has a friend
on earth, besides yourself and her ladyship.'


Sir Robert looked at her amazed, then

in a changed tone, and with a gleam of
amusement in his eyes, he said, —

If I seemed rude, I regret it. Your
young friend's unprincipled conduct to a
worthy gentleman — who interceded for
her, madam, absolutely interceded for her
has irritated me beyond endurance.'

Madame Debrisayay bowed her forgiveness.

I only wish to stay here, and to be
forgotten,' said Mona.

Sir Robert played with his watch-chain
for a minute in silence.

I believe it would be best,' he said
a last. ' I renounce you from this time
forth, nor will I allow Lady Mary nor
my girls to hold any communication with
you. I have a couple of hundred pounds
still in my hands of Mrs Newburgh's
money, after paying funeral expenses and
other things. I will send you a cheque
for it, and whatever belongs to you at
the Chase.'

I have already put everything together,
anticipating this expulsion,' said
Mona.

Sir Robert made a step or two towards
the door, and paused irresolute.

I'll give you another chance. Will
you authorise me to make overtures to
Waring? I'll do my best for you, if
you will.'

It is impossible I could consent to
such a proposal ! ' cried Mona.

Then I have no more to say, nor
shall I ever see you again if I can
help it.'

He turned to go.

Though you are so angry, Sir Robert,
I am not the less grateful for all your
kindness,' sobbed Mona. ' I do love
Lady Mary and Evelyn dearly : it is a
cruel punishment never to see them

adam.

I have no patience with sentimental
bosh,' he returned harshly. ' Your action
proves how much of real regard you
have for any of us.' And seizing his hat
he left the room.

The next instant they heard the front
door shut violently, and saw him walk
rapidly down the road.

A N E W L I F E.

O that's done,' said Madame

Debrlsay, stirring the fire with

some force, and putting down

the poker with a clang.

How awfully angry he is ! ' exclaimed

Mona, still standing where Sir Robert had

left her.

My dear,' returned Madame Debrlsay,
'he is a brute. He might be angry — /
am angry ; but he had no business to
speak as he did ; and / might have been
the wall, for all the notice he took of me.
I trust and hope he will not do you out
of any money you ought to have.'

Oh, Deb ! how can you think of such
a thing ? Sir Robert Everard is the soul

of honour, though he is rather hasty in
temper.'

When people lose their tempers, they
often lose their heads and their sense of
justice. You may be foolish — I don't
deny you are — but I cannot bear to see
you crushed and miserable.'

I am unhappy, but I am not quite
crushed. It rouses me to hear people
talk as if there was no chance of salvation
for me except as Leslie Waring's wife.
I am young and willing to work ; why
should I not earn my living independently,
as you said 't '

'Why, of course I spoke up bold to
that tyrant ; but between you and me,
the beginning is awful hard work. Still
I have an idea. You must wait till I
think it out. Meantime, I must go ;
and you, dear, just take a book, and lie
down on the sofa and try to sleep. No
one can keep their wits clear when they
feel weak and worn out. Then if I can
get back in time, we'll have a walk. You
must get acquainted with this neighbourhood.


An awful quiet settled down on Mona
after these agitating interviews. There
was nothing more to do, — nothing more
to be resisted. She did not regret what
she had done, but the reaction was profound.
A great gulf seemed to have
yawned between her present and her past,
which nothing could bridge over.

Her boxes arrived from Harrowby
Chase, and a formal list of disbursements
on account of the late Mrs Newburgh
from Sir Robert Everard, accompanied by
a cheque for a hundred and fifty-three
pounds, thirteen and fourpence, the balance
due to her.

There, dear Deb, there is my whole
fortune ! What shall I do with it ? '

We must take care of it, ma belle —
great care. Let me see. I had better
lodge it to my account, and I will give
you an acknowledgment that I owe you
that amount. I am proud to say I have
an account at a bank. Began with the
Post Office Savings Bank, dear ; but as
my connection grew, through your dear
grandmother and others, I gathered
enough to move a step higher. I make

a fair amount for four months of the year
more than I ever hoped to do once —
then rather less for four more — a trifle
for two — and two don't count at all. If
my health is spared, I hope to provide for
my old age.'

I know you are a wonderful woman,
dearest Deb. But I cannot live upon
you. What scheme had you in your head
for me the other day ? '

I will tell you. Now I am getting a
name, people begin to bother me to teach
quite little children, and I believe I have
reached that point where a few airs would
do me good. So I shall say I cannot
undertake children under — oh! I'll fix an
age by-and-by ; but that I should like
them to be trained for a year, or whatever
time it suits to say, by my pupil and
assistant ; that I will see what progress
they are making occasionally, and that
they may be considered as under my
tuition, though at half-price. It will
take, my dear, like wildfire. You area
very fair musician. We'll go into
partnership, and make a good thing of
it

VOL. I. L

What a splendid idea ! Do you really
think I can teach ? '

Not a doubt of it ; but I can tell you
it's horrid work, and needs the patience of
Job. I begin to believe there is nothing
on earth so rare as a good ear ! You will
get on, I am certain, only don't be too
anxious, and be sure you give yourself
airs. The public is a nettle that stings
if it is too tenderly touched.'

I am not naturally meek, but I shall
certainly feel anxious.'

Have faith in yourself, dear ; it's the
only way to get on. Then you have a
bit of money for present use, and a
splendid lot of clothes. You shall pay
me for your board when you begin to
earn two guineas a week. Then we'll do
well. Though you were made for a different
life, and so was I, dear — very
different. I was the belle of Ballykill-
rudder, when it was headquarters for
the district, though I say it that should
not. Ah, well, God's will be done ! Who
knows what good fortune is in store for
you. I can tell you, you are in luck to
have your troubles early ; mine didn't

begin rightly till I was eight-and-twenty
over twenty years ago — and now the
best hope is to make enough to die
easy. Whereas there's a chance still
of the beautiful young prince turning up
for you.'

Not nowadays, dear Deb ! And when
do you think I may begin my battle for
independence ? '

I spoke about you last week to
Mrs Mathewson. Her eldest daughter
screeches under my direction : I cannot
keep her voice down ; and there's a little
thing of ten she wants me to take for the
piano. Now I'll hand her over to you —
they are rolling in riches ! Here's a book
on teaching the piano, in German. You
study it, and follow it. Practise up a few
of your noisiest pieces. People seem to
think you can teach music with your
fingers, instead of your head. They are
so taken with a few gymnastics on the
keyboard.'

Yes, Deb, I will practise diligently.
I haven't touched the piano since poor
grannie died.'

'Well, it's time you began. You have

a pretty touch and a fluent finger. As
to singing ; come, let us try that duet
Signor Boccaccio taught you last winter.
What ages away that winter seems to
have gone.'

'Ah! does it not?' said Mona, with
a deep sigh.

And all the glorious spring-time which
succeeded it ; the dawn of dazzling delight
when she first perceived that Lisle
quietly but persistently sought her ; the
charm of the delicious secrecy which
wrapped their mutual, silent understanding
; the history of those few
months which had been the culmination,
so far, of her life, flashed
through her memory — clear, vivid, instantaneous.
But she turned resolutely
from the picture.

Where is the book ? ' she asked.
I will begin my preparations at once.
I must do credit to your recommendation.
I long to make a start in real
life.'

Reality is a serious thing, yet it has
its inspirations. The sense of doing
real work, — of earning hard money,

has a dignity in its laboriousness which
scarcely anything else bestows ; and
Mona would have rejoiced in this new
development of energy, had she not
been so deeply wounded. Her sudden,
complete renunciation by her valued
friends at Harrowby Chase cut her to
the soul, especially as she felt she had
in a measure deserved it. Her bitter
disappointment in Lisle was more regret
for the loss of an illusion than sorrow
for a personal bereavement. In her
short experience of society, she had no
friendships or intimacies save with Sir
Robert Everard's family. It was this
abandonment that depressed and saddened
her. Her upbringing had not
been luxurious. Mrs Newburgh was
a strict economist, though a flavour of
stateliness pervaded her life ; moreover,
Mona had been old enough to know
there vas a degree of uncertainty about
her position and her future before her
grandmother had finally and complete)'
adopted her. Yet the life of that one
season had been delightful. Mona's was
an imaginative and poetic nature, though

not without its practical side. The
brilliant and beautiful surroundings of
the society to which her grandmother
belonged charmed her senses, and she
had not seen enough of it to perceive
the deficiencies which appertain to it as
to all human growths. There was,
however, a sound, true heart under her
fair, quiet exterior which made a home,
however homely, not only bearable, but
likeable, were love only an inmate to
bind the inmates together with the
golden links of tender sympathy. Then
came the balm of constant employment.
What a blessing was enfolded in the
divine decree, * In the sweat of thy
brow, shalt thou eat bread.'

It was a curious, trying sensation the
giving of her first lesson. If the well-dressed,
demure little damsel to whom
it was administered only knew how
awfully afraid her elegant-looking teacher
was of her, all chance of discipline would
have been over. But silence, backed
by gravity, is a splendid cover for nervousness
; and Mona did not utter a
word beyond what teaching required,

nor did she ever feel the same panic

again.

She has beautiful frocks, mamma
was the sentence of the little ten-year
old. ' Her black cloth must be tailor-made
— it fits like a glove ; and she has
pitch beautiful jet ear-rings ! '

Nor did the young lady doubt that a
music - teacher so attired must be deserving
of all attention.

So the new life was fully inaugurated
soon after Christmas — that Christmas
which poor Leslie Waring had hoped
would be so heavenly bright — which
Madame Debrisayay and Mona quietly
and sadly celebrated together. The
former — who was a Catholic if she were
anything — accompanied her young protege
to church, and enjoyed a particularly
crisp French novel over the fire
for the rest of the day ; while Mona
sat long at the piano, playing from
memory and dreaming over the past.
She gave few thoughts to the future.

And,' thought Madame Debrisayay,
she might be dining in splendour — in
Paris, or Rome, or London — with powdered

flunkies behind her chair ; not
that there is much comfort to be got
from them I Well, well, there's no
accounting for a young girl's whims ;
but I'm as sure as I am sitting here
that there's another man in the case,
and, please God, if nothing is said she'll
forget him.'

So the days and weeks flew past,
and Mona, with the blessed facility of
youth, began to revive. A simple life,
plenty to do, the society of a kindly
and amusing companion, are wholesome
tonics. Madame Debrisayay was extremely
amusing. She had been largely educated
by observation. She was at once sceptical
and credulous : her mind was utterly
untrained — yet a certain keen mother-wit
and largeness of heart made her
judgment, on the whole, clear. She
was still quick in temper, though it
had been much chastened, and also extremely
resentful of small slights.

Now it so happened that the gentleman
who occupied the drawing - room
floor had a pet dog — a rough terrier —
which he firmly believed was of the true

Dandie Diamond ' breed, and which
madame pronounced to be a ' thoroughbred
mongrel.' It was an ill-tempered
brute, and used to attack the house
cat, which Madame Debrisayay had taken
under her protection. Dandie, as the
dog was called, more than once pursued
the cat into madame's sacred apartment,
and on one occasion had worried a small
fur rug, by which she, for some reason,
set great store.

A wrathful message had therefore been
despatched to the owner, requesting him
to keep his favourite chained up, as he
had destroyed some valuable property.
The reply — which was no doubt never
intended to meet Madame Debrisayay's
ear — was to the effect that Mr Ridden
was ' Willing to pay half-a-crown for
any twopenny-halfpenny damage inflicted
on her rags and jags.' This was intolerable
; the blood of all the Debrisays
she was a Debrisayay by birth as well
as by marriage — rose in an indignant
tide at the affront. Madame Debrisayay
sought a personal interview in the hall ;
and as Mr Rigden was in a hurry to

catch his omnibus, her dignity and stern
remonstrance made not the slightest impression.
He told her hastily she should
not heed the mischievous representations
of a servant ; that although he had certainly
uttered the words attributed to
him, he did not mean them to be repeated.
He was quite willing to pay
for damages, but he would not chain up
his dog to please Mrs Debrisayay, or anyone
else. So saying he departed hastily,
and slammed the door behind him.

The ill - mannered barbarian ! ' as
Madame Debrisayay observed to Maria.
A roturier my dear ; a roturier, pur
et simple!

After this there was a running fire of
hostilities, for Madame Debrisayay was by
no means disposed to turn her cheek to
the smiter.

Things had settled down to a regular
routine. The depth of the winter was
over ; Parliament had met, and Mona
had nearly as much to do as she could
accomplish without fatigue, though she
was quite willing to do more. Madame
even talked of making a little excursion

to the sea-side at the dead season, if
things continued to prosper.

Mona was returning late one afternoon,
after one of her busiest days. She
was weary, but more hopeful, though
she was thinking how this time last year
she was looking forward to the mingled
joy and terror of being presented. It
was a little hard to be so suddenly
dragged down, and carried away from
all the gaieties and pleasures, the society
and distinction, that she had enjoyed
a few months ago, and to which
she felt she should never return. Yet
there was no bitterness in her regret ;
she felt that she was singularly fortunate
in having found such a friend and such
a home.

Her reflections were suddenly broken
in upon by a familiar voice exclaiming, —
By Jove ! it is Mona ! Mona Joscelyn ! '
and she found her further progress
barred by Bertie Everard, Sir Robert's
only son, who was studying law, having
no military proclivities, and thinking
legal knowledge would be useful in
managing the family estate, which was

by no means flourishing under his
father's munificent rule.

Bertie ! I never dreamed of meeting
you,' as though the ban which had
fallen on her had been ' banishment.' —
that an encounter between two inhabitants
of the same town had been thereby
rendered impossible.

Nor did I. I thought you had emigrated,
or been sent to a penitentiary,
or some such thing. You see, when
anyone drops out of sight in London,
it is such a drop in the ocean, that he
or she leaves no trace behind. I am
quite glad to see you. Come, tell me
all about yourself. Evy has wept gallons
over you. She wanted to write, and
the Lord knows what, but my mother
strictly forbade her. You are an awful
black sheep, you know — a lost mutton.'

Of course I am,' said Mona, smiling.
She understood her cousin's dry
bluntness. ' But you must acknowledge
I have kept out of sight and not troubled
you.'

Yes ; it is quite true. Now I have
met you, I am amazed to find you still

exist. How have you managed it,
Mona ? '

Why trouble about details ? I exist,
and want nothing — that is enough.'

Wonderful woman ! Where are you
going ? '

Home.'

Home? Is it far?*

Not very.'

Let me come with you.'

If you like. I am glad to have a
chance of hearing about you all.'

This brief colloquy took place on the
Broad Walk, Kensington Gardens,
Mona was crossing from a house in
Queen's Gate, where her last lesson had
been given.

Bertie Everard, a tall, thin, bony
young man, most accurately got up, and
as unlike father or mother as could be
imagined, turned and accompanied her
towards the Bays water Road.

Do you know, you are looking
fairly well ? Cheeks not quite so round,
eyes a trifle more sombre than they
were last year, but you are a pretty —
no, a handsome girl still, Mona.'

I suppose one does not grow old in
five or six months.'

No ; but the tradition in our family
is that you have been eating the bread
of misery, and precious little of that,
bedewed with the water of affliction,
and—'

And you were all content that I
should, though we were such good
friends, and enjoyed so many happy
days together.'

It was all your own fault, you know.
You took your own course. I daresay,
if you asked her, my mother would have
helped you ; but she wasn't bound to
look you up. Sentimental generosity is
out of date altogether.'

I do not suppose it would have been
a weakness of yours, at animate. However,
you need not fear for me. I get
bread enough, and to spare, and very
pleasant bread, too. Now, tell me some
news. How is your dear mother ? She
was always so good.'

She is exceedingly flourishing and
busy, for Evelyn is going to be married
very good match — to Lord Finistoun.

He is a pleasant, easy-going fellow, —
rather an ass, but that will suit Evy.
She hasn't much brains herself.'

She has sense enough not to think
she has all the brains of the family, as
you do, Bertie.'

Yes, I do, and I am no great things
after all. Your troubles have not taken the
sharp edge off your tongue, Miss Joscelyn,'
he said, laughing.

There is no ]\Iiss Joscelyn now. I
have resumed my poor father's name.
It is more suited to my fortunes and
fancy.'

By Jove ! And what is it ? Craig ?
Um ! It was a queer notion of Mrs
Newburgh's to suppress it. Nobody
cares or thinks about names now, except
for what they are worth on paper } I
suppose you haven't heard or seen anything
of Waring ? '

No ; of course not.'

Nor anyone else either ! Can't think
what's become of him. Some one did
say he was training a colt for the Derby.
I daresay he is glad enough now that
you have broke with him. Can't understand

why men marry ! — must be an awful
bore.'

I have no doubt he is obliged to me.'

And you are deucedly sorry you gave
him the chance, eh ? '

You would not believe me if I denied
it.'

Well, no, I would not, though you area
rum sort of a girl, Mona. I always
liked you. You say what you think, and
you held your own with that grandmother
of yours, who was as big a tyrant as I
have met. You are a fool, too, in many
ways, — ready to cut your own throat for an
idea ; but there's something taking about
you. I never thought St John Lisle
would lose his head as he did on your
account. He kept it very quiet, but I
saw through him. I see through a great
many things.'

I never credited you with such powers
of imagination before, Bertie.'

Oh, don't try that tone with me. I
know what I am talking about. Of course
he would only marry a woman with lots
of money, as I think you had wit enough
to know. He is enjoying himself in

India. I had a letter from him sometime
ago, — asked why he had not seen
your marriage announced — asked it in a
postscript — always a bad sign of womanish
weakness. Where do you live, for Heaven's
sake ? We must be approaching the far
west.*

Do not come any further, Bertie —
you will die of fatigue.'

'No, I will not, but you will, if it's a few
miles further out ; let me secure a cab,
before we leave the haunts of civilisation
behind us.'

I think ten minutes more will bring
us to our destination ; but, to copy your
own amiable candour, I would rather you
did not come. You will only satisfy your
curiosity, and carry away materials for a
ridiculous description, to make Evy and
Geraldine laugh.'

Why should you begrudge us our
innocent mirth .-^ It is an absurd prejudice
to feel injured by being what is
called 'turned into ridicule." You have
only to show a stolidly indifferent front,
and you rob ridicule of its whole
power.'

VOL. I. M

I wonder how you would like being
laughed at yourself, Bertie ?'

Should not mind ; but I am not ridiculous
— I am too natural, and always say
what I think.'

I often — I mean I used often, to
wonder if you are as hard and heartless
as you seem.'

I believe I am ; but come on, I am
determined to see your lair, and I do
not dine till eight, so I have plenty of
time.'

I cannot prevent you, but I do not
want you.' They walked a few paces
in silence, then Mona asked, — ' And
is Evelyn happy ? Does she seem
happy ? '

Happy as a child with a new toy —
she and Finistoun make idiots of themselves
in the most approved manner. It
will be a great piece of news for her
this rencontre with you.'

Does she still care for me } '

She seemed to do so the last time we
mentioned you.'

That was not recently ? ' — smiling.

No, not very.'

I live here,' said Mona, after a short
silence, pausing before Madame Debrisayay's
abode.

x\h I queer little box.'

We,' said Mona gravely, ' consider ita
splendid residence ; pray walk in, as
you will come.'

You are horridly inhospitable,' said
Everard, laughing, and he followed her
into the house.

On opening the door, Madame Debrisayay
was discovered resting in an arm-chair,
beside a table set for tea. Her bonnet
lay on the floor beside her, and her thick
and undeniably disordered black hair was
uncovered.

This is Bertie Everard,' said Mona
quietly; ' Evelyn's brother.'

Very pleased to see him I'm sure,'
said madame, rising bravely to face
the intruder, and not deigning to pickup
her bonnet. ' Your sister was

one of my most charming pupils.'

She fancied the visit was a freewill
offering of friendship to Mona, and
she was highly delighted with the
visitor.

Oh, indeed ! ' returned Everard. * I
should not have thought it.'

And you find your sweet cousin looking
well ! I have done my best to take
care of her.'

My cousin ? ' elevating his eyebrows.
* Can you tell me the exact
degree, Mona ? — first, second, twenty-fifths?'


Oh ! a cousin removed to the vanishing
point of relationship. I have not
the faintest wish to claim you, Bertie.'

Really, Mona, my dear, that is not the
retort courteous.'

If you knew Mr Everard better, dear
Madame Debrisayay, you would know that
he despises courtesy in himself and
others.'

I only hate shams said Bertie frankly.
Let me offer you a cup of tea,' said

Madame Debrisayay, rather scandalised.

Thank you ; I shall be glad of it,
after our long, dusty walk. Really, it's
not so bad, now we have got here,'
looking round with visible examination.
It is a better room than mine in the
Temple ! '

Is that possible ? ' cried Mona.

And in better order. Did you fasten
up that drapery at the back of the piano,
Mona?'

She did, sir,' said Madame Debrisayay
proudly ; ' and, if you'd like to know, the
stuff is oriental chintz, and we paid fourpence
three farthings a yard for it at
Whiteley's sale.'

By George ! you don't say so ! ' He
was deeply interested in pounds, shillings,
and pence. ' Why, it looks capital.'

So saying, he took the milk jug and
peeped into it.

I regret it is not cream,' said Madame
Debrisayay, colouring.

Yes ! cream is an improvement, but
the tea is very good.'

It would do you good, Bertie, if you
would swallow the contents of the jug,
provided it supplied you with the milk
of human kindness, which you need so
much.'

That's very smart. Miss Craig, but I
don't want any such stuff in my composition.
Your milky kindly people are generally
asses, and are imposed upon right

and left. Miss Craig's manners haven't
improved since she came to stay with you,
ma'am.'

There is no use in trying to pierce
your tough skin, Bertie. The hippopotamus
is invulnerable to bullets.'

Yes, but he is an ugly beast ! ' added
Madame Debrisayay, with a gently reflective
air.

Bertie laughed, not quite so easily as
usual ; and there was a pause while he
sipped his tea.

That's rather a good picture,' he
said at length, nodding to a portrait
of a refined foreign - looking man, with
beautiful lace ruffles and cravats, and
a costume of some two hundred years
ago.

It is the picture of M. Le Baron
Debrisayay de Changes, my grandfather's
great - grandfather, who led a
party of his co-religionists to Ireland,
after the revocation of the Edict of
Nantes,' said Madame Debrisayay, with
dignity.

The deuce he did ! what a bad
choice. It's a good portrait. French

portraits generally are. Who is the
artist ? '

That I cannot tell ; there are only
initials on the picture.'

Pity it hasn't a well-known name on
it. It would fetch a good price.'

No price would tempt me to part
with it ! ' cried madame proudly.

Oh, indeed ! Now, tell me, how do you
manage to rub along ? '

Madame Debrisayay and I have entered
into partnership ; she takes the big pupils,
and I take the little ones.'

By George ! Does the squalling and
strumming pay for all this ? ' waving his
teaspoon comprehensively round.

It does ; but then you must remember
it is all in the fourpence three farthings
style of expense,' said Madame Debrisayay.

Gad, what heaps of money we waste ! '
exclaimed Everard, putting down his cup.
What sums my father gets through !
I suppose you never go to parties or
things of that kind, so living out here
is of no consequence.'

There are people who give parties,
living even here,' said Mona.

Indeed ! '

Yes, and we sometimes go to the
theatre, and enjoy it very much.'

Well, it's evident you are not breaking
your heart, Mona. If you like the
theatre, I will send you a box. I know
a couple of managers — amusing vagabonds,
they dine with me sometimes — so
I can ask them.'

Thank you ! We shall be very glad.
Now it is half-past six, Bertie ; you had
better go.'

'Yes, I will. Is there a cab to be
had in this neighbourhood ? '

Why not adopt the habits of the
country, and try an omnibus ; threepence
to Tottenham Court Road, a shilling cab
fare on to the Temple.'

Capital idea. Why one might live
for half nothing up here.'

There are no rooms to let in this
house, Bertie.'

That is a pity. Good-morning, Mrs
Debrisayay ; good-bye, Mona.'

Happy to see you again,' said
Madame Debrisayay. ' You are really
quite a character.'

What the deuce does she mean ? '
asked Everard of himself, as he took up
his neatly-rolled umbrella, and opened the
door, while Madame Debrisayay screamed
after him to turn right and go on to
a large church where the city omnibuses
passed every ten minutes.

^

hip

A CHAPTER OF ACCIDENTS.

jHE variable spring, the hot dusty
summer days, succeeded each
other, and the partners worked
steadily through all.
They had gleams of diversion too, for
Madame Debrisayay befriends and acquaintances
of her own profession who often
gave her tickets for concerts, and orders
for the theatre. These were amusements
of which Mona had enjoyed but little
during her residence with her grandmother,
whose fixed principle it was
never to pay for anything of the sort.
They were a source of great enjoyment,
for Mona was peculiarly alive to beauty.

and harmony, and had something of the
dramatic gift herself.

With the exaggeration of youth, she
reproached herself for being so slight
and trivial as to forget too quickly the
sorrows and disappointments of the bygone
year. Of all the trials which had
been crowded into a few months, the
one which came back to her oftener
was her breaking with Leslie Waring,
She always wished to hear of him, but
he had passed away completely out of
her life.

Bertie Everard's remark respecting
Lisle's admiration for herself, dwelt long
on her mind. There was a certain
comfort in it : it soothed her wounded
a7no2tr propre to know that she was
not altogether self-deceived. But the
impression of St John Lisle was fast
fading. Now and then in the park, at
the theatre, some soldierly-looking man
of fashion would remind her of him, and
she thought with a sigh of the difference
between the style of such cavaliers and
the ordinary toilers with whom it washer
lot to associate in future. Still she

began to look at that future with less
of fear than she did, and even ventured
on a little castle building respecting a
visit to Germany next year, for which
she and Madame Debrisayay agreed to
save up,' and not to dissipate any of
their little store in a sea-side trip this
somewhat wet season.

Of course Bertie Everard forgot all
about the orders ; nor did Evelyn pay
the visit Mona looked for so eagerly ;
but the announcement of her marriage
with a long list of wedding presents,
including ' an Indian shawl from Her
Majesty ' — at the end of March, and
her departure for a prolonged tour on
the Continent, explained her non-appearance.


London is a great world. In no
other place can anyone be so successfully
hidden ; and though Mona moved
about everywhere with a freedom that
was new and delightful to her, she never
encountered her aristocratic relatives but
once, when she saw Lady Mary and
her second daughter driving down Piccadilly.
She was, however, lost in the

humble pedestrian crowd, and passed
unnoticed.

A very hot July had driven away
all Madame Debrisayay's pupils, save two
or three. The ranks of Mona's were
also thinned, and both were planning a
course of needlework and reading during
the approaching time of rest.

The dog days had compelled their
fellow lodger to muzzle the objectionable
terrier — which made him unusually
rampant when the torture was removed
in the house.

Mona had been out one morning todo
some small housekeeping errands as
Madame Debrisayay had a headache, and
on re-entering the house with a latchkey,
was surprised to hear a sound of
snarling and scuffling in their sitting
room, the door of which was open.
Going in quickly, she beheld Madame
Debrisayay, her cap slightly awry, endeavouring
to drag a lace shawl from
the fangs of Dandie, who, snarling and
yelping, held on like grim death, stretching
the shawl to its fullest length, and
dancing backwards, while she struck at

him ineffectually with a small hearth
brush.

Diable de bete!' she exclaimed. ' Keep
away from him, Mona. I believe he
is going mad.'

I believe he is only frightened and
angry. Let it go, and probably he
will too.'

This diverting Madame Debrisayay's
attention, she relaxed her grasp. The
dog gave a vigorous pull, and trotted
triumphantly with the lace in his mouth
head and tail erect — into the hall,
where he proceeded to tear it vehemently.


Just look at that ! The only decent
thing I have to put on my shoulders
when I go out. Get away with you,
you cur ! ' — a thrust of the brush — ' Call
him off, Jane ! ' — another thrust — ' Take
that ' — throwing the brush at him
finally.

This routed the foe. He jumped
back, and Mona quickly snatched up
the shawl.

Me beautiful Chantilly shawl,' almost
wept Madame Debrisayay. ' I got it at

a sale the last year you were with us
in Paris. Thirty-five francs seventy,
and it's worth two hundred! It was
as good as new. I will not live in
the house with such a brute ! He will
be tearing our eyes out next ! 1 felt
a little better after that cup of tea
you brought me, so I did up my hair,
and came in. Who should I see but
my gentleman perched on the table
where I had laid my shawl after folding
it up, scratching himself — no less
in the middle of me beautiful lace.
I made one dash at it, and tumbled
the brute off. Instead of running
away, he turned round with real bourgeois
impudence — like his master's —
fastened his ugly teeth in one corner,
and would not let go.'

I am sure, ma'am,' said the landlady,
coming in, ' I am that sorry — I don't
know how to express it. I don't know
what's in the dog. He is always trying
to run up here, as if he knew it
worried you.'

I have no doubt he does,' returned
Madame Debrisayay, examining her lace.

Look here ! There's a tear for you !

Here's another! It's just ruined.'

I think I can mend it, dear,' said
Mona sympathetically.

Now, Mrs Puddiford,' insisted Madame
Debrisayay impressively, to her landlady,
I give you your choice — either that
savage brute leaves the house, or /
will.'

I'm sure, Madame Debrisayay, ma'am,
it would vex me sore to see you leave.
Such a quiet lodger, and sure money.
I will speak to Mr Rigden, ma'am,
and see if he can send the dog to
the country. He is a good lodger too !
but that taken up with the dog I
don't know he will ever part with
it.'

I neither know nor care,' said Madame
Debrisayay solemnly. ' I give you two
days to expel the venomous cur, at the
end of which time, should he remain,
consider I have given notice.'

Dear, dear ! why will gentlemen
fancy these wild beasts ? ' almost whimpered
the landlady.

^ Gentlemen ! ' repeated Madame Debrisayay,

with a fine scorn, as she regulated
her cap.

To think how nicely settled I am,
with two such first - rate lodgers, and
then to think of being upset by a nasty
dog. Ah ! get out with you ! '

This to the audacious animal, who
dared to present himself on the threshold
with an inquiring look. A violent flick
of the duster she had brought, in anticipation
of something to be ^ wiped up
again routed Dandie.

Be sure you explain matters to Mr
Rigden this night ! ' said Madame Debrisayay,
with emphasis ; ' and let me know
the result. Either he sends away his dog
or goes away with his dog — or Miss
Craig and I go, this day week ! ' tragically.

I will, ma'am ! — I will ! ' sniffed the
little landlady. ' I foresee a heap of
trouble. Mr Rigden — he is that obstinate
and touchy ! '

'And you will find I can be touchy
too, when I stand on my rights. Now,
Mrs Puddiford, I wish to hear no more
about this until you bring me your decision
tomorrow.'

VOL. I. N

The landlady retired, pressing the corner
of her duster to her eyes ; while the
yelps of the dog were heard from below,
where he was being tied up.

I think, dear Deb, I saw the very
net which would go with the ground of
this shawl,' said Mona, examining it
carefully, ' at Peter Robinson's ; then I
could lay the broken pattern over it,
and copy it with black filloselle.'

I'm sure, if anyone could, it's yourself.
You have the clever fingers ! '

You see, I did a good deal of lacework
at the convent, and other work,
in Germany. I am really fond of my
needle. I do not even disdain darning-stockings,
provided they are taken intime
; there is something soothing in
those long, even lines of running.'

Well, I am sure you are welcome
to mend all mine, for I hate it ! But
I don't like to see you sitting silent
over your stitches with a pale, sad
face, as if you were comparing the
present with the past. Ah ! it's a terrible
change for you ! '

Not half so bad as you imagine,

Deb. The comfort of being with yotc
Is great ; the consolation of being able
to help myself is enormous ; and at
twenty — I shall be twenty in a couple
of months — there is so much of life to
be explored, that I may find an unexpected
oasis ! I am not always thinking
of the past when I seem in a brown
study — I am sometimes speculating on
matters that puzzle me, which are
probably beyond me, still they have a
fascination.'

What are they, chdrie ? '

Oh, there are a great variety of
puzzling things. One, for instance, is
the awful risk of marrying. It seems
to me that the rarest of all qualities inhuman
nature is constancy — yet marriage
is for life ! Your own character and
taste may change several times before
you are forty-five or fifty, and how can
you still love the same person ? '

Ah, don't talk like a heathen, child !
True love grows with your growth and
always sees the same charm in the
thing it loves — unless, indeed, that
thing proves faithless and cruel ; even

then, some natures cannot be choked
off;

I cannot understand that,' returned
Mona. ' I understand forgiving a great
deal — even faithlessness and change —
for sake of the old love ; but to love
anyone who was indifferent to me, seems
impossible.'

Stick to that, my dear ; it will carry
you safe through a good deal. But I
don't think you know much of love, or
you'd know, as I do, that it loveth all
things and endure all things.'

I can believe that of a mother's — a
sister's — a friend's love. But the love
of lovers is different. There is a personal
feeling in that, which, if it evaporates,
can never, I fancy, be recalled ;
nor do I see that one can complain of
its disappearance. There is nothing to
be done but to resign it without a
struggle, and let one's own passion exhale
and die out as fast as possible.'

I declare, you talk like a book ! It's
all very fine ; but it's natural feeling,
not reason, that rules such matters —
and so much the better for us poor

miserable creatures. Yours is a man's
creed — not a woman's, dear. Men never
will be constant.'

Very likely not ! Then another
tremendous puzzle is life. Why are
we sent here to endure so much certain
pain — to taste such uncertain joy?*

You are getting beyond me altogether
! Good men tell us, to work out
our salvation.'

Yes, good men of your church ; but
mine says that I never can ! — that a
mental act of faith — which to many
minds is impossible — will do more at the
last moment than a lifetime of tender
consideration for others — of self-sacrifice
of purity.'

Par exemple ! You would make a
first-rate Catholic, Mona. I am no
great things myself, but I would be
proud to see you in the true Church.
Ah, there's nothing like it, as churches
go ! God forgive me, I haven't been to
confession for a year and more ! '

Never mind, dear Deb ; your goodness
to me will more than make up for that
omission. But there is small chance of

my becoming a Catholic ; can you not
see that ? '

No, I can't. I tell you what I can
see, that although you are an angel tome,
there is a good dash of his Satanic
Majesty in you.'

^ Perhaps there is. So be it, if it
will help me in the battle of life ! As
far as I can see, the one unpardonable
sin of life is poverty.'

Of life, Mona ? No ; of society.
Yes, life is world-wide, society is a corner
— often a shabby corner. Faith,
dear, you and I are a brace of philosophers
; only we are too wise to have
a theory. Here's dinner ; I hope it
will be more digestible than your doctrines.'


The next day was stormy, with heavy
thunder-showers, and Madame Debrisayay
would not hear of Mona taking a journey
to town in search of materials to repair
the damage done by the delinquent
Dandie. Moreover, a council of war had
to be held.

Mr Rigden was observed that morning
to draw his umbrella from the stand with

a degree of violence which upset all the
other umbrellas and sticks, and ' banged '
the front door with a recklessness which
was in itself a causes belli. Soon after,
Mrs Puddiford appeared with a rueful
countenance.

Weller, I have spoken to Mr Rigden.
He is noways inclined to hear reason ! '

He wouldn't be a man if he did, unless
it were on his own side ! ' ejaculated
madame.

He spoke most disrespectful,' continued
the landlady, beginning to play
with the corner of her apron. * He said
he would stand no more d — d nonsense
(them was his words, ma'am), and was
sorry he had just begun a month, as he
would have to pay for it (he is a monthly
tenant) ; that he would look out for
rooms, and as soon as ever he found
another place, free from cantankerous old
women, he'd leave, if he forfeited a fortnight's
rent. I am sorry to say he sofar
forgot himself, but them was his very
words, ma'am.'

I assure you, Mrs Puddiford, it is not
of the slightest consequence whether Mr

Ridden considers me old and cantankerous
or not. I congratulate you on getting rid
of a troublesome, ill-bred inmate ! '

Well, that may be ; but it is hard to
lose six pounds a month ! '

Very well, Mrs Puddiford, if you prefer
it, we will turn out, and leave Mr Rigden
to make a menagerie of your house ! '

'No, Madame Debrisayay ; far from it!
You and Miss Craig are real ladies, and I
would be grieved to see you leave ; only
six pounds are six pounds, and there is the
dead season coming on ! '

Season indeed ! Do you fancy the season
affects an out-of-the-way population of
clerks and teachers ? Miss Craig and I
will look out for you, and praise you up to
the skies as the best of landladies, which
you are ! '

I am sure, ma'am, you are very good,
and I believe you are lucky ! I am not
sorry Mr Rigden is going, only for the
money! He was desp'rate particular, and
the dog is a hindrance ! '

Of course it is — shocking brute ! We
will do our best for you, Mrs Puddi-
ford.'

I am sure,' added Madame Debrisayay,
sotto voce, when Mrs P. had gone, ' I
hope I'll succeed, for if her rooms remain
empty she'll think I have lost her her
six pounds a month, and " there will be
wigs on the green ! " '

I hope nothing disagreeable will arise,
for I have grown quite at home here ! '
exclaimed Mona.

That man had a nice little room above
stairs for his lumber. If I could get her a
good lodger at six pounds a month without
it, she might let you have it for a song,'
said Madame Debrisayay reflectively.

Ah, Deb, you are a profound
schemer ! '

The next day was bright and fresh after
the thunder, and Mona having given a
lesson in Gloucester Place early in the
afternoon, went on to Regent's Circus to
match the lace, intending to make madame's
shawl as good as new.

Having done her shopping, she crossed
to the other side, and walked a little way
towards Tottenham Court Road, hoping
to find room in an omnibus, without having

to struggle at the regular stopping-place.
Presently a Royal Oak omnibus came up,
and paused before she hailed it. Mona
hastened to enter as soon as an elderly
and somewhat decrepit-looking man had
descended, with the help of a stick and a
baggy umbrella.

The omnibus moved on before the old
gentleman had one foot clear of the step,
and he fell prone on the damp, profusely
watered ground. The driver of a hansom
could hardly draw up quickly enough to
prevent his horse from trampling on the
prostrate figure, which seemed unable to
recover the perpendicular.

Mona, by a natural impulse, bent down
to assist him, and a burly policeman soon
set him on his feet.

No bones broke,' he said cheerfully,
feeling his legs and arms. * Here's your
stick and umbrella. You go into the
confectioner's there, and take summit.
You'll be as right as a trivet in five
minutes.'

So saying, he proceeded on his stately
march, leaving the sufferer standing, with
difficulty supporting his trembling self on

his stick, and looking round him with a
pitiful expression of bewilderment.

I am afraid you are hurt?' said Mona
kindly. She did not like to desert him,
for she felt he was not a Londoner.

I've just an awful' pain i' my back,'
he said pantingly, 'and feel dazed like.
If I could sit toon a bit.'

Come into this shop and have a glass
of water ;' and she guided him to a pastry-cook's
close by, where she found a chair,
and feeling alarmed at the old man's
extreme pallor, asked if he would not try a
little brandy and water.

Ay,' he said ; ' I must have something
to raise my heart ! '

His eyes closed partially, and Mona
begged an attendant to bring the restorative.
Her patient was a small, spare
man, with thin grey hair, small whiskers,
faded blue eyes, a contemptuously upturned
nose, and a wide, thin-lipped
mouth. He was neatly dressed in a
pepper-and-salt coloured suit, and though
not a gentleman, was by no means of
the workman class, nor yet like a city
clerk.

Try and take a little of this,' urged
Mona.

Thank ye, thank ye

He put the glass to his lips and drank
very slowly. * The Lord be thanks,' he
said, placing it half emptied on the table,
for saving my life; but I am sir shaken! '
Again he drank. ' Ow ! ' — he uttered a
strange sound between a groan and a
sigh. * It was near a' over wi' me ! I
am much beholden to you, my young
teddy. I must try an' get wa' to my
bed, but I can scarce stan'. I had better
get into a cab.'

You had better rest a few minutes
first,' said Mona, who felt sincere compassion
for him. ' I am afraid you are
more hurt than you think.'

I am a pair frail bodie. Eh, but my
back is twisted ! What'll they ask now
for a cab' — he called it a ' cab' — ' to
Camden Town .-^ '

I am not sure — eighteen pence or two
shillings.'

'It's a cruel, costly place ; but,' apologetically,
' I canna' help it; I'll just pay for
the spirits and water, and gang my lane.'

He dived into a side pocket — he routed
out his trouser pockets — his breast pocket
all in vain.

Guide preserve us ! — it's clean gave 1
My pocket has been picked ! '

Oh ! that is dreadful ! I hope you
had not much in it ? '

Too much to lose ! A bit gold, half-a-crown,
and a sixpence. Now I canna
pay for my drap o' spirits.'

That is a mere trifle — I will pay for
it.' Going to the counter, she said, — ' This
poor gentleman's purse has been taken,
I must pay for what he has had.'

I daresay it is an accident that may
happen to him again, if he finds kind
young ladies to pay for him,' said the
buxom woman behind the desk, smiling —
'sixpence, please.'

Do you feel equal to go home,' said
Mona, who was beginning to feel a little
ashamed of her Quixotic attentions to
this elderly waif. ' I will get you a cab
if you like.'

Wait a bit. Where do you bide ?
I want to pay ye what you've laid
foot.'

Oh ! never mind ; it does not matter.'

Ye are a Scotch lassie ? '

No, I never was in Scotland.'

Ah ! I thocht ye vere, from yer bonnie
reed head."

Indeed ! ' said Mona, laughing.

She could not bear to have her hair
considered red.

Weel, I'll no leave this till I know
where I'll find ye.'

There is my card then, but I live ever
so far away. Pray do not trouble about
me ; I am very glad to have been of any
use to you.'

Ah ! but you were ! you have saved
my life. If you had not stood between
me and that cab, I'd have been a did
mon ! I'll try and get home.'

Struggling to his feet, and seizing his
umbrella, he hobbled to the door. Mona
followed him.

You'll hear from me,' said the old man,
thrusting the card into his breast-pocket ;
and I'll never forget ye, never. Could
you find me a shut-up cab. I canna
bide yon things, wi' the driver stuck up
behind.'

Yes ; there is one ! '

A very battered vehicle drew up.

'You drive me to Mrs Smith's, number
sixty-sax Carolina Crescent, King's Road,
Camden Town — d'ye know it ? '

Yes, sir.'

What will ye charge ? '

Two and sixpence.'

Two and sixpence ! What do you
think ye'll go to ? Naw, eighteenpence.'

Ask for his card, and make the people
at your house settle it,' suggested Mona.

Make it two shilling', and I take you
safe and aise.'

Vara weel. Good-bye, missed ; I cannot
help thinking you are a Scotch lassie.'

With infinite difficulty and many groans,
he scrambled in, dropping his umbrella
during the process. Mona picked it up
and gave it to him. He seated himself
with his back to the horse, smiling and
nodding to his young protectress as he
drove slowly away.

What a funny adventure ! ' thought
Mona. ' I wonder if Madame Debrisayay
will scold me.'

But Madame Debrisayay was in a placid

mood when Mona reached home — for
madame had her moods. She had passed
the morning and some of the afternoon
auditing her own and Mona's accounts.
The result was, on the whole, satisfactory,
though, — * The way money slips
through your fingers is most amazing,'
she observed ; ' though we have done
pretty well, we couldn't afford a trip
anywhere — not prudently ; and you cannot
put by anything. At all events, you have
not reduced your own bit of money much,
that's a comfort ; keep a tight hold of it,
dear.'

Having heard her friend's summary, and
assisted to reduce the sea of small account
books, scribbled scraps of paper, bills, and
receipts to something like order, Mona
related her adventure, and madame did
not scold.

Well it was funny ! Maybe the old
gentleman is a millionaire in disguise !
they are generally queer. Maybe your
sixpence will prove the sprat that caught
a whale.'

You have too much imagination. Deb,'
said Mona, laughing. ' There was nothing

of the millionaire about my old man. He
was too humble for a moneyed man. If
they are queer, they are generally consequential.
I fancy he will make his
way here. He is very feeble, however,
and I imagine "cabs" — as he calls them —
are too costly for his taste. I am almost
sorry I gave him my card, but he was
quite determined to have it. He seemed
so dazed and helpless, I felt grieved for
him ; but he is not by any means
attractive.'

Well I shall be curious to see what
will come of it ! It is my belief that
your meeting didn't happen for nothing,'
and Madame Debrlsay shook her head
solemnly. ' I believe you are a lucky girl,
Mona.'

Only lucky in having you to befriend
me ! Your cap is very crooked, dear — go
and put on your bonnet ! I am not a
bit tired. Let us indulge in a hansom
to Kensington Gardens, and stroll about
till it is time for a late tea.'

From some unrevealed cause, there
seems to be a tendency in events to
accumulate at intervals, like the seventh

VOL. I. o

wave, which scientists tells us is always
the largest. So after the monotonous
ripple of many quiet weeks, the crop of
incident which has been ripening, bursts
its bounds and expends itself in a few
days.

The Saturday following Mona's rescue
of the old Scotchman, she was surprised
and delighted by the receipt of a letter
from Evelyn Everard, now Lady
Finistoun.

After voluminous apologies for her
silence, she expressed her warm sympathy
with her ' dearest cousin.'

They were all so angry with you,
that, without giving myself the trouble
to think (my usual way, you know), I
took for granted that you were a
dreadful criminal ; still I was as fond
of you as ever — but mother would not
hear of my writing. Then I was so
bewildered about Finistoun. He came
and went, and some people thought he
was going to marry Lady Georgia
Fits-Maurice ; but / did not. At last it
was all settled ; then we were frantically
busy, and then I was travelling so

much, and so selfishly happy, I never
gave a thought to anyone, which is disgraceful,
I know. Now, dear, that I am
married to the nicest, kindest, pleasant-est
of men, I feel you were quite right
to refuse Mr Waring. Poor man — I
liked him very much. It must be quite
awful to be united to anyone you cannot
love with all your heart. Of course
if Mrs Newburgh had lived, it would
have been different. I have told Finis-town
all about you. He remembers you
last year, and admires you very much.
He says you are a plucky girl, but does
not think you where wise to throw over
Leslie Waring. The best of men, dear
Mona, have very little sentiment about
other people's marriages. Let us hope
they have about their own. I do trust
you are not very unhappy. Bertie said
he met you, and that you were looking
well, and seemed quite bright. Are you
still living with that nice, pleasant Mrs
Debrisayay? Pray give her my kind regards.
I am sure I used to try her
patience. Tell her I had some singing
lessons when we were in Milan, and

Signer Squalling — a great man, I assure
you — said I had been very well
taught.

We are getting tired of moving about,
and intend returning in August to Scotland.
Finistoun has a deer forest in the
Western Highlands. We shall be there
almost all the autumn. If I can at all
manage it, I will come and see you as
I pass through London ; and you must
come and stay with me. I am sure you
will like Finistoun ; he is not exactly
handsome, but distinct, and really very
clever. My father thinks very highly of
him ; and he is a sound Conservative.
The dear mother is flourishing, and looks
forward to presenting Geraldine next
season. It is lonely, not having a
daughter '' out." Good - bye, dearest
Mona. You will forgive my neglect,
and grant I had a good excuse. — Ever
your attached Evelyn Finistoun.'

I am not so sure about that,' said
Mona, smiling, as she put the letter
which she had read aloud, back into its
envelope. * But I am most grateful to

her for writing at all. She is really a
nice, dear thing.'

So she is. I am glad Squalling
thought she had been well taught. I
have heard of him. He gets his guinea
a lesson. I daresay I can do just as
well, and I thought my fortune made
when I first got seven-and-six. Why,
Mona, there's a little man trying to
open the gate — an old man, with a stick
and an umbrella. It must be your millionaire.'


OH, MY PROPHETIC SOUL, MY UNCLE ! '

tern

a few minutes the severe Jane
entered, and told them there
was * a — gentleman ' — she hesitated
before pronouncing the
wanting to see Miss Craig.'
Show him in at once, Jane,' said
Madame Debrisayay graciously, and the
hero of Mona's adventure came in slowly,
having left his hat in the hall.

He had rather a low, wide head, and
a kind of reluctant smile.

You'll excuse me,' he said, falling onto
a chair, rather than taking a seat, ' but
I am verra frail. It's a long way from
the station here. I told you, missed, I
would not forget ye, and I haven't'

His exceedingly Scotch accent must
be imagined.

Very pleased to receive you, sir
said Madame Debrisayay blandly.

But you should not have taken the
trouble,' added Mona compassionately.

I wanted to come,' he said, wiping
his brow with a red cotton pocket-handkerchief.
' First, I wanted to pay ye
back your silver ' — he extracted a small
bag purse from his trousers-pocket, and
took out sixpence ; ' and there it is,'
laying it on the table. ' Next, I wanted
to ask you a few questions, if you don't
mind.'

Certainly not.'

He did not reply immediately, but
looked inquisitively and sharply round
the room.

You have a nice, tidy place ; a bit of
garden is pleasant. It's better, a good
deal, than where I am. Maybe it costs
more. I pay a guinea a week for a bedroom
and share of a sitting-room.'

We pay very little more for two rooms
all to ourselves,' said Madame Debris.


Is she your mother?' he asked, looking
at Mona.

No, not my mother, though she behaves
Hke one.'

Ah ! And are you sure you have no
Scotch blood ? '

My father was Scotch.'

He drew forth her card, and looked
at it, slowly reading out, * Miss M. J.
Craig.'

What does the M. and the J. stand
for ? '

Mona Joscelyn.'

They are not verra Christian - like
names. Where did your father live ? '

In Glasgow.'

Ah ! And now, what was your
mother's name ? '

Newburgh.'

Ay, just so. Your father's name was
John Craig, and he was a clerk in the
Western Bank of Scotland ? '

His name was John ; but I know
little else about him. I remember faintly
that he was kind and loving.'

Well, / knew him, — knew him from
his babyhood. My name is Craig — Alexander

Craig, and I am your father's
eldest brother.'

Indeed!' cried Mona, touched, nay,
even pleased, to meet anyone of her
father's blood. ' Then you are my
uncle, my own uncle ! '

I am that,' he returned earnestly.

But, my dear sir,' ejaculated Madame
Debrisayay — ' forgive the caution of an old
woman of the world — can you supply
some proof that you are this dear child's
nearest relative ? '

You are right to be cautious, mem.
I have a letter from my niece's grandmother,
written near fifteen years ago,
offering to take her and provide for her,
if her father's people would undertake
never to come nigh her or interfere with
her. I was a bachelor, and a busy man.
I never approved of my brother's marriage.
He took a wife from a class that
despised his own, so I just let the poor
wean go. I loved your father,' he continued,
looking at Mona, ' almost like
a son. You have a look of him, and
a bonnie reed head like his. Your
mother was a pretty, dark-haired lassie ;

but I lost him when he married. She
was too fine for me, and I lived away
from them. Here's your grandmother's
letter.' He took out a large pocketbook,
from the recesses of which he
drew a letter, and, handing it to Mona,
observed, — * It's not over weevil. She is
just ane of those aristocrats that think
a' the world's dirt but themselves.'

Mona took it, and read the short sharp
statement of Mrs Newburgh's requirements,
which was addressed to ' Mr
Alexander Craig.'

It is indeed poor grannie's writing,' she
said, passing it to Madame Debrisayay. * I
am glad to find you, uncle !' and she gave
her hand to her new-found relative.

Thank you ! ' he exclaimed, holding it a
minute. ' It was just the guiding' o' Providence
that brought you to yon fearsome
street to help me. When I looked in
your face, I felt you were nae that strange.
But what's your grandmother ? '

In her grave,' said Mona sadly. * She
died suddenly — in my arms.'

I hope she was weel prepared ! And
when was she called ? '

She died last November ! '

Ah, weel ! she'll have fund foot by this
time that the poor and lowly of this v^arld
are the elect of the next.'

Mrs Newburgh was a true Christian
and a real lady,' put in Madame Debrisayay
emphatically.

They cinna always hang together,' returned
their new acquaintance.

She was very, very good to me,' said
Mona.

Anyway, you've had a wise-like upbringing.
You are not ashamed of your
Uncle Sandy, though he is a plain bodie ?'

'Ashamed! No, indeed.'

Now ' — he called it ' noo ' — ' tell me
how ye come to be here with this teddy ?
I thought the Honourable Mrs New-burgh
' — with somewhat sarcastic stress on

the Honourable' — 'was to leave you a
fortin.'

Alas ! my dear sir, my dear young
friend's story has been a real tragedy,'
began Madame Debrisayay, who proceeded,
with suitable modulations of voice, to

recite ' the tale of Mrs Newburgh's
losses, and Mona's consequent poverty —

of the necessity for her labouring in order
to Hve, and being reduced to her present
position.

Uncle Sandy listened with profound
attention.

Reduced, ye ca' it,' he said. * It's
no " reducing " for an honest lassie to
earn her own bread, which is mair honourable
than the honours of the peerage
! So you live here, my dearie ! Ah,
there's a good drap of Craig fluid in yer
veins, or you would not have set up for
yourself, like a wise lassie. If ye can
keep a roof like this over your head, you
canna be doing so bad.'

Remember my dear Madame Debrlsay
pays by far the larger half.'

And what is she to you '^, '
Mona explained.

I think,' said Uncle Sandy, with grave,
deliberate approbation, ' that you are justa
pair of verra honest, respectable women.'

Thank you, uncle,' said Mona, laughing.
We are both proud of your verdict.'

Perhaps,' said Madame Debrisayay insinuatingly,
* perhaps your uncle would
stay and share our modest mid-day repast.

We have but a little cold roast beef, a
salad, and 'omelette aux fines herbes''
but at least it will avert the pangs of
hunger

'Roast beef, did you say?' asked Mr
Craig anxiously ; ' I canna digest boiled !
But you're verra good, and I shall be happy
to join you, for the pleasure of your
society ! As I told you, I am verra frail.
I worked hard a' my youth under a fine
man, Mr Kenneth Maceachern, of Mac-eastern
& Leslie's, the great jute manufacturers.
He retired, but he just missed
the occupation, and went off like a puff of
wind. I keepit on, and saved a bit, and
my old master remembered me in his will,
so, as I found my health failing, and new-men
coming into the firm, I thought I
would rest and try to recover. I took
a cottage an' a bit farm wa' in the
west, but I got rheumatics, and grew
worse, so I cam' up to try a great London
doctor, and was recommended to yon place
in Camden Town. The son of one of our
clerks lodges there ; but he is out a' day,
and I suspect a' the night too. I am just
wearying' o't ; but I am not half cured yet.

I wonder now if this place is much further
from Harley Street?'

By no means, my dear sir ! ' cried
Madame Debrisayay. 'It is a shorter and
a pleasant drive. I presume you are
consulting the famous Dr Swathed ? '

'That's the man. He is awful' costly.*
What matter ! so long as you can regain
your precious health. I think you
would find this neighbourhood more salubrious,
and in every way preferable.'
It may be. I will think of it.'

Will you not take the arm-chair,
uncle?' said Mona ; 'that is such an uncomfortable
one.'

Thank ye ; it's weel thought on.'
With various groans and twitches, Uncle
Sandy transferred himself to the seat recommended.
' Ye see,' he explained, ' I
have been sir afflicted with a weakness
in the spine ; it's a sore hindrance. I
have been nigh a month in London, and
I've not heard one of the famous preachers
yet. I have not had many opportunities,
and I am weel aware of my own deficiencies
; but if it was not for my pair
frail body, I could improve myself rarely

in this great capital. There's lectures,
and concerts, and sermons, and the
like.'

But I hope you will get stronger,
uncle ; then you will be able to enjoy
this wonderful town,' said Mona kindly,
touched by the poor man's desire to go to
school again in his old age.

Here Madame Debrisayay slipped quietly
from the room — to make some addition to
dinner, Mona did not doubt.

Tell me,' said Uncle Sandy — the hoarse
whisper in which he usually spoke intensified
— * tell me, what does she make
you pay her for living here ? '

She does not change me anything. I
pay my share of our food and fire — that is
all'

Ah ! and she is no of your blood } '

No ; I came to know her seven or
eight years ago, as I told you.'

It is just wonderful,' he ejaculated, and
sat silent for some time, with a curious,
half satisfied, half mocking smile in his
face.

Then the prim figure of Jane appeared,
and she proceeded to lay the cloth.

The dinner was very successful. Uncle
Sandy was exceedingly communicative as
to what he might and might not eat. At
first he said he would take nothing but
cold water to drink; then he fancied there
was a slight taste — he could not exactly
define what — in the water, and when
he perceived this, he had always been
warned to qualify the water with a drop of
spirits. He supposed they hadn't any
whisky ? No ; well he would do with a
trifle of brandy. ' The next time I come
to see ye he said, with an air of great
generosity, ' I'll bring you a bottle of
real good stuff — it's far wholesome than
brandy.' He seemed to enjoy his repast,
and afterwards made many inquiries into
Madame Debrisayay's history. He was also
profoundly interested in the prices current
of all articles of consumption in London.
Then, noticing the piano, he begged his
niece to sing him a song. She complied.
Before she was half through it he stopped
her by observing that he had an uncommon
ear for music, but that it must be
Scotch music. So Mona changed her
tune to ' Oh ! wert thou in the could blast

which gave him great delight. He nodded
his head and tapped the carpet with his
stick in time to the music, and declared
with feeble energy, that there were no
songs like Scotch songs — no intelligence
comparable to that of Scotsmen — no
church system like that of Scotland.
Then he looked at his watch, and said he
was sorry, but he must leave them ; that it
was the only cheerful afternoon he had
spent since he came to London, and expressed
his resolution to look for lodgings
in their neighbourhood.

Pray, let me get you a cab,' said Mona.
You will be so very tired walking all the
way to the station a second time.'

Hoot, toot ! I am stronger since lately,
and money is not so plentiful as to let me
hire cabs everywhere I go. Naw, naw.
I'll just walk to the station. I have my
ticket to Gower Street, and I will get on
fine from that for sixpence. Good-bye,
my lassie. I'll no forget how ye helpit
your uncle. Good-bye to you, mem.
Maybe you'll help me to find a respectable
lodging. I can't come again till the day
after tomorrow, for I have to see the

VOL. I. p

doctor; but if it is any way fine, I'll not
fail you.'

Mona went out to open the garden gate
for him, and watched him hobbling down
the road for a moment or two, and then
returned to Madame Debrisayay.

What an extraordinary encounter ! '
cried Mona, throwing herself into a
corner of the sofa, and laughing unrestrainedly.
* I imagine Uncle Sandy is a
character, and I really am sorry for his ill
health and loneliness ; but I am afraid
he will be rather a bore if he settles
near us. He seems to have fascinated
you, dear Deb.'

Poor creature. I did feel for him, and
I think he is naturally a very superior
man. But, Mona, my child, it's for your
sake I spoke. Now Providence has
thrown him in your way, I don't want
you to lose your hold on him. Keep him
by you, dear, and he will leave you all his
money. No one can provide much for old
age by teaching, and you must think of
the future, fna belled

But how can you fancy he is rich ?
He is evidently extremely careful of

money, and he did not let fall one word
by which one could be authorised to consider
him rich. He may have saved
enough to live on, and pay his doctor's
bill, but that will be about all.'

'Well,' returned Madame Debrisayay,

there is no use arguing about what
neither of us can be sure of. I have my
ideas pretty strong, and I am sure you
are not the girl to turn your back upon a
relation because he is poor.'

I should hope not indeed !' cried Mona.
I am quite willing to do my best for the
poor old man ; but he will worry us if he
is anywhere near.'

It will not be for long,' said Madame
Debrisayay soothingly. ' He will be going
back to his place in the west of Scotland
as soon as he is cured.'

His place,' cried Mona, laughing.

His cottage and farm, you mean.'

Never mind. He has enough to move
about with, and pay doctors ; and you
might as well have it after him, poor
fellow. I do not think he is long for
this world.'

Mona laughed more heartily.

You wicked, grasping Deb ! ' she exclaimed.
' You want to turn me into a
legacy hunter! I assure you I will be
kind and attentive to my poor father's
brother, whether he has a cottage or a
castle. He will probably not stay here
long, and we may as well make him happy.
He must have had a dull life. It must be
very hard to feel life slipping away before
you have known enjoyment.'

Ah. my dear, don't you be downcast —
times will mend.'

Do not fancy I am grumbling. I have
some very bright days to look back upon '
a quick deep sigh, — ' and the present is
far from being unhappy. Only, the Mona
Joscelyn of this time last year has disappeared
for ever, and Mona Craig, a
more useful and sensible young woman,
has replaced her.'

If I could see you rich and free, and
in your proper place, I would die happy ;
and who knows I may yet see you get the
better of those cold-hearted Everardss.'

They are not cold-hearted. They
had a right to be angry, and I have
no feeling of resentment against them.

though they night have asked what had
become of me.'

If that is not coldness, I do not know
what is.

A few more days brought them to
August. During these days Uncle Sandy
made no sign. Indeed, both Madame
Debrisayay and Mona were too much occupied
with lessons, some of which were
crowded together to allow of pupils leaving
town, and with their own affairs generally,
to think much about him.

Both partners were looking forward to
the delights of rest well earned. Mona
was quietly but profoundly thankful that
she had not been obliged to earn her
bread among indifferent strangers, — that
she had been supported by the warm
sympathy of a true friend.

Bereft of sympathy, life would be buta
struggling mass of discordant atoms,
without coherence, without harmony. Justice
might guide our actions — even generosity
might bestow its bounty ; yet,
needing that centripetal attraction, human
souls would fly further and further from

each other. Sympathy, too, is the informing
soul of genius. The power to
put one's self in another's place, — to understand
by the magic of fellow feeling his
strength and weakness,— to penetrate those
dusky mental corners where lurk the meanness
and deceit of which he is ashamed,
and by which he is nevertheless actuated, —
the broad kindliness that disdains no atom
of humanity, but sees a possible self in the
poorest and most fallen — these bestow the
faculty of true second sight on him who
perceives much, because he loves much.
Madame Debrisayay and Mona were happy
together, because they thoroughly understood
each other.

There were depths in Mona's nature,
perhaps, beyond the reach of madame's
plummet ; but there was nothing in hers
to make it discordant. Indeed, the more
it was called upon, the more readily
did it respond — as a high-mettled steed
answers to the spur, or breaks its heart
in the attempt.

Mona enjoyed the pleasure of answering
Lady Finistoun's letter. It was so delightful
to be remembered after many days.

The last lesson had been given — the
last promises to write ' directly they returned
to town,' spoken, and Madame
Debrisayay and her junior partner, meeting
accidentally in the train, walked home
together.

I do think,' said the former, ' that
ours is the neatest garden in the villas ;
but I fancy the trees are turning a
little already.

The green has deepened, that is all,'
returned Mona. ' Look, Deb ! Mrs Pud-discord
has put up a card. Mr Rigden
must be going sooner than we thought.'

Well, I shall not be sorry, though
I must say the dog has behaved very
well lately. I will ask Mrs Puddiford to
come up after tea. I suppose he is going.
I do hope she will let the rooms soon.
It certainly is a bad season.'

Yes ; she will fret a good deal if
she does not.'

And Mrs Puddiford disclosed a tale of
woe.

Mr Rigden had returned early, and
informed her that he had found better
and cheaper rooms, — that he was going

away to the country the next day, —
that he would take his dog, and would
not return, therefore Mrs Puddlford
might make out his account at once,
as he did not intend to hold any further
communication with her.

He spoke that disdainful, ma'am,
that I felt choked like ! To lose a
good, regular-paying lodger, and imparting
unfriendly, is trying.'

No doubt it is, Mrs Puddiford,
but you will have nearly a fortnight's
rent, and in that time I'll find another
tenant for you. I have one in my
eye.'

Weller, and I hope you will succeed,
for the sight of those rooms lying empty
is enough to give me indigestion.'

Who do you think of. Deb ? Not
my uncle ! ' exclaimed Mona, when the
landlady had retreated.

Yes, I do, dear. Then I could
keep my eye on him, and it would give
us much less trouble to look after his
little wants if he were in the same
house.'

Well, really, Deb, I am afraid he

would bore us greatly — though it is
rather unkind and selfish to say so.'

Yes it is, cherie, and I am ashamed
of you. But let the poor soul have
a bit of comfort while he is in this
strange wilderness of a place ; it will
help him to get better all the quicker,
and then he will be off to his residence
in the west of Scotland. Perhaps he
will return our hospitalities, by inviting
us to stay with him next year. I'd
like a month in the Highlands, and
if you will only be guided by me,
house and land and all will be yours.'

House and land ! Why, Deb, you
are more imaginative than ever. However,
do as you like. I am awfully
selfish, I am afraid, but I dread that
poor Uncle Sandy may spoil our holiday.'

The following morning brought a letter
from Mr Craig, written in what had
been a business hand, now run to seed,
and exceedingly shaky.

He had been, he said, exceedingly unwell,
and confined to the house with a bad
cold ; that he was now considerably better,
and proposed calling on Wednesday first,

when he hoped his niece and her friend
the orthography of whose name had
escaped him — would assist in finding him
suitable lodgings, as his present abode was
cold and damp, and most prejudicial to
his peculiar condition.'

Wednesday first ! ' repeated Mona.
Does he mean Wednesday next ? — that
will be tomorrow.'

He will come just in the nick of
time ! ' exclaimed Madame Debrisayay. ' He
is the very man for the rooms upstairs,
and they are the rooms for him. Now,
leave everything to me.'

Very well, dear, I know you only want
to serve me.'

Madame Debrisayay lost no time in
advising Mrs Puddiford to put the
rooms in order, as it was probable that
a gentleman would look at them next day.

A very advantageous tenant, Mrs
Puddiford,' added madame, with some
importance. * He is wealthy, but somewhat
eccentric. He does not wish to
be considered poor, or to seem poor —
still he is sound and reliable, and will
be most punctual.'

I am sure, ma'am, it will be rare luck
to let my rooms straight off! and to a
relation of Miss Craio^'s too.'

I will come up and look at them, Mrs
Puddiford.'

They are all in disorder now, ma'am ;
but I never let real dirt lay about.'

So Madame Debrisayay ascended, and
remained some time absent.

When she returned, she took up the
needlework she had left, and said gravely, —

Mona, my heart, write a line to your
uncle ; ask him to take his bit of dinner
with us tomorrow, and mention that there
are rooms to let in this house ; but if they
do not suit him we will look for others.'

I will ask him to dinner, certainly ; but
let us leave the question of lodgings to the
chapter of accidents.'

Mona, I feel a conviction that you
should not let that nice old man slip
through your fingers.'

Dearest Deb ! why do you talk as if
you were a greedy legacy-hunter, when
you are really the most generous and
disinterested of mortals ! I will do all I
can for my uncle, but I will not let him

interfere with my life — nor would I, If I
believed he had many thousands to bequeath,
which I do not'

Madame Debrlsay opened her lips to
speak, and then closed them firmly, keeping
silent for some Instants.

Well, dear,' she said at length, ' maybe
you are right. I am a little Inclined to
follow '' Will-o'-the-wIsps ;" take your own
way,'

You are a wise Deb after all,' returned
Mona, going to the writing-table, and
beginning a note to her uncle. ' Of
course, if he chooses to take the rooms, I
will make no objection.'

We will go out after dinner,' observed
Madame Debrlsay, ' and I'll get some
ribbon for your hat. You will see if I
don't turn out something equal to Madame
Isabelle.'

I have no doubt you can — '
And Madame Debrlsay glided skilfully
away from the subject In dispute.

There's " The World," ma'am, just
come in,' said Mrs Puddiford next morning.
' Mr Rigden, he have left no address,
and I think I need not dorrit myself

about it ; so I leave it with you to
look at.'

Thank you ! ' returned Madame Debrisayay.
* I daresay there isn't a word
of truth in all these papers say ; but it
amuses one at an idle holiday time to
look at it.'

Yes ! poor grannie used to read it, and
laugh and grumble all the time. It was
amusing to hear her comparisons of the
present with the past. She was very
clever. She never railed at the differences
which had come about. She evidently
preferred things as they used to be, but
accepted changes as inevitable, and
probably improvements for a younger
generation.'

'Ah! del!' interrupted Madame Debrisayay.
' Listen to this. It is a paragraph
among " What people say " : —

" Play has been unusually high for the
time of year at Monte Carlo. One trio has
lost or won large sums, and the habitues
of the Salle de Jeu have, night after night,
hung absorbed on the fluctuations of their
fortunes. One of these is a Russian
prince, well known in fashionable circles

both in London and Paris. Another is
an Austrian baron, celebrated for his
theatrical speculations. The third, whose
luck at first astonished the oldest frequenters
of these famous rooms, is a young
Englishman of good fortune and respectable
connections — Mr Leslie Waring —
whose horse was the favourite for the
Derby, and was so unexpectedly beaten,
seemed to have recovered the favour of
the fickle goddess, but has since lost very
heavily. He shows great pluck, and is
said to await with confidence * the turn of
the tide.' " ''

Madame laid down the paper with a
sigh.

I am sorry for that poor fellow ! ' she
exclaimed.

And so am I ; heartily sorry,' said
Mona, stopping short in her task of rearranging
some flowers.

Ah ! if he had had a good wife to keep
him straight.'

Don't ! ' cried Mona. * Don't ! I cannot
bear it. And you are mistaken, Deb ;
it is not my fault. Mr Waring told me
himself his tendency was to gamble — his

natural inclination. He was honest and
true, poor fellow ! Oh ! has he no friend
to keep him straight ! '

Hum ! the friend that could have
guided him, he couldn't get.'

Still, I cannot — I will not blame myself.
He has forgotten me long ago ;
and as I am sure I should have made
him but a cold, unsympathetic wife, he
might have gambled all the same, if I
had married him. You are too cruel,
Deb!'

Ah ! grand Dieu ! Don't cry, my
darling'. You'll look a perfect fright, when
your uncle comes ! and, old or young,
none of them have any feeling for an
ill-looking woman. Besides, you are quite
right. If the poor young man was a
born gambler, maybe he would have
beggared you. Do not think any more
about him. You have done the flowers
beautifully.'

But I can't help thinking ! I really
liked Mr Waring. He had a fine nature
in some ways, and oh ! I do hope he
is none the worse, really — for having
met me.'

Well, there is no use in troubling your
head about him now ? '

Mona made no reply, but she did
not think the less.

Uncle Sandy arrived in a * cab,' and
Madame Debrisayay in her neat black
dress — she never wore colours — and a
pretty lace cap, went out to assist his
descent from the vehicle. A sharp
wrangle ensued over the fare, from which
Mr Craig — cool, persistent, and utterly
impervious to insult, where ' silver ' was
concerned — came forth triumphant.

Mona, who had been making sauce for
the salad, according to Madame Debrisayay
's recipe, had just placed the salad
bowl on the table, when he stumped
in with the aid of stick and umbrella.


Weel,' he said, tumbling into a chair
and holding out his hand to Mona, ' I
did not think I would live to see you
again, but here I am.'

You are looking better than I hoped
to see you,' she said kindly.

Eh ! I have been awful' bad, and I
am verra lonely in yon place. Womenkind

are aye thoughtful for the sick and
weak, and I am pleased to take my bit
dinner wi' you.'

And we are glad to see you.'

Can ye cook ? ' was his next question.


Well, not much.'

You see, my dear sir,' cried Madame
Debrisayay, ' the dear child has not much
opportunity of learning ; but she has a
natural aptitude which I endeavour to
cultivate.'

That's right ; every woman ought to
cook. Ye see, that's their natural work,
that and doctoring — I don't mean prescribing
medicine, but seeing to its being
swallowed.'

By this time dinner had been placed
on the table, and Uncle Sandy appreciated
a fried sole, some boiled fowl with white
sauce, and a ' choiifietir au gratin,' prepared
by Madame Debrisayay's own and
still pretty hands.

He spoke little while he ate, belonging
to that unaffected class who think that
dinner means eating — not social enjoyment.


VOL. I. Q

When he had had enough, he pushed
away his plate, and glancing at Madame
Debrisayay and Mona, who had been
quietly waiting for him, returned thanks at
some length, and then — very deliberately
took a phial from his pocket, dropped a
certain quantity into a glass, added water,
and drank it.

Ah ! ' he said, * I have had a good
dinner, which is conducive to digestion.
Now, Mona, what is the meaning of that
bit card in the window ; is it to say
the rooms are to let ? '

They are, uncle.'

Then, if they are not too costly, I
will take them. That young man — auld
Robertson's son — has not behaved ashe
should, and it is as well I should
have my brother's daughter to look after
me.'

I shall be very happy to do all I
can for you, uncle ; but you must remember
that when my pupils come back
to town, I shall be obliged to go out
a. great deal.'

Never mind. Pupils or no pupils, you
stick to me.'

Madame Debrisayay gave a slight nod
and a proud glance, expressing, ' Didn't I
tell you,' most distinctly.

I'll look after you, if you will look
after me ? ' he continued. ' Whenever
madame will come with me, I will go
upstairs and see the place.'

This intention was duly carried out,
and Uncle Sandy, after careful examination,
pronounced all to be ' very
good.'

It would suit me weel to bide under
the same roof with ye both ' (he said
faith '), * and I do not wish to give
any trouble. When ye buy for herself,
ye can buy for me. When ye have
a pleasant book ye can lend it to me,
and when I am frailer than my ordinaire,
she,' a nod to Mona, * can read to me.
Noo, I'll give a — I don't mind, twenty-five
shilling' a week, for the twa rooms.'

Let us see Mrs Puddiford,' quoth
Madame Debrisayay.

Whereupon a long discussion arose.
Mr Craig had no objection to be a
monthly tenant.

I have let my wee place for two

years,' he said, 'and I can bide better
here than elsewhere,'

So after some lagging", for he would
not hear of looking elsewhere, he became
Mrs Puddiford's tenant from the following
Monday, at the large rent of five pounds
ten per month.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

K

MR? ALEXANDER

Author op

mm

IME WOOING tfrfce

vi sr v*£ m/ w vg xg. -4£ ^ s*£ :& ^jkr !i£

jrJLa

VOL. II.

a

A NOVEL.

BY

MRS ALEXANDER,

AUTHOR OF
1 THE WOOING O'T,' ' HER DEAREST FOE,'
THE ADMIRAL'S WARD,' ' AT BAY,' ' BY WOMAN'S WIT,'
ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1887.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

CHAP.

I. A Highland Laddie,
II. Glimpses of the Past,

III. A Dilemma, .

IV. Diplomacy, .

V. Montreville,

VI. An Old Acquaintance,
VII. The Serpent's Tooth,
VIII. At Variance,.

IX. Among the Heather,

PAGE

I







I05






Now ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange

Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2s.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3 s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s, 6d.

P. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I,

HIGHLAND LADDIE.

Uncle SANDY lost no time in
shifting his quarters.

Early in the forenoon of
the day on which his week
in the Camden Town lodgings ended,
he appeared at Westbourne Villas withall
his effects.

It was a curious collection — a battered
leather portmanteau, a couple of cushions
strapped on top of it ; a tin box, bursting
with the number of medicine bottles,

VOL. II. A

lotions, and embrocations crammed into
it ; a large, untidy parcel of books, tied
with many pieces of twine knotted together
; and one inexplicable item — a
large, wide-mouthed, brown earthen jar,
a square of canvas fastened carefully over
the orifice. These — a spare umbrella and
two walking-sticks of different thickness
were carefully transferred to his apartments.


Mona and madame had endeavoured to
make them look neat and cheerful, had
contributed some flowers and a growing
fern to the decoration of the sitting-room,
and flattered themselves that Mr Craig
would be charmed with the attention.

8 Ah ! ' he groaned — a guttural ' ah ' —
dropping into a chair as soon as he had
mounted to his rooms. ' It's an awful'
way up ! I was better on the ground
floor in yon house.'

Oh, I hope you won't regret the
change ! ' said Madame Debrisayay politely.
1 You will not want to go up or downstairs
much ; and you see the folding-doors
to your chambre a coucher make it nice
and airy.'

1 To my what ? ' asked Uncle Sandy.
4 I cinna understand foreign tongues.'

1 Your bedroom. You see, my dear
sir, I am half French, and the language
I have been so long accustomed to slips
out now and then.'

Uncle Sandy gave an inarticulate grunt
in reply to this explanation, and then,
looking round and sniffing vigorously,
he exclaimed, —

What's that I smell so strong ? '

Perhaps these flowers,' returned Mona,
who came in as he spoke, carrying his
sticks and umbrella.

4 Ay, no doubt. Just take them away,
will ye ? They are verra unwholesome ! '

'Not in your sitting-room, uncle, surely?'
said Mona, smiling at the idea of the useless
trouble she had taken.

I am no so sure; and you must remember
I'm frail — verra frail ; it's my breathing and
my back, and my pair, pair limbs' — in
accents of the tenderest self-pity — ' that
just wears and distresses me from morn
till night.'

'It is very trying ! ' said Madame Debrisayay
sympathetically.

Mona unstrapped the cushions, and
placed one behind him.

Thank ye, thank ye, dearie ! ' in a
more amiable tone.

1 Would you like any refreshment ? '
asked Madame Debrisayay.

8 Weel, I might take a biscuit and a
glass of apollinaris water.'

1 Water, alone, my dear sir ? Will you
not put something in to qualify it ? '

I am a temperance man, you see ; but
the doctors say I ought to take a drap
whisky for my stomach's sake.'

I am so sorry ! but we have not such
a thing in the house ! I will send Jane
for some.'

1 London whisky ! ' cried Uncle Sandy,
very audibly ; adding, with pious earnestness,
' God forbid ! ' Then rising, he
clutched Mona's arm with one hand and
his stick with the other. ' I have a grapple
in my portmanteau, and I'll just get it ! '

Can I get it for you, uncle ? '

Naw ! ' very decidedly. ' I never give
my keys to anyone ! '

With many groans he bent his knees,
leaning heavily on Mona — for the portmanteau

had been placed on the floor —
and managed to unlock it. Mona had
stepped back as soon as he let her go,
lest he should think her inquisitive ; but
the heavy lid was too much for him.

Why don't ye give me a han' ? ' he
asked querulously.

Mona came to his assistance, and the
exceedingly mixed contents of the portmanteau
were displayed to view.

Uncle Sandy pitched out trousers and
waistcoats and socks recklessly till he
reached the layer where the whisky-bottle
was embedded ; he handed it to
his niece, and, having thrust his garments
in again, locked the receptacle ;
and, rising with the help of madame and
Mona, tumbled into his chair again, with
many exclamations of pain. The desired
refreshment was procured, and then
Mona proposed that he should have the
newspaper, and rest till dinner.

'Ay!' said Uncle Sandy, 'that'll do
fine. I am just awful' weary. Are ye
going to give me a bite the day, as there
is nothing prepared ? '

4 Certainly ! ' said Mona.

'It was our intention to beg the pleasure
of your company,' said Madame Debrisayay.

1 Then I'll come. It's a pity I have to
gang toon stairs ; but it canna' be helpit ! '

My dear Deb,' said Mona, sitting
down again to some work which the
arrival had interrupted, ' I am afraid
Uncle Sandy will be something like
Sinbad's Old Man of the Sea. You
have undertaken a rather heavy task ; it
seems to me that he expects us to do
everything for, and be everything to,
him.'

Well, well, Mona ; you would not be
cold and heartless to your poor father's
only surviving brother ? The poor old
gentleman is worn out with fatigue and
suffering ; he will be more himself and
more reasonable tomorrow. You would
not refuse to soothe the declining years
of a poor, lonely man ? '

No, I will gladly help him in anyway
I can ; but he may be rather a
worry. However, he seems something
of a character, and may develop attractive
qualities. I am quite sure my father
was never like him ! Could you fancy

a high-born, handsome girl running away
with Uncle Sandy at any period of his
life ? '

Madame Debrisayay laughed heartily.

Ah ! Mona, you are a quare girl ! '

When madame was thoroughly off her
guard and speaking English, her native
accent made itself heard occasionally. In
French, she was fluent, with a pure Parisian
pronunciation, which was valuable to her
in her professional capacity.

From the date of Uncle Sandy's settlement
the partners felt that the freedom of
their holiday was over. He unhesitatingly
claimed constant help and attention. Moreover,
he cavilled at the price paid for
everything they bought ; and many were
the commissions he gave both.

Still Madame Debrisayay clung to the
idea that he was a millionaire, though she
carefully kept her impression to herself.

It is only the rich who are so saving
she said to Mrs Puddiford, with whom she
often condescended to talk. ' He always
has money enough for whatever he wants

1 I don't think he is so bad as he seems,
ma'am,' returned the landlady. ' He comes

downstairs a good bit faster when nobody
is looking.'

1 Oh ! he is far from strong, I assure
you. Indeed, I don't think he is long for
this world.'

1 Don't you, now, ma'am ! Well, I don't
know, I am sure.'

From the beginning, Uncle Sandy, on
finding that madame had the Times every
morning for an hour, proposed to share the
subscription and the perusal with her.

You'll no care to read much of it,' he
said, 'and it will lighten the expense to
you. Then I get the Scotsman, and you
are welcome to that when I have done
with it.'

Oh ! my dear Mr Craig ! I read my
Times right through in holiday time.
When I am off early to my work, I get it
in the evening. Now I would advise you
to buy the paper half-price, and read it
quietly in the evening. You might sell
the papers after for waste, you know.'

Uncle Sandy thought this ' verra wise-like.'
He then discovered that his eyes
were uncommon weak of late, and he
asked either Mona or Madame Debrisayay

to read to him, which they rarely refused
to do. Next he took it into his head that
he would like to ' do ' London under
Mona's guidance. This was rather a toilsome
undertaking, for it was just ' sinful'
waste ' in his mind to hire a cab ; and
getting him in and out of omnibuses was
no slight undertaking, to say nothing of a
running fire of disputes with conductors,
and laborious studying of the fares painted
inside, while the vehicle ' stopped the way '
to a crowd of carts, hansoms, and vans.

Then Uncle Sandy, though confessing
loudly his consciousness or inferiority, owing
to his few opportunities or ' privileges,'
thought himself a remarkably intellectual
man. He had no doubt heightened his
natural obstinacy by self-education, and he
had a tenacious memory. These qualities
rendered him exceedingly contradictory.
He would even question the dates given
by the clerical verger who lectured on the
chapels in Westminster Abbey, and keep
a whole party waiting, impervious to the
disgust of his learned interlocutor. He
did not grow angry or excited ; he simply
slowly asserted his own views, without the

slightest regard to the mental condition of
his opponent — exciting in irritable people
a wild desire to seize him by the throat,
and give him a silencing squeeze.

With all his peculiarities, there was a
certain originality in Uncle Sandy which
attracted Mona. Although his ideas of
expenditure were narrow, he was rigid in
paying whatever he believed he ought to
pay. Nor was he conscious of exacting
more than he gave. Still, his recognition
of the rights of others was by no means so
clear as his perception of his own. But
what attracted his niece most was his
strong liking for herself.

Though undemonstrative, his small pale,
querulous face always brightened when she
came near him ; and occasionally the appellation
' my dearie ' came to his lips unconsciously.
He even remarked, with
reluctant admiration, that she read verra
clear and distinct for a Southron lassie.
No but ye show your Scotch blood,' he
would often add, ' both by your working
independent for your living, and by your
bonnie reed head.'

The fact of her having red hair, as he

considered it, seemed to be one of Mona's
strongest claims upon his affection. It
appeared to be a kind of proof positive
that she belonged to him.

Curiously enough, Madame Debrisayay
never quite succeeded in winning his confidence,
though attentive and considerate
beyond what he could expect. He spoke
to her less gently, and contradicted her
more flatly than he did Mona. As his
instincts where self was concerned were
preternaturally keen, perhaps he felt that
her kindness was less disinterested than
Mona's, and could not picture to himself
the devotion which could make one
woman interested for another's sake.

His greatest enjoyment was to listen to
Mona reading the papers to him — next to
her playing of Scotch airs. He would
listen to no other music save a few hymns
or psalms. He was very particular about
attending public worship, and insisted occasionally
on Mona accompanying him,
that she might hear ' soon doctrine,' which
was a great punishment, for he was exceedingly
religious, in a dogmatic and disagreeable
fashion. Madame Debrisayay had

skilfully and gracefully glided out of a
proposal on his part to share their midday
dinner, paying his proportion.

It would be very nice, my dear Mr
Craig,' she said ; ' but you see you might
regret beginning what you could not continue
; for when families return to town, and
we begin to be busy, we often do not dine
at all, and always irregularly. That would
never suit your poor digestion.'

That's well thought,' said Uncle Sandy
gravely. ' My food must be punctual, or
I canna live.'

It is indeed of the last importance.'

I am surprised,' he resumed, ' to find
how far Londoners are behind us in the
matter of cooking. I brought a small bag
of oatmeal, thinking I could get " parritch "
to my breakfast, and I went to the cost of
an earthen pan to pit it in ; but eh, sirs !
what a fearsome-like mess the landlady in
yon house made of it! I've not had the
courage to ask for it mair.'

Porridge ! ' cried Madame Debrisayay
joyously. ' My dear Mr Craig, if I had
had the faintest idea what the contents
of that crock were, you should have had

your porridge every day. I am to the
manner born. We have the same thine
by another name in my country. May I
see the oatmeal, if it is in good condition ?'

'Ay, that you may. It's in yon corner.
If ye can give me my parritch every morn
to my breakfast, I'll be another mon. I
have wanted it sore.'

Madame scarcely waited the permission
before she pounced upon the jar which had
often puzzled her, and examined it carefully.

1 It seems all right,' she said triumphantly.
' Let me take it away and keep it
for you.'

'Ay, so you may, only be sparing; for
when that is gone, it will be troublesome
and " expensive " to get mair frae Scotland.'


I assure you, Mr Craig^you can get every
article you require better in London than
anywhere else.'

1 But not oatmeal, I'm thinking.'

1 Yes, even oatmeal ; and I will prove it
to you.'

Weel, you're a clever woman ; but I
doubt if ye can manage that

Madame bore away the ' crock ' in

triumph, and informed Mona she had
found a new way to the old man's heart.

Nevertheless, he did not swallow Madame
Debrisayay with the porridge made by
her fair hands.

He appreciated it, however, and thanked
her with more gratitude than he usually
evinced.

Naturally the holiday enjoyments of the
two friends were considerably curtailed by
the presence of Uncle Sandy. Still they
contrived to spend two or three tranquilly
pleasant days at Hampton Court, Richmond,
and other suburban places of resort,
though Uncle Sandy grumbled a good deal
at being left alone.

The six weeks of vacation passed swiftly
withal.

The autumn was exceptionally fine after
a wet summer, and pupils prolonged their
absence from town. October was half
over, and Madame Debrisayay was again in
harness. Mona, too, had resumed work,
and her uncle was divided between gratification
at her industry and annoyance at her
frequent absence. He was deeply interested
in the details of her occupation, and

she evidently rose in his estimation when
he heard of the remuneration she received,
which seemed to him very high. Money
paid was in his estimation the hall-mark
of merit.

Through all this time Mona thought
often and sadly of the paragraph which
described Leslie Waring's supposed losses.
She did not exactly believe that disappointed
love had driven him to seek distraction
in play ; but had he not wasted his
affection on herself, he might have found
some one to share his home and his love,
and care for another might have saved him.

It had been a cruel disappointment when
one day, returning with madame from a
trip to Greenwich, she found Lady Finis-town's
card. On the back was scribbled, —
So sorry to miss you. Only arrived yesterday,
and go north tomorrow. Will
write from — '

Had she seen her cousin. She might
have heard something of Waring without
asking directly. And how delightful it
would have been to see Evelyn once more.

The days had shortened considerably,
and the nights had grown sharp and chill.

Mr Craig was painfully early both in
rising and retiring. He was rarely out
of bed at nine in winter or ten in summer ;
and being unable to get out of doors as
much as in the fine early autumn days,
was rather more exacting and troublesome.
Mona found reading aloud more
of a tax after teaching than it had seemed
in her holiday time, but she rarely disappointed
her uncle ; when too tired
Madame Debrisayay supplied her place.

But he never approved the change.

I don't know how it is, but for all I try,
I don't think your uncle loves a bone in my
skin. Never mind, so long as he is good
to you, and remembers you, I am content.

He ought to be very grateful to you,
Deb, for all you have done for him.'

Ah, my dear ! very few men have any
gratitude to bestow.'

These words were exchanged as Mona
was about to ascend to her uncle's sitting-room,
where she found him sitting over the
fire, his feet on a hassock placed inside the
fender.

Come your ways,' he cried. ' The sight
of you is good for sir been now-a-days !

Have ye had your bite ? Ay ? Then
we'll have a good spell o' the papers before
bedtime. But, first, there's a bit note I
want to write to a laddie I have neglected
in a way — my sister's son, Kenneth Macalister.
He is in an office in the City — a
big place — coin' well, I believe.'

1 A nephew of yours ? '

1 Ay, a nephew ' (he pronounced it ' nay-few
'). ' He used to come and see me
there in Camden Town. But he and Jamie
Black — the lad I shared the lodging with —
used to make a noise, and argue, and goon
wi' rules' talk, till I said I would not put
up wi' it. And Kenneth — he had a Hielandman's
temper — he got offended. Noose
has come back from his holiday, and is
clothed (I dour say he left off the breeks
when he went home) and in his right mind.
So he writes for leave to come and see me.
He is a gude laddie, in a way — not verra
weel informed ; but everyone hasn't had
opportunities, nor have they striven to educate
themselves as / have, though my disadvantages
have been great. Noo, my
hand is verra shaky the night, so you write
for me, my dearie. Tell him to come early

VOL. II. " B

to kirk here bye, next Sawbath, and come
back with me to a bit dinner. Madame
will let us dine with you — have a joint, or
something a hungry laddie can cut from and
come again. She'll tell me my share. Give
him a bottle of beer. We'll say nothing
about the drap whisky — it's no that good
for a young mon, and I haven't much left.'

1 Very well, uncle. How shall I begin ?
I never met this young man, who is, I suppose,
my cousin ? '

1 Not all out. My mither was twice
married, and Kenneth's mither was my
half-sister ; still, he is a near kinsman.'

1 I will write as if from you. Tell me
what to say, and you can sign the letter.'

1 Verra weel.'

A very few lines sufficed ; a few directions
as to trains were added, and the note
was ready for signature.

1 I want you to be kind and friendly to
the laddie. You and he are all that's left
of my people,' said Uncle Sandy meditatively
; ' and he is no that bad — only self-opinionated.
Now there is nothing worse
than being self-opinionated ; it's just a barrier
against the incoming of knowledge.'

No doubt,' said Mona, with an irrepressible
smile.

She took up the paper and read perseveringly,
until her uncle, consulting his
watch, decided it was time to go to bed.

The following Sunday was dull and grey,
but dry.

Mr Craig sometimes hobbled to ' kirk '
alone, when Mona struck and insisted on
attending her own place of worship, much
to his annoyance.

On the present occasion she started
early, to reach a distant church, thinking
that dinner-time and the whole afternoon
would be a sufficient sacrifice to her newly-found
cousin.

She was a little late in returning, and
went at once to lay aside her out-door
garments. While doing so, the sound of
voices in the next room — the polite, guarded
tones of Madame Debrisayay, told her that
she was receiving company.

Dinner was being placed on the table
when she entered. Uncle Sandy had already
taken his place, and Madame Debrisayay
was in the act of gracefully indicating

his seat to a young man — a young man
whose appearance startled Mona.

Hearing Uncle Sandy always speak of
his ' nayfew' as a ■ laddie,' she unconsciously
formed a picture of an undersized, shy lad,
slight and insignificant, with the family
1 reed head ' — something in style between
a shopboy and an errand-boy. She actually
beheld a very tall, well-built figure,
surmounted by an exceedingly black head,
the hair short and thick ; heavy dark eyebrows,
and large, dark, deepest, flashing
eyes ; an aquiline nose ; high cheek bones ;
a pathetic mouth, with somewhat down-curved
corners, unmasked by moustaches,
and a deep red-brown complexion.

This is Kenneth Macalister — your
cousin Kenneth,' quoth Mr Craig as, he
tucked a napkin under his chin.

Mona bowed and smiled, but Macalister
took a large stride forward, holding out a
big, bony, brown hand, and reddening ashe
exclaimed, —

I am very ' — he said ' ferry ' — ' glad to
make your acquaintance.'

There was a certain dignity in his carriage,
but Mona saw that he was shy.

though probably his pride was strong to
aid him in concealing it. She put her
hand into his, saying pleasantly, —

It seems wonderful to me to dine with
an uncle and a cousin. I have always
seemed denuded of near relatives.'

'Ay, but you have plenty!' said Mao
aliter, taking his seat. ' I have twenty-seven
first-cousins on my father's side, and
fourteen on my mother's. I have more
than double that in second-cousins, but
having been much from home, I cannot
count all my far-away kin.'

He spoke with the soft, slow Highland
accent, which must be imagined.

Why, that is an awful army of relatives.
Life would be too short to know them all.'

We were once a powerful tribe,' he returned
solemnly.

1 Hoot man ! eat your dinner and cinna
fash us wi' your auld-warld stories,' said
Uncle Sandy, as he received a tempting
slice from a plump leg of Welsh mutton.

I did not mean to weary you ! ' exclaimed
Macalister, with a quick contraction
of the brows ; and silence reigned till the
first pangs of hunger were appeased.

What'll ye tak' ? ' asked Mr Craig presently
: ' beer or wine ? '

1 Neither, sir. I drink only water and a
drop of whisky sometimes. Wine is rather
indifferent in London ' — this loftily.

The young Highlander would have let
any amount of foxes gnaw his vitals before
he would confess that he was almost a total
abstainer, from motives of economy.

It's no an indifferent price, then,' grumbled
Uncle Sandy.

We find a very tolerable light claret at
fifteen shillings a dozen,' remarked Madame
Debrisayay. ' I fancy it might suit you, Mr
Craig, for a little change.'

Ay, but I cinna want a change. Good
cold water is the best of all, only I am
forced to qualify it now and again wi' a
drap o' whisky, which I tak medicinally,
you understand

Have you been long in London ? *
asked Mona.

Going on three years; before that, I was
in a Glasgow house.'

I And you like London better than
Glasgow ? '

I I hated both ! but I am getting used to

London : there is much to be done and
learned here.'

1 It is a wonderful place. Do you often
go to the theatre ? '

Scarce ever. I am tired after the day's
work ; and in summer I would rather take
a row on the river.'

The young are aye carried wa wi'
an inordinate love of amusement, an — an'
excitement, in these latter days

I " Man cannot live by bread alone," :
said Macalister gravely. ■ Man wants food
for imagination and wonder, and — and self
improvement.'

'It ill becomes the son of a God-fearing
minister to be quoting Scripture for his ain
weak purposes,' observed Uncle Sandy
reprovingly. * I will na' hear it, and it
make me in dread for your immortal soul
when I do.'

'Well, Uncle Sandy,' cried Mona, coming
to the rescue, ' you must admit that all
work and no play makes Jack a very dull
boy.'

I I am no so sure o' that ; / worked hard
enough, and / never was dull.'

1 And pray, Mr Macalister, how is trade

at present ? ' asked Madame Debrisayay
comprehensively, with a view to changing
the subject.

This produced a lengthy and rambling
reply, after which Uncle Sandy avowed his
intention of closing his eyes for quarter of
an hour. He therefore reascended with
his ' nephew V help to his room. Madame
Debrisayay excused herself, because she had
promised to visit some professional friends,
so Mona was left alone with her newly-discovered
cousin.

When he returned, after conveying Mr
Craig upstairs, he sat down by the table,
resting his elbow on it, and shading his
eyes with his hand, he looked curiously at
Mona, who was reading a French book of
travels, which she laid down politely on his
reappearing.

My uncle seems a good deal tired.'

She did not know what in the world to
talk about to this tall, semi-civilised young
man.

He is that ! but he is an aged person :
he has nearly reached the years allotted toman.'


I suppose so.'

A pause.

'When my uncle wrote to me that he
had found his brother's daughter, I did
not think I should find you such a grand
young lady. You don't seem to belong
to us, though the Canisters are an old
stock.'

1 You see I was always brought up in
London and on the Continent ; that
makes me seem different. I am not
grand.'

It is more than that,' he said reflectively,
■ more than that. Yet you are like
a young lady I used to go to school with
when I was a wee lad. I saw her again
this autumn when I was back in 
; and she is like you — very
like — only you are taller and statelier.'

'And has she a " bonnie reed head,"
as my uncle says I have ? '

1 Your locks are more gold than red,'
said the young Highlander, with an admiring
smile ; ' but Mary's are browner, and
she seems younger.'

1 And I suppose you enjoy getting away
to the mountains and lochs of your native
place ? '

1 Eh ! it's another life. I had not been
back for two years, and I had no mother
to welcome me this time.'

He stopped abruptly.

That made a sad difference,' said Mona
softly.

He did not speak immediately, and
when he did, it was to ask in an altered
tone, —

Were you ever in the Highlands ? '
Never.'

There is nothing like them anywhere !
To be sure, I haven't seen much else, but
there can be nothing finer. Whether it's
the grey dawn flushing redder and redder
over the mountain tops, or the soft evening
fading from crimson and purple, gold and
lilac, to the pale blue mist and silvery
moonlight ; and the air so fresh and free ;
the springy heather, that makes your step
light ; the grand exulting sense of climbing
higher and higher. I feel a man among
my native hills — I'm just a dull machine in
this big breathless town

Certainly not a dull one. You are a
poet, Mr Macalister.'

1 Me ? Well, no ; I never tried writing

verses ; but I am a good craigie-man, and
no a bad shot ; as to freshen, few can touch
me. Did you ever land a saumon ?'

No ! I have only seen it boiled on a
dish.'

'Well!' enthusiastically, 'it's just ground!
I wish I could take you right away and
show you all over the big mountains, the
glens, and the strath; and row you out
on the quiet loch in the hush of the
evening.'

I wish you could ! I should enjoy such
a ramble immensely.'

1 Weel,' in a lowered and mysterious
tone, ' my uncle maybe will ask you to
stay at Craigdarroch. He has a lovely
place there.'

Here a violent peal of Mr Craig's bell
summoned them both to their attendance
on that honoured relative.

Do you know, Deb, I am quite interested
in that young Highlander; there is
something uncommon about him — he is
an original.'

1 I don't know, and I don't much care,
about his originality, but I do care that he

Minds Choice.

shouldn't come between you and your
uncle's natural affection. My impressionis
that he is a selfish legacy hunter.'

In short, he is what you wish me to
be. Oh, Deb, Deb ! '

GLIMPSES OF THE PAST.

'After this first visit Kenneth
Macalister came frequently on
Sundays, and sometimes of a
week-day evening. He would
appear between eight and nine o'clock,
having walked straight from the city after
business — just to stretch his limbs, he said,
after sitting cramped at a desk all day long.
Mr Craig, though by no means cordial
in his welcome, on the whole encouraged
him to come, and seemed pleased that
Mona lent him books from her scanty
store, or played to him, which gave him
great delight. Indeed she grew quite fond
of the queer, half-developed, irritable, impressionable

young man, who found such
evident pleasure in her society.

Madame Debrisayay, too — though distrusting
his influence on Uncle Sandy —
liked him in spite of herself. Homely and
even uncouth as he was, he was free from
the smallest tinge of vulgarity, and by
nature was a true chivalrous gentleman.
He had not much of the business faculty,
yet plodded on steadily at his distasteful
work. It seemed to Mona that he ought
to have been a soldier, a herdsman, or an
.agriculturist, and that ungenial occupation,
or some early trouble, had given a tinge of
melancholy to his mind.

Meantime, her pupils increased, and she
began to realise the wondrous healing
powers of time and work, — that to live for
pleasure was but a poor and partial existence.
Uncle Sandy, however, missed her
frequent companionship greatly, and did
not hesitate to complain of her frequent
absence.

1 Sure, you can't leave off earning your
bread to dance attendance on him,' said
Madame Debrisayay, whose tender consideration
for Mr Craig had altered a good

deal since his nephew appeared upon the
scene. ' He is really growing a cantankerous
old soul. One would think the
world was made for his use. You must
just make him understand that you have
your living to get, and if he wants you to
act as his daughter, he should behave as a
father.'

Very well, Deb. I will tell him so.'

But you need not quarrel with him,
though. I think he really is fond of
you.'

1 So do I, and rather dependant on me,
which disposes me to give in a good deal
to him. Do you know, he is a clever old
man in some ways. He says very bright
things occasionally, and has read a great
deal ; yet how ignorant he is in some
directions.'

1 Ah ! my dear, that's because he has had
only books to instruct him. It's a onesided
sort of knowledge that is not corrected
by contact with your fellow-creatures.'

His politics are very funny. He is a
tremendous Radical as affects social matters
and those above him in rank ; but just
tremendously Conservative as regards the

rights of property and those who are ina
humbler position.'

Of course he is. He is not the sort of
man to see both sides of a question. I wish
there was someone to keep him company,
and go out with him, when we are away.
And he gets up so cruel early, the days
are twice as long as they need be, for a
creature that has nothing to do. Could
you start him to write anything ? '

I am afraid not. I think his medicine
and his two walks a day, with that " History
of the Covenant " he has begun, will keep
him fairly busy.'

'Well, I hope so. It certainly is a
terrible thing to be old and alone. I sometimes
wonder what will become of myself.'

4 Ah ! Deb, you and I must stick by
each other

4 You, my darling' ; you'll marry the prince
yet.'

The winter wore on. It was severe ;
but Mona going constantly out kept free
from cold. Kenneth had been gradually
adopted by her, and was her companion on
many a Sunday. Indeed, Mrs Puddiford
and her servant considered him to be Miss

Craig's ' young man.' From this companionship
Kenneth learned much of manners
and even modes of thought — learned,
too, with the rapidity of an imaginative,
impressionable nature. He admired and
looked up to his cousin with profound conviction.
His society amused Mona, and
helped to make her feel younger and more
cheerful. Her own spirits were exceedingly
variable. Sometimes Uncle Sandy's
cutting remarks and utter want of tact
would raise his nephew's wrath, and he
would pour out his wounded feelings with
much volubility to his cousin, who generally
reasoned with, and calmed him.

1 He thinks because he has a lot of
money, and I have a right to expect he
will remember his sister's son, that he
can trample me under his feet ; but I will
have him to know that the Canisters
were gentlemen when the Craigs were
lowland peasants

• Come, Kenneth, don't insult the Craigs;
they are my people, and you must not be
rude.'

1 You are quite different ; you are a
queen — so you seem to me ; but you don't
vol. 11. c

insult a fellow ! I'll not come near Uncle
Sandy till—'

Till next Sunday,' interrupted Mona.
What should I do without my walk?
And, Kenneth, I always want you to
come with me.'

1 Oh, I'll come, cousin Mona! No fear ;
you shan't want your walk for me ; but
Sandy Craig is no gentleman, though he
is my mother's brother — half-brother, I
mean

Kenneth continued to speak, but his
words conveyed no sense to Mona, for
her eyes had been attracted by a well-known
figure.

This conversation had taken place as
the cousins were walking. They had
come through Kensington Gardens, past
the Albert Memorial, and, reaching the
road, turned west, intending to return by
Palace Gardens. Just in the narrowest
part of the High Street, at the opposite
side, two men stood talking — one short,
stout, bowed-legged, and bull-necked, with
amazingly tight trousers, a gaudy necktie,
and a most horsey and repellent
aspect. He had his back towards Mona

as she came up. The gentleman with
whom he was in deep conversation, and
who faced her, was Waring.

Waring was looking dull and sullen ;
his clothes carelessly put on, and an indescribable
air of self-neglect pervading
his appearance. Mona was so startled
that she almost unconsciously put her
hand through Macalister's arm, drawing
near to him ; and he, somewhat surprised,
bent his eyes upon her with a
smile. Waring, who was talking eagerly,
angrily glanced towards them at that
moment. Their glances met — Mona
blushed vividly, Waring grew white, hesitated,
raised his hand to his hat ; but
Mona had passed before he could lift
it.

1 What was the matter?' asked Kenneth.

I thought I saw a gentleman I used to
know, and I — I was afraid he might come
and speak to me.'

You should not be afraid of anyone
when I am with you, cousin Mona ! I
would not let anyone trouble you.'

1 But there are some things you might
not be able to help. However, it is no

matter. No, Kenneth — do not look
back.'

1 I cannot make out who it was,' said
Kenneth.

Never mind. Tell me, where did you
go to church to-day, for you were not intime
to go with Uncle Sandy ? '

I had letters to write, so I stayed in my
lodgings : it's a comfort to write sometimes

No doubt it is ; and I do not think you
care for your work in the city ? '

No, I hate it ; but I must stick to it
now : I am too old for anything else. I
would have liked to be a farmer — a sheep
farmer — or a soldier.'

1 What opposing fancies — a gentle shepherd
or a fighting man.'

Shepherds have always been fighting
>pien : David licked the Philistines ! '

True. And why, then, did you choose
a career you disliked ? '

Because I was forced. I am the only
son of my mother, and she was a widow.
I was in haste to deliver her from the
burden, and the quickest way was through
Uncle Sandy. He got me a clerkship in a
Glasgow house, and then I got recommended

on to London ; but it is slow
work. It will be many a long day before
I can get a home of my own, unless my
uncle helps me ; and he is such an ill-tempered
carle, I doubt if he will do much
good to anyone whatever.'

He is not unkind,' said Mona thoughtfully.


No, he is not,' returned Kenneth, who
was getting over his ill-humour ; ' and he
told my mother that I should be his heir
if I would take his name ! Now that's
what I cinna like at all.'

Why should you mind ? You could
put Macalister before the Craig, and it
would not sound badly.'

■ Maybe not ; anyway, it will be long
before I need use it.'

1 Why, Kenneth, you speak as if you
wanted poor Uncle Sandy to die?'

No ; I want no such thing, God knows ;
but a bit help just now would be worth
thousands later on, when one is too old to
enjoy it.'

Why do you not tell him ? '

Tell — tell him ? Why, I don't suppose
he would ever see my face again if I did.'

They talked in a friendly fashion till
they reached the house, when the servant
informed them that Mr Craig had been
asking for them, and the rest of the
Sabbath was devoted to him.

Mona's sudden start and slight confusion
soon passed from young Macalister's mind.
But the encounter with Waring dwelt long
in Mona's. She was greatly affected by
seeing him look so changed for the worse.
Ought she to bear the blame of this in anyway
? No ! However grieved she might
be, she could not suppose that the loss of
herself had wrought such mischief. It was
only his natural downward tendencies that
were swaying him. And there was so
much of good in his nature, it was an infinite
pity that he was thus dragged down.
What a horror the man was to whom he
had been speaking ! Poor Waring ! She
would have liked to have remonstrated
with and saved him ; but even had she
the chance of doing so, she would have
put herself in a false position by showing
the kindly interest she felt.

A few days after this little adventure, and

much about the time Mrs Newburgh had
died the previous year, Uncle Sandy was
seized by a very sharp attack of bronchitis.


For a few days he was even in danger.

On this occasion Madame Debrisayay distinguished
herself. She was a capital
nurse, and had had large experience.

Mona stayed with her uncle for two or
three days, and did everything for him,
under madame's direction. She was really
touched by his suffering and his dependence.
It would be dreadful to lose the
last relative she had, and the only creature
in the world, besides Madame Debrisayay,
who loved her.

Both were unceasing in their care ; but
the latter was obliged to absent herself
nearly all day, whereas Mona gave up
her pupils that she might watch over
the sufferer.

Mr Craig seemed deeply touched by the
thoughtful care of his nurses — especially
by Madame Debrisayay's ; and the sort of
mistrust with which he regarded her
melted away.

The short Christmas holidays, therefore,

were anything but a cheerful period to the
partners ; and though Uncle Sandy was as
fractious as an invalid well could be, his
occasional bursts of grateful recognition
obliterated the irritation of his testiness.

To Mona, the knowledge that he was
going to make Kenneth his heir brought
a certain liberty of action, which set her
free from any fear of being indirectly hampered
by fear of her own motives.

When Mr Craig was able to get up,
and stagger with Kenneth's help into
his sitting-room, he was less disposed
than usual to growl and find fault.

Well, madam he said, ' ye may be
wrong in the matter of doctrine, but
you are a' right in the treatment of the
sick. I'd have been a did mon, if ye
hadn't known what to do while they were
seeking the doctor.'

I am very glad to be of any use to
you ; but I think, as far as constant attention
went, Mona was the best of all. She
left nearly all her lessons, to stay with
you. However, I am glad to say she
has only lost two or three.'

1 Lost ! Did you say lost ? '

4 Yes, my dear sir. You see, Tuesdays
and Fridays are always very busy, and she
gave up three pupils for those days, not
to forego her attendance on you.'

That was verra kind — verra. I'll not
forget it.'

He seemed lost in reflection, while
Madame Debrisayay murmured to herself, —

I wish he would remember it soon, or
his memory won't keep it.'

I was just thinking that Mona has
been like a daughter to me,' resumed Mr
Craig. ■ I begin to think I'd be lonesome
without her ? Eh ! Kenneth, my mon ;
what do you say ? '

You would feel very desolate without
her, now you have been accustomed to
her ; and so might anyone. My cousin
Mona is an uncommon clever, bright
young teddy.'

Eh ! ye think so, do you ? Weel, weel.
Ye pit notions in my head.' A pause
ensued. ' An' hanna the minister cam to
see if I were did or alive ? and I a
regular attendant for nigh nine months !
He was aye sharp enough to come seeking
subscriptions for his charities, and a

Christmas tree, or such like heathenish
custom, but he hanna come to speak a
word in season.'

Ministers in London are very hard
worked,' observed Kenneth. ' They have
so much to do with the poor, they just
leave the rich to take care of themselves.'


And who says I am rich ? If I have
enough to pit food in my mouth, and a
few decent duds on my back, have I no
a soul to be saved ? I daresay your
priests,' to Madame Debrisayay, ' would not
leave an old man without the comforts of
religion, because he keepit out of the
workhouse ? '

4 Oh, certainly not' said Madame, laughing
; ' nor do I think any priest I ever
knew, Catholic or Protestant, is inclined
to neglect a penitent who has something
to leave behind him.'

■ Ay, priests are all alike ; but that's
different from ministers ; an', considering
my years, it was a verra serious attack.
Not that I am what you would call old,
but then I have had weak health for many
years, and sma' care — verra sma' care.'

Well, sir, I am sure you have been
well tended this time ? '

■ I am not denying it ! but then it will
cost me a lot of silver.'

(He grew intensely Scotch when irritated
or uneasy.)

Life and health are worth more than
gold,' said Madame Debrisayay cheerfully.

1 Nae coot, nae coot ! Yet life and
health may be poverty struck, and not
worth much.'

Any way, life is given to us, and we
must do the best we can with it,' quoth
Madame Debrisayay, who was privately
wondering what had became of Mona, asher
usual hour for returning was over-past.


1 That's what few of us do,' quoth Uncle
Sandy, turning to his nephew. ' I'd like
to have a talk with ye the next time you
come up here ; there are one or two
matters I should wish you to consider.'

My dear sir, if you wish to speak to
Mr Macalister, I will leave you together ? '

1 Not the day, not the day,' said Uncle
Sandy. ' I have no the strength to insist
on anything.'

I am wondering what keeps Mona ? '
said Madame Debrisayay ; ' she ought to
be here by this time.'

It was a Saturday afternoon, when
Kenneth always got away from the City
early.

There is her ring ! ' she exclaimed, the
next moment. ' I'll go and see what kept
her?'

It was a wet, chill afternoon, with wild
gusts of wind.

Where have you been, my darling' ? '
cried Madame Debrisayay, going into the
bedroom, where she heard Mona moving
about.

A very pleasant and unlooked - for
rencontre] returned Mona, who was taking
off her damp outdoor garments. ' I was
coming away from Mrs Churches, when
a lady who had just driven up to the door
suddenly called me by my name. " Don't
you remember me, Mona ? " It was
Evelyn. She seemed so pleased to seeme
! She had only come up to town fora
few days, and was going to write to me
to come and see her, as she was very
hurried. Oh, she was looking so well and

happy ! She asked me to luncheon tomorrow.
She is at their town house in
Hyde Park Gardens, and wants to have
a long talk. She is just the same as ever,
only nicer — at least she seemed so. What
a different world she moves in from ours,
dear Deb ! '

1 Ah ! widely different ; but you don't let
that fret you, my dear, do you ? '

■ No, I don't fret. Yet I am ashamed
to think how I regret that brilliant, easy,
abounding existence, where everything is
fair and smooth, and neither roughness
nor care come to irritate or oppress.'

Ah ! my darling', there are plenty of
aching hearts under the smoothness, and
poor human nature groans and yearns for
what it can't get, all the same whether
it's in a poor twenty-five shilling a week
lodging, or a marble palace.'

If that is your opinion, Deb, why were
you so angry with me for breaking with
Mr Waring ? '

Well, dear, you see people must live,
and as hearts ache, no matter what covers
them — sackcloth or satin — you might as
well have satin, and a marble hall.'

f That is not a sufficient reason. I suppose
that whatever your abstract conviction
may be, you grasp grandeur and wealth
whenever you have a chance. I fear I am
no wiser, dear, for all my romantic talk,
only I am greener than you are, Deb —
I wanted love as well as luxury.'

Ah, then, didn't poor Waring give you
lashing's of love ? '

< Perhaps ; but if he could not create it
in me, what good did his love do me ? '

I am ashamed of your hardheartedness,
Mona. I expected better things
of you.'

That is because you always over-rated

me.'

Never mind. Just go up to your uncle ;
that wild Highlander has had him all to
himself nearly the whole evening.'

Mona set out to keep her appointment
with Lady Finistoun with mixed feelings
of pleasure, and a little irresistible mortification.
At twenty, philosophy , has not
had time to strike its roots very deeply
into the soul.

Mona was proud, but her pride had no

tinge of meanness. Of poverty she was
not the least ashamed, so long as she was
indebted to herself alone. Yet in old and
highly artificial societies like ours, poverty
is probably the most degrading condition
into which man or woman can fall ; but the
sting to Mona lay in her consciousness that
the disapprobation and neglect of her relatives
was in some degree deserved. She
had not acted loyally to Waring; she ought
not to have broken faith with him when the
immediate cause which forced her to accept
him was removed. And he, too, must despise
her !

However, all that was irrevocable now.
Yet she hoped earnestly that Evelyn would
be alone. She did not wish to meet any
of her former friends, or rather acquaintances,
to be pitied and questioned, however
smiling and kind the mask they
might put on. This was a contemptible
weakness, she confessed to herself, but
she could not raise herself above it.

Her ladyship had just gone to luncheon,
said the elegant gentleman who opened the
door. Would she walk in ?

Mona was shown into a library at the

back of the house, where Evelyn sat at
table, tete-astute with her husband.

So glad to see you, dear ! Finistoun is
obliged to go out, or we should have waited
for you, and when we have got rid of him,
we shall have such a nice long chat.'

Very complimentary to me said Lord
Finistoun, bowing, and smiling good-humouredly.
' Happy to renew my acquaintance
with you, though I am afraid
you do not remember me

Yes, I remember you now a quick
blush passing over her face.

She did well remember him. At the
ball where she had first met Lisle, she had
seen him talking long to Lord Finistoun,
and fancied they were speaking of herself.
He (Lord Finistoun) was very like Kenneth
Macalister, only older, better dressed,
and less good looking. He was tall and
gaunt, but Evelyn was evidently satisfied
with him.

In a few minutes Mona felt quite at
home,

And you are the naughty girl who riled
everyone by ejecting your unfortunate
fiance f / said Lord Finistoun, as he helped

her to some cold grouse. 'It was too bad,
really. You deserved to be shut up and
fed on bread and water.'

1 How very ill-bred of you, Finistoun, to
mention it,' cried his wife. ' You have no
discretion. I will not have Mona teased.'

1 I beg pardon if I have offended ; but I
am sure Miss Joscelyn will forgive me.
The poor fellow has gone under. The
racecourse and the clubs know him no more.
You have a great deal to answer for.'

He ought to be much obliged to me
returned Mona, as lightly as she could.

Perhaps ; but then people seldom know
what is good for them.'

A most ungallant speech. Pray remember
that Mona has changed her name.
She has taken her uncle's.'

Quite right, if he is going to leave you
his fortune. By what name, then, shall I
remember you in my prayers ? '

1 My father's name was Craig, but my
poor grandmother always chose to call me
by my second Christian name.'

And why does this rich old uncle
choose to live in such a remote region as
Westbourne Villas ? '

vol. II. D

1 I do not think he is rich, and he is
only in London for a short time.'

Oh, nonsense ! He must be rich.
Make him take a house near us somewhere.
Everyone will be pleased to see
you again. Men do not adopt nieces
unless they can afford expensive luxuries.'

He is very unambitious, and has been
seriously ill.'

You are sure you have not been administering
slow poison in homoeopathic globules
? ' asked Lord Finistoun. ' You look
a very resolute young woman, Miss Craig.'

A little more light talk, and he left them,
after a kindly expressed hope of seeing
Mona soon again.

1 am not at home to anyone,' said Lady
Finistoun, as soon as the servant came back
from opening the door.

Come up to my room, Mona. We
have only a few rooms open, as we go back
to Cumberland on Tuesday. Now we
shall have a delightful talk. Isn't Finis-town
nice? He is such a good fellow. I
thought him so dull and quiet when he
came to the Chase — just after you made all
that hubbub, dear! I didn't care about

marrying him much, only he seemed so
much in love with me — which nobody ever
did before — and now I think him the most
charming companion. Isn't he bright and
pleasant ? '

He is indeed ! I suppose you make
him so happy, that his nature has developed,
as plants do in sunshine.'

1 You are just the same as ever, Mona,
with your quiet, funny air of wisdom. I
wish you had married Mr Waring. It is
really very nice to be married to a kind,
generous husband.'

And so on about her own happiness and
affairs for nearly an hour, then she exclaimed
suddenly, —

6 But tell me about yourself! What an
awful life you must lead with poor Madame
Debrisayay ! though she is a dear old thing.
Do you never go to a dance or — but of
course not : you could not know the people
about you.'

I assure you I am not dull. First,
because I am busy ; then because I have
a very agreeable companion. Then we go
often to concerts — sometimes to theatres —
and even now and then to soirees, where,

if there is not much elegance, you sometimes
hear exceedingly clever talk ; but
we — that is, Madame Debrisayay, generally
refuses. It costs too much in dress and
cab hire

'Is it possible ! I thought cabs were
the most economical mode of getting
about ! Dearest Mona, I am so sorry
for you ! And how wonderfully well you
look ! '

I am well, and happy.'

Nonsense, dear! I tell you what, you
must come and stay with us. I don't care
what they say at home, and I will give you
some nice dresses.'

1 No, no, Evelyn ! I have left your
sphere for ever. I am not ungrateful to
you. You are a kind, generous soul ; but
I have thrown in my lot with the workers,
and I cannot serve fashion and mammon.
I must earn my bread.'

1 It sounds quite awful ! I shall persuade
you to come to me yet. Do tell me what
the uncle is like ? '

Well, he is an ugly, little old man, not
too pleasant in temper, and in very indifferent
health. He talks like the people

in Sir Walter Scott's novels, and he tries
to convert me to Presbyterianism.'

What a fearful combination ! He must
have money, or he would never presume
to be so disagreeable.'

I see no sign of it in his mode of life
or his ideas of expenditure.'

How is it you let him bore you
then?'

He seems to have thrown himself upon
me, while everyone else, except poor dear
Deb, has thrown me off — and then I see
he is fond of me. There is so much in
that. Besides, he is intelligent, — a character,
in fact. I feel his hold on me is
tightening.'

Where did you find him ? '

Mona gave the history of their first
meeting.

1 Depend on it, he will prove a " treasure
trove." Where does he come from ? '

Somewhere near Glasgow. My fathers
people were — I scarcely know what — very
humble in origin.'

And where does he live when he is at
home ? '

4 I am not very sure. He has a cottage

in the Western Highlands called ""'


1 Craigdarroch ! ' repeated Lady Finis-town,
in great surprise. ' Why, that is
close to Strathairlie. I remember hearing
that a rich jute manufacturer bought it.
Yes, I know all about it now, dearest
Mona ; it must be the same Mr Craig —
a dreadful rich, Radical old miser ! You
don't mind my saying so, do you ? '

Oh, no ! by no means,' returned Mona,
laughing. ' It is very curious that you
should know anything about him. Still, I
cannot believe in his wealth ; and he is
certainly not a miser.'

1 This is a delightful discovery. Finis-town
will be quite pleased; and then we
shall see you in the autumn. We always
go, or will go, to Strathairlie.'

But perhaps my uncle will not return
there.' ■

Oh, yes, he will. Do not be so contradictory.
My dear love, you will be a
wealthy heiress yet ! Craigdarroch is quite
a lovely place. And there is a farm— a
good large farm, and fishing rights attached
it, etc., etc.*

Talk flowed freely, till Mona, observing
the hour, insisted on taking leave.

'It is pouring rain. Do let me send
you home in a cab ! '

No, dear Evelyn. You shall not send
me in a cab. I will take one myself, for I
do not wish to spoil my best gown.'

What a rebellious subject you are ! I
protest I feel a load taken off my mind
when I think you have a rich uncle in the
toils. Keep fast hold of him.'

Wft£%$

CHAPTER III,

A DILEMMA.

JWDAME Debris's words
respecting Mona's sacrifices for
her uncle had sunk into his
soul.

He was generally a taciturn individual ;
but at times communicative fits would seize
him, of which, when they were past, he
seemed half ashamed.

Mona's absence on the Sunday afternoon
when she had lunched with Lady
Finistoun, was a stumbling-block and rock
of offence.

Teddy Finistoun, indeed,' he muttered,
not addressing anyone in particular. ' She
and her people would have left the girlie

to starve, and she must run back to eat of
her bread. That's not the right spirit.'

But, uncle,' said Mona, who was looking
for the City article in the Times,
1 Evelyn was always fond of me. She is
not responsible for what her people did.'

Eh ! They are all birds of the same
feather. I'd have nowt to do wi' them.'

Lady Finistoun sought me, uncle. It
would have been ungracious to reject her
advances.'

1 Oh ! gang yer ain gate. The young
always know better than the old and experienced.'


Mona did not reply, and there was a
pause. She found the article she had
been looking for, and had just begun to
read when Uncle Sandy stopped her, exclaiming,
—

1 Bide a bit. I want to speak to you.'

She laid down the newspaper, a little
alarmed at the ominous beginning.

1 Tell me truth,' he resumed. ' How are
you paid for your singing lessons ? '

1 Oh, mine are merely preparatory lessons
! so I do not get much.'

1 Ay, but how much ? ' .

Three shillings a lesson, or thirty for
twelve.'

Hum ! ha ! well ! ' — pulling out his purse
' there are three sovereigns for you.
Madam told me you put off some pupils
that ye might give your time to me, and I
can nae forget it. I doubt if anyone ever
did so much for me before. Now I don't
want you to suffer loss through me. There,
tak' the good ; ye're welcome. Before that
is gone, ye'll maybe find other pupils.'

But, Uncle Sandy, I would rather not !
Indeed I would rather not! I am sure I
shall soon find other pupils, and — and I
have a little money of my own— more thana
hundred and twenty pounds. I was quite
ready to give up the lesson that I might
be with you. You were not fit to be left
alone. I will not take the money.'

Nor will I take it back.'

You must indeed,' she persisted.

Hoot, toot ! a young creature like you
needn't hesitate to take it from her nearest
of kin. Here, pit it in yer pocket.'

Let us make a bargain, uncle!' cried
Mona gaily. ' I do not want the money
now, but when I do I'll ask for it.'

1 Ay, but I misdoubt me if you will :
you have too much pride. Not but that I
like your independent spirit — that comes
from the Craigs. I'll just pit up the money
in a bit paper, and it will be ready whenever
you want it

Thank you, uncle. I will ask for it if I
want it ; but I hope I shall not. Do you
know that Lord and Lady Finistoun are
your neighbours at Craigdarroch ? '

1 Ay, I knew the name ; but I did not
give them a thocht. I remember now, the
Laird o' Strathairlie used to be down in
the shooting-time, with a wild, feckless lot
loons that just consume the fruits of the
birth, and never add a bawbee to the
nation's wealth.'

Still, I suppose they do some good, by
giving employment and spending money ? '

I'm no that sure. They create a cause
clement and a useless class — men that just
minister to other men's pleasure are never
good for anything : there's something degrading
in it. If ye come down and seeme
in my bit Hieland home, I hope these
fine folk won't come tavern' after you* I
canna be fashed wi' dislike kittle-cattle.'

I don't suppose they would trouble me
much, only Evelyn, who is really fond of
me, I believe ; and I should greatly enjoy
Craigdarroch. The Highlands must be
delightful, from Kenneth's account.'

Ay ; he can talk grand. He is a braw
laddie. You are good friends, you twa ? '

Very good. Kenneth interests me, he
is so fresh and original.'

He is too self-opinionated ; but he is
an honest lad, and his mother, my half-sister,
was aye nearest to me of my kin,
though I loved your father weel till he
went an' married like a full ! I must look
after Kenneth and provide for him, for her
sake. Her heart was bound up in him ;
and for a' his bone and muscle, he's no that
strong.'

Yes, Uncle Sandy, you ought to take
care of him. H e is indeed your natural heir. '

Natural heir indeed!' quoth Uncle
Sandy wrathfully. ' Nobody is my heir
or heiress beyond what I choose. I can
leave all I possess to an institution or an
hospital tomorrow.'

Of course you could,' said Mona indifferently.


1 Then let me hear nae mair of heirs and
heiresses ! '

Very well. Shall I read now ? '

Ay, and cinna go too fast

But the lecture did not seem to give

o

satisfaction till she came to the ' Price
Current,' when some of the quotations
seemed to arouse a keen and pleasurable
interest in her hearer.

4 Ay,' he muttered. ' Spanish four cents
forty-eight and a quarter, ex-dividend.
That's good ; — time to sell. Hum ! Union
Pacific, three-fourths down ; that will do.
Where is Kenneth ? He hasn't come nigh
us this Sawbath.'

He said he was going to church with
his friend young Macleod, and was to sup
with him after.'

He's always wa' when he is wanted.
Write him a note ; nay, a halfpenny card
will do as well. Tell him — stay, I'll write
myself, though it is the Sawbath. There
are some things will na' keep, and the
Lord's Day is not the same this side of the
border.'

Just so, uncle. When in Rome, do as
Rome does.'

Ay ; when will a note reach him ? '
I daresay at ten tomorrow morning.'
That will do fine. Give me my book
an' the ink. I canna afford to lose time.'

With many a muttered, inarticulate, self-addressed
comment, and a more distinct
complaint of his dim eyes, his unsteady
hand, his general debility and rapid decline,
he managed to fill two sides of note paper,
which he put in an envelope and carefully
fastened up, requesting Mona to address it
to her cousin. Then he sat silently watching
her.

Yell send it safe and sure to the post ? '
4 Certainly ; I will go myself. The servant
is out, and so is Madame Debrisayay.
The post-pillar is within a hundred yards.'
1 Ay, do — that's a kind lassie ; and you'll
come back to me ? I am verra weary the
night ! Eh, but I am worn wi' poor health
mair than wi' years.'

Mona returned immediately, but was received
with silence. The old man seemed
wrapped in thought. Mona took up the
paper and began to read a criticism on the
last batch of novels.

Ay, he is a braw laddie,' said Uncle

o

Sandy suddenly, as if out of his thoughts ;
and I am glad you like him so weel.'

I suppose you mean Kenneth ? Yes,
I like him very much, and I am sorry he
is obliged to be in an office. I am sure he
is not happy.'

■ Hoots ! what does he want then ? To
be an idle, fine gentleman, and make the
grand tower maybe ? He must just earn
his bread by the sweat of his brow like

us a'.'

But he might do so more happily behind
the plough : he is not suited to a
city office. Could you not find work for
him on your land, or even in the Colonies?'

1 didn't think I'd ever hear you havering
that fashion. I thought you had mair
sense.'

I am afraid I am weak enough to
shrink so from doing what I do not like
myself — that I sympathise too much with
Kenneth.'

Sympathise ! eh ? Weel, sympathy
is a fine feeling.'

After this he lapsed into silence, from
which he only roused himself to go to bed.

The next evening, and the next, Kenneth

was closeted with his uncle. After
these interviews, he stayed but a very
short time with Madame Debrisayay and
Mona — nor did they seem to exercise an
enlivening effect on the young Scot ; indeed,
Madame Debrisayay remarked upon
his depression, and surmised that he was
in debt, and afraid to ask his uncle for
help.

1 And no wonder,' added the kindly
Irishwoman. ' I'm sure I'd rather go
into a den of raging lions, than face your
uncle if I wanted money from him. I am
sorry to say it, but it's wicked to grab
money as tight as he does ; and I like the
young man, though I don't like to see him
come between his uncle and yourself.'

I do not fancy Kenneth has a debt ora
money difficulty in the world ; but he
does seem to have something on his mind

The following Sunday was fine and
crisp, though still and grey. Christmas
was close at hand once more, and Mona
was thankful to think that the year had
been peaceful, and free from any fresh
misfortunes.

Kenneth came immediately after the
early dinner, and asked Mona to take a
walk with him. She readily complied,
and they were soon on their way to their
favourite recreation ground, Kensington
Gardens.

Kenneth was unusually silent. He answered
Mona's remarks as briefly as possible,
seeming embarrassed and preoccupied.
At length, having skirted the round pond,
they slackened their pace as they got under
the shelter of the trees, and walked down
the wide glade towards the Serpentine.

'What is the matter, Kenneth?' asked
Mona ; ' I fancy you have something on
your mind. I think you might tell me.
You know I take an interest in you, and
sympathise with you.'

Ah ! that's just what my uncle says
This with a profound sigh. ' Yes, I have
something very particular to say, only I
cannot say it.'

1 That is very unfortunate, as I want to
hear it. Do you want me to break anything
to Uncle Sandy ? '

1 No ; he knows — that is, he is at the
bottom of it all.'

vol. 11. E

Are you in any trouble, Kenneth ? '
1 Well, indeed, and I am.'

Could I help you ? '

Maybe you might ; but it's hard to
tell.'

4 Try, Kenneth — this is getting serious
try to tell me.'

Weel ! ' said Kenneth, thus urged, growing
very red, and speaking with a stronger
accent than usual, ' Uncle Sandy wants
me to marry you, and I cannot, Mona. I
cannot, indeed ! I have pledged my troth
to another young lady, and could not break
my word.'

Mona stopped short in utter amazement,
and looked straight at her companion.

'How very unkind of you!' she exclaimed.
' I did not think you would
reject me.'

Eh ? That's what my uncle says. He
believes you are very fond o' me, but I
cannot see it ; and, oh ! Mona, he swears
he will leave all his money away from both
of us if we don't marry ; and I will never
call any woman wife but my sweet Mary
little Mary Black — the schoolmaster's
daughter ! '

A kindly, amused smile slowly dimpled
round Mona's mouth.

Did you tell him so ? '

Well, I aren't, you see. I have had
hopes that he (Uncle Sandy) would help
me — I mean us — for I think he meant me
to be his heir before he met you

Believe me, Kenneth, I will not interfere
with you. Now, I'll help you to the
best of my ability ; but first — please to
propose to me in due form.'

1 You understand I am pledged to Mary.'

Do not mention her at present

Well, then ; will you marry me,
Mona ? '

No, Kenneth. I feel honoured by your
offer, but I decidedly decline. There now,
the blame of disobedience rests with me.
You can tell Uncle Sandy that I refused
you.'

1 You are a clever deil, Mona, and kind ;
but this is not verra honest.'

1 No, it is not ; but my uncle ought not
to be so foolish as to turn matchmaker.
Now he will attack me, and I can take
care of myself. You can keep quiet, and
by-and-by — when I have utterly refused

you — then propose to marry " your ain
true love," and my uncle will yield.'

I am not sure ! Ye see, his idea is
that I should marry, and live with him at
Craigdarroch — that I should mind the farm r
and you the house, and then come in for
everything after. He'll be dreadfully disappointed,
for he is awful fond of you,
Mona, and I am not surprised ; you are a
real braw lassie. You've a lad o' your
own somewhere wa', I'll be bound — a
lassie like you could not want a lover.'

4 The place is vacant at present, Kenneth,
and you see you are unfortunately
bespoken she said, laughing.

Eh, but you have made my heart light ! '
he exclaimed. * I did not think you would
have me ; but Uncle Sandy was that positive,
I gave into him. Maybe if I had
not left my heart behind me and taken
to you, our uncle's wish might have been
fulfilled.'

'Just so, Kenneth. As it is, we will
manage our affairs as best we can.'

1 What can we say when we go in ? '

The position is rather strained, as politicians
say. You must go and confess first

Then I suppose I shall be sent for, and I
shall trust to the inspiration of the moment.'

1 It's awful trying,' said Kenneth, who
was greatly disturbed. ' It will be years
and years before Uncle Sandy comes round
he is so obstinate and self-opinionated.
And hard as it is to wait, I could stand
that ; but Mr Black is in a very weak state,
and should he die, Mary and her mother
will be homeless. For Jamie the eldest
brother's a ne'er-do-weel, and Robbie's on
the sea.'

We must try and coax Uncle Sandy todo
the right thing. He would be very
happy at Craigdarroch, with you and Mary
to take care of him.'

1 You are too kind,' said Kenneth, his
dark eyes growing moist. ' The good God
has sent you to me for a true friend and
sister.'

Ah ! there spoke your gratitude to me
for rejecting you ! ' cried Mona, holding out
her hand to him. ' There, let us swear
friendship and fidelity, and determination
to guide Uncle Sandy in the way he should

go-you

are a very clever young woman.

I do not know if there is a cleverer whatever.
And you really will bear me no
enmity because I cannot marry you ? '

I think, Kenneth, by much perseverance
and " wrestling in prayer," as Uncle
Sandy says, I may overcome the bitterness
of this moment.'

1 Ah, Mona, you are making a mock at
me. You would not, if you just knew how
my heart sinks when I think what a long
weary waiting lies between me and Mary

There was profound sadness in his voice.

1 But I do not mock you, Kenneth.' cried
Mona, touched by his tone. ' I feel with
and for you, and I will do my very best to
help you. We will manage Uncle Sandy.
Now, for the rest of our walk, you shall tell
me all about Mary from the very first.'

1 Then I must begin at the beginning of
my life, for Mary is just bound up with it.'

Go on,' said Mona, looking up in his
face with a sunny smile, and Kenneth
went on ' considerably.

Mona was sincerely interested. It was
but a homely tale, yet it was glorified by
gleams of true feeling, of tenderness almost
womanly in its delicacy, of warmest desire

to shield the dear one from trouble or
roughness. And then the setting of the
picture among grey rocks and purple heather,
gleaming lochs, and clear brown
rushing streams, soft mist, and driving
storm, was delightfully suggested by Kenneth's
incidental descriptions. There was
a day when a ' spate ' was on the river, and
he helped Mary over the stepping-stones ;
another, when he landed a big salmon,
while she looked on ; a third, when he
rowed her and her mother across the loch ;
and yet a fourth, when he coaxed her to
wander away with him to a rent in the
mountain side, called the Devil's Dyke,
and a storm overtook them.

Mona listened with a curious mixed sense
of sympathy and envy. Would any human
being ever love her with the same deep
yearning affection ? How old her experiences
made her feel beside this free unselfish
love. How much more true manhood
there was in this unstinted, generous
eagerness to share all good with the best
beloved, than in the cold, hard, worldly
wisdom that prompted Lisle to handover
the woman he had tried to win to

another, at the first chill breath of coming
trouble.

Kenneth felt a new creature when he
was thus enabled to unbosom himself.
Thoughts uttered seem so much stronger
than they do while lurking in the shadowy
recesses of the heart.

By the time they reached Westbourne
Villas, he had talked himself into a conviction
that his wedding was not so far off
after all. But at the garden gate, terrible
reality grasped him and looked him in the
face. Within those walls Uncle Sandy
awaited him.

He will be awful angry, Mona,' whispered
Kenneth, pausing before he rang the
bell.

I daresay he will ' — (it was not necessary
to name the object of their dread) —
1 but you must throw all the blame on me,
remember, Kenneth, it is quite true. If
there was no Mary in the case, I could not
marry you.'

There will be somebody else then,' he
said, with innocent conceit.

1 Never mind about that, Kenneth.
Think so if you like ; but do not be too

positive with Uncle Sandy. If he chooses
to hope a little, let him.'

When they went in, Mona retired to
take off her cloak and hat, and Kenneth,
with slow, reluctant steps, went up to face
Uncle Sandy.

Oh, Deb ! ' cried Mona, throwing herself
into a chair beside that good lady, who,
on the door being opened, hastily hid the
stocking she had been darning under the
table. ' Oh, Deb, support me ! I have
been cruelly and heartlessly rejected by
Kenneth Macalister.'

1 Why ! Grand Dieu ! What do you
mean ? ' asked Madame Debrisayay impatiently,
while she hunted vigorously for her
needle. ' Ah ! here it is ! Now don't talk
riddles and conundrums.'

Whereupon Mona repeated the substance
of her conversation with Kenneth.

Why, what has come to that cantankerous
cripple, your uncle, that he
should think of such a marriage for you ?
That long-legged Highlander isn't fit to
wipe your shoes — a creature that has only
exchanged his native wilds for a den of
thieves in the City. Why he isn't fit to sit

in the same room with you. You know I
have always stood up for your uncle, even
when there was no denying he is a naygur '
(Irish for mean miser) — ' but I wash my
hands of him now.'

You are too indignant,' began Mona ;
but madame did not heed her.

I would like him to see you as I have,
in the most distinguished society of London,
with the most distinguished men in it at
your feet.'

He would need an enormously magnifying
power of perception if he ever beheld
such a sight as that,' said Mona, laughing.
Nor will I allow you to speak contemptuously
of Kenneth. He is a fine fellow and
a true gentleman — far truer than the distinguished
individuals you fancy you saw
at my feet. He is deeply attached to a
Highland Mary of his own, and we have
agreed to bring: round Uncle Sandy to
agree to the match. Poor Uncle Sandy
had evidently intended to make Kenneth his
heir. Now he has met me, he wants to
make all straight by uniting our rival
claims and ourselves.'

Claims indeed ! Why you are his

nearest of kin, and ought to have all he
has, except, perhaps, a legacy to buy a
plough or a fishing-rod for his cateran
of a nephew. Not that I dislike the boy.
He is a good-looking, well-disposed fellow.
But this notion of your uncle's is a dreadful
dilemma. It is quite possible he will
take offence at you both, and maybe
leave everything he possesses to the kirk
kirk or church they are all alike for
grabbing gold. I hate priests of every
denomination!' concluded the good-natured
heathen, recommencing her darning with
such fierce energy that she pricked her
finger, whereat she indulged in some very
strong French expressions.

There is Uncle Sandy's bell. Do come
with me, Deb. You will be a shield both
to Kenneth and myself.'

Ah ! can't you let me finish my stockings
in peace. Le vieux Tartuffe would
faint at the sight of needle and thread on
the Sabbath, and I haven't a minute to
myself other days. I daresay if he could
make sixpence-halfpenny by skinning a flint
on the " Sawbath," he'd find it was to the
interests of true religion to do so.'

1 Come, come, Deb. Uncle Sandy has
plenty of faults and crotchets, but you shall
not paint him blacker than he is. Why
have you turned against him ? '

1 He hasn't a spark of true generosity.
You gave up time and teaching for him,
and what did he do for you ? '

1 He offered to pay my losses.'

Ah ! what was a paltry three pounds ?
Is he the man to say, " Here's a fifty pound
note, my darling', to buy you a frock — though
nothing could ever pay for the light of your
sweet face beside me ; that would be like
a Christian.'

The wildest dreams of fancy could not
depict Uncle Sandy making such a speech ;
and, Deb, though he may be able to live
with a certain degree of comfort, it does
not follow he is rich.'

Oh ! he could not live without heaping
up riches.'

Come along, and be reasonable.'
It was an agreeable surprise to find
Uncle Sandy not cross, only a little melancholy.
He was low about himself, and
commissioned Kenneth to interview the
secretary of the funeral company and ascertain

what would be the cost of removing a
1 corp ! to the ' auld kirkland at .'
Finally he made Madame Debrisayay
feel unhappily prophetic, by telling him to
seek out the minister of Balmuir, whom
Kenneth had met in Cheapside a few days
before, and request him to call on a former
parishioner.

DIPLOMACY.

Kenneth Maltster lost

no time in giving Mona the
result of his dreaded interview
with Uncle Sandy.
He was not, Kenneth said, so vexed as
might have been expected. He told his
nephew not to be down-hearted ; that his
offer was, perhaps, unexpected like, and he
could not suppose a lassie — a very superior
young lady — would jump at the first word,
that he (Kenneth) must persevere, and
come often to the house — perseverance
could accomplish much. Uncle Sandy had
set his pertinacious mind on the marriage.
All, however, might go well, if only no
breath of the project reached Mary's ears.

1 I am exceedingly glad I may go and
see you often concluded Kenneth. * For
this great stony wilderness of a town has
seemed a good deal more homelike since
I knew you.'

Things then went on in much the usual
routine for some months. Mr Craig grew
stronger, and able to hobble to and fro at
different kirks from that which he at first
attended — the minister being known to his
brother clerici of Balmuir, who, by the
way, never made his appearance at Westbourne
Villas. A letter introducing Uncle
Sandy was forwarded to the former, so
the two Scotsmen enjoyed an occasional
crack ' together, which sometimes ended
in a somewhat acrimonious dispute.

Mr Craig, as the busy season advanced,
complained a good deal of his lonely days ;
but Madame Debrisayay, who rose in his
estimation as she grew more self-asserting
and less complaisant, explained to him
that, with the strong necessity of earning
her bread and forming a clientele, Mona
was bound to take as many pupils as she
could get.

On this Mr Craig fell into a brown

study, and in the evening, when Mona
went to read to him, expressed regret that
he had let Craigdarroch for so long a
time, adding, —

1 I might as well be there as here, for
all the company I get.'

'At least I can read to you in the
evening, Uncle Sandy.'

Ay, I know it's not your fault ! Do
you think you would like to live at 
? '

Certainly, in the summer. I am not so
sure about the winter-time ; unfortunately,
there are no pupils to be found there.'

1 If you had a good husband, you would
not need them.'

But as you would say, uncle, a husband
now-a-days is ill to seek.'

You might have a braw one for the taking,
said Uncle Sandy,looking keenly her.

This was the first approach he had ever
made to the dreaded subject, and Mona,
though by no means deficient in courage,
shrank from it.

'It is a serious matter to take anyone
for a husband,' she said, colouring. 4 1
like my liberty

Liberty is no good for women,' he returned,
for Uncle Sandy had by no means
a high estimation of the fair sex. ' And
Mona, my lassie, your old uncle's heart is
set on seeing you a happy wife.'

Thank you, uncle, I should like to
please you, but we must be sure of the
happiness

He opened his mouth to reply, but some
wave of thought arrested his words, and
he closed it again. He was, however, cross
and contradictory all the evening, and
Mona knew he was not well pleased.

Meanwhile the usual round of London
life ran its course. Parliament assembled.
New players and old favourites enchanted
the public. Fresh scandals, and novelties
of toilettes, enlivened the pages of society
papers. Another batch of little girls were
promoted from the nursery to the schoolroom,
and both Madame Debrisayay and
Mona's hands were full.

Lady Finistoun's name at drawing-room,
dinner, ball, and garden-party frequently
met Mona's eye as she looked through
the papers for the articles most suited
for Uncle Sandy's consumption. Yet

VOL. II. F

she made no sign. Kind and pleasant
though she was when face to face with
her friend, the rush of the season, the
number of attractive engagements, crowded
out those who were not constantly present
with her, from Evelyn's mind.

She did write once, begging Mona to
come and have a cup of tea with herat
an hour when she would not meet
anyone, but Mona thought it wiser not
to go.

• If you stay late in London, I will come
when the tide of gaiety is ebbing. You
would hardly have time to speak to me
while it is the flood,' she wrote in reply.

By some slip in conversation, Madame
Debrisayay managed to make this invitation,
and the reply, known to Mr Craig, who
seemed a good deal impressed by it.

May set in with unusual warmth, dry
east winds prevailing, and Uncle Sandy
grew discontented with his food, restless at
night, feverish by day, dissatisfied with his
liver, and suspicious of his digestive organs.

1 I am no sae sure that Sir Andrew
Coleman gives me that attention he ought,
ordering a' the guineas he has had from

me ! Mr Maclean ' (this was the minister)
advises me to try that man in Seville
Row, Dr Carmichael ; they say he is
wonderful for liver and digestion ; and I
am regular out of sorts.'

■ Well I would, Mr Craig,' said Madame
Debrisayay, to whom Uncle Sandy confided
his doubts and intentions ; ' you have not
been looking at all well — not a bit like
yourself of late. I have felt rather uneasy
about you. Perhaps a new doctor may
observe something that has escaped the
other. Maybe change of air might do you
good.'

'' Haven't I had a total change coming
here ? and last year I felt a new man !
How is a pair frail body like me to go
wandering about by my ain sell ? Why
the cure wad be worse than the sickness.'

1 Still, my dear sir, it is well worth while
to face some difficulties rather than not recover
your precious health.'

I know it — I know it,' he growled impatiently
; ' and I am just thinking what's
best to be done. I'll get Mona to write
and ask for an appointment, when she
comes in.'

I am sure, Mr Craig, my poor pen is
quite at your service.'

Oh, thanked, thanked ; I'll just wait
till my niece comes in.'

Mr Craig was quite nervous about his
visit to a new doctor, and at length expressed
a wish that Madame Debrisayay
should accompany him to the doctor's
house, though he did not wish her to be
present at the interview.

Why did you not say so at once ? ' she
cried. ' I should have offered to go with
you, but seeing you are a particular man, I
did not like to intrude.'

Intrude ! Why, no, of course you would
not. I did think of taking my nephew, but
it is not easy for him to get away from
business.'

Do not think of it, my dear sir. I am,
you know, quite an experienced nurse, and
when Dr Carmichael makes an appointment,
I will arrange to go with you. You
are not really fit to go alone.'

4 You are verra good. I shall be much
indebted to you.'

For the remainder of the day Uncle
Sandy was amiable enough ; but. as is not

uncommon, when the immediate sense of
obligation wears off, the politeness it engenders
also disappears, and next day
Uncle Sandy was as querulous as ever.

1 I believe his digestion is all wrong, poor
man, and his eyes are like boiled gooseberries,
but there is nothing else the matter
with him. He is shaky on his legs,
certainly, though I rather think that's just
nervous fancies. I doubt his dying before
he is a hundred, he is so contradictory.'

Why, Deb, you would not cut short
his little span of life ? If I thought you
were serious, I should be quite angry
with you.'

I would not do the poor soul the smallest
harm, God knows ; but he is very trying,
and I don't think he cares a straw
about any mortal but himself.'

I think he cares a good deal about himself,
but he is affectionate too. He is fond
of me ; he begins to cling to me, I am almost
sorry to say, for in some measure it
binds me to him. One cannot desert a
creature that depends on you. Still, he
is not an enlivening companion.'

1 All I hope is he will not prove an ungrateful

old hunks after you have sacrificed
your youth to him.'

My youth, Deb ? I feel as if my youth
had gone — quite gone.'

Ah ! what nonsense you talk ! Gone,
only to come back again. My dear child,
there's been more wrong with you than the
death of your poor dear grandmother, or the
loss of your fortune, or even your rejection
of that poor fellow

1 Is that not a sufficient catalogue, Deb ?
What more do you want ? ' and Mona sat
down to work, but really to think.

Since Kenneth's confession, she had
thought more of Waring than she had
ever done before. Did he love her with
the same honest, enduring love that the
young Highlander bore to his Mary ?
Hardly. Kenneth and Mary had grownup
together, and the power of association
was interwoven with the warmth of early
passion. Then a simple life of duty and
enforced self-denial deepens the channels
of the heart, while an existence of mere
pleasure, of constant friction with calculating,
cynical men of the world, has an indurating
effect. The emotions and affections

spread thinly in a shallow stream over a
stony surface, through which no fertilising
drops can percolate to the hollow beneath.
Still, the impression remained with her that
there were possibilities of true tenderness
in Waring, which might have made her life
happy, had her wounds not been so sore
and recent that they could not endure the
touch of a new love. She never regretted
having broken with him, but she grieved
to think that from a wish to provide for her
grandmother, she had caused him so much
pain. The recollection, too, of his aspect
when she had accidentally seen him in the
street, haunted her. Could her refusal
have influenced him for evil ?

The day that Uncle Sandy went to consult
the well-known Dr Carmichael, Mona
was rather late, and went up to his sitting-room
before she took off her hat.

She found him at his evening meal — a
chop and some dry toast — while Madame
Debrisayay was busy over a cup of cocoa,
which she was making with the help of a
kettle and spirit-lamp.

Well, uncle, what did the doctor say ? '

1 Not much. He evidently thinks I amin
a bad way. He went so far as to say
that medicine could do me verra little good.
He just altered my diet a bit. I am not to
touch tea or coffee, only a wee drap whisky
in cold water ; and he has ordered me to a
foreign place I never heard tell of before.
That's the worst. If I'm to dee, let me
have one of my ain to close my eyes. Out
of London I will not go, unless you come
with me, Mona.'

My dear uncle, this is very serious.
Where are you to go ? '

To a queer, out-of-the-way water-drinking
town clad Con - ter - x - ville, away in
France. Madame there seems to know
about it, as she does about most things.'

Mona looked at her.

Yes, dear cried madame briskly, as she
blew out the lamp, and carried the cup to
the invalid. ' The waters are admirable
for gout, and rheumatism, and liver, and
indigestion, and all sorts of things. It is a
well-known water in France. Monsieur
Le Due de Conceal and Madame La
Marquise de Suresenes both derived the
greatest benefit from the cure.'

And whereabouts is it ?'

1 Oh, on the German side ; in the Department
of the Vosges, not very far from
Nancy.'

1 It's an awful' lang journey,' groaned
Uncle Sandy, ' and will cost a mine o'
sellers

Not more than a journey to any other
health resort, my dear Mr Craig. We
will ascertain the rail fares. You are not
going away all in a minute. We have
time enough to look about us.'

And will you come with me, dearie ? '
asked Uncle Sandy, looking wistfully at
Mona. ' I canna go without you ! '

1 If I can go I will, uncle ; but I must
hear a little more.'

1 It's just awful' to be alone in this
wicked world, and neither chick nor child
to fight for you. You ought to think on
that, Mona ; and get me a little mair
toast, like a good lassie — my appetite is
verra indifferent.'

He has just devoured a graceful ! ' whispered
Madame Debrisayay ; ' one round
more is as much as he ought to have.'

Mona waited downstairs till the toast

was ready, considering what answer she
should make to her uncle's request, though
she well knew that she would end by
accompanying him. How could she refuse
the poor old man, who seemed to
look to her for help and comfort ? Yet
how much pleasant it would be to stay
and work, and be free with Madame
Debrisayay !

When she carried back the toast, and
Uncle Sandy had finished it, he said he
could have a little sleep if he were left
quiet, and would make up his mind what
he would do next day.

Then Madame Debrisayay and her young
protege held high counsel as to what
should be done.

Mona avowed her reluctance, yet made
up her mind to accompany her uncle.

1 I am young, you see, Deb ; and after a
few months' absence, I might pick up my
pupils again

No doubt you could, dear,' cried
Madame Debrisayay ; ' anyway, I will represent
things to him in a proper light.
If he drags you away from your employment,
he ought to make a settlement upon

you. What I am afraid of, is that he will
spoil your prospects, and leave you in the
lurch. I can't get over the notion that young
Macalister will come in for everything.'

Pray do not try to drive a bargain about
me, Deb! I must do the best I can. If
poor Uncle Sandy never were to leave
me a sou, I could not refuse him my
company or my help. " Fais ce que doit
advienne que pourra"

Oh, it's all very fine to do what you
ought, come what may! but Heaven always
takes care of those who take care of themselves
! '

You have not acted on that principle
yourself, Deb ; neither can I. Just let me
go, and leave the morrow to take care of
itself.'

The day following Mr Craig spent in
gloomy silence ; and when Kenneth Macalister
came in the evening, contrary to
his usual custom, no message was sent to
request the ladies would come and make
tea for him. Kenneth remained till Mr
Craig's bedtime, and only looked in on
Madame Debrisayay and Mona for a few
moments. He said his uncle was much

depressed, and in a very bad temper.
Kenneth himself seemed pre-occupied, and
by no means in good spirits. He said he
would be up again in an evening or two,
and Mona fancied his tone was rather
significant.

The next day Uncle Sandy had risked
up again. He begged Mona to come to
him as soon as she returned from her
work, which happened to terminate earlier
on that day than on any other.

She guessed what that invitation meant,
and only hoped that no allusion to Kenneth
would add to her difficulties. Yet she felt
extremely reluctant to give up the increasing
independence of her present position
— to be the nurse and companion to so
uncertain a person as her uncle. True,
she was often weary after a day of continuous
teaching, — often irritated and discouraged
by careless, stupid pupils — but
her day's troubles ended with the last
lesson, and the quiet of their homelike
lodgings and the sympathy of her devoted
protectress awaited her.

However, the old man sorely needed
her help, and she would not refuse it.

As soon as she had changed her dress,
for the day was wet and stormy, she went
upstairs, and found her uncle seated near
the fire, the table drawn up beside his
chair, and on it a map, a guide-book, a
Continental Bradshaw, and several scraps
of ruled paper covered with figures.

Come wa' ! come wa' ! ' he cried, his
brow clearing; 'I'm wearying' to talk to
you. My pair head is just dazed with
trying to understand whaup I'm going,
and what it will cost me ! '

1 As to where you are going, uncle, I
may help you to find out ; but as to the
cost, you must ask Madame Debrisayay ;
she knows all about French railways.'

1 And when will she be in ? '

Not till six, or half-past.'

Weel, I have something quite private
to say to your own self, and I'd best tackle
that first.'

He stopped abruptly, and began to
gather up the papers and books somewhat
nervously.

1 I am all attention, uncle.'

'It's a delicate matter to speak about,
but I feel bound to do it, for your airt

good, and — and benefit ; and so I'll just
speak my mind.'

This with some hesitation, ending with a
sudden assumption of resolution, steadily
avoiding his niece's eyes at the same time.

Certainly, Uncle Sandy.'

4 There's that lad Kenneth,' he went on,
in his thin, high-pitched, querulous voice ;
4 a fine young man, steady and weel-disposed
; what for canna you mak' up your
mind to wed him ? He's awful' fond of
you, and ye seem good friends together.
Why canna you mak' it up ? '

4 I thought,' returned Mona gravely and
calmly, though she felt that the tug of war
had come ; ' I thought I told Kenneth that
though I liked and valued him, I feared I
could not give him wifely affection. He
ought to have been satisfied.'

4 And wha wad tak' a lassie's first
-no"?'

4 First or last, my dear uncle, my answer
would be the same.'

4 And what hinders you frae liking him
for your husband ? '

4 Who can tell uncle ? perhaps liking him
too well in another way.'

Ah ! but I am sorry for the pair lad.
He is verra fond o' ye.'

'Well, yes, I think he likes me, but I
do not think he would ever have asked me
to be his wife of his own free will. It was
to please you, uncle.'

'Ah, ha! Is it a bit jealousy? Don't
you think he loves you weel enough ? '

No, uncle. I would never accept him.'

Diana say it ! ' cried Uncle Sandy
earnestly. ' I am just in a difficulty. Ye
see, I always promised to look after Kenneth
before I knew I should ever see my
poor brother's girlie. Weel, I'd like to
leave my bit o' money to both of you, and
ye see, if you were wed, it would be keepit
together.'

Dear uncle,' said Mona, smiling, ■ do
not let that trouble you. Leave everything
you like to Kenneth ; men want money
much more than women, and I am young.
I think I can earn my own bread with
Madame Debrisayay's help ; so do not let
any thought of me interfere with Kenneth.
I have made up my mind to be your escort
to Contrexeville, and I hope you will return
so well as to be quite independent of us all.'

1 Eh ! that will never be, my lassie —
never ! But you have disappointed me ,*
only I don't give up yet. I have just set
my heart on a match between you and
Kenneth. Eh ! we'd a' be happy at
Craigdarroch ; he'd look to the lands and
the beasties, and you would mind the
loose and watch your pair auld uncle's
last days. Then a' would be yours, — I'd
know you were both settled and comfortable,
and that the place would be in the
hands o' my ain kin.'

Yes ; it would be a very pleasant
arrangement. I wish I could encourage
you to hope for its completion.'

I cinna like unreasonable contradiction,
an' I will not put up with it,' said Uncle
Sandy angrily. ' What for will you be so
foolish ? '

Do you believe that human love is the
growth of human will, uncle ? '

I'm sure I canna tell.' He paused and
thought for a moment, a change passing
over his face. ' Yes ; but I did though,'
he said. ' I tried hard to keep frae loving
my old master's daughter, and I could not.
Eh ! I had a sir heart in those days. I

dared na speak, for she was a rich heiress,
and I but a pair lad. Yet I think — I
always thought she cast a kindly look upon
me. However, there came a grand gentleman
from England, and they married her
to him. She did not live long after.
Maybe she'd have had a longer and a
happier life if she had been my wife, and
lived in her ain country.'

Mona listened with a curious mixture of
sympathy and amusement. There was
true pathos in his voice ; yet the evident
self-conceit that made him quite sure he
had but to ask to be accepted, struck her
as too comical when she gazed at his insignificant,
shrunken figure, his short, shrewd
face, and contemptuously upturned nose.
Had he ever been a man on whom a lady
might have loved to look ? Still there was
at times a kindly expression about his mouth
which belied the keen hardness of his eyes.

Yes, uncle,' she said softly, * it must
have been a trying time. That useless
struggle ought to teach you how hard it is
to govern " unruly wills and affections,"
and to leave Kenneth and me to follow our
own devices.'

VOL. II. G

Answer me one question. Have you a
fancy for any other man, or are you pledged
to any other ? '

Neither, uncle ; I can assure you unhesitatingly.'


'Weel then, I'll just possess my soul
with patience ; but it's bad takin' you wa,
just when you and the lad are good company
to each other ; but I must, I must,
and I canna go without you.

Never mind, uncle. Whether we ." keep
company " or not, it will all come to the
same in the end.'

Uncle Sandy kept silence for a moment
or two, and his brow contracted ; but there
was something in Mona's indescribable
superiority — her kindly, gentle, but distinct
independence — that he dared not flout.

Weel, weel ! ' he said at length ; ' you'll
come with me, anyhow ? '

Yes, certainly, uncle. Just make up
your mind when you will start, and I will
make due preparation.'

Here Madame Debrisayay made her appearance,
and sentiment was merged in
finance.

Uncle Sandy was positively aghast at

the torrent of information poured forth by
the capable Franco-Irishwoman.

Let me see ' — pulling over the map —
Contrexeville ? I can't make it out here,
but I was at Dombey once — when my
poor husband was alive — and it's not far
from Contre. I daresay the fare will be
close on forty francs — that's eighty for the
two of you — and the through fare by
Calais — you must take the shortest route,
Dieppe or Havre would be the death of
you — is something like seventy-two, say
seventy — that's a hundred and forty, and
a night in Paris, sixty or seventy ; and
cabs, and fiacres, and luggage, and doug
and refreshments on the way, will
run into fifty or fifty-five more ; that's a
hundred and forty, and eighty ; two hundred
and twenty, and sixty ; two hundred
and eighty — three hundred and forty in
round numbers.'

1 Lord's sake, woman ! ' cried Uncle
Sandy, startled out of all propriety, ' if
you are counting by hundreds, I'd better
stay here and dee, while I have silver left
to carry my pair body back to Strathairlie.'

Oh, don't take fright, my dear sir ;

remember the hundreds do not represent
pounds. I'll tell you the total in English
money ; we will just make it three hundred
and fifty to save time and trouble (that is,
reckoning four pounds to the hundred
francs, and you may get a trifle more if
the exchange is favourable), that is just
fourteen pounds — first-class to Paris, and
second on to Contrexeville.'

Ah ! ' he returned with a sigh ; ' that is
possible, though it is desperate costly ;
and as much more to come back. Twenty-eight
pounds sterling — for how long ? — less
than a month.'

Perhaps, my dear Mr Craig, you might
feel equal to prolong your ramble., and goon
into Germany ; a little change of scene
and — and diet might have a most beneficial
effect.'

1 Perhaps ; if she will come wi' me
pointing to Mona.

Of course she will. She might as well,
breaking up now, she cannot expect to
get any more pupils this year.'

Oh, indeed ! ' returned Uncle Sandy, in
an aggrieved tone.

Mona, my love ! there is a letter for

you downstairs. You had better go and
see if it needs an answer.' Mona obeyed.
I am sure you'll forgive me, my dear Mr
Craig, if from my deep interest in all that
concerns Mona, I venture to take a liberty.
As the dear girl is going to act a daughter's
part to you, I hope you will see the
necessity of being a parent to her ; and
as you have never known much of young
ladies and their requirements, you must
suffer me to suggest that a nice little
allowance — to enable her to dress as becomes
your adopted daughter — would
be— '

Naw ! ' broke in Uncle Sandy, in his
strongest accent ; ' I will not suffer it !
Wha said I was going to adopt her ? You
have just taken a verra great liberty.'

4 I am sorry to have offended,' said
Madame Debrisayay stiffly ; 4 but I considered
it my duty to one I look upon asa
child of my own — ' — [' Eh ! she has an
adopted mother as weel's a father ! ' he put
in with a sneer], — ' to inform you that the
very small sum I hold for her,' continued
Madame Debrisayay, not heeding the interruption,
' would be soon exhausted were

she to draw on it for her personal expenses
; and I think you ought — '

I am much obliged to you, madame,
for telling me what I ought to do,' interrupted
Uncle Sandy again, in high wrath.
I never did need any instruction as to
my duty in this life. I shall do what I
think right by my niece, and you needn't
interfere. If I thought she had any actor
part in this attempt to extort money
from me, I'd — I'd disown her.'

1 Extort money, indeed ! ' cried Madame
Debrisayay. ' Those are words you have
no right to address to me. Extort money !
I am more apt to give money away than
to extort it. When your niece was deserted
by everyone because she would not
sell herself in a mercenary marriage, did
I count what it would cost me to keep
her if I took her in ? No, I was proud
and happy — '

Eh ? a mercenary marriage ! ' broke in
Uncle Sandy, his indignation merged in
sharp curiosity. ' Wha — what do ye mean ?
Did she refuse a man ? '

1 Yes ; a rich man, and a real gentleman,'
returned Madame Debrisayay, recovering

herself, and perceiving she had made
a false move.

Then she's fa'en in love wi' another
lad?'

'Ah!' cried Madame Debrisayay, as if a
new light had broken in upon her ; ' that
must be it. My dear sir, you have the
furthest sight of us all, and ' — laughing
good-humouredly — ' I am really ashamed
of my own folly, talking to a man of your
stamp about what you ought or ought not
to do ; you really must excuse me. I
have not often met a man of your intelligence
and penetration, so you must forgive
my stupidity, and give me plenary absolution.'


1 I bear no malice,' said Uncle Sandy,
with dignity, * and I know it is hard for a
woman to keep her tongue quiet. Least
said, soonest mended. Let's say nae mair
about it. It had best not come to Mona's
ears.'

1 Trust me, I shall not breathe a syllable
to her ; and I will go and prepare your
cocoa. Let me shake hands with you, my
dear sir.'

Having done so, Madame Debrisayay left

the room, murmuring to herself as she
descended the stairs, — ' Stingy, cross-grained,
cantankerous old miser ! He
thinks he can set the Thames on fire.'

While Uncle Sandy, reclining a conqueror
in his easy-chair, musing on the
altercation, ' A hasty, stormy woman
was his mental verdict, ' but no devoid
o' sense.'

Montreville.

I N ALLY all things were arranged,
or arranged themselves; and one
fine morning in June, Uncle
Sandy (to whom it was no difficulty
to get up ' in the middle of the night,'
as Madame Debrisayay said) and Mona were
ready at an early hour — packed and breakfasted
— to start by the morning train for
Dover, en route to Paris.

1 I do not know how I'll live without
you,' said Madame Debrisayay, embracing
Mona, with fast-flowing tears. ' I was all
right before you came, but now I know
what it is to have you by me! It will be
awfully lonesome when you are gone.'
1 And how I shall miss you, dearest

Deb! You know I am half afraid of the
task I have undertaken! It is a serious
matter to be bear leader to Uncle Sandy.'

That it is ! But you will do well !
Above all, hold your own. If you give in,
he'll be sure to trample on you. And you
will write to me every week ? '

I will, dear Deb ; and you must answer.
Good-bye ! God bless you ! '

We'll just miss our train,' called Uncle
Sandy from the cab.

The journey across the Channel and to
the capital of fair France is now a twice-told
— nay, a thrice-told, tale, familiar to
every ' 'Army and his 'Harriet.' Nevertheless
it was fraught with excitement and delight
to Uncle Sandy's inexperience. The fair
hop fields of Kent, the white cliffs and blue
glittering waters of the Channel at Dover,
the Admiralty Pier, the castle-crowned
heights, the lowering of somebody's carriage
on to the deck, all afforded him matter for
wonder and admiration.

Hitherto his travels were limited to
Glasgow, Ardclachan (where the factory
was situated in which he had risen to be
foreman and manager), and Strathairlie.

When he came to London he had taken
the night train, so every step of this new
way was a novelty.

But the marvel of marvels was to land
at Calais, and not understand a word spoken
by the chattering crowd around him. Then,
indeed, he clung to his niece's arm, and was
abjectly civil to the polite interpreter who
travelled with the train.

Mona, who had been somewhat nervous
about conveying her invalid uncle such a
distance, was surprised and relieved to find
how change of scene drew him out of himself,
and how many of his infirmities
vanished, because he had not time to think
of them.

She was glad, however, to get him safe
to the hotel recommended by Madame
Debrisayay, which was half-way between the
Gare du Nord and the Gar de lest — a
thoroughly French house, where they found
a German waiter who spoke English, but
who had some difficulty in understanding
Uncle Sandy's.

The old man was quite exhausted, and
went to bed as soon as he had partaken of
some food.

You'll pit your purse under your pillow,
dearie,' he said tremulously, ' and lock your
door ; and here, my lambie, here are ten
sovereigns. They are for your ain self ;
and when you want more, you tell me. I
cinna wish you to want for anything, only
I would nae be talked out o' silver. Eh !
it's wonderful to hear till ye talking to these
outlandish folk in their ain tongue. I wish
I had had mair learning' in my youth.'

Thank you, dear uncle, you are very
good ! Now you must get to sleep. I have
lit a night-light, and my room is next yours.
If you will knock at the door, I will come
to you.'

How strange it was to be in Paris once
more, after four or five years' absence ; and
under what different circumstances !

Her grandmother, though most careful
of money, understood what things cost, and
what must be paid for. Moreover, she had
the old-fashioned idea that girls could not
be trusted. That they were pretty, helpless
children, to be penned up, and kept
from soiling their delicate fingers, or brushing
off the pearly freshness of infantile
ignorance, till a purchaser (i.e., a husband)

was found for such precious wares. Therefore
Mona's reminiscences of former travel
presented a dead level of carefully-guarded
and complete security, to which her present
somewhat troublesome responsibility formed
by comparison a proud preferment. The
past had its pleasures as well as its pains,
but both had left a sting behind. This,
however, she was thankful to perceive, was
losing its venom.

She could think of Lisle without emotion,
and look back with the half-pitying, half-amused
indulgence of an elder for the weakness
of a junior to the strong attraction he
had possessed for her. At least she had
succeeded in concealing this from him, and
now they would probably never meet again.

With these ideas floating in her brain
she fell asleep, having given all requisite
orders for their early start the following
morning.

The journey was tedious, for the country
was somewhat uninteresting ; and Mona,
being a stranger in that part of the land,
could not supply information as she had
done during the previous day. Uncle Sandy
bemoaned the heat, the cost, the weariness

of travel ; and his niece was truly glad
when they reached a shabby little station
in a rather flat but prettily-wooded country,
and everyone got out.

A brisk struggle for the passengers occurred
between the conductors of the
various omnibuses, char a bancs, etc., which
awaited the arrival of the train ; and outside
the station yard was a gathering of
the peasant inhabitants of the village —
the men in blouses, the women in nice
white caps and aprons — staring at the
strangers deposited at their gates, loudly
discussing their appearance in shrill voices
and with many gestures.

1 It ought to be a wonderful' cure to come
this weary long road for it ! ' groaned Uncle
Sandy, as he descended from their conveyance
when it stopped before the entrance
of the' establishment.

Then came the business of finding rooms
and arranging terms. This was simplified
by a letter of introduction obtained by Madame
Debrisayay from a mutual friend, to
M. le Directeur, who speedily came to
them, and, to Mr Craig's infinite joy, proved
to be an excellent English scholar. Mona

thought her uncle would have embraced
him when he addressed them in their
native tongue.

Who that has lately visited Montreville
does not know M. le Directeur, and
remember him with pleasure ? Watchful
to contribute by care and judicious regulations
to the welfare of the humblest visitor,
considerate and fatherly in his thought for
the weak and suffering, almost ubiquitous
in his ceaseless vigilance — his gracious
manners and kindly, strongly-marked face
make him ever welcome to old and young !

The sight of the weakly, querulous old
man, who seemed far more helpless than
he really was, under the care of such a
delicate, distinguished-looking young creature
as Mona, appealed to the abundant
chivalry of his nature, and from the moment
of their meeting him, all difficulties
vanished.

The next day saw Uncle Sandy duly inaugurated
into the system of water-drinking,
douches, and massage.

Mona found her duties as adopted daughter
by no means light. At six o'clock she
was expected to be ready to give her arm

to her uncle, and assist his progress to the
spring ; to walk with him to and fro between
the tumblers of water ; to translate
his grumbling to the bath attendant and
the ' masser ; ' to explain the impossibility
of his eating the ornamental savoury dishes
at the table d'hote; — in short, though M.
le Directeur and the Doctor both spoke
and understood English, there were a 
trifles which required Mona's
intervention every day in the week, besides
her ordinary task of reading aloud the
leaders in the Scotsman, which was forwarded
to him regularly, and writing the
few letters he needed to despatch. For
part of Uncle Sandy's illusions about his
health consisted of a belief that a slight
tremulousness in his hands was an indication
of spine disease, creeping paralysis,
and various other maladies, according as
they came to his knowledge.

The few years which had intervened between
his retirement from business, on the
death of the last original partner, and its
passing into other hands, were passed by
him in the seclusion of his Highland home,
and in the sedulous study of his own health.

This had been impaired by a sharp attack
of rheumatic fever, not long before he had
taken up his abode at Craigdarroch. His
mental condition can therefore be imagined,
and probably it was only his meeting with
Mona, and her subsequent companionship,
which saved him from becoming a confirmed
hypochondriac. From this he had
so far been preserved by a little quiet and
eminently successful speculation, by which
he had largely increased the fortune derived
from his own savings, and the large bequest
of the head of the firm, an old bachelor,
who fondly hoped that Sandy Craig would
remain in the house, and carry on the
business according to the old tradition of
the establishment. But the advent of new
men was too much for the elderly junior
partner's faith. He could not, he said,
trust his ' sir-earned silver to the whim-whims
of young men,' so he took his
capital out of the concern ; again, at the
first check in his cautious speculations, heat
once held his hand, and was content tolet
his ' silver ' lie comparatively fallow,
thereby depriving his dull life of its one
spark of excitement.

VOL. II. H

Contrexeville is a pleasant place. It
boasts two tennis lawns, where chance
English and American visitors sometimes
lent animation to the scene ; also, an archery
ground, a shooting-gallery, a theatre,
and a salle de danse.

Occasionally Mona enjoyed a game of
tennis, as an English family, consisting of
father, mother, two daughters, and a hobbledehoy
son, made very friendly advances,
and frequently invited her to join them
when they played.

The father, a stout, red-faced sufferer
from gout, made friends with Uncle Sandy,
and many were their arguments, as Mr
Clapton was a strong Conservative, and
his wife a dame of the Primrose League,
while Mr Craig was an advanced Liberal,
not to say a Radical of the most virulent
description. This little excitement largely
helped the cure, and Uncle Sandy was
reluctantly obliged to admit that he felt
considerably better.

How well mademoiselle your niece
plays the tennis!' said M. le Directeur,
taking his seat on the bench where Uncle
Sandy and Mr Clapton had already placed

themselves under the shade of some trees,
and in view of the tennis courts. ' Do not
derange yourselves, gentlemen, I pray
you ! ' he continued. ' I like to look at
Meet Craig, her attitudes are so graceful.
She seems like the spirit of the game, yet
she is so quiet and posse, and gentle at
other times. Truly she is a young girl to
be proud of, and I make you my compliments.'
He bowed low to her uncle, while
Mr Clapton endorsed the eulogium by a
short emphatic ' Deuced fine girl, 'pon my
soul ! '

The heart of Alexander Craig swelled
within him. Perhaps of all the ingredients
in his character, pride contributed the
largest share, and that pride had been
sorely let and hindered all the years of
his youth. He would have been completely
soured by this constant repression,
but his devout belief in himself. To
find that anyone belonging to him should
call forth the praise and admiration of the
beholders, was a source of delicious gratification,
and Mona's merits assumed larger
proportions in his eyes as M. le Directeur
spoke.

Eh, she's a good lassie ! She is my
pair brother's only child, and I look on her
as my ain bairn, as she'll find when I am
released from the sufferings of this mortal
life

There was a constant struggle in Mr
Craig's mind, between a desire to hide the
fact that he was in easy circumstances, and
a wish to command the respect due to a
man whose pockets were well lined.

1 And a very nice daughter she must be
cried Mr Clapton, accepting a cigar from
M. le Directeur.

The most charming of companions is a
dear daughter said the latter ; ' the constant
presence of a sweet young girl sheds
a light of tender purity on her father's life,
such as nothing else produces.'

He continued gazing at Mona with a
soft, pensive smile.

■ Oh ! Ah ! Yes ! But they manage
to run up deuced long bills,' returned the
Englishman.

1 That's what should never be permitted!
exclaimed Uncle Sandy energetically. 'No
woman that ever lived could talk me into
paying a bill ! I would na mind giving

her silver — cash ' (correcting himself) ' to
buy her bit duds beforehand ; but bills —
na, na ! '

1 Monsieur has much force of character,'
said M. le Directeur, smiling. ' But he
would find it very difficult to say no to so
charming a young lady as your niece.'

Should I ? ' cried Uncle Sandy, tossing
up his chin ; ' let her try me, and she'll
soon find out if I can or not.'

1 I expect some very distinguished compatriots
of yours,' resumed M. le Directeur;
'the Lord Fitzallan and a companion
arrive tomorrow, and Sir William 'Arty —
I think he has been Lord Mayor, a man
of high position — he and miladi, his wife,
they come tomorrow. It is well that the
tennis lawn looks bright ; you energetic
English, you love games to the last.'

Fitzallan,' repeated Mr Craig. 'I know!
he is my tenant ; he has had my house
in the Highlands for a considerable time.'

1 Indeed ! ' said both hearers.

And from that moment Uncle Sandy
was raised to the rank of a millionaire.

The set was now over, and Mona's side
had lost, in spite of her good play. The

hour for Uncle Sandy's afternoon walk in
the adjoining wood was at hand, so he
beckoned her to him, not a little delighted
to exercise overtly a father's rights over an
elegant-looking girl, who bore the unmistakable
stamp of ' the Upper Ten ' — a
class against which he raved theoretically.

Ah ! ' said he, as he toddled (a common
expression, but extremely expressive of
Uncle Sandy's peculiar gait) along, with
the help of a stick and an umbrella, beside
his niece ; ' the Director has been telling
me there are some grand folk coming tomorrow
; then you'll see how little time
and attention he'll be able to spare for
such as you and me ! '

I have been greatly mistaken in M.
Delorme, if their presence makes any difference
to him,' she returned.

Weel, you'll see; young things like you
think everyone is an angel that speaks a
kind word. When my Teddy Mayoress
arrives, the roses and posies he has been
handing you so politely every morning
will all go to her ladyship ■! '

Well, perhaps so ! I don't suppose I
have more penetration than my neighbours

; but I am quite fond of M. le
Directeur, so I hope he will not allow
any ladyship, however grand, to cut me
out! I shall be deeply wounded if he
does ! '

'You are a foolish bairn ! Now, Mona,
I don't like any poor, miserable creature
just like ourselves — that's a' puffed up
wi' a handle to her name ; I don't like her
to show finer feathers than my brother's
daughter, so if you want a braw new
gown, you get it, my bairn ; only tell
me the cost beforehand ! '

'You are very good and generous, uncle;
but I do not need anything. I had some
of my last year's dresses done up before
we came away ; and I actually do not fear
comparison, even with so exalted a personage
as a Lady Mayoress,' said Mona,
laughing.

1 That's a' right ; it's weel to have a
proper spirit. We are auld that we must
not allow pride to master our hearts ; but
proper pride is no' included ; and I have
always held myself to be as good as ony
other mon.'

The following day, shortly before the
hour for table d'hote, the stagnant waters
of life at Contrexeville were stirred by
the arrival of my Lord Fitzallan, his
valet, his friend — a young man — and his
valet ; a pile of luggage, including gun-cases,
fishing-rods, a couple of dogs, and
endless impedimenta of various kinds.
Every waiter in the place appeared absorbed
in the bustle created by this important
arrival; and the visitors, as they assembled
for dinner, talked of nothing else. The
great men had signified their gracious intention
of dining with the general public,
and their places were being busily got
ready, champagne bottles put into coolers,
and extra dainties for dessert being placed
at their end of the table.

It's just a humiliating spectacle,' said
Uncle Sandy, taking his seat and unfolding
his napkin, while his very nose seemed
to curl up with contemptuous disapprobation,
'to see such a like set out over twa
laddies that would be better earning their
crust.'

1 I fancy, from what I have heard, Lord
Fitzallan is by no means young.'

Why ? What do ye ken about him ?'
Before she could reply, the door opened,
and the new guests, conducted by the
manager of the hotel, entered. The
first was a tall, thin, very thin man, of
forty-five or fifty, whose colouring was
extremely neutral. His hair was of
light hay colour ; his moustaches a shade
or two darker ; his complexion a pale
drab ; his eyes a faded blue ; a very
long pointed nose ; and a rather receding
chin, did not convey an idea of mental
strength ; nor did his sloping shoulders,
spidery legs, and long neck suggest physical
power. He was clothed with extreme
neatness and beautiful freshness in
grey — stockings and all ; for as he wore
knickerbockers, these were seen. A deep
red silk neckerchief, drawn through an
antique ring, the ends hanging loose, was
the only bit of colour about him. He was
smiling blandly at something the host was
saying, and his expression was kindly
enough, but Mona scarcely took in these
details, so surprised was she to see
that his friend who followed him was
Bertie Everard.

That gentleman's keen eyes detected
her instantly, but with his usual immobility,
he merely raised his eyebrows, smiled
faintly, and bowed as if he had quite expected
to meet his young kinswoman at
the table d'hote, Mona was vexed at
herself for colouring as she felt she did
when she returned his bow, smiling at the
same time with irrepressible amusement.
The idea of an encounter between Uncle
Sandy and Bertie Everard seemed infinitely
comic.

1 Wha's that ? ' asked the former indignantly.


1 He is a sort of cousin of mine, or rather
of my poor grandmother. I used to stay
at his mother's house. She was very kind
to me.'

Ay, till you began to earn your own
living, those are aye worthless folk. Stop
the waiter, will ye ? I cannot eat this
fish ; it has seen a deal of the world since
it left the water.'

The offending fish removed, Uncle
Sandy ' glowered, ' as he would have said
himself, at the newcomers, till it was replaced
by a salmis of pigeons.

Just bones and gravy,' he observed.

Lord Fitzallan sent away his plate
untouched more than once. He spoke
little, but he looked about with considerable
interest, fixing a glass in his eye,
which frequently fell out and gave him a
good deal of occupation.

Everard paid steady attention to his
dinner. Once when about to drink a glass
of champagne, he raised the glass with a
nod and smile as if he drank it to Mona's
health. This seemed to attract his companion's
notice, he immediately refined his
glass, and directed his glances to her
with little intermission during the remainder
of the repast, evidently asking
Everard numerous questions, to which he
gave the shortest possible replies.

At length it was all over. Uncle Sandy,
leaning heavily on the table and his
walking-stick, got on his feet, and taking
his niece's arm, moved towards the door,
intending to follow his usual habit of retiring
to a particular seat in what was
termed the Park, where Mona read to
him from the newspaper, which generally
reached them in the afternoon. Everard

also left his seat and came across to intercept
their retreat.

1 Well, fair cousin, is it gout or rheumatism,
or any other fleshly ill, that brings
you to this lively health resort ? I suspect
you are here on false pretences.'

He shook hands with her as he spoke.

No, I am not here on my account. I
have come with my uncle, Mr Craig. This
is Mr Everard, uncle, of whom I have
spoken to you.'

Glad to see you, sir,' said Uncle Sandy,
with such an amiable grin that Mona was
surprised. ■ She thought he would have
been annoyed at having the young aristocrat
forced upon him. Everard made a
slight bow, and gave him a cool, scrutinising
glance.

1 So you have turned nurse, Mona ? — a
noble calling, eh ?'

1 It is that, sir said Uncle Sandy seriously,
' and she make a kind, considerate
ane, I can assure you ! '

Won't you present me, Bertie ? ' said
Lord Fitzallan, who had paused beside
him.

■ Oh ! certainly. Let me present my

cousin Fitzallan, to my cousin Miss —
What do you call yourself now, Mona ? '

Miss Craig,' she returned quietly,
though her cheeks flushed.

1 Lord Fitzallan bowed twice, once to
the lady, once to the crabbed-looking little
Scotsman.

'Ah! Miss Craig, don't you think we
might contrive a cousinship out of the
double relationship,' he said, in a soft but
weakly voice, and with what he intended
for a fascinating simper.

1 I am afraid not. The only real relation
I have is my uncle.'

What a rude speech, Mona. Do you
repudiate me ? '

Oh no ! I take you for what you are
worth.'

1 Been long here ? ' asked Lord Fitzallan.
1 About a week,' returned Mona.

And is there positively nothing to do
here ? ' said Everard.

Yes ! a good deal. There is bathing,
and water-drinking, and massage, and
tennis, archery, lotteries, and a theatre.'

That sounds a good deal, but it's a
beggarly entertainment after all.'

'Tennis?' put in Lord Fitzallan. * It
is amusing for a time. I think I have my
racquet with me. Do you play, Miss —
Craig ? '

< I do.'

Nonsense, Fitz,' broke in Everard,
you must not think of playing. You
have come here for the cure, and I have
come to see you safe through it. We
must bear the boredom as best we can.'

1 There is a tyrant, ain't he, Miss Craig ?
Well, are you going out for a stroll ? Allow
us to join you.'

I find a quiet read after meals is an
uncommon help to digestion,' said Uncle
Sandy, clutching Mona's arm; ' and there's
a verra pleasant seat out yonder, what
my niece just reads to me a bittie of an
evening ; and if we don't mak haste, there's
a little black-browed Frenchman that will
be before us. You and my lord here can
have a look at the Scotsman if you like —
maybe ye don't see it every day ; there's
room for us a' on the same bench.'

Everard lifted his eyebrows.

Oh ! I have some letters to write.
How is your friend and partner the music

mistress, Mona ? It was the funniest idea
your running away from my mother to her.'

1 Run away ? Did you really run away ?
What an enterprising young lady,' said
Lord Fitzallan, as the quartette strolled
along towards the seat indicated.

Diana hear till him,' cried Uncle Sandy,
a good deal disturbed. ' My niece is not
the sort o' young teddy to do sic an unmannerly
imprudence, she is just a lassie
wi' a proper sense of independence.'

Proper sense of independence,' repeated
Everard ; ' I fancy you will think it improper,
when she runs away from you ? '

Eh ! but she'll no do that ! She can
have a good home with me if she chooses,
as you know, my lord ! '

1 Who — me ? ' exclaimed Lord Fitzallan.
4 My good sir, what do I know about
it?'

Then you ought, considering you have
rented my loose for near on two years !
Don't ye mind Craigdarroch ? '

Craigdarroch ! by Jove ! are you Craig
of Craigdarroch ? I had not the faintest
idea I should meet my landlord in this
remote region. And you, Miss Craig, are

you not some sort of feudal chief? I am
quite ready to swear fealty to you ! '

Naw ! ' exclaimed Uncle Sandy, with
the strongest negation. * It's mine, so
lang as I have breath ! but it's nae a bad
name ?'

4 Bad ! it is a lovely, picturesque spot,
for a month or two in the shooting season ;
but of course it is impossible in winter, and
appallingly dull in spring. Miss Craig
could not live there.'

Weel she can live foot o' it if she likes,
but not wi' me. I am just wearing' to get
back, and I have auld my agent not to
accept ony offer frae you for further occupancy.'


That is too bad, Mr Craig. I should
like to have a third season there ! It is a
snug little box, and as I do not like large
parties, it just suits me.'

1 Sma', repeated Mr Craig indignantly.
There are six large sleeping-rooms, forbye
twa others, and servants' accommodation,
a drawing-room, and a dining-room, a
library, and my museum, and cellars, etc'

Oh yes, a capital house,' said Lord Fits
with an indulgent smile to Mona, as

if taking her into his confidence, ' only not
exactly large. Miss Craig will be charmed
with the views, etc. That is, if she does
not already know it.'

1 What a funny notion that Craigdarroch
should belong to your uncle, Mona,' said
Everard.

6 And why shouldn't it ? ' asked Uncle
Sandy testily. ' Why shouldn't Mona's
uncle buy what he likes with the money
he worked so hard to mak' ? '

I am sure I have no objection. Only
I wish you would let Fitzallan have the
place for another year. I can only be with
him for ten days this season, and the shooting
about there is first-rate.'

I am afraid you are a self-seeker, young
mon,' said Uncle Sandy solemnly.

Yes, of course I am. So are you ; so
are we all.'

I have always tried to do my duty,'
returned Uncle Sandy, startled by this
attack.

1 I daresay. It is much the best plan ;
it does one no harm if you manage properly,
and it pays in the end.'

1 Yet,' said Mona quietly, ' I can imagine

VOL. II. I

your performance of duty not being specially
profitable to your employer.'

What right have you to say that ? ' cried
Everard, a little nettled. ' It is appalling
to think what your tongue will be when
you are an old woman, considering what it
is at present.'

Miss — Miss — ' began Lord Fitzallan,
whose memory was not retentive. ' Your
charming cousin will never be old.'

'Well, I have letters to write, so come
along, Fitz. We had better get to bed
early. It seems one must get up in the
middle of the night here.'

Oh, yes, go to bed by all means. I
shall come in presently. It is pleasant
and fresh here. I shall stay and have a
cigarette, if you will allow me,' bowing to
Mona.

1 Nonsense. You'll catch your death of
cold.'

1 Tell Achille to bring me a scarf then,'
returned his lordship, drawing out his
fusees. ' I'll join you presently.'

Good-evening,' said Everard, rather
abruptly, and he went off towards the
establishment. ii

There was a moment's pause, Uncle
Sandy looking after the retreating figure
with a somewhat puzzled expression.

1 Craig ! ' suddenly exclaimed Lord Fits
■ I have it ; same name as your
uncle's. Eh ? '

Exactly,' said Mona, smiling.

'You'll excuse me. I never could remember
about names. And how is it you
are Everard's cousin, and — and this gentleman's
niece ?'

1 do not know how I am Mr Everard's
cousin, but my father was Mr Craig's
brother.'

1 Ah, yes, of course,' with an air of profound
comprehension. ' You must be his
niece. Glad you gave Bertie a set down ;
he is an awfully conceited fellow; very good,
and clever, and all that, but I must say
conceited. You'll not mention I said so ? '

Of course I will not.'

1 It is the fault of young people to be
that sdi-opeenionated that they will no hear
reason,' said Uncle Sandy.

'Yes, that's a — really the fact,' cried
Lord Fitzallan, as if struck by a newly-discovered
truth.

1 But,' continued Uncle Sandy, 'that is
no excuse for your speaking so harsh to
him, Mona. It's no becoming in a young
lassie to rebuke a man wha nae coot knows
far mair than herself.'

I do not admit it, uncle. He may have
one kind of knowledge, and I have another,
but I do not feel that Bertie is my superior.'

Superior. No, no, no ! No one is
superior to a charming woman ! ' cried Lord
Fitzallan, with an admiring simper.

If you please, my lord,' said his French
valet, approaching with a large soft white
scarf in his hand. ' Mistake Everard would
be glad to speak to your lordship before he
closes his letter to my Lord Tunbridge.'

1 Oh, certainly. Must go. Horrid bore.
Hope to see you tomorrow. Good-evening.
You must let me have your charming
house for another year, Mr Craig, really
now.'

He bowed and departed, carefully folding
the scarf round his throat, and followed by
his valet.

Eh, but the foolishness of it a' ! ' exclaimed
Uncle Sandy. ' My lord and your
lordship. A dislike leader o' men yon

wad mak, when he daurna refuse to obey
the message that bit o' a whipper-snapper
sent him by his ain flunky ! Not but I
think the pair lord-body the best o' the
twa. He's kind and civil ; but your cousin
thinks he can snuff out sun an' moon wi 1
his thumb and forefinger. You are an
honest girlie, Mona. You stuck to your
uncle in face o' these fine gentlemen, but
don't you be too sharp. Noo, read me a
bit o' the parliamentary news before I gang
wa' to my bed.'

mm

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

Bona did not find life at Montreville
by any means exhilarating.
Her time was never her own ;
it required some management
even to make a spare half-hour for her
weekly letter to Madame Debrisayay, whose
epistles described her loneliness very
eloquently. Uncle Sandy seemed to have
taken complete possession of his niece, and
was indeed more amiable and affectionate
towards her than he had ever been before
to any creature.

One reason, probably the strongest for
the trust she inspired in him, was her
superiority in manner and air, coupled
with her complete independence, which

yet did not prevent her from treating him
with gentle respect. The quiet composure
of Mona's exterior hid much fire and sensitiveness,
— a depth of nature and power of
love, which the ' back-bone ' inherited with
her Scotch blood at once intensified, and
preserved from degenerating into weakness.

The old man's peculiarities and contradictions,
though often provoking, were, ina
certain degree, interesting ; yet Mona
pined for the sympathetic companionship
of Madame Debrisayay, — the sense of rest
and comfort in their very homely home.
She had ripened rapidly in character and
feeling from the time her short spell
of brilliancy and pleasure had been so
rudely ended. The reality underlying the
surface of social life had revealed itself
more and more, and she was fast learning
how few and simple are the ingredients of
true happiness.

At the first moment of recognition, she
was displeased to find that Everard and
Lord Fitzallan were to be their 'companions
of the Bath.' She feared that the former
would irritate her uncle, besides which he
was a formidable person to encounter,

and she had always to do a little reasoning
with herself, before she could face him unflinchingly
— a course which always brought
its own reward, and in which the first step
only, ever cost anything.

It was very amusing to her to see how
profoundly gratified that stern republican
Uncle Sandy was by being associated as a
family connection with the great grandees
of the season. Sneer as he might at ' yon
pair feckless bit of a lord ' in his absence,
he was always placidly content to hobble
along with Mona between himself and the
elderly young man in public places.

To Everard he was more deferential.
That gentleman's good-humoured, unflinching
indifference to the feelings of his fellow-creatures
filled him with awe. There was
no knowing what he might say next, while
the fearlessness with which Mona crossed
rapiers with him excited his admiration.
Yet Everard was always ready to talk with
her, and even tried, with the obstinacy for
which he was remarkable, to get her away
from her uncle to walk with him.

This degree of attention woke Uncle
Sandy's suspicions, for, as is not unusual

in Scotchmen, he was disposed to attribute
all such indications to the master passion
of humanity.

1 Tell me, noo,' he said one exceedingly
warm afternoon, as they sat in his room —
the coolest spot in the establishment, where
Mona had been reading aloud till her throat
ached, and he dozed at intervals, ' tell me,
was it because o' one cousin ye refused the
other ? '

How do you mean, Uncle Sandy ? '

Eh, you understand' well enough. Is it
because ye love young Everard you refused
Kenneth Y

1 Love Bertie Everard ! Do you think
any human being loves him, except, perhaps,
his mother ? '

1 How can I ken ? He is a braw, outspoken
callant.'

He is brutally indifferent to everyone's
feelings. Were I obliged to marry either,
I should certainly prefer Kenneth.'

Then what for should you refuse him ? '

Because I do not intend to marry him.'
1 Do you know that it will go hard wi'

me before I ever consent to your marrying
ony other mon ? '

Well, I shall not trouble you, uncle.'
'Why ? Have you sworn against matrimony
?'

No ; but I am not strongly inclined for
marriage.'

That's wrong. Every woman is the
better of a ruler.'

I am conceited enough to be content
with my own guidance. Do not think me
unkind or obstinate, Uncle Sandy, but I
never shall be able to marry Kenneth.'

Then, Mona, I am sir at heart to say
it, but I'll no count you as my daughter.'

Oh yes, you will, uncle ! You could
not do without me ! '

1 Not weel. Yet I'd try, if you set your
face against doing what I want you to do.
Has Kenneth written to ye ? '

1 No ; then I have not written to him.'

Well do, like a good lassie.'

1 Oh yes, uncle, I will write to him.'

Have you been to the theatre ? ' asked
Lord Fitzallan, in the evening, as they sat
together in the park.

No,' she replied.

It's not bad — not bad at all said
Everard. ' There's a woman who sings

very well, and they all have the national
dramatic gift.'

1 Come with us tomorrow, Miss Craig
cried Lord Fitzallan. ' They give " Boccaccio,"
and it is quite worth going to see

I cinna approve play-acting,' said
Uncle Sandy. ' It's just a sinful' travestie
on human nature ; and I am told these
French plays are no' fit for a decent-like
woman to sit and look at.'

1 Some of them are rather strong ; but
this is really quite correct. Come yourself,
Mr Craig.'

1 Wha ? Me ? Na, na. I have never
been in a playhouse, and I never will be

1 I am very fond of the theatre,' said
Mona ; ' but, as my uncle does not approve,
I will not go.'

I cinna forbid you. You are free to
go ; only I hope you would na tak' a
young lassie to see what isn't fit for her
eyes.'

1 Oh, certainly not ! ' cried both gentlemen,
in chorus.

1 Then tomorrow evening,' resumed
Lord Fitzallan ; ' I'll go and see about
places. By the way, Miss Craig, let us

have a game at tennis tomorrow. I am
feeling all the stronger for my treatment,
and feel I can do wonders. There is that
nice little roly-poly English girl — I forget
her name — and Bertie.'

No, no ! No tennis for me. How
can you exhaust yourself with such nonsense

?

'It is an admirable game, and I am
getting quite scientific about it — ain't I,
Miss Craig ? Come along ; they have
some very pretty stones peculiar to the
country, I believe, at that rubbish shop
just outside the park.'

1 Na ! I will not let my niece throw
away ony silver on such rubbish.'

Well, may she not come and give me
the benefit of her taste ? '

Na ! Why should you waste your
silver either ? '

1 I am sure you haven't too much to
spare ! ' cried Everard.

That's my affair,' rejoined Lord Fits
' So I shall go by myself.'

Here the elder Mr Clapton — Upper
Clapton, as Everard called him, Uncle
Sandy's friendly adversary — joined them.

1 Come, have a stroll with me, Mona,'
said Everard. ' I had a letter from
Evelyn to-day, and I will tell you all
about it.'

Very well. Uncle, we are going a
little way, and will be back soon.'

They walked along a path leading into
the woods in silence for a few minutes.
At length Mona asked, —

1 And what does Evelyn say ? '

1 Oh, nothing particular. She is still ina
fool's paradise. They are not going to
Strathairlie, because they want to show
off the son and heir in Cumberland. They
are to have a large party, and want me to
go ; but that is impossible. I must look
after Fitzallan ; and that brings me to
what I want to say. Don't run away with
the notion you can marry Fitzallan.'

1 Marry Fitzallan ! ' repeated Mona,
amazed. ' What an extraordinary idea ! '

1 Well, he is always running after you,,
and talking bosh about you, and giving
you flowers ; but it's not to be done ! '

■ Why, Bertie, you must be out of your
mind

Not at all. Don't fly off at a tangent.

Of course it is perfectly natural you should
try to get a good settlement. It would bea
famous match ; but I can't allow it.'

Mona paused, leant against a tree, and
laughed heartily.

If I could keep my countenance, I
should be angry with you, Bertie! The
determination people seem to have that
I shall marry someone or other is
absurd

But I am determined you shall not
marry Fitzallan. Don't you know that,
after him, my father is heir to the earldom,
and after him your humble servant. Now
Fitz was born an idiot, and hasn't improved
his brains by hard drinking. His
father, Lord Tunbridge, won't give him a
penny. Some one has to go about with
him, or he would destroy himself in a few
months. He proposes for every woman
he meets. We had an awful row last
April with a girl at a luncheon-bar at
Willesden or Ealing or some such place.
He is a harmless creature, but his father
will not give him a sous, and he does not
want him to marry. It would be a splendid
match ior you, but you see he has been

so queer, I believe we could break it, soit
will not do to attempt such a hazard

1 Listen, Bertie. What have you ever
seen in me to induce you to think of warning
me in this insulting manner ? Marry
Lord Fitzallan ! Why, I would almost
rather,' she paused and looked at her
kinsman from head to foot, ' I would
almost rather marry you!

Oh ! you would, would you ? By Jove !
you are the coolest hand I ever met ! I
don't think there's a possibility of turning
your flank, and I can't understand you.
Are you really indifferent to everyone ?
Don't you care for wealth or luxury or —
You have an uncommon fine pair of eyes,
Mona, and there's heaps of devilry sleeping
in them.'

'No; you cannot understand me but I
understand you, Bertie, and my knowledge
of your character does not improve my
opinion of human nature ; yet I do not believe
you are quite as utterly selfish as you
affect to be.'

Affect ! I never affect anything. You
put me out of patience with your affectation
of disinterestedness, and yet how inconsistent

you are. You fly out at me for
suspecting you of the very natural, and
from your point of view, laudable project
of marrying a man of rank, while you hang
on like grim death to a low-born, low-bred,
rich old buffer, hoping to get his money.'

1 If my uncle is low-born, so am I. But
I shall not waste my breath explaining
anything. I do not care if you understand
me or not, Bertie. I have not the slightest
value for your opinion. I should dislike
you, but for your relationship to Lady
Mary and the girls, and the sort of amusement
your oddities afford. You are a
curious creature ! I wonder if you were
changed in your babyhood, you are so
unlike the rest of your people.'

1 Well you speak plain enough.'

Yes. I will always speak to you in
your own style. What are you — any of
you, to me ? I want nothing from you. I
can supply my own wants, and I have not
the smallest ambition to belong to you in
any way. I never seek you, and if you
ceased to recognise me it would not cause
me the smallest annoyance.'

Oh ! but I like to talk to you. If I

ever could make such an ass of myself as
to fall in love, I should fall in love with you.'

Mona laughed merrily at this avowal.

1 Come let us go back,' she said. ' You
are by no means agreeable. I really
regret not having a sympathetic companion
this beautiful evening.'

1 Ay, I daresay you would prefer Lisle
now ? '

Yes ; a good deal more. He knew how
to mask his selfishness, which is all one
expects from an everyday acquaintance.'

1 I think, Mona, I shall cut you in future.

As you please. I am quite ready to
second your efforts. Here is young Mr
Clapton, he will walk back with me. — Well,
Mr Clapton, I think we are going to have
another cloudless day tomorrow. Is your
sister inclined to make a set at tennis. I
think my uncle will not want me in the
afternoon.'

And the hobbledehoy, well pleased to be
in attendance on Miss Craig, who was now
considered * the glass of fashion, and the
mould of form,' walked back to the park on
one side of Mona, while Everard sulked at
the other.

VOL. II. K

The following day was dry and fine, and
the projected tennis match came off very
successfully. Mona, and Miss Clapton,
her brother, and an Anglo-maniac French
count, short, stout, and extremely puffy.

Lord Fitzallan appeared in an elegant
suit of flannels, and picturesque cap ; but
he served so badly, and so constantly
missed his balls, that he soon declared the
heat was too much for him, and he subsided
on a bench beside Uncle Sandy, who
had so improved in health and spirits that
he even confessed to a certain interest in
the game, and confided to Lord Fitzallan
his conviction that, had he not been such
a ' frail body ' he could have played ' fine.'

Mona observed that her uncle and Lord
Fitzallan gradually got into evidently deep
conversation ; but she did not take much
notice of them, as the game was interesting
and the Frenchman played better than usual.

Mr Craig was rather silent all the evening,
and retired to rest even earlier than
usual ; but he was more gracious than his
wont, and there was a tone of veiled
superiority in his voice when he spoke to
Everard.

1 Mona,' said her uncle, when, after the
matutinal water-drinking and douche, etc.,
etc., next day, she went at noon to administer
a biscuit and a glass of wine, — ■ I
have something to say to you, my dearie.
Sit ye toon.'

Very well, uncle,' taking her place beside
him on the sofa. ' What is it ? '

1 A verra serious matter, which I hope
you'll tak in a serious spirit.'

This sounds serious.'

1 It's just extremely gratifying, as I think
you'll say. That young nobleman has been
talking verra seriously to me. He is an
honest-like chief, and he tells me he is
verra deep in love wi' you, Mona, and he
asked my consent in very proper language.
I said I would speak to you, and lay the
matter fair before you ; but that I begged
him not to address you till I had explained
a bit, for I am no that sure how you would
tak it. But I hope you will hear reason,
for I should like to see you a countess, my
bonnie bird, before I died, in spite o' that
conceited ape Everard, and his schemes.'

And Lord Fitzallan actually proposed
for me ! ' exclaimed Mona, much amused.

Why, uncle, you would not care to see me
enrolled among the aristocrats for whom
you have so much contempt — and then
there is Kenneth ! What is to become
of him?'

'Weel, you see, I canna turn things upside
toon, whatever my convictions maybe
; so while these ridiculous distinctions
continue, it's no so bad to have a share o'
them. As to Kenneth,' he waved his hand,
you say yourself he does na care for ye.
We could find him another wife; and as
my lord doesna want ony portion wi' you,
I could give a' to Kenneth.'

1 1 am sure you and Lord Fitzallan are
very good in arranging for my future ; but
do you know that Lord Fitzallan is in the
habit of proposing for every woman he
meets, whether in a ballroom or behind a
counter ? — that he is a half-witted drunkard,
only kept within decent bounds by the
watchful care of his family ? — that he has
not a farthing he can call his own, and his
father will not continue his allowance if he
marries ? Do you know all this ? '

Naw ! ' exclaimed Uncle Sandy, ■ and I
will not believe it. He told me he was

ready to mak handsome settlements ; to
have the family diamonds reset for you ;
to have a couple o' rooms always ready forme
at Fitzallan Towers, for he was sure
Lord Tunbridge — that's the earl — his
father, would enjoy a crack wi' me, as he
is an advanced Liberal. Wha has been
filling your mind wi' lees ? '

No one, uncle ! Bertie Everard told
me what I believe is perfectly true about
poor Lord Fitzallan. He is really half-witted,
and you must not seem to mind
what he says, or you will make yourself
and me ridiculous.'

1 Bertie Everard ! ' repeated Uncle Sandy,
wagging his head knowingly. ' I know a'
about him, — a scheming, double-faced loon.
You see, Mona, the crafty deil, he's next
heir, and naturally he don't want my lord
to marry, not he ; and so he goes and tells
you a bushel of lees. Half-witted indeed!
weel he is whole-hearted, and knows a
braw lassie when he sees her. Don't you
listen to them havers, Mona — be guided
by me, and then that ill-natured clan of
Everardss will just be crazy when you are
lifted far above them.'

'I am dreadfully annoyed, uncle, that you
should be worried by this kind of false
start ; and you were so much better, — looking
so well too. I wish Bertie had never
brought poor Lord Fitzallan here. We
were quite quiet and happy before they
came. Thank goodness, your cure is
nearly over ! We will have been here
three weeks next Wednesday, and let us
go away somewhere.'

'Why should I, Mona ? and why do you
listen to yon double-faced deil ? I wish he'd
just fall in the river and get drownded foot o'
the way, before he turned you against what
I want, wi' his cause havers ! ' and the old
man's voice grew unsteady with eagerness.

Mona was greatly distressed that her
uncle should be so possessed with this
impossible scheme, and disappointed to
find him so faithless to his own principles.

They talked long and earnestly. At
length Mr Craig began to see that his
splendid air-castle was baseless ; his good-humour
vanished, and with it Mona's
powers of pleasing. He complained of
headache and rheumatism, pain in the
heart, oppressed breathing, faintness, and

many other painful symptoms. He insisted
on sending for M. le Directeur and the
doctor, and dined in his own room.

Mona did not appear in public either, and
Everard confiscated a charming bouquet of
roses Lord Fitzallan was despatching to
her, and bestowed it in his own name on
the delighted Miss Clapton.

In the course of the evening a curious
wildly-written and ill-spelt letter reached
Mona from his lordship's pen, in which he
professed the most ardent admiration for
her beauty, her noble character, her general
charms, and declaimed against the cruel
plots of heartless relatives against his
liberty and happiness.

This Mona tore up, and left unanswered.
She took an opportunity, however, of informing
Bertie Everard of the occurrence.
Finally, the evening before she and Mr
Craig left Contrexeville, Lord Fitzallan, in
the absence of his valet and his cousin, got
hold of a bottle of brandy, and was guilty of
some wild antics, which convinced — but by
no means consoled — Uncle Sandy.

THE SERPENT S TOOTH.

N the whole, Alexander Craig's
retreat from Contrexeville was
sudden, and barely in good
order. He was not a little
crestfallen by the complete collapse of
the brilliant hopes which had dawned
upon him for a moment. The excellent
effect of the treatment and waters, however,
had restored his elasticity, so that
his sullenness and irritable depression did
not last very long.

By the time they reached Strasbourg
and were comfortably settled in a good
hotel, he began to talk of making plans ;
maps and guide-books were brought out,
and the old man brightened up when he

found Mona was highly pleased at the
idea of seeing Switzerland.

She was a very efficient assistant, looking
up the railway fares, counting the cost,
and calculating the difference between
foreign and English money.

As I canna get my ain loose till next
midsummer, I think we might just see a
little of other countries till it's ready, now
that I am this side of the water, for I'll
no cross it again. It will be summit
to talk of and think about when I am
settled toon for the rest o' my days at
Craiedarroch.'

That would be very nice, uncle ; and
we might spend the winter in Dresden.
There I should be quite at home, and
I could really be of use to you.'

1 You're no that useless here,' said Uncle
Sandy kindly ; ' and I could maybe get a
smattering o' German.'

Oh, no doubt.'

And so uncle and niece set out on a
pilgrimage, visiting by very slow degrees
the most interesting places in Switzerland
and on the Rhine.

In this tour we will not attempt to

follow ; are not these places, their histories
and attractions, written in the books of
Murray and of Bedecked ?

For the winter they rested at Dresden,
where Uncle Sandy was both comfortable
and happy in the society of a Presbyterian
minister of sound views, who taught Mr
Craig chess, a great resource, if sometimes
a little irksome to Mona.

It is remarkable how little change of
place stamps its impress on time. A variety
of residences in no way lengthens or
shortens the period passed in them. But
the contact with new characters, the association
with individuals, who strike the
electric chain with which we are darkly
bound, these are true events which make
the years or months in which they occurred
stand out in clear relief from the
dead level of our lives — and heart or mind
history enters a new epoch marked by
the evolution of some germ of action or
thought which had lain inanimate, locked
in the husk of unconsciousness, till the
vivifying current from some kindred yet
more advanced soul struck it and said, ' Let
there be light

Thus the months which followed their
departure from Contrexeville passed not
unpleasantly, though in a dull routine.
Sometimes a wonderful picture, a striking
dramatic performance, woke Mona to mental
activity, or a pleasant, thoughtful book
gave her subject for reflection. In general,
the English society of such places as
Dresden is of the humdrum order, not
stimulating in any sense, unless indeed it
be sprinkled with keen original Americans.
Still the quiet and sense of security assisted
her to recover serenity, and face
the future with steadiness, if no longer
with rainbow-tinted hope.

On Uncle Sandy, too, the effect of
foreign travel was good. He had lived
too long in the narrow cell of self ever to
be thoroughly emancipated from its contracting
trammels, but a certain amount
of enlightenment he could not resist.
Nothing, however, touched his firm conviction
that he was a man of wide information
and 'soon' judgment. Indeed
any variation in his former views only
suggested that his perception must be
singularly quick and clear to enable him

thus to assimilate new mental food. He
spoke somewhat less broadly at the end
than at the beginning of his Continental
progress, and though still holding his
4 silver ' with a grip of iron, he began to
understand what things cost, and what
must be paid for. To Mona he was comparatively
generous. Still it required
some management to dress on the sum
total of his occasional gifts.

To Madame Debrisayay the loss of her
dear companion was a real bereavement.
She was a brave, bright woman, who
never wasted time by sitting down to
mourn over the inevitable, and always
came up smiling ' from the buffets
of fortune ; but life seemed dull and
worthless when she was left to work for
self alone. Affection was the motive-power
of her existence. She was always
striving for some ; but since absinthe and
cognac had cut short the career of the
late lamented Debrisayay, no one had ever
belonged to her completely, as Mona did
for the happy year and a half they had
lived and worked together.

The pleasant, well-mannered Franco-irishwoman

was a Bohemian of most
imperfect education, shrewd observation,
considerable scepticism, and great quickness
in perceiving and seizing any opportunities
which might offer for pleasure or
profit. Yet no high-minded saint was evermore
ready to sacrifice herself for those
she loved, — to fill up any dangerous gulf
with all she held most precious, that the
one dear to her might pass over safely.
Thus her cultivation of Uncle Sandy was
a freewill offering to secure Mona's future,
her encouragement of his wish to take his
niece abroad a disinterested renunciation
of the greatest charm her life had known
since the illusions of youth had fled.

Mona's letters were her greatest comfort.
They were long and full ; but the reader's
keen sympathy detected the undertone of
weariness arising from ungenial association,
and at times she doubted if Mona was not
paying too high a price for uncertain advantages
hereafter.

So autumn, winter, and spring passed
by, and midsummer was close at hand.

Madame Debrisayay began to be anxious
for a letter. She had not heard from Mona

for more than a fortnight, and then she
said that her uncle's plans were all unsettled,
when one warm evening, as she
was resting after a busy day, the post
brought her the expected epistle. It was
dated from Paris.

I have been sight-seeing so constantly,'
Mona wrote, ' and Uncle Sandy has been
so undecided, that I could not write to you
before, and this will not be worthy the
name of a letter ; but I shall be able to tell
you all soon, for we start for London on
the twenty-second, and my uncle wants
you to find lodgings for us as near you as
possible. I need not tell you they must
be the most moderate you can find. We
shall arrive at Charing Cross, where Kenneth
Macalister is to meet us ; and pray
have dinner or supper ready for the whole
party, your dear self included, at seven or
eight o'clock. How we shall talk ! How
delightful it will be to see you again.'

Need it be said with what eager joy
Madame Debrisayay set about executing the
welcome commission. How she reduced
the rent first demanded, extinguished the
gas charge, put out the kitchen fire, and

pooh-poohed boot cleaning and ■ cruets,'
insisting that all should be lumped together
for a fixed sum, and added to the weekly-rent.


1 There's nothing vexes a stingy manlike
an array of extras, when he has made
up his mind to one thing,' she thought.
Your money shall be paid regularly, but
never put an extra on your bill — not even
an etcetera. Write " one week's rent and
attendance inclusive," with the rent we
have agreed to opposite. Not another
word, or the gentleman, who is as rich asa
Jew, will walk out of the house. He is
very careful of his money, but never keeps
anyone waiting for it.'

Thus to the listening landlady, who was
glad enough to secure a tenant, as the
height of the season was past, and promised
and vowed any amount of care and attention.

It was a fine, glowing evening when
Madame Debrisayay, in her prettiest cap,
awaited the arrival of the travellers, having
assisted to lay the table and make the place
look neat and pretty. Of course those
watched for were late, or seemed to be ;
but at last a cab, laden with luggage, drew

up to the gate, and the next moment Mona
was in her friend's arms.

Mee darling' child ! I have been that
lonely without you ! And you are looking
right well, but terribly sunburnt.'

A hearty kiss, and then she went to greet
Mr Craig, who descended from the cab
with more alertness than she had ever seen
him show before.

Delighted to see you looking quite a
new man, my dear Mr Craig ! ' she cried, a
genuine look of pleasure dancing in her
bright, dark eyes, as she shook hands with
him heartily. ' Welcome back, after all
these long months ! '

1 Thank ye ! thank ye ! ' he returned,
pleased with the warmth of her greeting.
I'm not sorry to be back again. I hope
you are weel ? '

' Yes, quite well ! I am an evergreen.
Mr Macalister has been good enough to
come to cheer me up occasionally. Very
kind of him to trouble about an old woman.
Glad to see you. Go inside, Mr Craig,
your nephew and I will settle with the
cabman.'

Na, na ! I'll just pay him myself.'

This done, Madame Debrisayay and Mona
had a few precious moments to themselves,
and then the party sat down to high tea,
with the sense of enjoyment arising from
the mixture of familiarity and complete
change.

How delicious the tea is ! ' cried Mona.
That is one thing you rarely get abroad.'

Eh ! but it is good to get a bit of dry
toast again,' said Uncle Sandy. ' And
Kenneth, my mon, I am right glad to see
you ! '

1 Thank you, sir. I'm sure I have
missed you and — and Miss Mona here,
sorely. It was a pleasure to have a
bit talk with madame while you were
away.'

But, uncle ! Kenneth is not looking at
all well. He is pale and thin. Have you
been ill, Kenneth ? '

1 Oh, nothing to speak on ! Just a cold,
and a heaviness in my limbs.'

1 Eh, mon ! ' said Uncle Sandy, with a
knowing smile, ' it's grand to have a braw
young lassie speer' after your health

1 She was always very good to me said
Kenneth uneasily.

VOL. II. L

Then as appetite was allayed, talk flowed
full and free.

I think, uncle,' said Mona, after a good
deal of description of the people and places
they had seen, ' I think you ought to take
Kenneth with you to Craigdarroch. It
would do him a world of good. And he
knows all about land and animals. He
would be a better companion than I could
be.'

1 Ah, but I canna want you! If I had
my own way, I'd have you faith always by
me.'

Well, I am sure that is not impossible,'
said Mona thoughtlessly.

She had forgotten her uncle's schemes :
it was so long since she had heard anything
about them.

1 Ahem ! I am glad to hear it,' he returned
dryly.

Words which stirred Mona's memory.
She laughed and blushed, glancing at
Kenneth with friendly comprehension.

His face grew longer, and his eyes had
a startled expression, which amused Mona.

But Uncle Sandy began to talk of going
to bed, and asked his nephew to entrap

his portmanteau for him ; and as his room
adjoined the dining-room which Madame
Debrisayay had secured for their accommodation,
they could hear the murmur of
voices as Kenneth assisted his uncle to
unpack.

Come, mon ange ! ' cried Madame Debrisayay
; ' I will go and have a few words in
peace with you while you get out your
clothes. I am dying to hear all about
everything ! '

And I to tell you. Ah, Deb ! I wish I
could live and work with you! But, really,
Uncle Sandy has been most kind to me,
and I am fonder of him than I ever thought
I should be. But sometimes his selfishness
— his narrowness — repels me ; still, I
feel bound to him ! '

Safe in Mona's little room upstairs, the
friends enjoyed the delights of full, free
interchange of confidence.

Of all Mona had to relate, the episode of
Everard's appearance at Contrexeville interested
Madame Debrisayay most.

1 To think of such an out-and-out Radical
as Mr Craig wishing you to marry
a nobleman!' cried madame, shrugging

her shoulders when Mona had finished
her story. ' Ah, ciel ! what inconsistent
creatures men are ! I have heard of this
Fitzallan, my dear ; and he is as mad as a
hatter ! '

He must be,' said Mona thoughtfully.

There was a few moments' pause, then
Madame Debrisayay said, in a gently remonstrating
voice, —

Come, now, my own darling ; will you
never tell me what is at the bottom of it all ?'

All what, Deb ? '

Your refusing poor Mr Waring, and
the state you were in when you had consented
to marry him before your grandmother's
death ! Why, I never saw such
a face as you had ! There was some man
at the bottom of it'

1 1 can only assure you, Deb, I was perfectly
heart-whole when I accepted Mr
Waring ; and I wish you would not remind
me of that dreadful time — pray put
it out of your mind. I hope we may soon
read the announcement of Mr Waring's
marriage, and that he may live happy ever
after.'

'Well, I can not understand it,' murmured

Madame Debrisayay, in a wondering tone ;
but I do understand that you don't choose
to tell

Never mind, dear ; you must tell me
all your news now.'

Uncle Sandy did not seem in a hurry to
go north. He lingered in London, and
Kenneth was under orders to come up
every evening. Mona took advantage of
his presence to steal away occasionally to
enjoy some music and talk with Madame
Debrisayay. These absences did not please
her uncle. He grew cross and fidgety,
and Mona began to fear that he had left
his reasonableness at the other side of the
Channel.

It was quite ten days after their return
before Kenneth found an opportunity of
speaking with her alone. The only means
of securing a tete-astute was to go out
walking.

An unusually fine evening offered an excuse,
and Mona gladly accepted Kenneth's
invitation — Madame Debrisayay offering to
play chess with Uncle Sandy.

Now that we have got clear of houses

and people, Kenneth,' began Mona, as
soon as they succeeded in finding a secluded
seat in Kensington Gardens, ' tell
me what is troubling you, for I see that
you are troubled.'

Troubled ? Yes, I should think so.
Indeed, I am not one bit more forward
than when we parted, and I doubt if I shall
get away this summer. Then Mr Black
is in worse health than ever : we fear he
will have to leave the school ; and here is
my uncle hurrying me to marry you — or,
rather, to ask you again.'

Well, ask me again, Kenneth,' said
Mona sweetly, 'and I'll give you the same
answer.'

Eh, it will be hard to put him off
now groaned Kenneth ; ( he is bent upon
it whatever.'

6 Still, you cannot marry me against my
will?'

No ; but Uncle Sandy says you refused
a grand nobleman for my sake,
Mona?'

'No ; for my own sake. He was a poor,
half-witted creature. Kenneth, we must
put a stop to this ! You must tell Uncle

Sandy that you have asked me again, and
that I have refused you ; tell him you do
not care to have anything to do with a girl
who is so averse to accept you. If my
uncle calls me to account, I will settle the
matter very quickly ; I am quite able to
earn my bread, and I only stay with him
from a feeling of duty and compassion.
Let him break with me if he chooses. He
might take you to manage the farm, and
then he would not be lonely. I do not
want to interfere with your heirship,
Kenneth.'

1 Eh, but I am sure of that, cousin
Mona ! Nor would I rob you. Anyhow,
I'll speak as you advise. I am sorry to
vex the old man, and I mean no offence to
you. If I had not known Mary I might
have grown fond of you. There is no
knowing.'

No, Kenneth, — no knowing to what
you might have been reduced,' she returned,
laughing good-humouredly at the
simple self-conceit which blinded him to
his total unfitness to be her husband.

Then the young Highlander indulged ina
long, discursive monologue respecting

his trials and troubles, — his unfitness for
his present occupation, — his longing for a
free air out-door life.

It was late when they reached home,
and found that Uncle Sandy had retired
to bed with a bad headache, and, according
to Madame Debrisayay, a bad fit of sulks,
as he had lost the game — and to be beaten,
especially by a woman, was intolerable.

1 Your uncle desired me to say that
he wished to see you late or early tomorrow
evening, Mr Kenneth,' she concluded,
* so try and come as early as you
can.'

Very well,' said Kenneth, looking as
if he did not like it.

I Do you think tomorrow will be the
crucial test, Kenneth?' asked Mona, answering
the look.

I I feel as if it would be.'

Then do not fear. You will get through,
and it is better to have it out.'

1 Yes ; but you have not so much at stake
as I have, cousin Mona.'

'That is true! — but " faint heart never
won fair lady." '

And remember you have two bright

women to help you, Mr Kenneth,' added
Madame Debrisayay.

'You are very good, very,' he said
warmly. ' And now I must bid you farewell.
I am late as it is, and I want to
write a long letter before I sleep.'

1 May I guess who to, Kenneth ? '

'Ah, you know, I daresay.'

That poor fellow is over-weighted with
heart for the race of life,' said Madame
Debrisayay reflectively, when they were
alone. 'It is about the worst sort of
weight a man can carry ! It's sad to see how
good fellows fail by hundreds, while your
hard, wiry, indifferent fox-terrier-like men
scramble over friends and enemies alike to
success, no matter how many they tread
down in the process. That boy is made
for a pastoral life, with a dash of the
hunter's — I am sorry for him in Uncle
Sandy's clutches.'

Yet Uncle Sandy tries to be just.'

Maybe so ; but he never thinks of other
people's wants and wishes, only of what he
wants himself — and you see one man's receipt
for perfect bliss may be needles and
pins to his neighbour.'

I feel as if we should have a tug of
war tomorrow. I earnestly hope my uncle
will not break with Kenneth. I am really
much more independent, with you to back
me, dear Deb

1 Well, well, I begin to think it might
be a long, hard service for an inadequate
return. But what I fear is that between
two stools you may fall to the ground. If
you are to work for yourself, you have as
good as lost two seasons, for the holidays
are close at hand. I wish the old gentleman
would declare his intentions ! '

All the next day Uncle Sandy was silent,
touchy, dissatisfied. He felt out of sorts,
and was quite sure the veal he had eaten
the previous day had not been sufficiently
cooked. How was it that he could eat
veal abroad, and not at home ? etc. etc.

These symptoms boded ill for the evening's
interview.

When tea time approached, Mona observed,
—

As you want to speak particularly
to Kenneth Macalister this evening,
shall I go out of the way to Madame
Debrisayay ? '

Naw,' said Uncle Sandy emphatically.
c I'll likely want you, so you had best beat
hand in your own room.'

1 Very well,' returned Mona.

Kenneth presented himself in tolerably
good time — yet not before Uncle Sandy
had began to fidget and fret because he
had not come sooner.

The private conference between uncle
and nephew had not lasted long, before a
message was despatched to Mona, who
was trying to read in her own room.

4 Mr Craig says would you please to
come down, miss.'

So Mona descended. Uncle Sandy was
grasping the arms of his chair, and speaking
in an angry tone. Kenneth was
standing on the hearth rug, with flashing
eyes and a heightened colour.

1 Such wilful' contumaciousness,' were the
words which hissed from Uncle Sandy's
lips as his niece entered the room.

'Come here, Mona! Is it true what
Kenneth's been telling me — that you have
again refused to be his wife ? '

'It is!'

6 And has he sought you with the respect

and the — the — perseverance that he should
show ? '

Yes, uncle. I have no fault whatever
to find with him.'

1 Then why are you sae obstinate ? Why
will you reject what's for your ain good and
happiness, and refuse to agree to what I
have planned for you ? '

I am sorry to disappoint you, uncle, butin
such a matter I cannot go against my
own instincts.'

1 Instincts indeed ! You are no a cat ora
dog ! Why did ye speak to a respectable
young man — your uncle's heir, mind you —
in a way that gars him say he'll never ask
you mair ? '

1 I am very sorry if I offended Kenneth,
for I really like him, but I thought it only
right to explain that I could give him no
hope.'

And he did nae offend you ? '

1 Oh no, uncle ! Kenneth never would
offend a lady.'

1 I am glad you say it, for I have been
angered against him. Now be a wise
lassie, and mak up your mind to tak him
if he will ask you again, then ye can faith

come wa' wi' me to Craigdarroch ! for I
doubt but the man I let the land to is just
making a kirk and a mill of it ; in another
year, I'll get it into my ain hands, so I'll
want Kenneth to be my factor, and wetwa
men folk would be ill aff without a lassie
to look after us — so you speak up Kenneth,
my man, and ask her before my face.'

No ! Kenneth, do not!' cried Mona,
colouring with pain at having to disappoint
her uncle, and also with irritation at the
denseness which prevented him from perceiving
the unsuitability of such a marriage.
I should only repeat what I have said
before. Though I am heartily sorry to
refuse any request of yours, uncle, it is
impossible I can let anyone choose a husband
for me.'

And I must declare I canna wish to
marry a young teddy who has refused me
three times ! It would be very unwise to
tak a reluctant wife. May be some other
young teddy — '

Kenneth got so far, when Mr Craig interrupted
him bitterly, —

Ay, ay, my lad ! there's as good fish in
the sea as ever was caught ; an' I see it's

no' your fault. I don't know what's the
matter wi' you, Mona ? If you have another
lad in your ere, it'll be some ne'er-do-weel,
I am afeard. If it's yon sneering
devil Everard, he wad na' walk across
the street for you. You'll be sorry for
your contradictiousness one day.'

1 My dear uncle,' laughing, ' I never
supposed Bertie Everard cared for mortal
but himself. I assure you I have no
lad of any description in my mind's
eye.'

Weel ! ' cried Uncle Sandy, greatly
enraged, ' it is verra ungrateful and unbecoming
to mak a laughing-stock of your
uncle, wha' has spent a kist o' silver on you !
To think that you'll refuse a fine good
young man, and never give a thought to
your pair uncle's comfort, all for mere
selfishness, and an ill-placed fancy. A
woman's life is no good to her, if she has
na' a husband to rule her.'

In that I cannot agree with you! I
am sincerely sorry to disappoint you ; but
if you think of it, you will see how impossible
it is for anyone to choose a husband
or wife for another. I am by no means

afraid of managing my own life unassisted
by a husband.'

1 Eh, you think you might rule the
kingdom, I daresay ! but I'll no have ony-body
wi' me that will not hear reason, or
respect my wishes. Kenneth has done his
best to obey me, so he shall come with me
to Craigdarroch ! and you can stay with
that fantastical Frenchwoman, who, I suppose,
encourages ye in — '

1 That must not be, uncle,' said Kenneth
firmly. ' I will not stand in my cousin's
way.'

He had been fidgeting uneasily, eager to
put in a word.

■ You'll not stan' in your cousin's way !
you'll not ! What's that to you ? Are you
faith so daft-like as to think you can
divide my property and — and my silver
betwixt ye, under my very been, before the
breath is foot o' my body? Eh! but I'll
give neither of ye a bawbee! I'll just
build a retreat for pair ministers, and
endow it. Why should I fash myself wi'
a couple of contumacious young rules ? '

1 And you may please yourself for me,
uncle ! ' cried Kenneth ; ' anyway, it will no

weigh on my conscience that I didn't 
do as you desired.'

Weel, I know that, an' I shall not
forget it, though I will not have you
dictating and presuming. You just give
notice to your employers, and come wa
wi' me to Craigdarroch. And you, Mona,
I am done wi' you ; you may go to your
chum. I renounce you; you are just heartless,
like your auld grandmother's fine aristocratic
friends, and look down on folks
that are better than yourself.'

You ought not to be so angry with me,
uncle?' said Mona gently. 'I am only
exercising a right of choice that belongs to
the humblest and poorest. I am really
grieved to think we must part. You have
been very good to me, and I hope I have
been some comfort to you ; but there must
be no misunderstanding : I never will
accept a husband, save of my own free
choice ! '

And a mull you'll mak of it ! Kenneth,
my mon, I'll tak a glass o' water wi' a drap
of whisky — just ring the bell. I'll trouble
you nae mair, Miss Craig ; you can drop
my name again, for a' I care, and gang yer

ways. You, Kenneth, just give warning
to your landlady : I'll give you Mona's
room.

1 But, uncle, I cannot — ' began Kenneth.

■ Do not contradict him whispered
Mona, passing close by, as she approached
her uncle. ' Good-bye then,' she said
kindly, ' I will never offer to return, but
if you want me, and ask me, I will come
to you ! '

She tried to take his hand, but he
pushed hers away, and turned his face
from her like a naughty child.

Mona looked at him kindly, and a little
sadly, and then left the room, forbidding
Kenneth, by a gesture, to follow her.

vol. 11. u

AT VARIANCE.

■

CHANGE had indeed come o'er
the spirit of her dream. Mona
scarcely expected such energetic
action on her uncle's
part. That he would be angry she expected,
but she did not think he would
take such strong measures. However,
there was nothing for it but submission
to the decree of banishment pronounced
against her, she therefore packed up her
belongings, told the landlady she was
going away for a short time, and retreated
to Madame Debrisayay.

That lady was not at home. She had
gone to pass the evening with a German
violinist and his wife, with whom she

was on rather intimate terms, so Mona sat
down to wait for her.

She had often felt weary of poor Uncle
Sandy's whims and exactions, but she had
grown to care more for him than she
knew. He had become so dependent
on her, that the maternal instincts of a
womanly heart had gone out to the creature
she protected. Moreover, she believed
him to be a greater sufferer than he really
was. That he should attempt to dictate to
her in such a purely personal matter, was
hurtful enough, but that he should rudely
turn her out, wounded her deeply. How
miserable the old man would be, too, all
alone, doing battle with the landlady, and
fretting over a hundred-anemone trifling
annoyances from which he had hitherto
been shielded. Was it possible that the
moisture on her cheek was a tear ? She
was afraid that, on the whole, she was no
favourite of fortune. It seemed her fate
to be constantly uprooted. How little
rest she had known since she left the
tranquil seclusion of her Dresden school —
only a few months of feverish, fitful joy,
and then clouds and darkness.

Madame Debrisayay did not come in till
ten o'clock.

'And is it here you are, all alone by
yourself in the dark ? ' she cried, coming
in quickly through the soft gloom of
a summer's night. ' This is too bad !
To think of me talking politics to that
castle-building German, when I might
have been here with you, dear. How
is it you got away from our dear Old
Man of the Sea ? '

Easily enough, dear Deb ! Uncle
Sandy has turned me out because I
have decidedly refused to marry Kenneth
Macalister.'

Turned you out ! ' repeated Madame
Debrisayay, as she struck a match and lit
the gas. ' Has he gone off his head ?'

I do not think so ; but I have ventured
to believe you will take me in, and in
that belief I have told Mrs Puddiford that
my room was wanted, so I came over
here ?'

Turned you out ! ' repeated Madame
Debrisayay, sitting down suddenly and taking
off her bonnet, which she dropped on
the floor ; * and all for not marrying that

long-legged Highlander, who is not fit to
dust your shoes.'

1 No, no, Deb ; he is a very good
fellow ? '

Oh, good enough, but not for such as
you. So I suppose it is all over ! '

1 What is all over ? ' asked Mona.

My hopes that your uncle would provide
for you. Now you are no better off
than you were before. Indeed you are
worse off, for you have to make up for
all the time you spent wandering about
with that old bear.'

The usual fate of legacy-hunters,' returned
Mona, smiling.

You are no legacy - hunter, Mona.
I declare that cantankerous uncle of
yours can have no more heart than a
flint.'

I do not believe he is quite heartless,'
said Mona thoughtfully ,- ' I believe he is
fond of me, and will soon recall me.'

When I hope you will have more spirit
than to respond ! ' cried madame indignantly
; ' he deserves to be left to hirelings
for the rest of his days.'

1 That would be a cruel punishment for

an outbreak of temper : it was nothing
more. Come, dearest Deb, I am tired
and depressed ; I will go to bed. Do
you know that it is very delightful the
idea of breakfasting tite-a-tHe with you
tomorrow ? '

'Is it, my darling? Ah, it warms my
heart to hear you say so ! If you belonged
to me now ; if you were my own, own
child, oh, it would give me the strength of
a dozen women to work for you and fight
for you ; not but I'd do it all the same,
only I'd have a right to you then.'

Until I married some selfish tyrant
of a man, who would show his love
by separating me from you,' returned
Mona, taking her hand in both hers with
an affectionate smile.

'Ah, just so,' sighed Madame Debrisayay
; ' there are eddies of misfortune at
every bend in the stream of life ; some
slip past them and more slip in. I don't
know how it is, Mona, you always remind
me of my precious baby girl that was
taken from me when she was two years
old. She had hair just like yours. How
much the heart can live through ! I died

one death when I found out the real man I
had married, but I came to life again with
the life I gave. Then I went down to
the grave once more with my sweet, sweet
baby, and dragged on a half-conscious
existence till poor Debrisayay went : that
took a load off me. I began to be a living
woman again. The music always was a
comfort to me ; and here I am, battling
for bread, and taking what pleasure I can
get ! Is it not amazing the vitality of some
natures ? Now I have you to look after,
dear, it doubles my life. Ah, what would
we be without love ? It is the true religion,
and the real damning sin is selfishness
! Good-night, dear.'

The next day was one of Madame
Debrisayay's busiest, and it was exceedingly
wet. Mona sat indoors very contentedly,
busy with book or needle, and Uncle
Sandy made no sign.

The following evening, Kenneth made
his appearance, with an exceedingly perturbed
aspect.

The partners were sitting at table enjoying
a late tea when he came in.

1 Well, Mr Macalister, what news ?' cried

Madame Debrisayay, putting down the
teapot to shake hands with him.

1 Good-evening, Kenneth. You do not
look too happy,' said Mona.

Happy,' he repeated ; ' I am just
miserable. I am thinking Uncle Sandy's
gone clean daft. He was up in the City,
at our place, and saw Mr Sinclair — that is
the principal partner. Came in all the rain
in a cab from Margate Street. He told
Mr Sinclair that he was going to adopt me,
and requested I might be allowed to leave,
as he could not go to his place in the
Highlands without me. So I was called
up, and old Sinclair made me a speech
about my good fortune, and my excellent
conduct while in the service of the house
(I don't believe he knew my name rightly
half-an-hour before) ; and the two old fellows
complimented each other. I fancy Mr
Sinclair thinks I am to come in for ten
thousand a year at least. This morning
all the clerks were congratulating me, and
I felt like a thief.'

1 Why should you, Kenneth ? I assure
you I should have been more miserable
than you look, if I thought my uncle had

quarrelled with you about me. I have perfect
confidence in your loyalty.'

1 And you may have that, cousin Mona ;
but it's many a long day before I can be
of any use to you.'

1 Let me give you a cup of tea, Mr Kenneth,'
said Madame kindly. ' It is my
opinion,' she continued, as she poured it
out, ' that neither one or other of you will
ever see a sous of your uncle's money. He
will get all he can out of you, and then
leave all he has to some church or institution,
or something wicked of that kind.'

1 No, I do not think that,' returned
Mona thoughtfully. * I believe he is
quite earnest in his intention now, but he
might get angry again and change his
mind.'

After all,' cried Madame Debrisayay, ' I
don't believe he has much to leave behind
him. He talks big ; but for all the cry, I
suspect there is not much wool.'

1 There is no telling,' said Kenneth.
4 But I think he is rich. My poor mother
thought he pastry rich.'

1 We shall never know till poor Uncle
Sandy has no further need of our services,'

said Mona, smiling. ' So there is no use
conjecturing.'

That is true. Eh, but he is dreadfully
angered against Mona,' returned Kenneth,
addressing Madame Debrisayay. ' When I
said I would come over and see her, he
broke out against her, and forbade me to
cross your threshold. I could not stand
that. I just told him that I was willing to
obey him in many ways, but that neither
of us had any right to quarrel with her.
So after some words — a good many words
he told me to do as I liked, but I was
never to name your name to him. He is
awful miserable, — just fretting the flesh off
his bones. We are to start for Craigdar-
rich on Monday.'

On Monday ! ' exclaimed madame.
'And will they let you away from the
office so soon ? '

I don't think I am so valuable that they
want to keep me,' said Kenneth, with a
grin. ' Anyhow, we are off on Monday ;
and I can't say I like having the care of
Uncle Sandy all that way. We are to stay
a couple of days in Glasgow, that he may
see his man of business, and then go onto

Kirktoun — that's the nearest station to
Craigdarroch. It's on a loch, I believe,
and it's a fine place.'

1 You must write and let us know how
you get on, Kenneth.'

I will drop you a line, cousin. The
worst is, I see no chance of getting away
north to Glencora. My uncle will not
let me stir from him.'

That will be trying. You would want
my help there, Kenneth.'

Eh, I should indeed. Uncle Sandy
treats me very different from what he does
you. I cannot manage for him in the
house, but I am not afraid of the fields and
the woods. I'll manage them fine. I was
always with the laird's factor till my poor
mother died, and then Uncle Sandy would
have me in an office to learn business.'

Some more talk and friendly conjecture
made time pass quickly till Kenneth rose
to bid them good-night.

Mona could hardly believe that Uncle
Sandy would leave town without seeing
her, and she kept a good deal in-doors
until the Monday fixed for his departure ;
but the old man made no advance. Indeed,

one afternoon Madame Debrisayay met him
walking with the aid of his stick, when he
passed her without the slightest sign of
recognition. She came home in high
wrath, and denounced his folly and obstinacy,
and many other bad qualities, with
much eloquence. Mona said nothing.

She was hurt by her uncle's conduct,
but not inconsolable. She only regretted
seriously the period of the year at which
the break had occurred, as the difficulty of
finding employment forced her to impinge
on her small capital.

Madame Debrisayay insisted on her being
a guest for at least a month, to which the
fear of offending her kind hostess compelled
Mona to agree. Otherwise, the rest and
congenial companionship were very delightful.


Uncle Sandy had been gone about a
week, and the last days of July were fast
slipping away, when one warm sultry afternoon,
as Mona was leaving Marshall &
Snelgrove's, where she had been shopping
for madame, whose soul expanded at sale
time, a smart footman overtook her, accosting
her with the words, ' If you

please, Lady Finistoun would be glad
to speak to you.'

'Lady Finistoun?' repeated Mona,.
looking round. ' Where is she ? '

1 Her ladyship is in the carriage, close
by.'

Following the man, Mona was soon
shaking hands with her former ally.

I was so afraid I should miss you, dear,'
cried the young peeress, shaking hands
warmly with her. ' I was afraid you had
vanished from me altogether. Bertie told
me about meeting you abroad with a wonderful
old millionaire of an uncle. Come,
let me drive you wherever you are going,
or, better still, let me take you to see baby.
Such a dear darling bars. You will be
enchanted with him. Do come in. Open
the door, William.'

Oh, yes ! I should be so delighted to
see your baby, dear Evelyn ! ' said Mona.

The next minute she was seated beside
Lady Finistoun, and driving towards that
lady's house.

1 Why did you not let me know you were
in town ? '

I have not been long here,' returned

Mona, 'and I have been busy. Nor did
I think of looking you up. You see it is
no use attempting to be on the old footing.
We must drift apart.'

Oh, nonsense ! You look as well — indeed
better than ever. You will never lose
your style, Mona, and I daresay you will
marry very well, especially with this rich
uncle behind you.'

My uncle has an heir.'

No ! Has he ? How very disgraceful
! Never mind, dear, you are evidently
a favourite of fortune. Where are you
staying now ? '

1 With Madame Debrisayay.'

And what have you done with the
uncle ? '

1 He has quarrelled with me and left me.'

Oh, you foolish girl ! How did you
offend him ? '

1 It is too long a story to tell you now.
Tell me about yourself.'

Nothing loth, Lady Finistoun poured
forth the annals of a golden life flooded
with the sunshine of prosperity, — with busy
pleasure and careless, though kindly, happiness.


They were, she said, on the point of
starting for a month's cruise in northern
latitudes, with a gay party, in the Duke of
Hallamshire's yacht, during which time the
son and heir, now nine months old, was to
stay with Lady Mary at the Chase.

By-the-bye, Geraldine is engaged,' she
went on — ' engaged to a charming man,
only he has no money, so they are obliged
to wait till he gets an appointment. My
father is rather cross about it, but I daresay
it will all come right

Here they reached Hyde Park Gardens,
and Lady Finistoun sent a peremptory
message to nurse. She soon appeared
with the Honourable Hector Aubrey Douglas
Montgomery in her arms — a very
active young gentleman, who did his best
to precipitate himself head-foremost on the
floor — jumping, crowing, clutching at his
nurse's cap, and slobbering after the fashion
of babies from St James' to St Giles'. He
held out his plump, mottled arms to his
delighted mother, who proudly took him,
and then, as the highest mark of affection
and confidence, gave him to Mona. She
received him with no small apprehension,

though pronouncing him, with genuine admiration,
to be a splendid fellow, and 'so
like Lord Finistoun.'

1 Do you see the likeness too ? Yes, I
think he is. But do you know, Mona, he
has the Newburgh grey eyes ? They are
like yours, Mona ! Don't you think baby's
eyes are very like Miss Joscelyn's — I mean
Miss Craig's ? (Your name always puzzles
me, Mona.'

Perhaps so, my lady. They are very
fine eyes, any way.'

A little more showing off, and nurse
judged that her lady had had as much of
baby's society as was good for them all.
She suggested that the young gentleman's
own apartment was cooler and fresher for
him than the drawing-room. After a little
more kissing and cuddling he was taken
away, and Lady Finistoun and her kinswoman
sat down to tea.

I am so glad you are pleased with the
boy ! I could see by your eyes you were
ready to love him. There are lots of
people ready to exclaim, " He is a fine
child ! " but few look at him as you did,
dear Mona ! ' cried the young mother.

1 Take off your hat, and we shall have a
nice chat over oar tea. I am not at home
to anyone, Tompkins ' — to the butler. ■ I
want you to come and stay with me at
Strathairlie. As soon as our cruise is over
we are going for a week to the Chase,
and will be in the Highlands the second
week of September. Will you come,
Mona?'

1 I do not think I can. I shall want
to be in town by the first of October,
and—'

1 Oh, but you really must come ! And
then, didn't Bertie tell me that the millionaire
uncle has a place quite near. Then
you can make friends with him. We will
ask him to dinner. Those sort of people
are always so pleased when they are asked
to dinner.'

1 I do not think Uncle Sandy would dine
with anyone.'

I don't believe that ! We are going
to have rather a pleasant party. I am
sorry my father and mother cannot come.
They talk of going to Vienna till after
Christmas. I should like you to be good
friends again

vol. 11. N

1 Have they not forgiven me yet ? ' asked
Mona, with a smile.

Well — a — no, I am afraid not. But
dear mother is not an irreconcilable.
When you meet you will be all right.
Lord and Lady Watertown are coming, and
Colonel Markham, the great shot ; then,
later, Sir Arthur Fitzgerald and Mr Mercer,
the man who has such a lovely baritone ;
Mrs Barrington and the two girls, a brother
of Finistoun's, and oh, I cannot remember
all ! We cannot put up a great many, but
I have never seen the place yet. I believe
the scenery about it is lovely. If you do
not come to me or go to your uncle, where
can you go this autumn ? '

I shall not go anywhere. I shall stay
very thankfully with my good friend Madame
Debrisayay, who never changes towards
me.'

1 Ah, yes, she is a dear old thing ! But
fancy staying in London all the year. You
will make yourself ill, Mona.'

1 Just think, Evelyn, of the hundreds of
people who never quit it, and live on.'

1 Then they are quite different.'

1 I cannot see,' began Mona, when

Lady Finistoun interrupting her, exclaimed,
—

Oh, Mona ! do you remember Captain
Lisle ? '

< I do.'

1 He has come into a large property and
a baronetcy.'

Oh, indeed ! How did that happen ? '

4 I think he always expected it. Old
Sir Howard Lisle was a relation of his
father's, and as they were a non-marrying
set of men, our acquaintance, though nota
near cousin, was the next heir.'

So, after all, he was not a poor man.
He had wealth and position almost in his
grasp when he shrank from sharing his
life with her, thought Mona, while Lady
Finistoun rattled on. ' But I suppose there
are many like him,' was her conclusion.

1 I rather think my mother would have
liked him for Geraldine, but I am not so
sure he would have made a good husband,'
Lady Finistoun was saying when Mona
listened again. ' These fascinating, all-accomplished
men seldom do. They tell
queer stories about him. The Countess of
Northallerton went out of her mind about

him, so it is said, and only the earl died
so suddenly, there would have been a
fearful row.'

1 He was very agreeable,' said Mona
quietly.

Yes. He has been very popular in
India, but he is coming home now on
urgent private affairs," I suppose, and
will probably leave the army. You are
not going yet, Mona ?'

I must. Madame Debrisayay will be
looking for me.'

1 Oh ! she will not mind, when she knows
I kept you ; and I do not know when I
shall see you again, for I have more engagements
than I can manage every day
before we go down to Cowes.'

Still, dear, I must go. 1 am so glad I
saw the baby. Madame Debrisayay will be
charmed to hear all about him.'

Then leave me your address. I am
determined to make you come to me at
Strathairlie. Perhaps I shall have a peep
at you when I pass through town in September.'


1 Oh, yes. I will write it in your .'


Lady Finistoun embraced her affectionately,
and straightway forgot all about her
till they met again.

Mona walked leisurely home through
Kensington Gardens in a very thoughtful
mood. She was truly delighted to see
Evelyn so bright — so happy. She had
keenly noticed the beauty and richness of
her surroundings — every minutiae of her
dress, of the china and silver in which
their tea was served, the noiseless perfection
of the service, all indicated the
luxurious ease of her life, and of the life
which she represented. Yet on sounding
her own heart, Mona was glad to find that it
had roused no regretful longing, no repining
or dissatisfaction with her own lot. The
whole routine of splendid ease would not
have been so sweet to Mona as the simple
evening meal which awaited her, seasoned
as it was by true affection and complete
sympathy.

Of course Evelyn had these also. But
the general effect of her visit was to increase
her thankfulness that she had resolutely
refused to marry Mr Waring. She
felt, as her self-knowledge increased, that

she dared not risk her future with anyone
she did not deeply and truly love. Hers
was a heart that could not long remain
empty, swept and garnished.

The encounter with Lady Finistoun
afforded much matter for talk to Madame
Debrisayay. She did not press Mona to
accept her invitation.

1 I am not sure it would do you any
good, dear. It is better to keep with
those of your own trade. It went to my
heart to see you leave your beautiful home,
and the society you were used to ; but it
had to be done, and there is no use in
looking back. Life has many sides, and
there's none without its own spark of light

So the friends enjoyed the quiet holiday
time together. Prudence forbade their leaving
town. But Mona, fresh from her wanderings,
was glad to rest ; and Madame
Debrisayay was quite content while she had
Mona.

Kenneth wrote occasionally. Uncle
Sandy was greatly annoyed at the mismanagement
of all doings appertaining to
the farm during his absence. He had dismissed

the man he had left in charge, and
was determined, with Kenneth's help, to
direct everything himself ; but he was very
unwell and fractious. He never mentioned
Mona's name, but Kenneth was of opinion
that he thought of her a good deal. Meantime
there was no chance of his getting
away, and he began to fear that it would
be many a month before he could see his
Highland Mary.

The days and weeks flew by rapidly,
and Madame Debrisayay was beginning to
think of work again, when one morning
in the first week of September, the post
brought Mona a letter addressed in exceedingly
shaky, spider-like telegraphy. It
bore the post-mark of ' Kirktoun ; ' and
having looked at it earnestly for a moment,
she exclaimed, —

Why, here is a letter from Uncle
Sandy ! '

1 You don't say so ! Read it to me, if
you will.'

I'll try. What an awful hand.'

My Dear Niece, — As you have had
time to think over your unkind and ungrateful

conduct to your natural protector
and nearest of kin, I make no doubt you
are sorry and ashamed of yourself. But,
as youth is always wilful and self-opinionated,
I dare say false shame holds
you back from saying you are sorry.
Therefore, for the sake of your poor
father, and indeed for your own, I will
believe that you say them in your heart,
and are willing to atone to me, by trying
to be a comfort to my poor troubled old
age, which you have been, all the time we
journeyed together.

Kenneth is a good lad, and decently
sensible out of doors, but within it is awful
desolate without a woman to order things.
I therefore propose that, if you are penitent,
as I hope you are, you come and stay
with me as my daughter, to look after me,
and rule my house, and I promise that you
shall not be asked to wed with anyone you
do not like, but that if you do wed, and leave
me, you will find some wise-like woman to
bide with me, and care for me, in your place.

Now, you must write at once to me,
yes or no, and then come as soon as you
can start. Kenneth shall meet you in

Glasgow. As you are young and strong,
you might take the night train and come
on here when you have taken a bite of
breakfast in Glasgow. Feeling sure you
will come to your old uncle, I enclose you
a post-office order for three pounds five
shillings and sixpence, to pay your fare
(second class), and a cab and such like.
And I'll give you a trifle for clothes every
quarter regular, as we may agree upon. If
your heart is good towards me, you might
lose no time and be with me by Thursday
first. For I am just wearying for you, my
dearie ! And give my respects to madame.
Maybe she'll come up in holiday-time and
pay us a visit. It is always a treat to look
on the Highlands, and you'll be bonnier than
ever when you live in the sweet mountain
air. Now just answer straight, and as you
answer, so I'll be your loving uncle or no.
\ Alexander Craig.'

1 Well,' said Madame Debrisayay, her
countenance falling, ' I always expected it.
What'll you do, dear ? '

Do?' repeated Mona slowly. ■ I scarcely
think I have any choice. You see, he

voluntarily removes all cause of complaint ;
but it is hard to leave you, Deb.'

It is cruelly hard to let you go ; but I
must. Now, Mona, my dear, be careful in
answering that letter. You must show him
that you are sacrificing independence to
nurse him. And do not commit yourself
to stay with him always.'

How can I bargain with a poor old
man that loves me ? '

•'He loves his " silver" better! You
must not sacrifice yourself, Mona. Let me
write what I want you to say, and you can
modify it if you like ; but you must let him
see that you are giving up independence
for his sake. Now is the time to make a
clientele, and you resign the chance.'

Very well, Deb. In such a matter two
heads are better than one. There is one
point I will stipulate for — a yearly holiday
to come and see you ! That will revive
me, and you too ; will it not ? '

Ah, my darling' child, it will indeed ! '

The tears sprang to Madame Debrisayay's
bright, expressive eyes, and leaning towards
her beloved pupil, she kissed her
affectionately.

Now, dear,' she continued, ' let us get
rid of the breakfast things, and concoct our
famous letter

It was a piece of work not to be quickly
done. The collaborators had wide differences
of opinion as to what was and was
not to be insisted upon. Mona had mostly
her own way, but, nevertheless, was a good
deal influenced by her friend's shrewd
advice.

Finally, the letter was despatched. As
soon as the post could bring a reply came
another epistle agreeing to everything, and
expressing Uncle Sandy's extreme satisfaction.
He gave his niece a few commissions
to execute respecting books, papers, etc. r
and promised to subscribe to an Edinburgh
circulating library, that they might have
entertainment and instruction in the long
winter nights.

The ensuing week was a busy one.
London dressmakers were not to be
thoughtlessly left behind. Preparations
for a prolonged sojourn in comparative
wilds were to be made. And Mona dearly
loved becoming dress and pretty things.
Still madame preached economy, and the

necessity of considering Mona's tiny capital
as too sacred to be touched.

You never know, dear, when the rainy
day may come. So if you take a trifle
now, be sure you pay it back when you get
your first quarter. And now and again
send me what you can spare to put away
for you.'

Yes ! I promise, Deb.'

1 And if your uncle gives you a present
of money, save it up. It is an awful thing
to feel you haven't a penny, as I did when
I had buried poor Debrisayay. How I ever
got through, God only knows

■ He helped you, dear Deb, because you
helped yourself.'

Madame was lost in thought, and did
not reply.

'I'd have a dinner dress, though!' she
exclaimed suddenly ; ' a dinner dress of
black satin and jet lace. You'd look as
fair as a lily in it ; and some blush roses on
your shoulder, to show you were not in
mourning.'

I have two dinner dresses, you know,
that only need a little doing up. And
probably I shall never need such a thing.'

1 You don't know ! When Lady Finis-town
is your neighbour, you can't refuse to
dine with her. I should not be surprised
if all the lairds in the country side were to
lay themselves at your feet. They don't
often see anything like you ! '

Mona laughed heartily at her imaginative
friend, and then the conversation was interrupted
by the arrival of a letter from
Kenneth — very hastily but joyously written.
He was full of the anticipated pleasure of
meeting Mona, and told her that Mary
Black was to be in Glasgow staying with
some relations, and he would get leave to
stay a day, and would also introduce his
lady-love to his cousin. Uncle Sandy, he
said, had quite ' perked up ' since he knew
Mona was coming, and, in short, life looked
like a sunny, unruffled lake, pro tern., to
the sanguine young Highlander.

Then the hour of parting came soon —
too soon.

What sandwiches Madame Debrisayay cut,
what biscuits and grapes she bought,
how neatly she did them all up in a
picturesque little basket with loving care,
may be imagined.

She loaded her ' dear child ' with all
kinds of little, useful presents, and she sent
a warm waistcoat of her own knitting to
Uncle Sandy, in preparation for the winter.

I want to stand well with him, dear,
for your sake ; and he never quite took tome.'


Finally she parted from Mona with
nearly dry eyes.

Why should I make her heart ache,'
thought the kindly woman.

But she was deeply gratified by the profound
regret with which Mona bid her
good-bye.

My only idea of home is with you, dear
Deb. You shall have a letter every week,
and you must write regularly too

So madame stood smiling to the last, till
the last glimmer of the red light at the end
of the train had vanished, and then went
home, to have it out unrestrainedly with
her sorrow.

Among THE HEATHER.

RAIGDARROCH was a beautiful
secluded spot on the side of
a hill, — the advanced post of a
mountain range, which upheaved
its lofty crests further inland. It looked west,
upon the loch (an inlet of the sea), which
lay directly beneath it, and south towards
the mountains, which trended to the east.
The wild stretch of rocky heather-crown
upland, called Strathairlie deer forest, lay
to the north, and immediately at the other
side of the hill, barely three miles distant,
was the shooting-lodge of Lord Finistoun.
The house was old, grey, and rambling,
having been much added to ; and, thanks to

the shelter of the hill, boasted the ornament
of surrounding woods, not only of fir
trees, but beech and numerous oaks. It
had been the residence of the old lairds of
Strathairlie. They had passed away long
ago, and their lands had been divided
among different purchasers. The Lord
Finistoun of that day had bought the deer
forest, and built the lodge. A Glasgow
manufacturer bought the house, the home,
and two or three other farms, which formed
the estate of Craigdarroch, for a summer
residence. He failed, and it was again
brought to the hammer, when Sandy Craig
became the possessor, for a sum decidedly
below its real value. He also bought a
good deal of the furniture, establishing himself
with much glee. But it was somewhat
late in life to change his habits. Farming
proved a costly amusement. The want of
steady, regular employment made him irritable,
and a cheese paring spirit as regarded
the consumption of coal, coupled with the
dampness of mid-winter on the western
coast, induced rheumatism. So Sandy
Craig thought himself in a very bad way,
and betook himself to London for superior

medical advice, with the results we have
seen.

The fortune which hard work, coupled
with the whim of a wealthy testator,
had brought him, did not bestow much
happiness. He was proud to be Craig of
Craigdarroch ; it sounded territorial, the
name, signifying ' Rock of the Oaks,' was
a happy accident ; but he grew nervous in
the lonely mansion, yet was never quite
content away from it.

The shootings attached — a piece of moorland,
not very extensive — was alive with
birds, let well in the season, and although
decrying sport as 'just a play for rules,'
he never disdained to take the rent.

The place seemed to him after his long
absence at once more beautiful and more
intolerable than it used to be. He longed
to show it to Mona. He longed to hear her
exclamations of delight at its beauty, and
to display so distinguished-looking a creature
as his niece and adopted daughter, —
for pride was a very ruling passion in the
heart of Sandy Craig.

Still, it cost him a severe mental struggle
to yield so much to his strong desire for
vol. 11. o

Mona's company, as to write the letter
above quoted. Once done, he was feverishly
eager to reap the fruits of his surrender,
and reckoned the days till Mona made
her appearance.

After a fatiguing journey, for the night
was warm, Mona found herself at Glasgow
in the grey of the morning. Early as it
was, Kenneth, ' in the garb of old Gaul,'
awaited her on the platform. He looked
so martial and magnificent, that Mona did
not recognise him at first. When she did,
she was disposed to laugh at what she considered
his 'fancy dress.' He assured her,
however, that it was his habitual costume
when among the hills, and that the only
difference he had made was to put on his
best go-tormenting kilt and plaid in her
honour.

Not altogether in my honour, Kenneth,'
she said, when, having collected her luggage,
they had time to exchange a few
words.

Well, maybe not,' he returned, with a
happy smile. ' Now, if we leave by the
one-twenty train for Kirktoun, we'll get to
Craigdarroch by six o'clock. My uncle

agreed not to expect you before, so you can
come away to Mrs Robertson's, where you
can rest and have breakfast. She is 2,fery
old friend of Mrs Black, and Mary is just
waiting to welcome you. She is wearying to
know you, though she will be half frightened
at so grand a young lady as you are.'

1 Grand ! Why, Kenneth, you are chaffing
me ! '

He only laughed, and, calling a cab,
they drove away through dull streets,
as yet scarcely astir, to the modest mansion
of a Free Kirk minister, who was
already in his study, and came forth to
welcome the stranger lassie with kindly
warmth ; then his wife appeared, as neat
and well-appointed in her cotton morning-dress
as if she had made an afternoon
toilette ; and lastly, Mary, blushing, with
downcast eyes and a sweet smile flickering
on her lips. The first thing Mona noticed
was the golden-red tinge in her soft,
abundant hair.

I If mine is half as pretty, I am content
she thought as she offered her hand, and
said kindly, —

I I am very pleased to meet you.'

The words — the tone in which they were
said — made Mary look up, and then the
smile shone out in her honest, light blue
eyes : these, and a red-lipped mouth rarely
quite closed over very white teeth, redeemed
her face from plainness. Her
complexion, though clear and good, was
much freckled, and the cheek bones were
somewhat high ; still Mary Black was undoubtedly
a 'bonnie lassie,' and pleasant to
look at, as Kenneth evidently thought, as
his face beamed when his eyes fell upon
her.

You'll be awful tired after so many
hours in the train ; here, Mary, take Miss
Craig to the spare room. You'll maybe
like to wash your hands and brush your
hair a bit before you eat your breakfast ? '

1 Thank you ; I feel I need ablution
sorely.'

I am so very pleased to see you,' said
Mona, when she and Mary had entered
the sacred precincts of the spare room.

And so am I to meet you ; Kenneth
told me what a good friend you have been
to him ; but you are not a bit like what I
expected to see.'

I suppose not ; people never are like
what is expected.'

I will leave you now ; ring when you
are ready, and I will show you the way to
the breakfast-room.'

At the table were gathered the minister's
younger bairns ; a big-boned lad of fourteen
; a slight, thoughtful boy of nine or
ten — both silently intent on finishing their
morning meal, to be off in good time to
school — and a chubby girl of six, evidently
the pet of the family. The mother told
with pride that their eldest boy was away
doing weel in Japan, and another daughter
had married in the spring, and was living
in Liverpool.

The long, devout grace, the bowls of
porridge and cups of milk, the voices, the
dialect, all seemed to Mona like a chapter
out of a Scotch novel ; yet it took her
fancy. The kindness and frank hospitality
had about them a self-respecting restraint
a thoughtful tone — that gave the impression
of sincerity. She was struck with
the superior softness and sweetness of
Kenneth's and Mary's voices, and recognised
in them types of a very different

race from that of the minister and his
family.

The host appeared to be acquainted
with Mr Craig, and spoke of him with a
touch of dry humour here and there which
showed he was fully alive to the peculiarities
of his character. Mr Robertson —
a pleasant, well-read man, quite abreast of
the modern thought movement — seemed
pleased to converse with his young
English guest. Both his wife and Mary
Black evidently looked upon him as something
quite too immensely clever to be addressed
save with due consideration, and
Kenneth, too, regarded him as a superior
being. As soon as he had bestowed the
final blessing, the minister bade Mona farewell
as he was going out.

Then Mary assisted Mrs Robertson to
clear away the breakfast things, and the
latter said, —

You three young folk will have a good
deal to say to one another, so you can
have it out here, while I am busy above
and below, so soon as I have sent Jamie
off to school.'

I should think we had a good deal to

say to each other,' said Kenneth, as soon
as they were alone. ' Mary knows that
the only bit of comfort I ever had in yon
big dreary town was when I could walk
and talk with you, Mona, and that kind
soul Madame Debrisayay ! Isn't it curious,
when I used to be with you in London,
I thought I saw such a likeness between
you and Mary, and now you are together,
it has just vanished away ? '

Like Miss Craig ? ' cried Mary, blushing
and laughing. ' Eh, Kenneth, but
your eyes must have been all wrong ! '

Then a very confidential conversation
ensued, and Mona promised to help the
lovers in all ways. Indeed, her heart went
out very warmly to the gentle, simple
Highland lassie, and she privately congratulated
Kenneth on his choice.

Having been taken to see the Cathedral
and some public buildings, she was
given luncheon and hurried away to the
station.

A splendid sunset was glorifying moor
and mountain, the loch, and a distant
glimpse of blue sea, when the travellers

reached Kirktoun, where a very rusty old
one-horse phaeton, driven by Uncle Sandy
himself, awaited them.

1 Well, my dearie, the sight of you is
good for sir been ! ' he cried, with unusual
warmth, reaching down a hand to assist
his niece to the seat beside him ; adding in
the same breath, ' and I am right glad you
have seen the error of your ways. I am
always ready to forgive, when I see ony-one
in their right mind.'

I am very glad to see you, uncle.
What delightful air ! It is like new life to
breathe it.'

Ay, it is just that ! You'll grow strong
and weel. Hoo's a' wi' ye, Kenneth ? Did
you see Mr Mackay, and get the papers ?
Eh, we canna carry the twa big boxes.
Can ye do without them till tomorrow,
Mona, and I'll send the cart for them ? '

'Yes, uncle. I have my hand portmanteau,
which is quite enough.'

Kenneth scrambled in behind, and after
one or two stoppages at shops of the
1 general ' order, they quitted the primitive
little town — which is a convenient stopping
and starting-place for tourists and sportsmen

— and proceeded towards Craigdarroch,
by a road which skirted the loch, traversed
a pine wood, wound round the head of the
water, and then ascended between picturesque
rocks crowned with heather and
waving bracken, or wound through clumps
of fir and oak trees which grew in sheltered
hollows, or led round some projecting angle
of the hill, from which could be seen a
wide stretch of moorland and mountain,
all rich and varied with autumnal green,
brown, purple, and gold, a dozen different
tints melting into each other, while away
west over the sea the sun was sinking ina
flood of golden light.

The old cart horse that with bent head
and patient toil dragged the vehicle up the
long ascent, evidently understood his task
too well to heed Uncle Sandy's 'gee-ups'
and occasional applications of the whip.
When they came to a gentle decline or a
few level yards, he broke into a slow heavy
trot — his great feet beating the road like
sledge hammers ; then at the very first
upward tendency, he deliberately checked
his pace to a steady walk, from which
nothing could move him. Yet Mona

enjoyed the drive immensely. The beautiful
wild scenery ; the soft delicious honey-sweet
breeze, that from time to time
touched her cheek like a caress ; the restful
silence, and perhaps, more than all, the unusually
happy expression of Uncle Sandy's
puckered face, gave her profound pleasure.

At length, after following a low moss and
grass-grown wall for some way, they turned
into a narrow road, at the divergence of
which a wooden gate, with one broken
hinge, lay helplessly open.

Noo,' said Mr Craig, with all the pride
of proprietorship, ' you are in the parks of
Craigdarroch.'

What a delightful country. What a
pretty place.'

'Wait till you are up at the loose. I
think you'll say it is better than Westbourne
Villas.'

The ' loose ' was turned in a contradictory
manner with its face to the hill, and
built of melancholy, half-mourning grey
stone. Within, a short wide hall lighted
from above led to the public rooms, and
from it a passage branched off to the sleeping
chambers, and a narrow crooked stair

led to various apartments above — for most
of the house was only one storey high. The
drawing-room had a bay window, from the
centre of which steps led down to a pleasure
ground, consisting only of grass and
groups of trees which grew abundantly
in the shelter of the hill — but the view
atoned for any deficient ornamentation.
From this opened a pleasant room, to which
the Glasgow occupier had added a square
projecting window — also opening like a
door. This had some bookcases and a
writing-table, and was dignified by the title
of the library. A good dining-room with
ordinary windows — for the ground sloped
steeply away from that side of the house —
and a long narrow apartment containing
some glass cases of birds and butterflies,
some fossils, a rusty claymore or two, and
the skeleton of a deer's head and antlers,
which was termed 'the Museum' — these
constituted the reception rooms.

At the door stood a respectable repaired
' dour ' looking woman — the cook
and general servant — and behind, the ' bit
lassie ' who helped her.

'Whaup's the boy?' asked Mr Craig,

descending with the help of his stick and
Kenneth's arm.

He's gave wa to the forge ; the grey
meer cast a shoe as she was drawing ben
the gravel for yon new walk.'

1 Ah, and the gardener ? '

1 Oh, he's wa till his tea.'

1 Then, Kenneth, ye must put up
Brownie ; and give him a good rub down,
he's just steaming

Mona thought that a woman, a girl, and
a boy were a scanty staff for so large a
house, and foresaw housekeeping difficulties.


This is my niece, Miss Craig,' said
Uncle Sandy to the 'dour' looking woman;
ye'll just do a' she tells ye.'

• She'll likely not know our ways, and
she frae the south,' she returned sulkily.

1 Then you must teach me said Mona,
smiling so pleasantly on her, that her face
relaxed.

Folk learn quick if they are so minded,'
she said, less harshly.

Then Uncle Sandy led Mona through
the museum, the dining-room, the drawing-room,
the library.

You see it's no a poor loose,' he said,
with satisfaction. ' Noo, come wa to your
ain bed-chamber. You'll like it fine, I am
thinking.' Uncle Sandy stumped down the
passage and introduced his niece to a pretty
airy chamber, the windows of which looked
over the garden, with a side glimpse of the
loch. ' My room is next you. I thought
if I were sick, or bad with the rheumatics,
it would be well to have you nigh hand me.
I have had a bell put there, ye see, just over
the head of your bed. I can reach the rope
frae mine, and wake ye ony time I want ye.'

1 A delightful arrangement,' said Mona,
laughing. 'It is a charming room, and
when I unpack I shall make it look quite
pretty. The house has evidently been
arranged by men, uncle : it seems awfully
bare.'

Weel, women have their uses. If I
had been able to marry the lassie I loved,
I would be a different mon this day

Mona soon found that life at ,
in spite of the beauty that surrounded
her, was not a bed of roses.

Mr Craig viewed housekeeping expenses
through the small end of his mentaL

telescope, and tried to keep them down to
impossible limits ; while at the bottom of
his manly heart he feared Phemie the cook
far too much to do more than grumble
indefinitely.

She is a wasteful' deil,' he whispered to
his niece, the second day of her sojourn at
Craigdarroch, when he was solemnly handing
her the keys, and instructing her in the
duties of her new position. ' You can
look after her better than I can. She just
drinks pounds o' tea : twa ounces ought
to do her and the girlie for a week ; and
then the flesher's bill is just fearful'. They
twa want good meat meals every day.'

But, uncle, they must have meat everyday
— no one would serve you without it.'

Weel, it's just a bad new fashion.
Scotchmen grew to be what they are on
good oatmeal.'

I shall do my best, uncle, but I am not
economical, I warn you. I know what it
cost Madame Debrisayay and myself to exist,
and it will be a sort of guide. May I look
at your books.'

Books ! I never keepit ony. I just
know the silver slips away over fast.'

1 No wonder you think so, if you keep
no accounts. I will not undertake impossibilities,
but if I do not give satisfaction,
you must turn me away. Craig of 
ought to live like a gentleman.'

1 Eh, but that's weel said ! ' cried Uncle
Sandy, with sudden enthusiasm, which
showed Mona she had hit the right nail on
the head. ' Weel, do your best, dearie ;
but you mauna ruin me.'

1 I will try not, uncle.'

So Mona took up her cross with courage
and found, as is often the case, that
difficulties vanished at the touch of a bold
hand.

A week of this new life passed rapidly.
Mona found her hands full ; nor was the
work unpleasant. Her nature was essentially
feminine. She loved order and delicate
nicety in her home, and thought no trouble
too much to secure it. Fortunately she
succeeded in winning the allegiance of the
cook, who, having anticipated that the
stinginess of her master would be intensified
by the minute inspection of a mistress, was
relieved to find a greatly-increased degree

of justice and liberality in the domestic
government.

The furniture, too, vexed her soul. It
was excellent as regarded quality, but
frightful in form and colour. With much
persuasion she induced Uncle Sandy to
permit of her ordering pretty coloured
muslin curtains, a few cheap oriental rugs,
and some small etceteras, the choice of
which Mona confided to Mary Black.
These, with sundry baskets and pots of
flowers disposed about the drawing-room,
so transformed it that Uncle Sandy scarcely
recognised the once stiff and dreary chamber.

You're a clever lassie,' he cried. ' You
have made the place look grand at no
great outlay. Noo, I'm hoping you'll no
ask mair silver for a long time.'

4 We shall want some additions to our
furniture and decorations, uncle, before
winter,' returned Mona, who had learned
from experience that the less Uncle Sandy
was asked for, the less he was inclined to
give. ' But I will tell you about them in
good time. Now that you are going to
reside here, you must have your house
nice. I think you ought to be obliged

to Miss Black for the trouble she has
taken.'

Weel, and who says I am not ! She
and her people are Kenneth's friends,
hey ? '

They are. They were so kind and
hospitable to me when I arrived, weary
and wayworn, in Glasgow, that I should
like immensely to ask her to spend a few
days here on her way home, if you would
permit me. She is a nice girl. I am sure
you would like her.'

Oh ! ay, you may ask her as much as
you like. Can she sing a Scotch sang ? '

I have no doubt she can. That reminds
me, we must have the piano tuned.'

1 Tuned ! Why it was tuned before I
left hame, and has no been played upon
since.'

My dear uncle, the mere lapse of time
has reduced it to a sad condition.'

'And, whaup — whaup is the tuner to
come from ? '

Cannot Kenneth find out ? '

1 Weel, we'll ask a bit at Mr Macintyre's '
(the grocer and general dealer). ' We are
going into the town after dinner. I have
vol. 11. p

to see the gentleman that has taken the
moor about the fishing, or one of the
gentlemen. There's a pair of them, and
one has only just come down.'

Who are they ? ' asked Mona carelessly,
as she sewed on the band which had come
stitched from her uncle's umbrella.

Oh ! a Colonel Langton, and another
fresh from India, a grand mon, a Sir something
Lisle.'

There's your umbrella, uncle. I think
Phemie wants one or two things from
Macintyre's : I will give Kenneth a list.'

Eh, it's just want — want — want — from
ae week's end to another.'

Of course it is, uncle ; are we not
always consuming things, and they must
be replaced. Then I may write to Miss
Black?'

Ay, she'll tell a' the folk in Glencora
what a grand place Kenneth is in.'

1 Yes, of course she will.'

Mr Craig took his umbrella, and with a
muttered complaint that his ' pair back
was awful' bad the day,' hobbled off with
the accompanying knock knock of his supports
on the floor, to worry the gardener.

Mona took a book and sat down on
the step outside the large window, gazing
away over mountain, lake, and moorland,
which lay steeped in the golden sunshine
of a brilliant autumnal noon, a light, slow-sailing
cloud now and then casting a
shadow upon the varied surface beneath
it, a light breeze occasionally rippling the
face of the loch and sending up its gentle
current to breathe the soft briny freshness
it had brought from the sea, against her

cheek and through the meshes of her rides


gold hair.

She could not read ; her uncle's words
had sent her thoughts back to that first
vivid season of her real life, when she had
drunk so deeply of pleasure and of pain.

St John Lisle was within a few miles.
She might possibly-meet him in her
rambles or her drives with her uncle, and
how should she feel if they stood face to
face ? Her heart answered, ' slightly
curious, but quite unmoved.' Yes, to her
infinite satisfaction, she felt a profound
conviction that Lisle could never again
stir in her emotion of any kind. She
might even be amused with his cool, crisp

talk, if he deigned to bestow any of it on
her ; she had even forgiven herself her
weak credulity, and could smile at her
youthful folly in accepting Lisle's veiled
attentions and ardent though indefinite
expressions of admiration, as meaning
anything real. It was all so completely
past — though little more than three years
had elapsed since they had met and parted
that she felt as if she could meet exactly
as though they had never met before.
The man she had loved so shyly and
warmly had vanished, with the actual St
John Lisle she was barely acquainted.

Then the scenes which preceded Mrs
Newburgh's death arrayed themselves
distinctly before her. How glad she was
that her poor grandmother had had the
comforting conviction that her beloved
Mona would be provided for by a happy
marriage ; yet to procure that assurance
poor Waring had been lapped in elysium
for a few short weeks, and then thrown
aside when no longer needed.

I almost wish I could have loved him,'
she murmured ; * he was, and no doubt is,
a really good fellow. But it was impossible,

even if he had had the sort of
manner and bearing that were so imposing
in Captain Lisle. I could not have loved
him then. Why is it that attractive outward
seeming is so seldom a sign of
inward and spiritual grace ? There is no
use in asking such questions, and I am
losing a precious chance of reading.'

She applied herself diligently to her
book. In truth she had but little time to
herself. When Uncle Sandy was in the
house he kept her constantly with him
reading aloud or writing the few letters he
required to indite, or, worst of all, going
over his accounts, for although he ' could
na be fashed wi' loose accounts,' he kept
his affairs rigidly in order, his proudest
achievement and deepest delight being to
effect large savings out of the sum he
permitted himself to spend annually — that
was so much clear gain. Then there was
the direction of the small household — the
providing for its needs. Her greatest
relaxation was a ramble alone, or with
Kenneth, which latter's a rare indulgence
; her truest enjoyment writing and
hearing from Madame Debrisayay.

The delight of Kenneth when he heard
of the success which had attended Mona's
sudden inspiration suggesting the invitation
to Mary Black, cannot be easily
described. His dark eyes were aglow
with pleasure from the time he heard of
it. His gratitude to his benefactress was
unbounded. He was indefatigable in his
efforts to oblige everyone. He managed
to secure the services of a wandering
tuner — he drove a wonderfully successful
bargain in the purchase of some sheep —
and otherwise distinguished himself. At
length the happy day arrived when he
was to go into Kirktoun to meet the
expected visitor, who was to reach that
station at half-past one. Mona had made
all due preparation for her guest, and sat
down to read the Times to Uncle Sandy
in the drawing-room. They had not long
been thus employed when the sound of
wheels upon the gravel attracted their
attention.

It canna be Kenneth, yet,' said Uncle
Sandy, glancing at the clock.

'No, he has hardly reached Kirktoun
yet,' returned Mona.

There is a gentleman wants to speak
wi' you,' said the little help, coming into
the room in the neat cap Mona insisted
on her wearing.

4 Weel, put him in the museum,' replied
her master.

4 Eh, but he's just behind me ! ' cried the
girl, stepping back, whereupon a gentleman
in shooting dress walked in, his cap
in his hand, a distinguished-looking man,
with an embroiled face, rather light eyes,
and thick moustache.

You will, I hope, excuse — ' he was beginning
in the clear, haughty voice Mona
remembered so well, when his eyes met
hers, and he stopped, growing suddenly
silent with surprise.

Mona laid aside her paper, and rising,
advanced quietly, saying, as she did so, —

4 How do you do, Captain Lisle ? '

1 Miss Joscelyn ! This is quite an
unexpected pleasure ! ' he exclaimed, taking
the hand she offered, and evidently more
moved than she was.

1 Hoo's this ? Do you know Sir St John
Lisle ? ' cried Mr Craig.

4 I used to know Captain Lisle,' returned

Mona, smiling, and looking steadily
at him.

1 1 had the pleasure of meeting Miss
Joscelyn in London some years ago.'

1 There's no Miss Joscelyn here,' interrupted
Uncle Sandy impatiently. • This
is my niece — my pair brother's daughter
Miss Craig.'

1 Oh, indeed ! forgive the mistake.'

He paused, and for a few short seconds
seemed less self-possessed than Mona
could have imagined possible.

1 I suppose,' he resumed, in his natural
tone and manner, ' you are spending the
autumn in this beautiful spot. Really, Mr
Craig, you have a superb view — the finest
I have yet seen since I came up here,'
and he advanced to the window, his eyes
glancing quickly from the view he praised
to Mona's face, which he scanned with a
curious, questioning glance.

c It's weel enough,' said Uncle Sandy,
swelling with pride in his possessions,
and I'm glad you are pleased with it ; and
noo, what's yer wull ? '

Oh — ah — I brought you a letter from
Mr Macfarlane's agent. You will see what

he says about your rights of fishing, and
how far they extend. It seems Macgregor
has let his fishing to Lord Finistoun, and
I am now on my way to Strathairlie to
see what we can do in the way of mutual
accommodation. Have you seen Lady
Finistoun yet ? You used to be great
chums, I remember,' addressing Mona.

I did not know she had arrived.'

1 They came last Saturday,' said Lisle,
handing the letter he had spoken of
to Mr Craig, who put on his glasses
and proceeded to read it with great
deliberation.

1 Does she know you are in this part of
the world ? ' continued Lisle, letting his
eyes rest on Mona with the peculiar lingering
gaze that used to disturb her —
even now it cost her an effort to meet
them with a smiling, unembarrassed look,
but she succeeded, as she answered, —

1 No ; I rarely hold any communication
with her ; when we meet, she is as nice and
sweet as ever.'

1 Perennial charm and sweetness seem
to be the peculiarity of your race ! ' he
returned, with a caressing smile.

Mona slightly raised her eyebrows, and
observed, —

1 Bertie is not exactly fascinating.'

1 Bertie, no, of course — '

I'm thinking there is a contradiction
somewhere,' interrupted Mr Craig, looking
up from the letter he had been reading.
I will just look for the letter I had frae
Balmuir himself. I have it somewhere
and taking his stick he walked away into
his library.

What an extraordinary, delightful surprise
to find you here ! ' exclaimed Lisle,
rising and coming over to the window where
Mona sat, and leaning his shoulder against
the frame. ' I never was more amazed
than when my eyes fell upon you. Is this
old — gentleman really your uncle ? '

1 Really and truly my father's elder
brother. You see, I have reverted to my
natural grade.'

I feel all at sea,' said Lisle slowly, his
eyes still dwelling on her. ' Do you know,
I watched the papers for the announcement
of your marriage for months, then I
wrote to Bertie Everard, and heard from
him that you had thrown over the poor

devil I had been envying, and disappeared
in the deepest disgrace with everyone.'

How very good of you to take so much
interest in a person you were not likely to
see again ! ' said Mona, looking up in his
face with a half smile.

1 I always hoped to see you again.'

Really ? ' archly.

1 You knew I did ! ' returned Lisle
quickly.

I knew nothing about you, except that
you were an amusing partner, and waltzed
remarkably well — almost as well as you
thought you did.'

Lisle did not answer immediately ; he
pulled his moustaches, and looked thoughtfully
out of the window.

1 And did you discover your uncle soon
after you left the Chase ? '

1 Not for a considerable time.'

And how did you manage ? — I am
dying to hear your history. You will tell
me everything, won't you ? We were always
sworn allies.'

1 Oh ! I have no story to tell. I have
been extremely fortunate, and I have no
claim on anyone's compassion.'

j

A scornful smile curved her haughty
mouth.

No. I suspect you would very quickly
throw it back in the face of any idiot who
presumed to offer it ! But I shall see you
again ; I hear your interesting relative
approaching. I must see you again.'

1 There is no reason why you should not,'
returned Mona, with much composure.

As she spoke, Mr Craig came in, the
letter he had gone to seek for in his
hand.

I am right,' he said exultingly, as he
tumbled into a chair rather than sat down.
Balmuir himself writes to me on the
25th of June 1883 that he believes
my rights extend as far as the cairn of
Kilnethan ; and here ' — striking the letter
Lisle had brought with irritation — ' his
factor says I canna fresh below the grey
stane dyke at the lower pool. Just read
for yourself.'

Lisle took both letters, and read them
with an air of profound interest.

There is a distinct contradiction,' he
said when he had finished. ' Suppose I
take both up to Balmuir, and talk the

matter over with him, and let you know
the result. I do not wish to give you more
trouble than I can help,' he added courteously.


1 You're verra polite. It would save mea
good bit o' trouble. I'm a pair frail
body, as you see, and noo, we'll be having
dinner in a quarter of an hour, stay and
tak' a bite. The boy shall put up your
horse. You'll be late for lunch at the
Lodge.'

1 Thank you,' said Lisle, frankly and
graciously. ' I shall be most happy,' his
eyes seeking Mona's with a laughing glance.

1 Just rin foot, dearie,' said her uncle, ' and
tell Jamie to put the horse in the stable.
The gig can bide in the yard.'

Pray, Miss — Miss Craig, allow me. I
could not think of allowing you to be sent
to—'

1 You had better let me go. Probably
Jamie would not attend to your orders,'
interrupted Mona.

She went away to deliver the message,
and Lisle followed her.

1 Is Donald at the stables,' she added.
1 Make him attend to the horse. I am

afraid of trusting your smart turn-out in
Jamie's rude hands,' she said to Lisle.

He cannot do much harm. What a
trump your uncle is to ask me to stay.'

And how very much bored you will be
before the mid-day meal is over.'

I am ready to risk that.'

Mona turned to re-enter the drawing-room.


Are there not gardens or ferries or
something to look at ? ' asked Lisle insinuatingly.


Yes, we have very good gardens.
Would you like to see them ? '

Certainly ; above all things.'

'Very well. Uncle Sandy,' she said,
opening the door, ' Captain — I mean Sir
St John Lisle would like to see the
gardens.'

Verra weel. I'll be proud to show
them ; ' and Uncle Sandy leant over the
arm of his chair to pick up his stick, which
as usual had fallen on the carpet.

1 I will stay to receive Miss Black, who
must soon be here,' said Mona gently, as
she took up her work and resumed her
seat by the window.

Lisle cast a backward glance at her ashe
left the room — a glance she did not pretend
to see. As soon as she was alone her
hands dropped into her lap — a grave, almost
sad expression crept over her speaking face,
which had worn so bright and amused an
aspect, while she remembered the sharp
pain, the corroding mortification that had
eaten into her soul, and for which she had
to thank the pleasant-mannered, distinguished
- looking man who had just left
her.

'sall's well that ends well" she murmured,
rousing herself. ' It is all past now,
and left not even a scar. I did not think
his presence would have moved me so little.
I will never avoid him, or seem unfriendly,
but I defy him to flirt with me if I do not
choose. I hope he is enjoying his ramble
with Uncle Sandy

Here the sound of wheels upon the
gravel drew her to the entrance in time to
see the phaeton drive up, wherein sat Kenneth
triumphant, and Mary Black beside
him.

Mona welcomed her cordially. It was
refreshing to meet the honest eyes, to hear

the frank unsophisticated voice of the
simple, natural Highland lassie.

I am so glad to see you. Uncle Sandy
has gone out round the garden with a
gentleman, so I will show you your room
at once. She is looking blooming, Kenneth,
— better than when we met in Glasgow

I am so glad to see you a bit alone
before I meet Mr Craig,' said Mary, as she
followed Mona down the long passage to
her room ; ' I am very frightened of him.'

But you must not be so,' said her young
hostess. ' My uncle likes those least who
fear him most

It was so good of you to ask me. Kenneth
told me all about it, and mother bid
me present her best compliments to you

Then they had a little cheerful talk about
the most becoming mode of dressing the
hair, with a few words on the prevailing
fashion of morning frocks ; after which it
was time to go to the drawing-room, which
they hardly reached before the bell rang.

Mona could hardly repress a smile when
Uncle Sandy appeared, followed by his
guest. Lisle looked rather grave, but Mr
Craig had an air of self-satisfaction, which

spoke volumes as to the amount of boring
his victim had endured.

1 And this is Miss Black ? I am weel
pleased to welcome her to Craigdarroch.
Any friend of Miss Craig's, my niece, is
welcome to me, especially a bonnie lassie
like you. Sit ye toon, site toon.' And he
proceeded to ask a blessing of portentous
length.

The mid-day meal proceeded very successfully.
To Mona's surprise, Lisle made
himself very pleasant, listening to all Uncle
Sandy said with interest, and just enough
difference of opinion to stimulate the old
man to triumphant argument. He seemed
to enjoy the very simple food set before
him, and discussed fishing with Kenneth,
inviting him to spend a day on the riverside,
occasionally sending a half-admiring,
half-defiant glance to Mona, which seemed
to say that he was not to be easily shaken
off. Seeing that it made Mary blush painfully
to be noticed, he kindly left her alone.
Directly to Mona he said very little, but
he inquired if she had seen this or that
periodical or quarterly, and offered to send
them up to her. Finally, he was, he said,
vol. 11. Q

reluctantly obliged to take leave, and the
whole party went out to see him start.

I suppose I may give your love to Lady
Finistoun, Miss Craig. She will be here
tomorrow, I daresay, when she knows who
is in her neighbourhood. Many thanks
for your hospitality, Mr Craig. I will
come up again as soon as I have seen
Macgregor. Adieu.'

A wave of the hand, an uplifting of his
hat, he touched his spirited horse with the
whip, and in another moment he was out
of sight round the curve of the drive.

1 What style there was about him,' Mona
could not help saying to herself. ' What
cool self-possession, and certainty of his
own position. Strength is always attractive
in a man. I almost wish I had never
found him out,' she thought.

'A verra reasonable, wise-like young
mon, for ane in his position, and willing to
hear truth from the lips of a thoughtful
body. But he has his tempers, I'll be
bound. He was just another sort o' man the
day I went to meet him — short-spoken and
scornful-like. But I daresay he sure saw
that Sandy Craig could hold his ain with

a'body. Aha, lad, he's changed his tune
the day ! Come along, my bonnie bairn !
Kenneth and me are going to our books,
so Mona will take you round the gardens
and the grounds, forbye the dairy.'

END OF VOL. 11.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

exANii^

Author op

Vi^OfNG tft ^c

•r*«MMOTWii*«^

[OK5^^)i^^^^^5K-3l^

'kiln

r^jt.

^"^

VOL. 11 r.

A NO VEL.

BY

MRS ALEXANDER,

AUTHOR OF

'THE WOOING O'T,' 'HER DEAREST FOE,

THE admiral's WARD,' ' AT BAY;' 'BY WOMAN'S WIT,

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1887.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

Discontents



CHAP. PAGE

I. "TiS WELL TO BE OFF WITH THE OLD LOVE,' I

II. Edged Tools, . . .-Si

III. Divers Opinions, . . . .60

IV. The Bird is Flown, . . . .86
V. Uncle Sandy FINDS AN Old Friend, . 119

VI. Man Proposes, . . . .148

VII. A Discovery, . . . . .177

VIII. An Unexpected Visitor, . . . 203

IX. 'The Last State OF THAT Man,' . . 230

Now ready, in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2s.

Garrison GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of ' The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

'Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

F. Y. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

'tis well to be off with the old love

ON A felt younger and more like
her old self after this meeting
with Lisle than she had done
since her grandmother's death.
The encounter had proved to her how
completely she had cast off the old feeling
of regret and pain at her disenchantment,
and showed her that she was
stronger than of old. Still Lisle in a
way interested her. His manners, when
he chose, were attractive, though Mona
fancied she could perceive the baser

VOL. III. A

metal of selfishness underlying the silver-plating
of his effective exterior.

With all his Radicalism, Uncle Sandy
was deeply gratified by the readiness of
this fine gentleman to cultivate his acquaintance.
He vas remarkably amiable
and serene during the whole afternoon
and evening after Lisle's visit, although
he held forth at some length on the folly
and evil effect of titles on their possessors,
as well as on society at large.

His placidity so soothed Mary Black's
nerves that she was able to sing some
Jacobite ballads without much trepidation,
and in a voice so sweet and true that the
absence of training was not perceived.

Uncle Sandy was highly pleased.

Eh ! ' he said — a prolonged ' Eh ! ' —
there's a Scotch song for you, Mona,
and a Scotch voice ! All the German
and Italian growling and screeching could
equal that ! Even yourself noo — you
have a pretty pipe of your own, but you
canna give me a lilt like that.'

No indeed, uncle!' said Mona cheerfully.
' One must be Scotch to sing
Scotch as Mary does.'

Can you sing '' Bonnie Mary Hay,"
my lassie ? '

Oh, yes, that I can ! ' — with a delighted
smile. ' It is just father's favourite.'

And Uncle Sandy insisted on an encore.

Then Mona added her share to the
concert, and Mary hung in genuine pleasure
and admiration over the piano.

Eh,' she cried, ' but you make the
notes speak ! '

So Mona proposed to give her a few
lessons in piano playing, and all went
well and happily.

She is a douce, weel-educated bairn,'
said Uncle Sandy, when Mona lit his
candle and carried it for him to his room
a little attention he always looked for
'and you are dislike to find so bonnie,
weel-behaved a girlie to mak' friends
wi' — name of your upsetting tapis wi'
neither brains in their heads nor hearts
in their bodies. She can bide as long as
you like, and sing for me every evening.
Mak' them gang to bed, dearie ; it's
lang burning the lights.'

My dear Mary, you are a complete
success ! ' cried Mona, when she returned

to the drawing-room, and found her and
Kenneth standing very close together in
the window. * I do not know when my
poor uncle seemed so happy and content.
She will cut me out, Kenneth ! '

*Ah! that she never will! Nor would
she wish it. It was a lucky hour for us
when I met you, cousin Mona.'

I am glad you think so, Kenneth.
Now we are not to sit up burning lights
continued Mona, laughing.

'There's splendid moonlight, which costs
nothing,' returned Kenneth. ' Let us blow
out the candles and have a little talk before
we go to bed ; we have scarce had a word
together yet.'

The well-assorted trio sat for some time
talking softly in the silvery radiance of
the moon, the delicious perfume of the
pine trees breathing on the cool night
breeze — and then crept quietly to their
respective chambers.

Lisle proved a true prophet. The day
but one after his visit, Uncle Sandy and
his guests had assembled in the library
to their five o'clock tea. This was a
serious meal, with bannocks and scones.

cookies, bread and butter, preserves, and
toast. It served to support nature till
eight o'clock supper, after which came
prayers and bed. Mr Craig had just
asked a blessing,' when the sound of an
approaching carriage interrupted his attack
on the toast and newly-made strawberry
jam.

It is another visitor,' he said. ' Why,
one might as wheel be in Edinburgh or
London.'

We had not many visitors in London,'
observed Mona.

As she spoke, Jessie, the youthful housemaid,
came hastily into the room.

There is a teddy speer' for you, Miss
Craig ! ' she exclaimed ; * a gran' teddy, ina
chaise wi' twa ponies.'

It must be Lady Finistoun,' said Mona,
rising. ' I may bring her in, uncle ? '

Eh ? Surely. Ask her to tak' a cup
of tea.'

Mona hastened to the door, before
which, in a light basket-carriage drawn by
two wicked-looking dun ponies, sat Lady
Finistoun, and beside her an elderly lady
made up in the most youthful style.

Ah ! my dear Mona ! So you are at
home. I am so glad She gave the
reins to a smart, diminutive groom, and
stepped out quickly, embracing Mona with
effusion. Lady Finistoun continued, * I vas
so delighted to hear you were within reach.
I have brought Miss Morton with me.
You know Miss Morton ? No ! Oh, well,
you ought ; everyone knows her.'

Then I must be no one,' said Mona,
laughing. ' I am very glad to see you,
Evelyn. You must come in ; we are at
tea ; my uncle begs you will join us.'

Descending the steps, she courteously
invited Miss Morton to alight.

Certainly, with pleasure,' said that lady
with much decision ; and, followed by both
new arrivals, Mona led the way to the
library.

Miss Morton was very tall, and rather
bony ; her long neck was surmounted by
a small head and a face short and broad
for its size, rather of the pug order, with
small, keen, light-brown eyes. Her complexion
seemed to have suffered a good
deal from exposure to weather, and was
considerably and undoubtedly powdered.

She wore a very masculine-looking overcoat
of light tweed with a round cape,
a small deer - stalker cap, and a white
gauze veil tied round it, which at present
was turned back with a curious effect.
Lady Finistoun wore a heather-coloured
costume, exquisitely draped and fitting —
trimming, buttons, gloves, hat with a
pheasant's wing — all matching to perfection,
and admirably becoming to the
pretty brunette face and dainty figure of
the wearer.

Uncle, let me introduce Lady Finistoun
and Miss Morton to you,' said Mona.

I am sure I am verra pleased to see
ony friends o' my niece,' said Uncle Sandy,
rising after two distinct efforts, and smiling
on the visitors. Like most Scotchmen, he
was much mollified by the sight of a
pretty face. ' Ye'll sit toon and tak' a
cup of tea or a glass of wine after your
drive. Here, Jessie, set a chair for the
teddy by me, and bring cups and plates.
There'll the other teddy sit ? Kenneth,
mak' room 'twixt you and Mona.'

Thank you, Mr Craig,' said Lady
Finistoun, in her soft, sweet tones ; ' a

cup of tea will be most refreshing after
our long drive ; for I stupidly lost my
way, and my groom is a Londoner. I
trusted for guidance to Miss Morton, who
thought she knew the way, but — '

I did know the way,' interrupted that
lady, who was drawing off her gloves in
preparation for an attack on the good
things before her. * You know when we
came to where the road branched off in
the hollow you would keep to the left,
though I said it must be to the right. No,
thanks, no preserve : I hate sweets. I
will take some cream scones and one lump
of sugar, please.'

I was so pleased to find Mona was
here,' resumed Lady Finistoun, as soon
as her wants had been attended to. * I
knew you lived here, Mr Craig, for I
have often heard Mona speaking of Uncle
Sandy ' — a fascinating smile and upward
glance — ' but she is such a bad correspondent,
she never let me know she was
here ; and if St John Lisle had not come
over to dine, we should not have found
you out for ages. You take good care of
her, Mr Craig. I never saw her look

so well — not even when you came out,
Mona.'

There is a remarkable fine air here ;
it's better than what you have over in
Strathairlie,' he returned. * You see, weare
sheltered frae the north, an' we get
mair sun — forbye the porridge. I have
just insisted on her takin' porridge to her
breakfast.'

Porridge is exceedingly indigestible,
and bad for the complexion,' said Miss
Morton, between the mouthful of cream
scones.

You're wrong ! ' cried Uncle Sandy.
Just look at the men and women that
are reared on porridge ! There's no their
equals to be found on earth ! '

My dear sir, I don't imagine you have
seen much of earth beyond your native
land;

'You're wrong there again, mem. I've
just come back from over a year's wandering
wi' my niece about the Continent of
Europe ; and there's little I saw there
that I'd care to tak' wa.'

'Ah, I see you are one of the large
class who think their geese swans.'

I'm much obliged for your high opinion,
mem ; but I am no such a full-body.
I have the mast intelligent men of all
times on my side

Miss Morton has an intellectual love
of argument,' said Lady Finistoun soothingly,
'and is generally in opposition to
the foeman she considers most worthy of
her steel. But I am anxious to see your
charming gardens, if there is time after
tea. Sir St John Lisle tells me it is a
gem of a place.'

*Weel I hope you will come as often
as you like to look at it,' returned Uncle
Sandy.

It is admirably situated. A family
place, I suppose ? ' asked Miss Morton,
passing up her cup.

Naw ! ' exclaimed Uncle Sandy ; * I
bought it wi' my ain hard-earned money.'

Oh, you lucky man ! Of all powers,
the one I envy most is the power of
making money.'

You have quite enough, dear,' said
Lady Finnistoun. ' Now, my dear Mr
Craig, I want you to spare my cousin
to me for a few days. It is so long

since we were together, and as we have
rather a pleasant party, and the change — '
'She's no your cousin,' said Uncle Sandy
hastily; 'she has no kin except me. Her
grandmother's kin fell from her when she
most needed them.'

But she is indeed my cousin ; and
through her I claim you, too, my dear
Mr Craig, as a kinsman, if you will permit
the claim.'

It would be hard to say ye nay,'
he returned, a smile puckering up his
self-satisfied face. ' Mona may please
herself.'

Do you always wear the kilt ? ' said
Miss Morton abruptly to Kenneth.

Mostly, when I'm among the heather.'

It's very becoming,' said she, with an
admiring glance. ' I do not wonder at
Highland gentlemen wearing it; but you
are all very conceited.'

I am sorry you think so.'
Don't you admit it ? '

I am not sure.'

Ah ! that is the cautious Scot all over.
Tell me, are you his nephew .'^ ' nodding
in the direction of Mr Craig.

I am.'

And Miss Craig's brother ? '

No ; my name is Kenneth Macalister.'
'Ah! Highland to the backbone. Then

is this young lady your sister ? '

Kenneth and Mary blushed simultaneously.


I see. No ; certainly not,' returned
Miss Morton, with a harsh laugh. * Now,
Mr Macalister, the room is rather warm ;
haven't you a shrubbery or a garden, or
something to show me ? I don't care to
sit here any longer.'

Kenneth rose reluctantly.

Oh, yes, I can take you for a stroll.'

I am going to look at the grounds,'

said the resolute spinster to her chaperon,

with Mr Macalister.'

My niece will — ' began Uncle Sandy,
but Miss Morton promptly interrupted
him.

Oh, no, thank you ; I don't want any
young ladies; a Highlander is enough
for me ; ' and she walked off, followed
somewhat sheepishly by Kenneth.

Silly Morton professes not to like women,'
explained Lady Finnistoun, laughing.

Mair's the pity,' said Uncle Sandy
dryly, * for Tm thinking few men would
like her I '

I assure you they do. She is very
popular, and has had endless offers — to
be sure, she has a good fortune.'

Weel, weel ! silver is nae everything ina
wife. Noo, if you'll tak' nae mair tea, I'll
go round the grounds with you myself.'

Thank you ; ' and Lady Finistoun satisfied
her host's heart with exclamations
of admiration and delicately-administered
flattery.

Well, my dear sir, I must tear myself
away. The shades of evening will be
round us before we reach the Lodge, and
I have not settled about Mona's visit.'

I just leave it to herself.'

What do you say, Mona ? ' turning to
her.

I think, dear, you had better not
trouble about it. I do not care about
going to you when you have a party ;
and I do not like to leave my uncle, so I
shall wait till you and Lord Finistoun are
alone, then I will spend a day with you,
if you will have me.'

This is sheer nonsense. Finistoun
charged me to secure you. Bertie is
coming too, and Lord Arthur Wanton,
and St John Lisle. They will all be so
pleased to see you.'

It sounds very ungracious, but I really
have not the least wish to see them.'

Yes, it is most ungracious ; is it not,
Mr Craig?'

Eh, I am no judge. Mona knows her
own mind.'

Well, Mona, you cannot refuse to come
to me next Thursday, the twenty-first. It
is my boy's birthday. He will be a whole
year old. You 7nust come ! '

No, I cannot refuse. On that day I
will dine with you. I want to see the
dear baby again.'

Thank you, dear Mona ! He has
grown such a darling! Is there any use
in trying to persuade you to join us, Mr
Craig ? ' she added insinuatingly.

Not the least. I should nae be company
for a set o' gay callant ! I am a
thoughtful mon and pair frail body.'

I think it would do you good to come
to us. However, I shall hope Finistoun

may succeed in persuading you. Now,
where has Miss Morton wandered to with
that good-looking Highlander ? It will
be dark before we can get home

I think they went round by the big oak,'
said Mona. ' I will go and look for them.'

When found, Miss Morton proposed —
as it was only three miles to the Lodge by
the short cut over the hill — to walk back
under Kenneth's escort, a suggestion
which evidently alarmed him.

This Lady Finistoun decidedly negatived.

Don't talk such nonsense, my dear.
Mr Macalister would not get back till
midnight, and you would be too late for
dinner. Three miles over a hill top are
equal to six on a flat road. Come, let us
be going.'

You are a little tyrant,' said Miss
Morton.

Will you walk with me to the gate,
Mona, while they are bringing round the
ponies. I am sure Mr Macalister will
come so far with Miss Morton.'

With pleasure ! ' cried Mona.
Having bid a cordial farewell to Uncle

Sandy, and a civil good-bye to Mary,

Lady Finistoun slipped her arm through
Monas, and they walked slowly down the
approach.

I have been dying to ask you a hundred
questions, dear ! ' she exclaimed. ' What
a droll, intensely Scotch Scotchman your
uncle is. Quite a character! I am sure
he is very rich. Has he adopted you ?
Is he going to leave you all his money ?
Is 'young Lochinvar" a lover, or a rival
near the throne ? Tell me everything.

Mona laughed, and gave Lady Finis-town
a slight sketch of the situation, in
which that sympathetic young peeress was
immensely interested.

The *' braw Hielandman" is no doubt
an excellent person,' she said ; * but I
should like to see you sole heir to your
uncle's wealth. I suppose he is very rich ? '

Not according to your standard, I
imagine,' returned Mona, ' though I believe
he could make Kenneth independent, and
me, too ; for I have found that woman
wants but little here below to make her
happy. Money cannot buy what is most
essential.'

• Oh, of course not ! Still one wants a

few necessaries. I often wonder how
poor Geraldine will get on. She will not
hear of the horrors which wait on poverty.'

May I,' began Mona, with a slight
hesitation, ' may I send my love to your
mother ? I am so fond of her. And you
know she had a right to be angry with me.
I did not behave well to — '

To poor Leslie Waring! ' put in Lady
Finistoun, as she hesitated. ' No, you
did not! Now, I daresay you are sorry
for it?'

I am very sorry I pained him, but I
am very glad I did not marry him. It
would have been bad for both of us.'

Perhaps so. At animate he is gone to
the bad, so some one was telling me. He
lost heaps of money on horses and at
Monte Carlo ; and he got into an awfully
fast set ; then he disappeared. They say
he was last seen ploughing or breaking
horses, or some such thing, in Texas. So,
after all, he might have ruined you as well
as himself if you had married him.'

Mona was silent. Some voice in her
heart told her that had she been his wife,
the tender consideration he had always

VOL. III. B

shown for her would have kept him
straight. But she answered the suggestion
by the old counter question, * Am I
my brother's keeper ? '

It grieves me to hear such an account
of him,' she said, after a few moments'
silence. * He was kind and generous, and
deserved a better woman than I am.'

Oh, you were always good ! I am
sure we were all fond of you. My
mother took your refusal to marry Mr
Waring dreadfully to heart ; but Sir
Robert would not let her write to you.
He was awfully angry. Then you know
what heaps of things she always has todo,
so I suppose she gradually forgot.'

Mona was silent. While Lady Mary
Everard forgot, she might have starved,
though she acknowledged that she had no
claim on Sir Robert Everard and his wife.
Thank God ! there were true souls to be
found with hearts and memories.

You know, Mona, you are really lucky,'
Lady Finistoun was saying, when Mona
listened again. * As soon as you threw
away one fortune, you picked up another.
I can see that the dear uncle is very fond

of you, so — but interrupting herself, ' I
hear the carriage. Yes ! and I protest
Silly Morton has entrapped the handsome
Highlander to come so far with her. She
is an awful flirt, — can't live without it, in
fact ! She makes such a fool of herself
sometimes.'

Then came leave-taking, and the visitors
drove off as the soft gloom of an
autumnal night began to deepen in the
east.

Do you mind walking back by yourself?'
asked Kenneth. ' I am going up
the hill a bit to speak a word to Allan,
the shepherd.'

Oh, no. I am only a few steps from
our own road, and there is nothing to fear
amonof these delightful hills.'

That's true. I'll be back before supper,'
and Kenneth went swiftly on, with
a free, swinging step.

The sound of his footfall had hardly
died away than another caught Mona's
ear, and seemed to gain upon her. In
spite of her assertion that ' there was
nothing to fear,' she felt an odd uneasiness
that, though not absolutely fear, was

unpleasant ; nor was she surprised when
a voice behind her said, ' Good evening,
Miss Craig ! I did not hope to find you
so far a-field.' Then she was obliged to
pause to turn and greet Lisle, who soon
overtook her. He carried a gun on his
shoulder, and was followed by a gillie
with a gamebag.

This is a piece of luck ! I was shooting
in this direction, so thought of taking
Craigdarroch on my way back, to tell your
uncle that I have had no reply from Balmuir.'

Mona was annoyed at this rencontre.
She wanted to walk back alone in undisturbed
thought. The report of Waring
she had just heard had affected her. She
was so sorry for him ! And now came
Lisle to stir up the less worthy side of
her nature — for Mona was by no means
an angel all round. She had debated
with herself how she should treat him ;
not with resentment — that, she told herself,
she had no right to feel ; not with cold
avoidance, which was her natural inclination,
and which he would interpret into
an expression of displeasure ; but with
friendly, good-humoured indifference. If,

Tzs well to be off with the old love J 2 1

as he seemed disposed to do, he again
tried to amuse a passing hour by making
love to her, she would accept it in a
spirit of fun which should show out at
intervals. He should never flatter himself
again that he made any serious impression
on her.

Can I not take the message for you ? '
she said, looking up, with a demure smile.
It is a steep road to climb after your
day's tramp over the muir.'

What ! and leave your fair side all
unguarded, lady ? '

Oh ! my fair side is accustomed to
take care of itself very successfully.'

Then may I confess to a low-minded
hope that your uncle may ask me to
dinner ? — though, by the way, I am
scarcely fit to present myself.'

A hope I must nip in the bud ! We
have dined.'

Great powers ! Well, I need not lose
this precious chance of speaking to you.
I suppose I shall never see you except
through a haze of Highland relations ?'

No ; it is not very likely.'

If you knew how anxious I am to ask

you a variety of questions, you would give
me some opportunity of a tete-d-tke,

You can ask as many as you like ! I
have no secrets.'

What ! does your uncle know you refused
Waring ? '

How Ao you know I did ?'

Oh ! I know how desperately In love
he was, and it Is currently reported that
you did, and that he went to the bad inconsequence
! '

Nonsense ! ' returned Mona, a grave,
hard expression replacing the smile which
had played round on her lips. ' You and
I, Sir St John Lisle, have seen enough of
the world we live in to know that women
seldom have sufficient influence to make
or mar any man's life.'

I am not so sure ! I fancy if any women
ever had, you would be one of them.'

He looked sharply at her as he spoke.

She laughed naturally and merrily.

'Considering the sort of women who
are most influential, I do not think your
opinion flattering.'

Why, do you not think good women
influence us .^^ '

Not often, I fancy.'

You have grown worldly-wise since we
met, Mona ! '

Does an absence of nearly four years
make you more familiar with my name
than you used to be ? ' she asked coldly.

Yes,' he returned, looking down into
her eyes, ' because I have thought of you
so often, and called you Mona in my heart
since we parted.'

Mona met his eyes very steadily, while
an amused expression crept into her
own.

Call me what you like in the inner
region you term heart, but pray let your
lips conform to the usages of this mundane
society in which we live and move and
have our being,' she said carelessly.

Lisle was silent for a moment.

I accept your rebuke,' he said, ' and
will not again offend.'

Oh, I did not mean to rebuke ! ' said
Mona good-humouredly, — * only to remind.'

You have changed enormously ! ' resumed
Lisle. ' You seem years older.'

• Thank you ! That is a rare compliment.'


I will not be chaffed into retracting it

I meant that you seem more mature ;
and I find, as I always do, that the fruit
is more heavenly sweet than even the
blossom.'

'Yet I imagine that anticipation is
always better than fruition,' said Mona,
quite unmoved by the implied compliment.

They walked a few steps in silence, then
Lisle exclaimed, —

What banishment it must be for you
to live here with these very excellent
people ! '

On the contrary, I feel quite at home.
I am fond of my uncle, because he is fond
of me, and I find life quite endurable.'

Do you always love those who love
you ? '

Yes, always.'

Except in poor Waring's case ? '

That was the exception which proves
the rule. Probably I should have been
wiser had I conformed to your sound
advice,' turning to him with a frank, sweet
smile, ' but I cannot say I repent my
rejection of it.'

I fear,' said Lisle gravely, ' that you

no longer consider me a friend, as you
used ? '

On the contrary, I am very pleased
to welcome such a friend, after his long
absence ! '

Thank you,' and Lisle walked beside
her in silence for a few minutes. ' I
see Lady Finistoun has not been long
in finding you out,' he resumed. ' I met
her just before I overtook you ; she
was accompanied by that fearful female,
Miss Morton ; have you ever met her
before ? '

Never!'

I wonder you have not. She is ubiquitous.
She was the first person I recognised
when I reached Bombay, and
one of the first when I reached Kirktoun.
I wonder Lady Finistoun lets her make
even a temporary settlement at the
Lodge ? '

A few more unimportant sentences
brought them to the house, where they
found Uncle Sandy enjoying forty winks,
while waiting till the darkness had deepened
sufficiently to render the lamp necessary.
Mary was seated on the steps leading to

the garden, reading by the fast-fading
light.

Eh ! what's wrong ? ' cried Uncle
Sandy, rousing up confusedly.

Sir St John Lisle has come to see
you, uncle.'

What's his wull ? ' in an irritated
tone.

I am very sorry to disturb you ; but
I did not like to pass your house without
calling to say that I have had no
answer as yet to my letter, so we will
keep well this side of the supposed boundary,
and get into no trouble, till the
matter is decided.'

Weel it canna be helpit.'

No, certainly not. May I leave you
a couple brace of grouse, Mr Craig ?
They are good plump birds.'

I am much obliged to you. They
are fine and digestible food. Where are
they?'

'The gillie is just outside with my
bag.'

Mona, ca' Phemie to tak them ! '

Then I will not trespass on you any
longer. Pray young ladies, do you not

feel disposed to put me on my way ?
The moon is rising, and the walk back
would be charming ? '

Mary looked at Mona, evidently ready
to return her good offices if necessary
but the other laughed, and said they could
enjoy the view from the window without
the trouble of walking. Lisle reproached
both for refusing his request,
and bidding them a gay good - night,
departed on his homeward road.

Weel, I did na' want to hear he had
nae letter ? ' murmured Uncle Sandy.
I'd rather have my bit doze than a'
his birdies ! ' and settled to his nap
again.

Ah ! ' whispered Mary Black, * it's not
the letter that brought him here. I am
afraid but you are a hard-hearted lassie,
Mona ! He is a handsome, grand-looking
gentleman.'

He is not nearly as good-looking as
Kenneth,' said Mona, laughing at Mary's
evident delight in the discovery she
thought she had made.

Meantime Lisle walked rapidly downhill
in the direction of the hotel where

he and his friend put up, and thinking
very earnestly of the interview he had
just had.

In the new scenes and occupations of
his Hfe in India, he had lost much of
the impression which the little episode
of his intercourse with, and parting from,
Mona had left.

Her breaking with Waring, after having
accepted him, had been a mystery he
could not fathom. As she seemed indifferent
to himself, why did she not
marry a rich, easy-going fellow, who
would do anything for her ? Had she
fallen in love with any other man ? Had
she a secret history, which might account
for her eccentric conduct ?

However that may be, she was fond
of me once, in a proud, shy, reluctant
way,' he thought. * I was certain of
it till that day when she took my advice
about Waring so differently from what
I expected. By Jove! I am right
too ! I have felt her tremble when
I put my arm round her in a waltz,
and it nearly made me make a fool of
myself. What a charming figure she

has. Her eyes too, they are darker
and softer — but steady ! There is a
curious look of resolution in them when
they meet mine. If I were her grandfather,
she could not treat me with more
friendly composure ; she is gently, kindly
indifferent, or acts it admirably, while
I — I am harder hit than ever ! I don't
think I have myself so well in hand
as I used. I must not be an ass, but
I must and will break down that barrier
of profound reserve she masks so cleverly
behind her sweet, careless frankness.
Does she resent the part I played ?
Pooh ! A woman always forgives a
lover who comes back with fresh fire
after a short estrangement. I don't
quite understand her — I must be careful.
She is a most dainty morsel, and if I
succeed — well I can afford myself even
a wife according to my fancy now ! and
not be too much hampered with her after
the bloom is off the grape! How in
Heaven's name did she come to have
such an uncle ? She looks thoroughbred,
if ever a woman did ! There is
a sort of conscious power about her

smile that stings a fellow's pride. I
wonder if she is thinking of me ? or of
that other possible lover, whose existence
would explain much ? I wonder if that
word of counsel I ventured to offer still
rankles ? Dare I explain it away ? No,
I dare not approach the subject. Well,
I know women pretty well — give me
time, and I think I shall win this puzzling
girl. No one ever took such a
hold on my heart — no, my fancy,
before.'

EDGED TOOLS.

IT was, on the whole, a bright
time at Craigdarroch. Mona
found Mary a very pleasant
companion, — a quiet, kindly,
sensible girl, whose hearty admiration
and profound faith was a gratifying tribute
to her new friend. Uncle Sandy's
uneasy pride had perhaps never before
been so satisfactorily fed, and, like all
things thus satiated, was lulled to sleep
for the present. If at any time the
currents of his temper flowed from the
east, it was against Kenneth they chafed ;
and Kenneth was more inflexible than
formerly. It was a great relief to Mona
to have a partner in her readings and

writing and general care of Uncle Sandy.
Moreover, Mary had learned to play
chess with her father, the schoolmaster,
and allowed herself to be beaten with
much tact — occasionally winning to keep
up the illusion.

Amid this temporary tranquillity and
comfort, Mona often thought of her
dear, kind Deb ; not that Deb would
care for a life of inactivity and seclusion
busy days, occasional theatres, concerts,
and soirees, where she might display a
dainty and becoming cap, this was the
existence which suited her. But by her
own heart Mona knew what a blank
her absence left in the warm - hearted,
bright - spirited woman's life. She was
therefore a most steady and satisfactory
correspondent, giving a weekly picture
of her days, and descriptions of her readings
and musing. She made, however,
very slight mention of Lisle ; but slight
as it was, it sufficed to set Madame
Debrisayay off.

Your letter, as usual, reached me
on Saturday. I can't tell you how I look
forward to it ; and it's like you, dear,

do

to be so faithful in writing. You seem
to have far better weather than we have
in London ; it is warm and damp, and
the streets as greasy as if all the tallow-chandlers
in town had poured grease
over them. People are coming back,
and my days getting filled up, so I feel
less lonely than I did at first. Is it
not a queer turn your meeting that nice,
elegant Captain Lisle away there in the
wilds. I always thought, and always
will think, that he was a great admirer
of yours ; and if he had not been sent
off to India just when your poor grandmother
died, there's no knowing what
might have happened. I hope, dear,
you will not turn up your nose at him
as you generally do — Lady Lisle would
look well and suit you well. How does
your uncle put up with such a thoroughgoing
aristocrat ? I hope you are keeping
him (Uncle Sandy) well in hand ;
you must always remember the old
lines, '' Tender-hearted stroke the nettle,"
etc., etc. ; and a Scotch thistle requires
a firmer grip than anything else! I am
not sure I like all you tell me about

VOL. III. c

your new friend Miss Black. Don't
let her, or Kenneth either, get too
strong a hold on the old gentleman.
The Scotch are deep and deceitful, I
have always heard. Now for some of
my own news. I have some new pupils
two daughters of a Mrs Rivers, who
has lately come from India, and is giving
these girls finishing lessons before taking
them back with her. Lady Halter recommended
me. One of them (Miss
Rivers, I mean) has as much ear and as
much voice as a crow. I told her mother
it was robbery to take her money, for
I could do her no good, and she
wasn't pleased. The other girl has a
sweet little pipe enough, so I go on with
both of them. This, however, is a twist
in the stream of my narrative. A few days
ago I had stayed over my time, and Mrs
Rivers asked me to come in to luncheon.
I was starving — talking and singing make
one fearfully hungry — so I went in. They
were very pleasant, and had a nice curry.

Presently a General something was
announced, and a very grand old warrior
marched in.

A great, tall, thin man — a bag of bones
you might say — with big black eyebrows,
and angry-looking eyes ; but his hair
was white and his face brown, and he
had an empty sleeve. He was named
to me and gave me a stare, as much as
to say, "Who the deuce are you ?"
Then he began to talk in short sentences,
and with what we might term
a " staccato fortissimo " manner. Somehow
his eyes and voice seemed familiar
to me, only I could not find a clear place
for him in my memory. When he had
eaten some curry — and abused it — and
taken a glass of hock and seltzer, he
said, looking at me as if he was going
to accuse me of murder, —

*' What did you say this lady's name
is?"

" Madame Debrisayay," said Mrs Rivers.

'' Humph ! " said he ; " are you a
Frenchwoman ? "

" No," said I ; " but I am next door
to one — I am Irish ! "

" From what part of that unfortunate
country, may I ask ? " more politely.

'' From Ballykillruddery."

'' Ah, I thought so ! "

And he was silent for a bit ; then he
said, with a pleasant smile than I
thought his grim face could put on, —

" I see you have no recollection of
me."

'' Your voice and face are not strange
to me," I said, my heart beginning to
beat, " but I cannot recall your name."

** Have you quite forgotten a gunner
called Fieldenen — Mark Fieldenen — who won
the cup at the Ballykillruddery hunt races
in '53, more than thirty years ago ? "

'* Do I not ? And I helped to do
up my cousin Rose Nugent's hair with
ribbons of his colours for the race ball 1
I know you now, and I must shake
hands with you ! "

So we shook hands ; and his brown
face softened and glowed while he talked
of Rose. He was desperately in love
with her, and they were engaged. He
went off to India; she stayed at home
got a wetting out boating, took cold,
and went off in a decline. He married,
and lost his wife, and now he is wandering
about in indifferent health. I

should not have mentioned all this if
it had not been for a bit that will interest
you. In the course of conversation, it
turned out that the General is some
relation of poor Mr Waring's, and he
is awfully vexed with him. It seems
he has got through a heap of money,
and has gone away to America. A
friend of the General's saw him breaking
horses last spring somewhere in California.
I said I had met him, and what
a good fellow I thought him. Then
the General said he was an ass, and
had let himself be knocked out of the
running because he could not get the
girl he wanted to marry him. Of course
I did not let on that I knew anything
about it, and the subject dropped. Then
my old General asked for my address,
and said he would come and see me
some Sunday — which, I told him, was my
only free day, — but I don't fancy he will.
Now, my darling, I have prosed long
enough, and I must stop. When shall I
see you again ? Can't you persuade your
uncle to come up to town for a little
more physic } You make him too happy

and comfortable. I was going to write,
Don't refuse Sir St John Lisle without
thinking twice," but I will not. Matrimony
is a tremendous experiment, and
I'll not venture to recommend it. God
bless you, my own dear. My best
respects to your uncle. — Ever your
loving friend, Geraldine Debrisayay.'

Mona read this with the deepest interest.
She smiled at the account of
the meeting at Mrs Rivers', but grew
very grave over the description of
Waring's decadence.

Am I to blame ? I wish I were not
always having sidelong reproaches flung
at me. He would have been as bad or
worse, if I had married him, for I could
not have been a loving, sympathetic
wife, and then his last state and mine
too would be worse than the first. How
I wish I could hear that he was welland
happily married.'

The remembrance of his pained expression
and quivering lips when he left
her — after she had broken with him —
haunted her for some time, as it always

did, after it had been roused by any
allusion to her rejected lover. But her
housekeeping cares, the demands of
Uncle Sandy, the pleasure of a ramble
with Mary, helped to banish these unpleasant
thoughts.

The Thursday on which Mona was to
have a peep once more at the world she
felt she had quitted for ever, rose fresh
and clear after yesterday of storm and
rain.

Lady Finistoun had offered to drive
over after luncheon and fetch her, so
Mona — relieved from the necessity of
taking out Uncle Sandy's ramshackle
conveyance — dressed, and having put up
a carefully-arranged dinner dress and
change of raiment, waited quietly for
her ladyship's appearance.

Uncle Sandy had driven away early
with Kenneth to a sale of Highland
cattle at Kirktoun, and Mary had gone
to carry some jelly to the shepherd's
mother, who was old and weak.

Mona was reading a review sent herby
Madame Debrisayay, when she heard
the sound of a carriage driving up.

She Is earlier than I expected,' washer
mental comment as she glanced at the
clock. ' It is barely half-past three.'

Voices were heard speaking in the
hall, and Mona rose intending to go out
and meet her friend, when the door
opened, and Lisle entered unannounced,
his hat in his hand, looking bright and
brown. Mona coloured in spite of herself.

Good-morning,' he cried cheerily. * I
hope you will forgive a change of plans.
Lady Finistoun finds she must drive into
Kirktoun to meet Major and Mrs
Menteith — Finistoun's sister, you know —
so I offered myself and my dogcart to
convey you to the Lodge. I hope you
will forgive the change.'

Mona was silent for an instant, while
she took a rapid view of the situation.
That she was annoyed at being caught
in such a trap, need not be said. She
did not, however, see any way out of it,
and her first care was to hide any
symptom of annoyance from the gay
cavalier who stood awaiting her commands.


Oh ! I have nothing to forgive,' she

said, smiling. * If you do not mind
taking me and my dress basket, I am
ready to start.'

Well said cried Lisle exultingly.
*As it is a fine clear afternoon, and we
have plenty of time, I will take you
round by Balmuir ; the views are splendid
nearly all the way.'

Very well,' said Mona, who had now
recovered herself. * Everyone is out
except myself ; but would you not like
to put up your horse ? '

No, thanks ! he is quite fresh. I
have only come over from Kirktoun,
where, if I am not much mistaken, I
saw Uncle Sandy and young Macalister
struggling among a mob of wild-looking
cattle,' and he smiled significantly.

Yes, they went to buy some of the
creatures,' returned Mona, with an answering
smile.

Shall we start ? '

Yes ! I will leave a message, and be
with you directly.'

In a few minutes Mona was perched
beside her charioteer, her light dress
basket hoisted up and confided to the

care of the groom — who sat behind — and
they were off.

Lisle was a practised whip, his horse
steady and powerful. The vehicle was
easy, and Mona — leaning back and completely
mistress of herself — enjoyed the
air, the view, the motion ; yes, and the
easy talk, the carefully-veiled admiration
of her companion, which formed a pleasant
undertone.

I hope there are not many very
steep hills,' she said, after a few moments'
silence ; * I am not too courageous.'

No, the road is safe and easy ! I
know the country ; I was here for a
whole season with Finistoun a few years
ago, the autumn before you were presented.
That is a sort of epoch to me.'

Much more so to me ! ' she returned,
laughing. ' I well remember the heart-sinking
with which I looked forward to
making my courtesy under the eye of
royalty. Do you know I sometimes
think all that must have been a dream.'

I fear the waking cannot have been
very pleasant,' said Lisle, bending his
eyes upon her.

I have nothing to complain of! There
is not so much difference between one
style of life and another, as a man like
you would think.'

'A man like me?' said Lisle. 'What
am I like ? '

Like your fellows, I suppose. Life to
you and to your peers, without horses and
dogs, shooting enchanting, clubs, races, and,
for the more ambitious, politics, would be
something intolerable. Now, a regular occupation,
by which you earn your bread,
and slowly but surely improve your position,
answers all the purposes of these
costly amusements ; but I will not bore
you by prosing — '

Suppose I enjoy listening to the tones
of your most sweet voice, will you not indulge
me by a little more ? '

Oh, I have lost the thread of my discourse.
I only want to say that now time
has accustomed me to the loss of poor,
dear granny, I think I am very happy.'

But there is one piece of your life
about which I am profoundly interested,
and would like to inquire into, if you
would permit me.'

Yes ; I do not mind telling you anything
of that kind.'

There was a period after Mrs Newburgh's
death, when you had left the
Everardss', and had not yet disinterred
your uncle. How did you get through
that time ? '

Mona laughed.

*A dear good soul took me in — a lady
who had been my music mistress, and she
showed me how to earn my living under
her guidance. I attained to the proud
eminence of earning about seven pounds
a month. It was very nice, I assure you,
to feel the money was my own.'

Great heavens!' ejaculated Lisle. *And
you preferred this to marrying a man of
wealth ! '

You must know how delicious the
sense of independence is. Do you think
a woman cannot feel it too ? '

And does love count for nothing ? '
Mona laughed again.

Yes, I suppose with the real upper
class of human beings, it counts for a
good deal. It is part of the sum, however,
I have not yet worked out. Tell

me something of your Indian life. You
see I reciprocate the interest you take in
my history!

I do not think you reciprocate at all
returned Lisle, with a wistful look, which
she met steadily, a slightly mocking smile
in her own.

Lisle's brow contracted ; but he had a
good deal of tact and self-control, and he
immediately started a light, amusing sketch
of his life, so far as society, travelling, and
hunting went, and time flew pleasantly.

What a well-bred, intelligent voice he
had ! What an indescribable air of superiority
and command. No, Mona was not
surprised at her early weakness for her
companion, but she did wonder that he
seemed so ready to make love to her
again. She was not at all aware that she
was exceedingly attractive, nor that the
fair promise of her early girlhood had
been amply fulfilled, while the shy reserve
which had partially shrouded the
brightness of her understanding had
ripened into a delightful soft tranquillity,
suggesting the wealth of thought and
feeling that slumbered beneath it.

She listened with evident interest to
all he said, often questioning him, and
so they drew near the end of their journey,
— of the tête-à-tête which Lisle had
schemed to secure, and he had not moved
her pleasant, friendly ease by one instant
of hesitation or confusion. His most unmistakable
insinuations, his most killing
glances, only produced half-amused, half-kindly
smiles.

Lisle was furious, mortified, and more
in love than he ever was since his boyish
days. Should he have to tell her in so
many words that he adored her, and
sought her for his wife, in order to extract
any recognition from her ? If she
were cold, if she shrank from him, or
repelled him, he could understand it, and
he would know how to act ; but this
frank, charming kindness, this readiness
to be with him! It was an invisible,
impassable fence which he did not seem
capable of breaking down. ' If I could
but ascertain whether I have a rival or
no,' he thought, * I should know what todo.
I suspect she is playing a part.
What is her object ? To be Lady

Lisle ? That would be object enough
to most women ; but, though I have
long ceased to believe in angels, Mona
is something different, or she never
would have chosen poverty in preference
to Waring. Well, I'll try what cool
friendship will do, with a dash of flirting
in other directions.'

There is the Lodge,' he said, pointing
to a long, low building, or collection
of buildings, which lay in a hollow beneath
them, the wild moorland round it,
and some huge grey rocks behind. ' The
position is not comparable to Craigdar-
rich, and it must be cold and bleak
enough in winter. But I suppose no
one stays here in winter.'

I fancy my uncle will,' said Mona,
*and I cannot say I like the prospect.
I shall try and get leave of absence fora
few weeks, to pay a visit to Madame
Debrisayay.'

Who may she be ? '

Do you not remember seeing a lady
who used to teach me singing ? '

I do remember ! — a good-looking woman
with dark eyes. I well remember

stealing into the drawing-room at Green
Street, and listening to you while you
were quite unconscious. What a shy
bird you were in those days ! '

I was indeed ! How curious it seems
to look back now ! Well, that was the
lady who took me in when the Everardss
turned me out — though I turned myself
out.'

And where does she live ? '

'In what you would consider inaccessible
wilds, but — ' as the sound of a
rapidly - approaching carriage made her
turn, and she interrupted herself to exclaim,
— * Here is Lady Finistoun and her
visitors ! '

They were alongside almost as she
spoke.

So glad I have overtaken you ! '
cried Lady Finistoun, saluting with her
whip. * I wanted to be at home to
receive you. Let us pass, Sir St
John.'

Lisle drew to one side, and whipping
up her ponies, Lady Finistoun dashed on
at a rapid pace.

At the door were assembled Miss Morton,

Bertie Everard, and Herr von Oetzen,
one of the attaches to the German Embassy.
The rest of the party were still
in the forest, and Lord Finistoun had
gone deer-stalking.

Lady Finistoun had alighted, and stood
on the steps to welcome Mona, which
she did very cordially, kissing her more
than once, and presenting her to Mrs
Menteith as her ' dear cousin.'

So,' said Everard, advancing to shake
hands with her, ' you have been assigned
to Lisle's care oti revient totijotcrs, eh ? '

Oh, my mission is to take care of
myself,' returned Mona, smiling. ' I did
not know you had arrived.'

Came last night. Had I known that
Uncle Sandy's lair was between this and
Kirktoun, I should have paid you a visit
671 route. Well, Mona, and have you
recovered the Fitzallan episode ? The
poor fellow has had a desperate affair
since. We have had to buy off the lady !
How is my uncle ? Are you the acknowledged
heiress of Craigdarroch ? '

Alas, no ! There is a cousin in the
way. You must assist me to poison him.'

VOL. III. D

With pleasure. We will arrange the
terms of the desperate deed after dinner.'

Come, Mona, the dressing-bell will
ring in a few minutes. You shall have
a cup of tea in your room.'

The usual description of party was
assembled to enjoy the pleasures of shooting,
fishing, and deer-stalking in the forest,
as it was called, of Strathairlie : — a few
fine ladies masquerading by day in the
simplest of tweed dresses and thickest of
walking boots, and blazing out in the
evening in fascinating toilettes, most
ingeniously contrived to show ofT the
best points of the wearers ; a larger
gathering of men, who were out all day,
and extremely tired at night, the greater
number of whom were exceedingly bored
by the presence of women, and moodily
contrasted the wedded present with the
glorious free-bachelorhood of past shooting
parties on the same ground.

Mona felt very grateful to Madame
Debrisayay for persuading her to have a
black satin * demi-toilette,' as she donned
that garment. It was most becoming to
the beautiful fairness of her neck and

arms, yet she viewed herself with a
slight sigh, as she thought of the quivering,
exultant joy with which she used to
go down to dinner at Harrowby Chase,
to read an admiring verdict in Lisle's
eyes, and listen to the words of tenderness
he used to find so many unsuspecting
opportunities of whispering. Then,
she never doubted his entire devotion ;
now, she could hardly believe that anyone
would sacrifice much for her. At
animate she enjoyed unruffled peace, and,
as a looker-on, would see more of the
game than she ever saw before. At
two or three-and-twenty, however, philosophy
is but skin-deep, and life can
never be enjoyable to the young without
a personal interest.

The dinner was pleasant — even noisy,
as most of the men were young and Inclined
to discuss their adventures eagerly.
Mona was taken in by an honest-looking
naval captain, who made himself very
agreeable ; and Lisle fell to the lot of a
frisky widow, with whom he flirted gaily.
Everard and Miss Morton quarrelled
audibly.

The young heir was paraded, and his
health drunk ; and after dinner Lady
Finistoun and her sister-in-law went upto
look at him in his cot. Then Mona
was reminded that she used to sing, and
was sent to the piano, where she was
surrounded by some of the gentlemen as
soon as they came in from dinner. The
attacks complimented her on her renders
a Folkslieder, and talked to her fora
few moments in German.

Then Lisle, who had not been near
her since they had arrived, came close
behind her, and said, in a low tone, —

May I ask you for Tost's '' Goodbye,
Summer?" It is the last song I
heard you sing.'

'Was it?' said Mona. (How well she
remembered that last happy evening at
the Chase !) * I am afraid I can hardly
manage it without the music, but I will
try.'

She succeeded in singing it sweetly
and correctly, but she might have put
more expression it.

Thank you,' said Lisle shortly.

I don't think you sing as well as you

did. You used to give that in a much more
melting style formerly ! ' cried Everard.

Sorry I have deteriorated,' said Mona,
good-humouredly, as she took up her
gloves, and left the piano.

The German attached sat down uninvited,
and after rattling off a brilliant moreau
glided into an inspiriting waltz.

After tapping her foot for a minute or
two, Miss Morton boldly invited one of
the younger men, a boyish Northumbrian
squire, to dance with her, and they were
soon gyrating in the hall, the floor of
which was polished oak, the open door
permitting the music to be distinctly heard.
Lady Finistoun followed with her brother-in-law,
and Lisle, who had been talking
with his host, ceased to speak, after listening
for a few minutes, and crossing to the
doorway where Mona was standing, saide

Shall we follow this wild example 1 I
have scarcely danced since we waltzed
together at the Chase. Will you trust
yourself with me ? '

Yes,' returned Mona, in a low voice.

Something in its tone made Lisle look
attentively at her ; he saw, to his great

surprise, that her large, dark Quid eyes
were full of tears. What had affected her ?
He could not remember having heard the
waltz before ; was it associated with any
special memory in Mona's mind, or with
that possible * he ' who may have filled the
place he had voluntarily vacated ? At
animate he was conscious of a great longing
to kiss away the tears, — to hold her
in his arms, — to make her confess she had
loved him once, — to promise that she would
love him again. She was not refrigerated
and indifferent, she was as delightfully
tender as ever. How charming a soft
womanly woman was — a gentle impressionable
woman !

No doubt, so long as the softness and
impracticability does not bore my lord
her master, or worry him with tears and
woes when his own tenderness flows
away from her into new channels.

So Lisle put his arm round her, holding
her to him more closely than was absolutely
necessary, and they swung round
in time to the music. Mona, however,
soon declared that It was so long since
she had danced, that • she felt tired and

giddy almost immediately, and disengaging
herself from her partner, sat down
beside Mrs Menteith, a plain, pleasant-mannered
woman, with a degree of military
decision in her tone. She had married a
light dragoon of moderate means, and had
never regretted it.

Lisle stood by her for some time watching
for an opportunity to talk to her
unheard by others, but none offered.

In truth, the waltz was one that brought
back to Mona painfully sweet and sad
memories. It was associated in her mind
with a certain evenings when it had first
dawned upon her that Lisle, of whom she
stood a little in awe, sought her with a
lover's warmth and tenderness. From
that moment all the romance of her nature
clung round not him, but the golden image
of him which her fancy had set up ! He
was still, exteriorly, her idea, and she
could have wept over the destruction of
her lovely dream. Beyond this, the music
recalled her kind tyrannical grannie, the
sad scenes which preceded her death,
above all, Leslie Waring, and all the pain
she had inflicted on him. His face came

back to her as it looked when they parted
the boyish, plump, good - humoured
countenance, made manly and dignified
by suffering gallantly borne ; and he had
no mother or sister to comfort or support
him ! Like most warm-hearted girls, Mona
had a great idea that every woman should
be ' Our Lady of Consolation ' to her kinsfolk
and acquaintance.

It was the thought of Waring more than
anything else that brought the tears to her
eyes. How little Lisle could have followed
the interweaving of her thoughts. Yet
she knew he had felt to a certain degree
with her from the instant he had put his
arm round her. Yet it was with a kind
of tender regret that she felt she could
never trust him again. To Mona the
absence of trust implied the death of love.

If you can spare Sir St John!' cried
Miss Morton, suddenly standing before
her, * I have suffered enough at the hands
and feet of an incompetent partner, and I
want a few really good turns before that
delightful waltz stops.'

My dear Miss Morton, it is nearly
four years since I bounded on the light

fantastic toe,' said Lisle coolly, ' and I am
not, Miss Craig will tell you, equal to
conduct you through the mazy dance. I
am going to have a cigar in the garden,'
and he strolled away.

I really think Captain — I mean Sir
St John Lisle, can be frightfully rude !
He was always one of the most conceited
and heartless of men ! You remember
that affair of Lady Parchment ; he really
threw her over scandalously ! '

I think Lady Parchment was quite
capable of taking care of herself Lisle
is just an ordinary man of the world — a
little above the average in intelligence,'
said Mrs Menteith.

Well, I would not have any young
person put much trust in him,' returned
Miss Morton significantly. ' You ought to
have brought over that handsome cousin
of yours, Miss Craig. He might have
taught us some reel steps. I want very
much to learn the Highland Fling.'

I never saw Kenneth dance,' said
Mona.

Kenneth ! What a charming name.
He has the most superb figure in the

Highland costume you can imagine, Mrs
Menteith. A young Frederick Diu. I
really have quite a schwarmerei for him.
Are you not in love with him, my dear
Miss Craig ? Living in the same house
day after day, I don't see how it is to be
avoided

Mona laughed, and said Kenneth was
very handsome. Then Miss Morton declared
her intention of going over to
Craigdarroch for the express purpose of
improving her acquaintance with the ' braw
John Hielandman.'

Later, and shortly before the party
broke up for the night, Lisle strolled upto
where Mona was standing with Lord
Finistoun, who moved away to ask his wife
some question about tomorrow.

There is such a splendid moon,' he
said ; * I think you would be delighted
with the effect of the silvery light streaming
o'er moor and mountain. A walk
down to the river would be charming.'

*I wish I could go!' exclaimed Mona
frankly.

Do come ! ' he cried. * You would not
be missed for half-an-hour.'

No, no ! I shall,' as my uncle says,
gang wa' to my bed, and have a peep
at the beauty you describe from my
window.'

It is a moon worthy of the warmest
lovers ! ' exclaimed Lisle, in a tone of
regret.

Is the moon worthy of warm lovers''
said Mona, glancing at him with an arch
smile ; * because it is, as astronomers tellus,
a region of extinct volcanoes — of exhausted
fires.'

Lisle looked at her sharply, and his
brows contracted.

What matter,' he said, ' if they were
heavenly while they lasted.'

Ah ! fire does not belong to heaven —
rather to the other place. Good-night.'

Mona! ' he exclaimed, in a low tone.

Good - night,' she repeated. 'Goodnight,
Sir St John Lisle.'

DIVERS OPINIONS.

Though Mona yielded to
Lady Finlstoun's earnest request,
and remained over the
following day, she was really
anxious to return home. This passing
contact with the social strata from which
she had been divorced, showed her how
deep was the gulf that yawned between
her present and her past. She could not
return to Lady FInistoun's set, neither
would they that belonged to it pass from
thence ; she had thrown in her lot with
Uncle Sandy, and with Uncle Sandy she
must abide.

Mona had not the faintest tinge of
snobbishness, but she was really fond of

Lady Finistoun, and the easy, pleasant
manners, the tact, and tone of enjoyment
of those who surrounded her, made a delightful
whole, on which she was reluctant
to turn her back. She was, however,,
philosophic enough to do so with a good
grace, accepting the inevitable without a
murmur.

During the day and evening which
succeeded that last recorded. Lisle had
no chance of speaking to Mona except
before witnesses — and he grew very ill-tempered
as time went on. Most of the
ladies went out to lunch with the sportsmen
at a distant point, but Mona remained
with Mrs Menteith, and took a
ramble with her, the heir, and his nurse,
in the lazy, sunny afternoon.

At dinner Miss Morton cleverly captured
Lisle, whose face, under the infliction,
was a source of amusement to
Mona whenever she looked at him.
There was no attempt at dancing — the
German attache sang some duets with
Mona, and Miss Morton, who had a
shrill, clear voice — trained to perform extraordinary
gymnastics — treated the company

to some French comic songs — a
performance which so disgusted Lisle,
that, with an expressive glance at Mona,
he disappeared and was seen no more.

The next morning was grey and soft,
and Lisle, with Lord Finistoun, started
early to stalk dear. Lisle was in a very
bad temper. He was enraged at the
smiling ease with which Mona kept him
at bay, and mortified at being held in
check by the fair woman who so comparatively
short a time before had changed
colour when he spoke to her — whose hand
trembled when he took it in his own.
Moreover, he was furious with himself
for having lost the reins of his self-control,
and fallen so much deeper in love
than he had been. After all, he would
get over it again — only he must not
see her, or he would not answer for
himself.

Lady Finistoun expected more guests,
and was unable to accompany Mona on
her return home. Miss Morton offered
to drive her back to Craigdarroch in the
pony carriage, and some time after luncheon
they started. Lady Finespun parted

with Mona most effusively, and insisted
on her giving a promise to come again ;
but while neither granting nor withholding
it, Mona guessed that in the rush of new
pleasures and new people she would
probably be forgotten.

Various important nothings had delayed
their setting out, and it was nearly teatime
when Miss Morton drew up the
ponies at Mr Craig's door.

The old gentleman had evidently been
asleep over a volume of ' Metaphysics,'
which he frequently took up after dinner.

Here I am, uncle, back again on
your hands,' said Mona, going into the
library.

Weel, I am glad to see your face ! '
said Uncle Sandy cheerfully, ' though you
did outstay your leave. Eh, you are looking
bonnie ! You'll be finding it dull and
lamely here after yon grand loose, and
a' the fine doings.'

I am very glad to come home, I assure
you.'

That's right ; it's kindly said.'

Miss Morton is in the drawing-room,
uncle — may I ask her to tea ? *

Ay, to be sure. Is Lady Finistoun
no with you ? She is a bonnie bird ! '

Mona explained, and ended by ringing
and ordering tea to be prepared forthwith.

I'm glad to see you, mem,' said Uncle
Sandy, shuffling into the drawing-room
with the help of his stick, and holding
out his hand to Miss Morton, who rose
up tall, thin, and somewhat masculine-looking,
to greet him. ' You'll stay and
tak' a bite and a cup o' tea.* Here he
tumbled into a chair. * There has been
a touch of east in the wind yesterday and
to-day, and my back and limbs have
been just aching fearful'. You'll feel it
far keener over in Strathairlie — we are
weel sheltered here.'

Oh, it is a wretched climate everywhere,'
returned Miss Morton, with decision.
* In another month I suppose all
civilised people must quit these latitudes.'

Civilised!' repeated Uncle Sandy, ina
sharp key. * Why, Scotland is the most
civilised country upon earth ! '

Oh, indeed ! I never heard that before,'
said Miss Morton, removing her hat
and resettling the feather.

Then it is time you did ! Whaup will
ye find a people so well educated, and so
intelligent ? Whaup will ye find so much
thrift, so little crime, such a God-fearing',
self-respecting' population — '

So extensive a consumption of whisky,
and so large an illegitimate birth-rate ! '
interrupted Miss Morton, with strong
emphasis.

Uncle Sandy gasped. That a woman — a
young woman, or a woman who posed as
young — a spinster, a fine lady, should have
unhesitatingly uttered such a word — absolutely
stunned him.

Weel, weel, that's easy said. " Gie a
dog a bad name." A' that is no proven,'
he returned feebly ; for he knew little of
statistics, nor was he much given to believe
what he did not like.

I don't know if you ever read the
graver magazines,' said Miss Morton, with
an intolerable air of superiority, ' so perhaps
you have not seen Professor Mac-rubber's
paper on the comparative
morality of the Celtic races. He brings
out some curious facts.'

Facts ! ' angrily. * Are ye sure they

VOL. III. E

are facts ? I would nae be so keen to
believe what a mon says against his ain
country — (I suppose by his name he's
Scotch ?) — " it's an ill bird that fouls its
ain nest." '

Oh ! he is a perfectly reliable scientific
man, and he says the illegitimate — '

It's no becoming to argue such a like
subject wi' a young teddy,' interrupted
Uncle Sandy, hastily and severely. 'Atony
rate, we are civilised enough to ken
that.'

Oh, dear me ! ' exclaimed Miss Morton,
with some contempt. ' It is evident you
are more moral in talk than in action ! '

Before Mr Craig could gather his forces
to reply, Mona came to the rescue.

I am sure tea must be ready. Shall
we go into the dining-room } I am quite
longing for a cup.'

'So am I. It is past my usual teatime,'
cried Miss Morton. * What a lovely
view you have here. I have rarely seen
anything more beautiful, and I have
knocked about a good deal.'

I am surprised ye find any good in the
country at a',' remarked Uncle Sandy,

with withering sarcasm, as he took his
seat.

The country, the rocks and mountains,
and burns and sea, are well enough. In
short, all save the spirit of man and the
climate are divine,' remarked Miss morton,
with cheerful disregard of what anyone
else thought.

This was so very evident, that Uncle
Sandy instinctively felt he had better leave
her alone.

Mona and me — we have wandered a
bit oursel's,' he resumed, to change the
subject. ' It's verra diverting' to see the
differences betwixt diverse nations.'

It used to be,' corrected Miss Morton ;
^ but they are all growing horribly alike.
When I was last at Jerusalem,' she continued,
helping herself to a cream scone,
while Uncle Sandy's eyes looked big with
amazement, as seen over a huge cup of
tea he had just lifted to his lips, — ' when
I was last at Jerusalem, a very enterprising
German was just going to start
a threepenny 'bus, from the Temple to
Tophet — convenient, but vulgar.'

It is much to the credit of Uncle Sandy's

national caution and self-control that he
swallowed his tea in silence, and even
helped himself to a spoonful of marmalade,
before he replied dryly in the interrogative
form, —

And how many times might you have
been in the Holy City ?'

Twice. First when I joined Lord and
Lady Hanover's party, and I was awfully
bored. That determined me to travel on
my own hook ever after ; and then the
year before last, when I went down the
Danube and by the Black Sea to Constantinople,
and so on by Smyrna and
Damascus to Jerusalem. I only took my
maid, and a dragoman from Smyrna. I
enjoyed that tour. I met some very good-looking
American naval officers ; they
were shrewd and amusing. Apropos
where is your nephew, Mr Craig?'

He is wa' to the loch wi' Mary Black
to fish. He never does much, though, withe
rod. Icelanders have no patience —
they want to be aye bang banging at
birds. I doubt but Kenneth will have
taken the nets. They will be here soon.
The girlie canna want her tea.'

I like to hear you talk, Mr Craig,' said
Miss Morton, sending in her cup for replenishing.
' I fancy your Scotch is pure
and unadulterated.'

My English, you mean,' he said angrily.
^ It is weel known that the Scotch speak
better and more grammatical English than
the English themselves.'

I am learning a good deal to-day,' said
Miss Morton coolly.

Mona hastened to turn the subject.

I have always had a great wish to see
Damascus,' she said. ' Is it very beautiful
? '

'Yes, very lovely. The most picturesque
place. It is completely encircled by
hills. The site is something like — oh, like
a frying-pan ! The city, with its gardens
and abundant trees, lies at the bottom, and
a straight white road sloping up slightly
looks like the handle, and leads to Beyrout.'

Here comes your nephew, Mr Craig,
and the young lady,' cried Miss Morton,
interrupting herself — her seat was opposite
one of the windows. ' There is
another gentleman with them. I seem
to know him. Why, it is Bertie Everard,

and he has a rod in his hand. I thought
he had gone with the deer-stalkers. Now
he will expect me to drive him back.
What a bore.'

In a few moments Miss Black came in,
blushing brightly from pleasure at seeing
Mona, as well as from habitual shyness.
She came straight to her, and kissed her
with quiet cordiality. Kenneth, too, had
no eyes for anyone but Mona, until he
had greeted her.

Then Miss Morton called out, —

'How goes it, Mr Macalister; come
here and sit by me. What a provoking
creature you are to be out, when I have
taken the trouble to drive over here.'

Kenneth coloured crimson, and explained
to her and to his uncle that he was not fit
to sit down to table, after dragging a net,
until he had changed his clothes. Then
he made his escape.

Everard went up to Mr Craig.

Very glad to see you, sir,' he said, with
unusual civility. ' I have been coming to
call on you two or three times. Now I
have made my way here at rather an unsuitable
time, which I hope you'll excuse.'

Sit ye toon, sit ye toon ! ' cried Uncle
Sandy. * All times are suitable — specially
when food is ready. Bring mair cups and
cookies. We are nae denuded, though
the housewife has been away.'

For some occult reason, Everard was
rather a favourite with Uncle Sandy.

I thought you had gone with the deerstalkers,'
said Mona.

I intended going, but Lisle was in such
a beastly bad temper I thought I wouldn't
venture. We would have been sure to
quarrel. This place looks uncommonly
well, — ever so much better than when
Fitzallan had it. That's partly your doing,
eh, Mona ? Thank you,' as she handed
him his tea. ' I must say women can be of
use in making the inside of a house
bearable, if in nothing else.'

I believe men would do it better if
they put their minds to it said Miss
Morton.

You ought not to say so, even if you
think it,' returned Everard. ' It isn't
good form for a woman to run down
women.'

But I don't run them down ! ' cried

Miss Morton. Then interrupting herself,
as Mary was about to take the seat beside
her — * No, no ! this is Mr MacaHster's
place.'

Poor Mary fled to Mona's side of the table.

Come by me, my dearie,' said Uncle
Sandy, * hustling ' nearer the end of the
table to make room for her.

Why, you never do anything else,'
Everard continued, speaking to Miss
Morton. ' You bully all the women up
at the Lodge to no end.'

Why do they let me, then ? They
are so weak, I cannot help it.'

The Apostle says, — ' began Uncle
Sandy with some solemnity, intending to
convey a dignified rebuke, and to say a
word in season.

Which Apostle ? ' asked Everard
quickly. ' The Apostle Paul was a man
of the world. He might have an idea or
two on the extremely complicated question
of female character, but the rest are
nowhere on such a subject.'

Uncle Sandy retreated in tolerable order
on the scones, but made no further sallies.

You are really the most contradictory

creature I ever met, Bertie ! ' exclaimed
Miss Morton. * You are always railing
at women yourself, but if I say a word
against them, you are up in arms.'

In arms! Whose arms? Yours? I
am afraid you would give me more of a
bear's hug than a loving squeeze.'

Well ! ' cried Kenneth, hastily swallowing
a lump of shortbread, and reddening
vehemently with the effort, as also at the
sound of his own voice, * I say that no
man is good for much who thinks the
world would be worth living in were it not
for the ladies.'

Bravo, Kenneth ! ' said Mona, while
Mary clapped her hands, and Uncle Sandy
again essayed to express his views.

The mon wha has na a kindly thocht
for the mither that watched over him
an—'

Oh ! mothers don't count in Mr
Everard's world,' interrupted Miss Morton.
He is so devoid of human feeling, that
he must have been hatched by some
patent incubator, like the funny little fluffy
chickens one sees in that window in Regent
Street.'

Thank you,' said Everard. * I am
largely in your debt.'

And so you believe in women said
Miss Morton, turning to Kenneth, who
had returned, clothed in his very best kilt
and plaid. ' What a nice boy you are !
If you are going to live here all your life,
it is as well to have something to comfort
you.'

I have a great deal to comfort me.'

That's fortunate ! Now, as you know
the country, I want you to take me to
some good places for making sketches —
picturesque nooks, you know, not wide
expanses of country.'

Oh ! I am afraid I'm no great judge,*
etc., etc.

While Miss Morton was exercising her
blandishments on Kenneth, Everard was
making himself agreeable to Uncle Sandy.
He had a business faculty, which told upon
his conversation with a kindred spirit, and
the keen old Scotchman was interested in
his remarks.

Those fields of yours, between this and
the loch, look considerably better and
cleaner than they did last year ; and I see

you have a capital lot of cattle on the
pasture.'

Ay,' said Uncle Sandy, much gratified.
You see, the last twa years I was wa'
seeking health and finding name. Nothings
go better under the maister's been,
forbye Kenneth's, and he is a clever chief
about cattle and the like.'

But, uncle, I am sure you are better
than when I first saw you,' said Mona.

Oh, ay ! I do not say that I am no
better, but it is verra little. The waters
in yon place did me good — I don't deny
it ; but I am only a pair body after all.'

When are you going to let Mona come
back to us ? ' asked Everard.

Oo ! when she likes, when she likes ! '
I am not going from home again, thank
you,' said Mona. ' I am conceited enough
to think that I am of more use here thar
anywhere else.'

And so you are, my lassie, so you are.'

Why we will all be inconsolable, and
Lisle will be tearing his hair! Come, Miss
Morton, if you have done deluding that
son of the mountains, it is time to drive
me back to the Lodge.'

Why, are you not going to walk ? '

Not if I can help it

Then I suppose we must go,' to
Kenneth. * You will be sure to tell me
what day it will suit you to guide me to
this clough at Balmuir. Good-evening,
Mr Craig, I wish you would let your cook
teach Lady Finistoun's how to make
those cream scones. If I can find
that article of Macgrubber's, I'll send it
to you. It will enlighten you a good
deal.'

You need not fash yourself,' stiffly.
It's a kind o' enlightenment I cinna
want.'

That is sinning against light, Mr
Craig. Good-evening.'

You are really managing the old miser
very well, Mona,' said Everard, in a low
tone, as Mona went to the door to see her
quests start. * You are gathering sense.
I always thought you less of a fool than
most women.'

Mona thanked him demurely.

Kenneth was very attentive in arranging
Miss Morton's wraps, and she was
flatteringly coquettish. Mary could hardly

hide her laughter ; then Everard jumped
in, and they were off.'

That's a verra remarkable woman,' said
Uncle Sandy, when they all reassembled
in the library, where a wood fire was crackling.
* But I canna say that she seems to mea
dislike ane. There's just nothing she
will na put her tongue to ; neither is there
anything that is respect by her. She is
aye interrupting an' loitering alder and
wiser folk than herself'. She has wandered
to and fro, and seen a wealth of places ; but
it has no improved her intelligence, for,
when a's said an' dune, she is just a tavern'
taupy ! '

Eh, Mr Craig, but you are cruel to
speak so of a teddy that Kenneth is so
pleased with, and who is so taken up
with him,' said Mary, with a pretty, saucy
smile.

I wish to hear nae mair about her,' said
Uncle Sandy, drawing an arm-chair near
the fire, and tumbling into it, while his
stick, catching under the fire-irons, upheaved
them with a huge clang. ' If you stay
here, just bide still, for I want a little
sleep to mak up for what that stormy

woman broke In upon, and if ye canna,
just gang in the other room.'

The young people readily took the hint,
and in the drawing-room held high council.

The topic under discussion was Mary's
return home. She thought she had been
away long enough. But Mona strongly
urged her remaining.

You are rapidly becoming a prime
favourite with my uncle, and you must
rivet your chains before we venture to
broach the question of your marriage.
Let me write to your mother, begging
an extension of leave.'

This advice prevailed, Mary adding
to her consent with a soft sigh, —

I am just too happy here.'

The fine weather which had prevailed
for some weeks now broke up, and
October presented itself in gloomy guise,
with wild winds and driving rain, which
permitted but little out-door exercise to
the girls.

Nothing kept Kenneth at home. He
came in to his meals, damp and glowing
from the exhilarating struggle with wind

and weather, and beaming with the hope
and happiness which grew more and
more as he perceived his beloved Mary
was creeping into his uncle's heart.

Uncle Sandy himself was a little
complaining and cranky ; but, on the
whole, music and reading, the state of
the stocks, and book-keeping, with Kenneth's
help, kept them tolerably amused
during this period of imprisonment.

Lisle made no sign. Mona was not
sorry. His presence, without having a
distinctly disturbing effect, awoke painful
memories, and obliged her constantly to
think before she spoke.

At length a fairly bright morning broke
upon the deluged country, and Mona
undertook to drive into Kirktoun to
execute divers commissions.

Uncle Sandy objecting to be left alone,
Mona departed with only ' the boy ' in
attendance.

Having finished her business, she turned
the horse's head homewards, and had
alighted to walk up the steep road which
led from the loch to Craigdarroch, when
a sportsman, with dog and gun, suddenly

emerged from a small wood which filled a
sheltered hollow, and approached her. She
recognised Lisle, and paused to speak to him.
'It is more than a fortnight since I
saw you ! ' he exclaimed, in an aggrieved
tone, while his keen light eyes sparkled
with the joy of seeing her, and his hard
mouth relaxed into a pleasant smile.

I suppose it is,' returned Mona,
smiling.

'It is a delightful day for walking.
Will you not tell your servant to take the
trap home, and let me have the pleasure
of escorting you by the short way to
the house ? I have a message for you
from Lady Finistoun, and was on my
way to deliver it'

Mona thought for a moment, and then
said—' I will'

Directing the boy to go on, she walked
on beside Lisle, and they turned off almost
immediately by a path to the left, that
led by a steeper and more direct line
to the house.

And what was Lady Finistoun's message
? ' she asked, as Lisle did not break
silence immediately.

Oh ! she finds the extreme damp
prejudicial to the daring baby, so she
suddenly determined to start for their
own place in Cumberland. Most of the
party went with her. Finistoun and
Everard remain for ten days or so longer.
Lady Finistoun begged me to say how
deeply she regretted not seeing you again,
and that she would write as soon as she
had reached Melton Court.'

When did she leave ? '

Yesterday morning. They drove as
far as Loathed, and took the train to
Perth there.'

I am so sorry I did not see Evelyn
again. I am really very fond of
her.'

Oh ! you will no doubt meet in the
winter. I suppose you will escape from
these solitudes sometimes.'

I do not think it likely I shall.'

You are not bound here for the term of
your natural life!' cried Lisle, drawing closer
to her, and looking eagerly into her eyes.
That unspeakable bore. Miss Morton,
mentioned some absurd report of your
uncle intending to marry you to his wild

VOL. III. F

Highlander of a nephew. It cannot be
true ! '

Why ? ' asked Mona demurely.
Why ? A creature like that ? '

'He is very good-looking, and most
amiable in disposition ! '

But one knows how an amiable disposition
may fare at your hands,' he
returned, somewhat bitterly. ' Tell me,
for God's sake, is it possible you can
contemplate such a sacrifice ? Do you
really think of linking yourself with a
mere respectable farmer ? '

Pray remember, if you please, that
Kenneth Macalister is my near kinsman ;
he cannot be socially beneath me.'

I daresay you think me an ill-bred
brute, but you know how profoundly interested
I have always been in you,
and once in a crisis in your fate, you
permitted me to advise you — '

I do not think you waited for permission
! ' said Mona, with an arch smile.

I think I never made such a mistake
in my life ! I am always burning to implore
your forgiveness for my idiotic
suggestion.'

What Is there to forgive ? ' she returned
gently. ' On the contrary, I
ought to be grateful to you for breaking
through the principle of non-intervention,
which, of course, would have prevented
a man of the world doing anything so
Quixotic as to offer a way of escape to
a damsel in distress.'

May I tell you what my own state
of mind was at that unhappy juncture
? '

No, no ! There is no use in looking
back ! Let us thank Heaven for the
present.'

I do not,' said Lisle gloomily. ' But
do not be enigmatic. You are not going
to marry this — this cousin of yours?'

No, Sir St John ! ' returned Mona,
assuming an air of sadness. ' I cannot,
seeing that he has rejected me.'

What ! ' cried Lisle ; ' rejected you ? '

Yes ! I hope you sympathise with
me in the shock I have received ? But
Kenneth prefers not to marry me.'

Then old Craig wanted to arrange a
P'

He did ; but his purpose has been

marriage

frustrated ! ' returned Mona, with tragic
emphasis.

Lisle laughed.

I understand, I think,' he said. * Imagine
any man refusing you ! I did not
think you had so much quiet sarcasm ? '

I am unaware of it,' returned Mona.

And you will not listen to my explanation
.'^ '

I do not see what you have to explain
! and, were any explanation necessary,
there is no time ; we are close to
the house, and I suppose you will come
in and see Uncle Sandy 1 '

Most certainly. But, Miss Craig, I
must insist — I mean, I must implore you
to hear the explanation I wish to make.'

I really want none ! — perhaps I understand
more than you think.'

I fear you may understand in a wrong
way.'

Well, here we are at the house, and
here comes Uncle Sandy and Mary. If,
in a paroxysm of hospitality, my uncle
asks you to supper, do not stay. I
know the menu, and you would not
like it'



Then hastening to meet them, she exclaimed,
—

I have brought you each a letter, but
there is none for me from Madame Debrisayay.
I fear something must be the
matter with her.'

mm.

THE BIRD IS FLOWN.

ISLE had never before been so
piqued and frustrated as he
was by Mona's mode of receiving
his advances.
Had she shown coldness or resentment,
he could have understood his position.
But her sweet friendliness was utterly
baffling.

His impatience, the eager fire that
quickened his pulses, urged him perpetually
to seek her ; while pride, and
his habitual reluctance to commit himself,
held him back.

It was a running fight between these
two forces, through the couple of weeks
which succeeded Mona's visit to 

; but the strongest finally prevailed,
and telling himself he really ought to let
that old boor at Craigdarroch know
that the right of fishing question was
settled, he started in wonderfully good
spirits for his morning's sport, intending
to end the day in Mona's society. It
was an especial stroke of luck, he thought,
to have a tete-tete walk with her ; but
when he reviewed their conversation in
the evening, while his friend and partner
slumbered, he was obliged to confess
that he had made very little way.

Did she — or did she not resent his
throwing her over, as he undoubtedly
had, when her grandmother came to
grief }

She was so young and inexperienced
at the time that she could hardly realise
the impossibility of a man like himself
risking marriage, even with a richly-towered
girl — a more enlightened, a
more mature woman, would have seen
and understood the difficulty, nor loved
him the less for being ready to give her
up to a richer rival. Women are awfully
selfish and unreasonable ! Now that

Mona had seen more of life — the seamy
side of it too — she ought to appreciate
the motives which actuated him ; perhaps
she did, for she never avoided him, or
said sharp things, only she was so infernally
calm and frank ! It was quite
possible she might have fallen in love
with someone else in the interim. Who
could it be ? — some brute of a foreigner ?

Lisle felt savagely jealous, as though
his sacred rights had been infringed. He
would do, or sacrifice anything to call the
conscious colour to her cheek — to win a
confession of love from her lips, even the
sacrifice of himself to the fetters of matrimony.
Now that he was rich — richer
than people generally knew — it was possible
to escape the worst ills of indissoluble
union. Of course the connection
was most objectionable, but nowadays
that mattered little. Mona herself was
always a social success. All society
asked was to be soothed and amused.
Who provides the soothing and amusement
matters very little.

The old * peasant proprietor,' her uncle,
did not matter. Lisle was not the man

to allow anyone he objected to to cross
him. And if Mona loved him (which,
if he once surrendered, and asked her
to marry him, she would, warmly, deliciously),
she would yield to him in everything.
The thing was really worth risking.
Life with Mona would be very
charming for a year or so. So Lisle
reasoned, as he thought, coolly ; but, in
truth, the tide of passion was rapidly
rising to that height which demands
gratification at any price.

Having made up his mind more
thoroughly than he was perhaps aware.
Lisle found shooting, and even deer-stalking,
a less satisfying amusement than it
used to be, and two or three days after
his chance encounter with Mona, he
started for Craigdarroch, determined to
begin the siege in earnest.

It was a crisp, clear afternoon, and
seldom had ' his bosom's lord sat so
lightly on its throne.' Of his success
he never doubted. The only question
that he debated mentally, was how soon
it would be in good taste to declare himself.
They were not strangers. She

must know that he had been a good
deal smitten with her nearly four years
ago. It was only taking up the dropped
stitches in the web of their lives. He
would be guided by circumstances.

Is Mr Craig at home, and the young
ladies ? ' he demanded of the little maid
who came when he rang.

The maister's in, but — ' she was beginning,
when Mr Craig himself appeared,
with his inevitable stick, at the
library door.

Eh, come your ways ! ' he cried. ' I
saw ye as ye walked up the drive. I'm
glad to see you. I'm here alone : they're
a foot.'

'Indeed!' said Lisle, following him into
the library, intending to give the old
man a few minutes, to find out where Mona
had gone, and to follow her. * What
has become of your nieces ? '

Mary Black is no niece of mine. She
is a nice-like girlie, but I have no kin
except Mona and Kenneth. Well, they
are wa' to set Mona on her road.' (He
called it * rod')

On her road ! Where ? ' asked Lisle.

To Glasga'. She'll get there this
evening, in time to catch the London
night express

London ! ' repeated Lisle, in angry
surprise. * Has she gone to London ? '

Yes. She had a letter frae Madame
maybe you'll mind Madame Debrisayay,
the teddy wha took my niece in when
you grand folks turned her foot. Weel,
the letter wasna frae herself'. It was
the landlady — an honest-like woman —
wha wrote, at madame's order, to explain
why she could not write. She was verra
sick with bronchitis, and the landlady she
added that she was frightened herself', for
she was that bad the doctor wanted her
to have a nurse. With that, nothing
would keep Mona ; she must go to nurse
her. I was angered against her, for I
diana think it right for her to go off ina
jiffy frae me, wha is as a father to her,
and maintains her.'

But she went ? ' ejaculated Lisle.

Ay, she did that. She put her arms
round my neck, and she says, wi' her
bonnie been full o' tears, — *' Don't seek to
stop me, uncle. She was good to me

before I knew you ; and don't you think,"
she says, *' if you were ill, I'd come wa'
frae everyone to nurse you ? " an' I felt
she spoke true — she would stick to me,
so I just said, — '' I'll no pay for your
whim-whims," and she says, " No, uncle !
I have money enough for the journey.
Just let me go with your goodwill," an'
I said, — " Go, then, my lassie," and she's
gave.'

Good heavens ! ' cried Lisle. * Alone ;
to go through the worry and annoyance
of changing — of — '

What's to harm her ? She is nae a
bairn,' interrupted Uncle Sandy. ' We
live in a civilised country.'

Lisle was silent with vexation. Had
he but known, he might have escorted
her to Glasgow, if not to London ; and
what a different journey it would have
been from the last they had taken together.
He was certainly out of luck.

Still, I am surprised you did not send
young Macalister with her ! ' exclaimed
Lisle, when he had mastered his impulse
to swear audibly and energetically at the
self-satisfied, miserly old scarecrow that

had let his charming niece — the temporary
idol and future wife of Sir St John
Lisle — go off alone, to struggle with
porters and passengers like a poor servant
girl going to a new place.

What for should Kenneth waste his
time when I wanted him here, forbye
the silver it would cost there and back ?
Young people have nae consideration — an'
^^X.yoicre no a lad any longer, Sir St John!'

The greenness of my youth has certainly
departed. But I am greatly annoyed
about this sudden journey. I
have nothing on earth to do ! If I had
had an idea Miss Craig was going alone,
I should certainly, with your permission,
have escorted her to Glasgow, and seen
her off to London."

Eh, ye needna fash yourself' about
my permission ! Mona is verra headstrong
in some ways. She does not
bend herself' to my wull as she ought —
considering I am willing to provide for
her ; and she has crossed me in a matter
I had set my mind on. Still, she's a
guide an' a kind lassie. There's just one
thing we canna agree on.'

And what may that be ? ' asked Lisle,
to keep the old man going, while he
pondered what step he should take to
recover his lost quarry.

She is just awful' set against my
neyfew Kenneth — a guide laddie, and a
braw young mon — and I should like to
see my bit land an' good go to faith,
but she's aye resolved not.'

But, my dear sir, you do not suppose
that a girl like Mona — I mean your niece
could marry a mere young' — ploughman,
he was going to say, but he
changed it to the word ' countryman.
It would be too incongruous.'

He is no that countrified ! He was
for twa years in the city of London in
an office.'

Oh, of course ; that makes a vast
difference,' said Lisle gravely. ' Where
does this Madame Dtbrisay live ? '

'In a verra nice part — Westbourne
Villas, nigh the Royal Oak station.
You'll ken it, I'm thinking.'

I cannot say I do,' returned Lisle,
while he thought, * Old blockhead ! Why
did he not give me the number ? '

There are verra fine looses about
there, and plenty omnibuses to a' parts.'

Very convenient, I'm sure ! What is
this Madame Debrisayay's number ? Lady
Finistoun will want to know Miss Craig's
address.'

Eh ! but she knows it weel. She has
been there herself.'

Obstinate old idiot ! ' thought Lisle ;
he will not tell. Oh, indeed ! ' he said
aloud. ' You must miss your niece very
much.'

I will do so ! Sma' coot o't. She is
a remarkable, wise-like, douce lassie — only
a wee self-opinionated ! It's amazing
that, being so lang among a lot o' fule-
folk, she kept her senses so weel.'

By this time Lisle had gathered himself
together, and said, —

I ought to apologise for speaking so
warmly, but I always take a lively interest
in Miss Craig.'

Sae it would seem,' returned Uncle
Sandy, with a chuckle, which struck Lisle
as peculiar.

Did the old duffer presume to form any
surmises as to the source of that interest }

Lisle thought he had talked to him quite
long enough.

I brought you the last communication
from the factor of Balmuir,' he said.
You see he has caved in, and you may
consider the question settled.'

Oh, that's weel, verra weel,' putting on
his glasses.

And I must say good-morning. Can
I do anything for you at Kirktoun ? I
am going back there.'

No, I thank ye. Kenneth will bring
back a' that is wanted.'

Good-bye then. I hope you will hear
tomorrow of Miss Craig's safe arrival.'

Lisle strode away in an intense ill-humour.
Mona was altogether inexplicable.
At the shortest notice she was
ready to put miles between herself and
the man that she must know was ready
to throw himself at her feet ! And all
to nurse a broken-down music-mistress.
Yet there was something in her generous
readiness to help a friend that appealed
to his better nature. Whatever she was,
she had a sound heart ! True, this woman
might have some hold over her 1 He rejected

the low suspicion. After all, it
would be well to have such a girl by his
side to comfort and sustain him in the
inevitable dark hours which come even
to the wealthiest and most prosperous.
Lisle would not have given much thought
to this side of the question had not the
character he was considering belonged to
a young and charming woman who had
for the moment escaped him. Still, to
the most selfish come, in occasional
glimpses, the perception of what is good
and true. Craftiness, and cold, worldly
wisdom are useful within certain limits
but once caught in the tangled brake
of doubt, difficulty, sorrow, suffering,
there love and truth are the only
guides.

Some such ideas, considerably modified,
were floating through Lisle's brain, when
he heard the ' flop flop ' of Mr Craig's
heavy-footed steed, and soon the ramshackle
phaeton and ridiculously disproportioned
horse came round a bend of
the road. In the vehicle were seated
Miss Black, whose eyes looked suspiciously
red, and Kenneth, who held the

VOL. III. G

reins. He pulled up as Lisle waved his
hands.

So, Miss Craig has deserted you !' he
cried.

She has indeed,' returned Kenneth.
It is a bad business — poor Madame
Debrisayay being so ill. I never knew her
to be ill before.'

And I am sure Mona had a sad heart,'
said Miss Black. ' She looked so pale
and downcast. It will be a long, weary
road for her to travel all alone.'

She telegraphed first thing to say she
was coming,' added Kenneth.

What's her address ? ' asked Lisle. ' I
must let Lady Finlstoun know.'

'It's 9 Westbourne Villas — away near
the Royal Oak,' said Kenneth.

Thank you,' returned Lisle, making a
mental note of it.

A few more words and they parted,
going in opposite directions.

Queer people,' mused Lisle, as he
walked rapidly down hill. * But I suppose
they enjoy themselves as we do,
and are probably less often bored. Anyhow,
it must be a relief to get away

from such surroundings — my sweet Mona.
I am a most unlucky dog to have
missed the chance of a long journey
with you. I might have had, with
judicious management, the privilege of
kissing away your tears, if you shed any,
and generally comforting you. Shall I
follow ? I must think.'

The shock was great to Mona when
she read of her brood friend's illness.
Hitherto Madame Debrisayay had been
invariably well, and the idea of her
being alone and helpless, in a mere
lodging, was intolerable.

Mona immediately determined to goto
her, and, as Uncle Sandy rightly
surmised, nothing would have held her
back ; no fear of being disinherited would
have prevented her, as Uncle Sandy
said, from 'ganging her ain gate.'

Her quick imagination depicted matters
as considerably worse than she ultimately
found them, and her solitary journey
south, through the long darkness of a
mid-October night, was passed in brief
snatches of sleep and prolonged fits of

thought. Reviewing her relations to
Madame Debrisayay and her uncle — the
only two real friends she possessed —
she felt how much nearer and dearer
the former was. In her she had a
friend, not only attached, nay, devoted,
capable of understanding and sympathising
with her to an unusual degree.
To Uncle Sandy she felt bound, not by
gratitude only, but by the almost indissoluble
bond which holds a generous
soul to the being who depends upon it.
Having known her, he would be utterly
desolate without her ; but real companionship
did not exist between them.
Mona felt she could not spend her
whole life with Uncle Sandy, neither
could she desert him. She half hoped
that Mary Black would in time fill her
place. Respecting her own future, she
neither hoped nor feared much. Her
meeting with Lisle had saddened her a
good deal. She felt the old charm of
his style and manner, but her heart
could never go out to him again. Neither
could the highest worth, she thought,
atone for the want of that indescribable

grace and refinement which only the
force of habit and association from childhood
can produce. Still life was rich
enough to possess plenty of interest and
enjoyment, besides the supreme delight
of loving and being loved, by some man
who could satisfy both mind and fancy ;
and, for the present, she only asked to
be of use to dear Madame Debrisayay.

It was a cold raw morning, thick and
foggy, when she reached her destination.
The landlady greeted her warmly ; she
was evidently glad to have the responsibility
lifted off her shoulders.

Madame has seemed better ever since
she had your telegram yesterday ; but,
for all that, she has had a terrible night,
such a fight she has for breath, poor
dear. I sat up till past two with her,
and then Lizzy took my place.'

I will go and see her at once,' said Mona.

Do have a cup of tea first, miss.'

No thank you — after.'

Poor Madame Debrisayay shed tears of
joy at the sight of her dear child.

And did your uncle agree to your
coming ? ' she whispered.

He was obliged,' returned Mona,
smiling. ' Though he grumbled, he was
quite good about it. I suppose he remembered
how kindly you nursed him.'

I would be so sorry if / was the
cause of any bad feeling between you !
But, oh ! it is a joy and a comfort to
have you near me, darling ! '

Though quite inexperienced in nursing,
Mona's common-sense and careful
observance of the doctor's directions
soon taught her, and the atmosphere of
cheerfulness she created was infinitely
beneficial to the sufferer. A few days
saw a decided improvement. Soon Mona
was released from the fatigue of regular
night watching, and Madame Debrisayay
was able to take more nourishment ;
while the doctor announced that we
were ' doing very well indeed.'

But Madame Debrisayay was by no
means without kind acquaintances. Her
German friends made frequent inquiries
and brought her flowers, and, soon after
her arrival, Mona heard a man's voice
in loud and peremptory tones asking
many particulars respecting the invalid ;

after which came a basket of grapes,
with General Fielden's compliments.

Now, isn't that nice ! ' exclaimed
Madame Debrisayay. ' That is my artilleryman
whom I described to you. If you
knew the sort of old tiger he is, you
would be amazed at his thinking of grapes
for a poor sick woman.'

You evidently have power to soothe
the savage breast,' said ]\Iona, laughing.

It's for the sake of old times he comes.
He called to see me one Sunday, and sat
nearly an hour talking of his old love, my
cousin Rose Nugent. I showed him your
photograph, and he was greatly taken with
it. He thought it like Rose, and I did
not contradict him ; but you are about as
much alike as a cluster of grapes and a
peach.'

The day after, Mona had the pleasure
of assisting her friend from her bed to an
easy-chair by the fire, when the ' girl ' put
in her head to say, the gentleman was in
the drawing-room, and would Miss Craig
speak to him.

I will come directly,' said Mona.

Be sure you tell him how much I

enjoyed his grapes,' said madame. * It was
so good of him to send them. Just brush
your hair over, dear. I want you to look
nice.'

Mona laughed, and humoured her, tying
a small scarf of ivory-coloured old lace
round her throat, to smarten up her olive
green cashmere morning wrapper.

He will not stay long, I suppose, but
I will tell Mrs Puddiford to give you your
beef-tea.'

So saying, Mona went into the front
room, where a cheerful fire was burning,
though otherwise it looked too accurately
neat to have an inhabited air ; and thereon
the hearth rug stood Lisle.

The sudden surprise brought a quick,
bright blush to Mona's cheek, and she
stood still an instant, the long, straight
folds of her morning-gown sweeping from
her graceful shoulders to the ground,
giving her additional height and dignity.


I hope I am not taking a liberty in
calling so early ? ' said Lisle, coming forward
to clasp the hand she held out, with
the exclamation, —

I had no idea it was you ! I fancied
you were still in Scotland ! '

Pray, who did you expect then ? ' asked
Lisle sharply, as he still held her hand,
and looked with eager inquiry into her
eyes.

General Fielden — a friend of Madame
Debrisayay's,' withdrawing her hand from
his clasp. * Have you any message from
my uncle } Is all well at Craigdarroch '■ '

I do not think Mr Craig knew that I
was coming to London,' he returned. ' It
was rather a sudden idea of mine. Are
you not going to ask me to sit down ? '

Oh, yes ! of course ! Pray, sit down,
Sir St John. I am so startled at seeing
you, that I forget my manners,' she said,
laughing. ' How did you know where I
was "^ '

Well, you see, I speak the language,
and I asked your kilted kinsman. You
do not suppose I was going to lose sight
of you ? '

Something in his tone — his eyes — made
Mona uneasy. She did not want to come
to any explanation with him. She did not
want to quarrel with him. Yet she told

herself that he could not have been so
eccentric as to have fallen in love with
her over again. Had he really cared for
her, he would never have tried to hand her
over to another.

I have been too busy, and too anxious
about my friend Madame Debrisayay, to
think of anything else,' said Mona cold',
as she drew a low chair to the fire ; and
Lisle seated himself at the table.

Yes ! I understand, you have been
doing the Sister of Mercy business ; and
you look like it. Those bewildering eyes
of yours look weary, and your cheek is
pale. You want air and light. Can you
not get off duty for an hour or two, and
drive with me to Harrow or Richmond ?
It is a fine, brisk day, and it would be
heavenly to have you all to myself for
even a short spell.'

You are very good, Sir St John,' returned
Mona calmly, ' but it is impossible
I could leave my patient yet.'

Later, then, I may be able to persuade
you.'

You will not stay long in town at this
unseasonable season,' she said. ' And I

do not know when Madame Debrisayay will
be well enough to spare me.'

Oh, I shall be in town some time
yet. You should not have left your uncle's
side all unguarded, Miss Craior. Your
friend Miss Black seems a very insinuating
young person, and it strikes me that
Mr Kenneth Macalister is considerably
attracted to her bonnie blue been.'

Why do you think so ? '

Don't you know that a sort of electric
atmosphere encompasses a man and woman
who are in love, which reveals itself in
lightning flashes of intelligence. No
man who has loved, and still loves, can
breathe it without comprehending much
that is unspoken.'

This is quite a new idea to me.'

No doubt it is ! You are too cold to
feel these subtle influences. You used
not to be so cold, Mona — I mean Miss
Craig ! You used to vibrate exquisitely
to the touch of feeling or — '

I have no doubt I was a silly,
impressionable girl, like most debut


'No! there were not many debutantes

like you, at least in my estimation, as no
doubt you know.'

As to Kenneth and Miss Black,' said
Mona, turning a deaf ear to this compliment,
' I think they are attached to each
other, and it is my favourite scheme that
they should marry, and comfort the last
days of my uncle.'

Not a bad idea, only they would cut
you out ! *

Oh ! I should take my chance of that !
at least it would give me freedom.'

Freedom ! Ah ! And what would you
do with it ? '

A tremendous question ! When the
time came you should see.'

Mona — ' began Lisle, in a tone the
appealing tenderness of which made
Monas heart beat vehemently ; when Mrs
Puddiford, short and puffy, in her morning
print dress and apron, opened the door
and asked, —

Would you see General Fielden, miss ?
He says he will not keep you many
minutes.'

Pray show him in,' said Mona, with
alacrity.

Whereupon the warlike-looking veteran
described by Madame Debrisayay entered,
erect and austere in aspect, and making
a fine old-fashioned bow to the young
lady, said in quick, staccato style, —

Miss Craig, I presume ? '

Mona rose and bent her head, smiling
graciously as she did so.

Took the liberty of asking to see
you. Thought you would let me know
how Madame Debrisayay really is. It's
always " Better, better, better " with servants,
till they startle you with — *' Please,
sir, he (or she) died this morning!

I am happy to say, my dear friend
Madame Debrisayay is much better,' said
Mona, looking kindly into his eyes. ' She
is sitting up for the first time this morning.
In a few days I hope she will be
able to see you. She greatly enjoyed
the delightful grapes you sent her.'

Did she ? Glad of it ! There's another
basket out in the hall.'

A short pause ensued, which was
broken by Lisle saying in his pleasant-est,
frankest manner, —

I think I had the pleasure of meeting

General Fielden — at Harrowby Chase —
some years ago, though probably you do
not remember me.'

I know your face, but I cannot fit
it with a name,' returned the General,
looking sharply at him.

My name is Lisle. I was then captain
in the — th Hussars, and I have
been since on Sir Arthur Wriottesly's
staff.'

Ah, yes ; I remember. You won the
military steeplechase at Bundlepore last
year. Waller, of your regiment, was
telling me about it,' etc. ; and the General
seemed setting himself to enjoy a military
and sporting gossip.

They will stay all the afternoon,'
thought Mona. ' I cannot stay here to
listen.' ' As you seem to know each
other,' she said, ' I will go and see if
my patient wants anything.'

Do,' returned General Fielden, shifting
his position to a larger and more
comfortable chair, as if he did not intend
to move for some time. ' I will stay
till you come back. I have a message
for Madame Debrisayay. Why the

deuce she calls herself madame I can't
think.'

I am sorry. I have an engagement,'
said Lisle, rising, his mouth curling with
an expression of extreme annoyance,
and I must say good-morning. I suppose,
Miss Craig, I am likely to find
you at home any day ? You really look
very pale and tired. You must let me
persuade you to take some exercise.'

Thank you ! Madame Debrisayay will
soon be able to leave her room, and
then I may go out. Good-bye, Captain
Lisle.'

The gentlemen exchanged bows, and
Lisle departed.

Never mind me,' said the General.
I've nothing to do. I can wait.'

You seem to have been entertaining
a few people,' said madame, with something
of the old sparkle in her bright
black eyes, as Mona came to her side.

I have been entertaining sour General,
and — shall I say — my captain .^ '

"It was Lisle, then?' whispered Madame
Debrisayay eagerly. ' I mean Sir
St John Lisle.'

Yes ! I never was more surprised
than when I found him waiting in the
next room. I thought he was not
coming south before November.'

My dear Mona ! mark my words — '

Do not waste any, dear Deb,' she
interrupted quickly, * because I know the
special chord of wisdom on which you
are going to harp. Say nothing about
Captain Lisle at present. General Fieldenen
has brought you more grapes. He
seems quite concerned about you.'

Now, isn't he good, poor old fellow ?
To think what a fine, handsome soldier he
was, and now he is all bones and eyebrows.'

He is soldierly-looking still. I have
rather taken a fancy to him. Still I do
not want him to stay all day. I want
to write a long letter to Uncle Sandy.
I will make up your fire, dear, before
1 go back ; and let me settle the pillow
under your head.'

*And is Sir St John gone?'

^ Yes ! '

And when is he coming again ? '

Oh, I don't know ! Very probably
never ! '

*Ah, Mona!' But Mona was gone.

Madame Debrisayay begs me to say
how much she feels your kind thought
for her,' said Mona, smiHng brightly and
sweetly on the grim old warrior, who
had taken up a fortnightly which lay on
the table, and fixed his glasses on his nose.

Ha ! ' — dropping his spectacles — ' that's
all right. Is she really better ? I daresay
your being here helps her on a good
bit. It's a pity you are not her daughter.

I can act the part of one.'

I daresay you can, and do ; but it's
not the same. There is neither the right
nor the duty. Men and women of my
a^e and hers are the better of sons and
daughters, even though they give trouble !
She has known you a long time.'

Ever since I was a girl of twelve,
though I did not see very much of her till
I came to live with my grandmother in
London.'

Who was your grandmother ? ' — abruptly.


Mrs Joscelyn Newburgh.'

Oh, you were her grand-daughter ?
Ah ! '

VOL. III. H

He seemed lost in thought for a few
moments, and then resumed, —

I am going abroad in a week or two.
I always go to Pau or the Riviera in the
winter. Can't live in England. Now
I should like to see Madame Debrisayay
before I go. I have a picture to show
her. Will you write and tell me when
I may call ? '

Certainly, General Fielden. She will
be very pleased to see you when she is
strong enough, but she really has been
very ill.'

I am sure of it ; and I suspect her
march through life has not been on velvet,
though she looks wonderfully young
and well. She comes of a handsome
race ; ' and the old man sighed quickly.
The doctor ought to make her keep indoors
all the winter.'

Oh, my dear sir, that is impossible !
She must keep up her connection. She
could not afford to lose her pupils.'

Ay, that's it ; that is a bad business,'
returned the General thoughtfully. Then
he asked some questions about Lisle, respecting
whom he seemed rather curious.

and sat for a considerable time. Then he
suddenly started up, and begged pardon
for occupying her time. 'You see,' he
added, ' I have nothing to do, and no one
to care about. Mind you tell me when
Madame Debrisayay can see me, like a good
girl.'

Once out of bed, Madame Debrisayay
made rapid progress. She had an excellent
and an untried constitution ; nor had
her attack, though severe, been of the
worst kind.

Mona was able to give General Fielden
notice that her friend and patient was
strong enough to ' receive,' sooner than
she had hoped. He came immediately,
sat talking a long while, and seemed to
enjoy a cup of tea. The picture he had
to show was a much-faded photograph of
pretty Rose Nugent, and the old acquaintances
indulged in much retrospective conversation
over it. This, and elaborate
descriptions of his aches and pains, formed
the staple of his discourse.

Lisle had called twice. The first time,
Mona was about to assist Madame Debrisayay

Into the sitting-room, and she was
obliged to explain and dismiss him ; the
second, she was really out.

The General evidently found himself
comfortable and at home In the cosy ,
while he imbibed his afternoon
tea, and smiled grimly when Madame
Debrisayay, whose spirits were reviving,
laughed at his complaints, and told him he
would be nearly quite well if he would
only believe It, and that she would back
him against Lisle for a day's shooting, If
he chose to try.

It Is all too pleasant to last,' sighed
madame, one gusty, cheerless afternoon, as
General Fielden asked Mona if the servant
would whistle a cab for him, as It was
time for him to go. * I must soon get
back to my work — that I do not mind ;
but Mona has been quite a month here,
and I must let her go, and there's the shoe
that pinches ! '

Go back to work ! ' cried the General.
You will kill yourself.'

Then It Is a choice of deaths. Monsieur
le Gdndrar, she returned, laughing. ' But
I am good for some years yet. If I could

only keep this girl with me, I should be
ready to face anything.'

And why won't she stay ? *

Oh, she belongs to her uncle, and I
would not interfere with her, though I
suspect she prefers her own '' Deb." '

Mona laughed, and blew madame a kiss.

*Ay, that's just it. It's the want of a
legal right that plays the deuce ! ' and
hastily bidding the ladies good-bye, he
departed.

When Lisle perseveringly called a third
time, he was partially rewarded. The tea-table
was spread, and the presence of
General Fielden procured him a tete-tete,
for the General, finding Madame Debrisayay
played chess, decided in his own mind that
a little tranquil amusement of that kind
was the very thing for her, had set out
the pieces, and was delightfully engaged
in capturing her bishops and checking her
queen.

I began to fear I should never see you
again,' said Lisle, in a low voice, drawing
near Mona, who sat at work by the fire.
You are so heartless and cruel. You
never give a fellow the least chance.'

Chance of what ? ' asked Mona, threading
her needle.

Of speaking to you alone.'

But I do not want to speak to you
alone. I have nothing to say that the
whole world might not hear.'

How hideously cold and unkind you
are, Mona. Well I have something to
whisper in your ear alone, though, if you
will listen favourably. I do not care how
soon it may be proclaimed upon the housetops.'


He leant towards her, seeking to meet
her eyes.

Mona's colour rose, and then faded
quickly, while she looked steadily at her
work.

Then do not say it,' she replied softly.

Do you mean what you say ? '

I do.'

CHAPTER V.

UNCLE SANDY FINDS AN OLD FRIEND.

Ace again at Cralgdarroch,
under the murky December
clouds, back with the driving
rain, and the wild wind weirdly
sobbing among the solemn pine trees and
leafless oaks.

Winter on the west coast, though less
bitterly cold than in other parts of the
country, is gloomy and threatening.
There was something grand if oppressive
in the stormy, threatening aspect of sky
and sea seen through breaks in the swirls
of grey mist driven hither and thither by
fierce blasts from the broad Atlantic.
Now and then the sun broke through
cloud and vapour, and, dispersing the

fleecy wrack that tried to shut him out,
shed almost summer brightness on the
wintry scene ; while in the lull of the
storm, one might imagine that a day had
been stolen from April and thrown to the
tempest-tossed earth to comfort her amid
the gloom and stress of winter weather.

It was a dreary time for Mona.

Mary Black had been recalled to her
home. The smallness of the little group,
isolated as it were on that rugged hillside,
and the feeling that it was a work of
time, nay almost of danger, to escape to
the comfort and companionship of a great
city, created a sense of imprisonment exceedingly
trying to the spirits.

Mona was quite ashamed of her own
depression a little before Christmas. She
felt as if she was forgotten by everyone.
Lady Finnistoun had written a pressing
invitation to visit her at her home in Cumberland,
when Mona was with Madame
Debrisayay, which, under any circumstances,
she would have refused, and since she had
given no sign, neither had Lisle. And
even Madame Debrisayay had not written
for a fortnight. Mona had suggested a

few weeks In Edinburgh to help them
over the depth of the winter, but somehow
Uncle Sandy did ' not see it ! '

There was nothing for it but to endure
the inevitable routine.

Breakfast at nine, and a consultation
with the cook — for ' supplies ' was a question
of some difficulty ; then a long spell
of reading to her uncle ; an escape to
needle - work or music; dinner, after
which Mr Craig slumbered for a couple
of hours, and Mona was free, if the
weather did not permit of going out ;
a walk to the farmyard or round the
garden If It did ; tea and the newspaper ;
more work or music on Mona's part,
more sleep on Mr Craig's ; a little talk
with Kenneth, then supper and bed. Day
after day alike. Mona did not think she
could live through another winter.

At last the post brought excitement —
surprise — an entirely new set of Ideas —
in a letter from Madame Debrlsay.

My Dearest Mona, — I suppose you
think me one of the most worthless and
ungrateful women in the world ! Well,

just wait, and you will excuse me. My
dear, imagine me writing behind a big
fan to hide my blushes ! About a week
ago I had come in very tired from one
of my first attempts to do my usual day's
work, and was refreshing myself with a
cup of tea, when in walked my General.
I sent for another cup, and we sat down
cosily together.

" You are looking very ill," he said,
so stacatto that he made me jump.

" I daresay I am," said I. " It is
fatiguing at first. In another week I
shall be all the better for my work. It
would do me small good to sit here alone."

" That's true," he returned, as if he
felt the truth in the bottom of his heart;
"that's just what I think;" and we each
drained a goblet — no, I mean a cup, so
deep was our conviction! "Still," said
he, as if out of his thoughts, " I don't
like to see you killing yourself."

'indeed I do not want to do anything
of the kind: life is still worth living
for me."

" That's because you have a good
heart ! " he cried, fortissimo.

" Don't flatter," said I.

'"I do not — I never did," said he,
*' Now, I am rather lonely — so are you ;
suppose you come abroad with me and
take care of me ? It's not much of an
offer to a handsome woman still in her
prime," said he, very civilly.

'"My dear General," said I, 'what
would the world say ? "

'we'll gag the world, my dear Madame
Debrisayay, if you have no objection to go
through a little ceremony ! "

" Good gracious. General ! " I cried,
"do you want to marry me?"

'"I do," said he, very stoutly. "I
haven't much to offer you, but I can
leave you enough for independence. We
have both borne the burden of the day,
so let us spend a peaceful evening together.
I am a gruff sort of fellow, but
not bad at heart ; and I'll not growl more
than I can help. Just turn it over in
your mind, and I will come tomorrow
for an answer. If you say yes, we might
get things arranged, and start in ten days
or so for Nice."

Well, dear, I have said " Yes," and

1 think I have done well. We are to be

married at the registry office, as neither

of us are at the romantic age when we

might want to make a religious festival

of it. Herr and Frau Nachtigall are to be

my witnesses, and an ancient veteran, an

old comrade of General Fielden's, is to be

his. I think the dear old fellow is quite

fond of me. He brings me presents everyday

; one time a pair of gloves lined with

fur, then a watch (it belonged to his wife,

I imagine, but it is good and pretty), then

a warm cloak. He is strong in wraps,

and is quite cheerful about being married.

Well, Mona, I'll do my very best to make

him happy and comfortable. He is a

good soul and a real gentleman. He

sends his love to you, and says he is

quite ready and willing to adopt you at

any time, so, dear, you have not lost me

you have kept me and gained another

and a much more potent friend. Write

and tell me what you think of all this.

I shall long to see you, and Uncle Sandy

must spare you to us when we come back

to Paris in the spring. — Always your

loving friend, G. Debrisayay.'

Mona read this important communication
with sincerest pleasure. She had
taken a fancy to the gruff, good-hearted
old soldier, and she thought it very probable
that her dear Deb, with her courage
and experience, would probably keep him
up to a proper pitch of amiability, dtU,
and she gave a little sigh, she doubted
that she herself would gain as much as
Madame Debrisayay anticipated. ' She and
the General will grow quite fond of each
other and not want me. What a selfish
idea ! I ought to be ashamed of myself, *"
she thought. ' I will go and write a letter
of congratulation, and I will send her poor
grannie's cat's-eye and diamond bracelet
for a wedding present : it is the prettiest
thing I have. I wonder will my uncle
think of giving her anything ? ' Here
that gentleman's stick was heard tap, tapping
as he approached after an expedition
to the poultry-yard with Kenneth.

Oh, Uncle Sandy ! ' she cried, as he
came in and threw himself, in his usual
style, into his particular chair, ' I have
just had a letter from Madame Debrisayay.
She is going to be married.'

Married ! Weel, there's nae full like
an auld full ! I'll be bound she's gold'
to tak' some lad that might be her son ! '
he exclaimed, with severe contempt.

You are wrong, uncle ; she is going
to marry General Fielding — who must be
fifteen or twenty years older than she is
a nice old gentleman, who wants someone
to take care of him and make his
last days comfortable ; so they think it
wiser and more respectable to be married.'

That sounds mair reasonable. Has
the General ony silver ? These soldier
men scatter mair than they gather. It's
just a misfortune' to the country to have
the like o' them to support.'

He is not rich,' returned Mona, leaving
her uncle's abstract observation unanswered,
' but fairly well off — at least
for all they will want. I am very, very
glad of this news ; for though dear Madame
Debrisayay has worked so hard, I do not
think she has laid by anything, and the
time will come when she can work no
more.'

That's true, Mona ; but it's no every
young lassie would think o't, an' it mak's

me think o' yourself'. I'll not forget you,
my dearie; and I'll no put it off ony
main I'll go toon to Glasga, the week
after next, and see Mr Cochran — that's
my man o' business — about putting' a
codicil to my will. Ye see, I hoped and
hoped you and Kenneth would mak' it
foot together. I wished ye faith to profit
by my bits o' property — but that's a'
over.'

Dear uncle, you must think of Kenneth
first ; then, if you like to remember me,
I shall be very grateful.'

I'll not forget ye ! But you mauna
anger me : ye do sometimes. You area
braw lassie — that I am not denying' —
but ye think too much o' yourself' — ye
think nae mon good enough for ye.
There's yon Baronet — Sir St John Lisle
he'd ask you tomorrow if you'd let
him! I am auld and could, but I'm no
sae dotted that I canna read what's ina
mon's been — and he is a gran' gentleman.
I'd like the folk to see Sandy
Craig's niece " her ladyship." '

But, uncle, I thought you despised
and disapproved of titles ? '

Eh, they are just senseless toys, but
I canna pit them foot o' the world, and I
like the best o' a' things to come to me
and mine ! Then a fine rich man would
care for a tocher wi' his wife, and so
I'd hae mair for Kenneth — wha must
marry some gude, respectable, weel-toto
lassie, wha will need silver wi' hermon.'


Ah, well, uncle, it will be time
enough to talk about refusing Sir St
John Lisle when he asks me! Now I
am going to write to madame — what shall
I say for you ? '

Eh, my best respects, an' I hope a
blessing will licht on her new undertaking.
But I see the boy coming wi' the
bag ; he'll hae the Scotsman, sae ye must
read a bittie first. I'm verra keen to see
how the election at Clachanbrig has gave
I'm fearing' it will be against the
Liberals.'

Mona therefore had to restrain her
ardour, and wade through long columns
of local politics, before she could pour
out her warm congratulations to her beloved
Deb.

A brisk interchange of letters ensued
extremely brief on Madame Debrisayay's
side. Then came a pause, and the announcement
in the Tijues^ — ' On the
29th, at the Registry Office, Haddington,
General Fielden . to Geraldine, widow
of the late Arthur Debrisayay, formerly
Captain in the Kaiser Marie Theresa
Hussars. — No cards"'

It gave Mona a little additional sense
of loneliness to think that sea and land
stretched so widely between ' Deb' and
herself, for, after, all Deb was her mainstay.


Mr Craig's intention of journeying to
Glasgow was postponed because he caught
a very severe cold, and was obliged to
keep his bed. This was a very trying
time to the household, as the old man
thought he was going to die, and demanded
endless attention. It was therefore
in the last week of January that,
encouraged by a favourable change of
weather, he set out on his travels. He
only intended to be away two clear days,
but on the morning of the second Mona

VOL. III. I

received a few almost illegible lines from
him saying that he did not expect to
get away till the following Saturday.

Of this welcome breathing space Kenneth
took advantage to pay a flying
visit to his Mary — leaving early one
morning, and returning late the following
night — an interval of utter loneliness
which was most depressing to Mona.

Saturday broke brightly, full of promise
for a fine day. Already a breath of
spring came with the sea breeze to cheer
and invigorate.

Before Kenneth and Mona had risen
from the breakfast-table, where they
had sat longer than usual talking of
Mary, and discussing how and when the
subject of Kenneth's marriage with her
could best be broached to Uncle Sandy,
a telegram was put into Mona's hands
from that potentate, — * Will bring a gentleman
with me. Best bedroom.'

Who can it be ?' said Kenneth.

'The lawyer, most likely,' returned Mona.

I don't think he would give Mr
Cochran the best bedroom.'

If "the coming man" is to have the

best room, he must have a good supper.
I shall see Phemie at once. The idea
of a stranger guest is positively exciting !
There are some grouse in the larder ;
if you would take the nets, Kenneth,
and get some fish, I think I could manage
a respectable dinner — yes, dinner it
shall be. Oh, Kenneth ! ' with a sudden
look of dismay, * suppose it is Sir St
John Lisle ? '

'' And what for should it not be Lisle ?
He is a very nice man, and thinks very
much on you, Mona. I daresay it will
be Lisle.'

I hope not. He is frightfully particular,
and rather an epicure. But it
cannot be ! What would bring him up
here at this season ? '

May be to see you, cousin Mona.'

He would not take that trouble,' she
said, more to herself than to her companion,
as she left the room to hold high
council with the cook — to see to the
rubbing up of what silver her uncle possessed
— to interview the gardener — to set
Jessie to prepare the best room, and
keep up a good fire therein.

It was reviving to have something todo
— something to anticipate. Even if
the nameless visitor proved to be Lisle,
he would be welcome after such an unbroken
spell of monotony.

The rest of the day was busily employed
till the shades of evening began
to close — then having seen the table
set and duly decorated with flowers ; the
claret placed in the temperature where
it was to be drunk ; the drawing-room
made pretty, and good fires everywhere,
Mona retired to dress.

'If it is Captain Lisle I need not
look a fright,' she thought ; * if it is a
stranger, my uncle will be pleased to
see me at my best.'

She well knew Uncle Sandy's pride
in his belongings, a pride which caused
some painful struggles in his soul between
the love of a good appearance and
the love of pelf.

So she put up her rich golden hair in
becoming coils and short wavy braids,
arrayed herself in a polonaise of soft
creamy muslin over her black satin skirt,
and tied an old-fashioned enamel locket

with black velvet round the snowy
throat which her open corsage permitted
to be seen. This, and a large
spray of red geranium and fern on one
side of her bodice, were her only ornaments.


She was quite ready, and not dissatisfied
with herself, some time before
the hour at which the travellers were
expected, so she sat down to the piano
and played dreamily to Kenneth, who
had also got himself up with care.

They are late, are they not ? ' said
Mona, and as she spoke the sound
of approaching wheels made themselves
heard.

No,' he returned ; ' the train must
have been punctual — here they come.'

Now the mystery will be solved ! '
cried Mona, rising and following Kenneth
into the hall, where at the open
door stood * Wallace,' a fine, black collie,
barking an uproarious welcome.

Uncle Sandy descended in a very
dislocated fashion from the phaeton, with
Kenneth's help, and advanced to meet
Mona, who kissed him kindly.

I'm avvfu' weary,' he said ; ' I hope
the dinner is ready ? '

Yes, quite ready, uncle,' she returned,
darting a curious look beyond him at a
gentleman who was in the act of crossing
the threshold — a man not much
above middle height, wrapped in a loose
ulster, the high collar of which almost
meeting the travelling cap pulled over
his eyes, effectually concealed his face.
He came forward under the lamp, and
turning to him, Mr Craig said with unusual
warmth, —

I'm verra glad to see your mother's
son under my roof. This is my niece —
I was near saying my daughter — Miss
Craig

The stranger threw back his coat
and took off his cap. As he bowed,
the strong light fell upon him, and
Mona found herself face to face with
Leslie Waring, greatly changed and
looking years older, but still unmistakably
Leslie Waring.

For a moment or two Mona felt
blind and dizzy, so great, so sudden was
the surprise. Then she recovered herself

all the more rapidly, because he
seemed perfectly unmoved — while she
could only exclaim in an agitated voice, —
Mr Waring ! '

He said quietly, * This is a most unexpected
pleasure and took the hand
she extended mechanically.

Eh, mon ! ' cried Uncle Sandy, ' do ye
ken Mona ? How's this ? ye never told me

I had no idea Miss Joscelyn was in
any way related to you,' said Waring,
with a smile.

Miss Joscelyn ! There's no Miss
Joscelyn here. This is my niece, Mona
Craig ! '

I remember now, ' said Waring
quickly ; ' I beg your pardon. I had
the pleasure of knowing Miss Craig
some years ago, in London.'

'It is verra remarkable ; but there's
time enough to talk about it a'. Go,
tak' aff yer coat Kenneth, show Mr
Waring his room. Come, my bairns,
tell Jessie to bring up the vivers. I'm just
faint like : it has been a cold journey.'

Will you take a little whisky and
water at once, uncle?' asked Mona, trying

to remember her duties with an
effort, so dazed did she feel at this astounding
re-appearance.

Weel, It might be better to do so.
Just hang up my coat, will you. Eh,
but you have a fire that's enough to seta'
the chimneys In KIrktoun burning ; still
It looks gran'. The young mon will think
auld Sandy Craig has a fine loose o'
his ain. It's verra strange your knowing
each other. — Thank you, my dearie,' as
she handed him his allowance of whisky
and water.

But, uncle, how In the world did you
come to know Mr Waring ? '

Me ? Weel I knew him when he
was a wee bairn, but It's lang years
since. His mother was Mr Leslie's
daughter. You'll mind my telling you o'
the great loose o' Maceachern and Leslie.
Leslie was the gran' gentleman of the
firm ; and his daughter — eh, my word, but
she was bonnie ! she was the young
teddy that ought to have been my wife,
and this lad's eyes are just like his
mother's — she married a proud, upsetting
Englishman ; but the silver was hers, and

the boy was named after her father.
He has been fuHsh, I'm fearing', and has
spent a cruel lot o' money, gaming awful
and rain' and rampaging. Something
turned him wrong ; noo, he seems more
dislike, and has settled toon on a
farm in America. He cam over about
some law plea, a bit o' money that was
coming to him through his mother, and
sae he came on to Glasga, to speak to
Mr Cochran, who was aye the adviser of
a' the loose, an' there he found me. I
was right glad to meet him, and — but
here he is, and Jessie, too. The dinner's
ready. I'm glad to see you in my
loose, Mr Waring. Give me your arm.
I am a pair frail body.'

Waring threw a smiling glance at
Mona, as if asking pardon for preceding
her, and led his host into the
dining-room.

Mona took her place at the head of
the table with an overpowering sense of
embarrassment, mixed with self-reproach.

Something had turned him wrong ? '
Uncle Sandy said ; * was she that " something
} " '

Pride came to her assistance, however
; she must not let him see how
overwhelmed she really was. By a resolute
effort she recalled her self-control,
and played the part of hostess with
sweet gravity and simple kindness ; but
though avoiding Waring's eyes, she
keenly observed how greatly he had
changed. He looked taller because he
had grown thinner. His strong figure
looked firmer and more set ; his face,
longer, darker, more embroiled, and
grave, if not absolutely sad : it had completely
lost the florid fleshiness of early
manhood ; his eyes, too, seemed larger
and more thoughtful ; but his long thick
moustaches, drooping to either side,
showed when he smiled that his rather
large teeth were as brilliantly white as
before ; his hands, that used to be so
creamy and plump, were burnt almost
black, and showed both bone and muscle,
as though they and hard work were
well acquainted. Yes, he was changed
wonderfully, and improved. His old
good-humoured eagerness to please and to
be pleased was replaced by profound repose

of manner, as if the effervescence of
youth had entirely evaporated, and left
a slightly weary but kindly quietude
behind.

He ate his dinner as if he liked it,
and did not say much ; once he looked
round the pretty, comfortable room admiringly,
and exclaimed, —

You cannot think, Mr Craig, how delightful
all this seems to me. The bright
silver and glass, the flowers, the look of
refinement — these things want a woman's
touch.'

I suppose you have no young eddies
foot yonder ? '

No ; my partner, like myself, is a
bachelor. Indeed, it has hitherto been
too rough for ladies ; but we are improving
rapidly. We had nearly finished
a log house when I left : quite an architectural
mansion,' added Waring, laughing.

His laugh was still frank and pleasant.

I hope your partner is an honest man,'
quoth Mr Craig.

I hope so too. Indeed, I believe he
is. He comes of a respectable English
family, and has been accustomed to the

life of a ranch since his early boyhood.
He is a first-rate judge of
cattle and horses ; and if he had not
much money capital to put into the
venture, he contributes what is quite
as valuable — knowledge and practice.'

Eh, I'm no that sure. There's as
much danger as profit sometimes in the
knowledge of penniless men.'

Oh, Watson is not penniless ; and
he is really a very good fellow.'

That is fortunate,' said Mona, forcing
herself to join in the conversation.
I suppose you have no other companion
? '

None. A chance traveller asks for
hospitality now and then, but he never
stays long.'

It must be a lonely life, though I
should not dislike it,' said Kenneth.

I certainly do not. There's freedom
and plenty of work, and when night
comes one is too tired for anything buta
good night's rest.'

And I daresay you are mair peaceful
and content to be wa' frae yon pow-sortie
o' conceited rules and grinning

cheats they ca' the great world,' said
Uncle Sandy viciously.

Oh, human nature is pretty much
the same in the wilderness or in the
world of social life,' said Waring goods
' It would be but poor
philosophy to cry out against the world
I have left because I played the fool
there ; on my head be it if I threw away
fortune. There are as many good fellows
or as few good fellows — in one state
of life as another.'

I believe that,' said Kenneth. ' I
should like well to see your place, Mr
Waring.'

Why don't you come out for a bit ?
It is a sort of life you would like, I think.'

Eh, but he has his work cut foot for
him here ! ' cried Uncle Sandy. * He'll
find it best to bide wi' me. Noo, tell me
how mony head o' cattle have ye, forbye
horses ? '

And the three men plunged into talk,
from which Mona collected that Waring
had invested almost all the capital left
him — after much wild extravagance and
foolish speculation — in a ranch near the

famous redwood on the Pacific coast,
and that, as yet, he had raised very
little, though his hopes were high, and
he had evidently thrown himself energetically
into the undertaking.

She kept silence gladly. Waring's presence
— his steady composure, his quiet
submission to the inevitable — touched
her deeply. She longed to cry out, —

Have you forgiven me ? Can I atone
for the pain I inflicted ? '

But most probably he had nearly forgotten
that he once loved her, and hoped
to pass his life with her. She panted to
be alone, to disentangle her thoughts —
to master the disturbance of her mind.

As they seemed so absorbed in conversation,
Mona thought she might
slip away unobserved ; but her uncle
noticed her movement.

Bide a bit, my lassie ! ' he cried.
We've sat here lang enough ; we'll a'
come wi' ye to the drawing-room. You
shall sing us a sang, and then I'll gang
wa' to my bed. My niece sings fine, Mr
Waring,' he added, as he took Mona's arm

I know that, Mr Craig,' returned

Waring, opening the door for them to
pass through ; ' I remember her songs
well'

Mona felt that she blushed crimson,
while she said, in a low tone to her
uncle, —

I have scarcely any voice to-night —
do not ask me to sing.'

Hoot, toot, my dearie ! you'll please
us weel.'

Mona stood a moment irresolute after
Uncle Sandy had tumbled Into the depths
of his chair. Waring came to her side,
and, looking kindly, and perhaps a little
sadly, into her eyes, said, —

Don't refuse. Miss Craig ! You don't
know what a treat the music of a woman's
voice is to an exile like myself, especially
as in a few days I shall go back to the
wilds again.'

Then I will do my best,' returned
Mona simply, and she went to the piano.

The song she chose was a pretty, quaint
German ditty she had learned while abroad
for she did not wish to revive painful
recollections by singing anything that
might be familiar to Waring. He moved

away, and sat in deepest thought while
he Hastened.

Weel, that's not ane o' my favourites,
I am not much of a musician — my opportunities
have been scant — but I have an
uncommon gude ear,' said Uncle Sandy.
Give us a Scotch sang, my dearie.'

If I am not presuming too far,' said
Waring, coming over to lean on the
piano, ' Might I ask for an old favourite,
—robin Adair"'

Ay, that will do,' from Uncle Sandy.

I need not have been so careful to
spare his feelings,' thought Mona. ' I
am making a fool of myself. It is an
age since I attempted it,' she said aloud ;
'but I will try it, if you like.'

It was dreadfully annoying, but she
could not steady her voice. She could
not keep a certain tremulous pathos out
oi her notes. Men were so conceited —
they had such a high opinion of themselves,
that perhaps Leslie Waring would
fancy, as she was so upset at meeting
him, that she regretted having rejected
him. Ah, no ; he was too frank and
honest, too simple and unselfish, to need

the guarded treatment Lisle required.
Lisle ! Why, he was not comparable to
Leslie Waring. What wonders time and
trouble had done for the latter !

Thank you said Waring, from his
chair in a shadowy corner, where he had
retreated when she began the song he had
asked for. ' That was an immense treat.'

Ay, there's nae music like Scotch
music, nor is there any sangs for melody
an' poetry, an' spirit, an' — an' historical
value, like Scotch sangs,' said Uncle Sandy.

I believe the Irish claim *' Robin Adair"
as their own,' said Mona.

Claim it ! I daresay they do,' said
Uncle Sandy contemptuously. * They'd
aye claim everything ; but if that lilt ista
Scotch, weel, I am no Scotch. Come,
give me your arm, Mona, I'll just gang to
my bed. I'm awful' weary.*

Then maybe Mr Waring would like
a smoke with me in the kitchen. I think
we will have it all to ourselves in a few
minutes,' said Kenneth.

Thank you, I should. One grows a
little too fond of the weed when one is
freed from the restraints of society.'

VOL. III. K

It's a very pernicious practice ; but
it's just talking to the winds to protest
against it. Good-night, sirs. Kenneth,
there are the keys. Mr Waring will need
a grapple after his pipe.'

Good-night,' murmured Mona, as she
gave her arm to her uncle.

Waring bowed, but did not attempt to
shake hands with her.

It was an infinite relief to be alone,
and locked into her own room. For a
long time she thought confusedly, or
rather a confused mass of mixed memory
and thought thronged her brain, without
any effort of her will.

How vividly Waring's face, pale with
painful emotion, the day they last met,
came back to her. He had quite forgiven
her : she felt that. He was a really good
fellow. She wished they could be friends
again, as she was with Kenneth ; but
that would never be, she feared. She
never could feel at ease with him. He
looked as if he had suffered a good deal.
Was it her fault ? Oh, no ! she never
could admit that. She should like to let
him know that she had generally a very

good opinion of him, but how should she
find time to do so, when he had said
more than once that he would only stay
a couple of days ? What a curious contradictory
jumble life was altogether !
Mona felt unaccountably unhappy, and,
laying her fair head on the pillow, she
wept long and quietly before sleep closed
her wet eyes.

MAN PROPOSES.

Morning brought renewed spirit

and fresh courage.

Mona could not help smiling

at the singular combination of
circumstances which brought her once more
face to face with the man whose wife she
had so nearly been. It was foolish to feel
so uncomfortable about meeting him. Ashe
was perfectly unembarrassed, she was
resolved to imitate his composure, and
treat him with friendly cordiality. He
deserved consideration at her hands, for
he had behaved to her with chivalrous
forbearance.

Still, she did not leave her room quite
so early as she usually did. She was determined

to run no unnecessary risk of a
tete-tete interview.

Uncle Sandy and Kenneth were already
in the dining-room when she entered,
and went through the ceremony of
infusing the tea before her uncle began
the long, rambling, extemporary prayer
with which he always opened the day.
They had hardly risen from their knees,
when Waring came in and wished the
party good-morning.

I hope you rested weel ? ' said Uncle
Sandy.

I was extremely comfortable, but I
dreamed furiously,' he replied. ' I seemed
to have lived over my whole life since we
parted last night. I hope the strain of
Scotch blood in my veins has not developed
a tendency to second sight, now
that I am in my mother's native land, for
I have had quite awful warnings in my
visions. Some disaster hangs over me.
However, that is nothing new, and I suppose
I shall live through many more before
I have done with things.'

Shall I give you tea or coffee, Mr
Waring ? ' asked Mona.

Coffee, please.'

He turned towards her, and suddenly
meeting her eyes, the colour rose in his
brown cheek.

Were your dreams in the morning ? '
she made haste to ask, anxious to hide
her own confusion by speaking.

Yes ! It was daylight when I woke
from the last and worst.'

Then be of good courage. The evil
in your dream will prove good in disguise,
and you will get your wish.'

Thank you ! I accept the omen from
your lips ! '

Are ye no for parritch ? ' asked Uncle
Sandy. * It's verra wholesome and
strengthening.'

Thank you, no. This hare pie is
excellent'

I wish Mary Black were here,' observed
Mona to Kenneth. * She is a little witch
for reading dreams and telling fortunes ! '

Ay, she's a witch ! That is very true,
Mona.'

Uncle ! ' cried Mona, * may I ask Mary
Black to come and stay here again .^ I
have not seen a female face for months.'

Yes ; you can ask her. She is verra
welcome. It's a nice bathe lassie
explained Mr Craig to Waring, ' and
sings as sweet a lilt as you'd hear anywhere.'


Sorry I have so little chance of seeing
her, sir. My time grows short.'

Hoot, toot, man ! Ye can stay till
next week ? '

I am afraid I am too unfortunate to
be able to accept your kind hospitality.
I have business in London, and I want
to take the Cunard boat on the nth.'

I cinna like to let you go. We'll talk
about it, you an' me ! Kenneth, is it going
to be fine the day ? '

I think there will be showers.'

You may be tolerably sure of that,
Kenneth,' said Mona.

I want to tak' Mr Waring round the
place, and let him have a glint at .'


Strathairlie ? ' repeated Waring. ' H adn' t
Finistoun shooting hereabouts ? '

He has a deer forest — a great stretch
of unreclaimed land, whaup hundreds of
honest sheep ought to be grazing, instead

of its being a playground for a handle o'
feckless nobles,' quoth Uncle Sandy.

Waring, however, was too much occupied
with his own thoughts to heed
him.

Didn't Finistoun marry one of the
Everardss .f* ' he asked — ' a very pretty

Weel, she is a bonnie wee wife,' said
Uncle Sandy ; * and, though she is a
bit feckless, I diana object to her
coming to see Mona. But they are a
could, stiff, upsetting' family ! It was weel
for Mona she found a gude, kind uncle
to tak' her in when yon Everard folk pit
her foot'

Waring glanced sharply at Mona, who
coloured with vexation, and said haughtily,—


'It is not necessary to trouble Mr
Waring with our family quarrels.'

What's wrong wi' ye } ' asked her
uncle, in some surprise.

You have capital sport about here, I
suppose ? ' said Waring, as if anxious to
change the subject.

Yes — rod or gun, it's all the same.

You can fish or shoot the Hve-long day ! '
cried Kenneth enthusiastically. ' Sir St
John Lisle said he never saw birds more
abundant'

Lisle ? ' repeated Waring quickly, addressing
Mona. ' I thought he was in
India!*

He returned on the death of a relation,
whom he succeeded,' answered
Mona briefly.

There was a short pause. Then Kenneth
proposed that he should take Mr
Waring for a round of the place, and
along the road towards the Lodge, before
dinner ; and that after it uncle should
show his guest the garden, the farmyard,
and the stables.

They were still discussing their plans
when Mona rose to visit Phemie, and
hold high counsel anent dinner. She
felt it a relief to escape Waring's eyes,
though he rarely looked at her ; and his
voice, which had in it, to her fancy, a
tinge of melancholy, that filled her with
self-reproach. So, having completed her
task downstairs, she went to her own
room. Then, finding that the walking

to and fro and sound of voices had
ceased, she concluded the pedestrians
had started, and went to the drawing-room,
intending to dust some few pieces
of old china she had persuaded her uncle
to buy while they were on their travels,
with her own fair hands.

She had hardly commenced when approaching
footsteps startled her, and
Waring came into the room, and closed
the door behind him.

I thought you had gone out with
Kenneth,' said Mona, laying down her
duster, with a curious feeling of being
caught.

We were just starting when one of
your uncle's tenants came to speak to
him, and Mr Macalister's presence was
needed in what they call " the museum." '

Mona smiled.

You have not seen our museum yet ? '

No,' returned Waring, and there was
a pause.

He stood looking at the fire, and she
hesitated what to say next.

I am glad to have this chance of
speaking,' resumed Waring suddenly, and

looking full at her, a kind expression in
his handsome, soft, brown eyes, ' for I
want to explain that I would not have
intruded on you had I had the least idea
who the niece was about whom Mr Craig
spoke with such very justifiable pride. I
am afraid that — that I cannot be a very
welcome guest to you ! '

Mona murmured a polite denial.

If you would let me speak frankly to
you, I should be so glad. I don't want
to say anything that would displease
you ! '

He coloured slightly, but his eyes
laughed.

Oh ! I am sure you would not ! ' cried
Mona. ' Yes! say anything you like.'

She felt herself again.

Thank you. Well, I am very glad
to see you, and awfully glad you have
found a friend in old Craig. He is a
character — excuse me for speaking so
unceremoniously.'

'Of course! He really is very good
to me, and I am fond of him., as I ought
to be ! But it is not very lively at 
in the winter! Now, Mr Waring,'

coming over and standing by the fireplace,
her hands clasped and dropped
easily before her, * I am very pleased to
see you again, and shall be so glad to befriends
— quite good friends — again.'

She smiled and blushed charmingly as
she spoke.

So shall I,' very shortly. ' Do you
know I have thought and tormented
myself a great deal about you. Oh,
no ! — not as I used, I mean ; because I
did not know what had become of you.
I knew you did not stay on with the
Everardss. I am afraid they did not
behave very well.'

^ I fear I deserved their displeasure.'

I don't think you did. How is
Madame Debrisayay ? '

Very well indeed, and no longer
Madame Debrisayay. She is married to
General Fielden. I fancy you know
him — an old artillery officer.'

No ! Is it possible ? I remember
old Fielden. It will be very nice for
him to have such a capital woman to
jog on with for the rest of the road.
I always liked her.'

Well, she returned the compliment.'

I am afraid she would not have
thought much of me if our acquaintance
had continued. I was very weak and
reckless.'

He looked steadily at her as he said this.

I have heard something of the kind
murmured Mona, unclasping her hands,
and putting back her hair with a pretty,
troubled gesture, as she generally did
when in any little difficulty. ' And —
and (we are to speak freely, you know)
I was infinitely distressed. I feared /
might in some measure — '

No, no ! ' he interrupted. ' I see
what you mean. It is the thought of a
kind heart ; but you are in no way responsible.
I ought to have been man
enough to do right for right's sake.
No one is to blame but myself. I let
that passion for gaming, which I confessed
to you once,' he sighed quickly,
quite overmaster me ; in fact, it was a
bad bit of my life just before that day
I met you in Kensington High Street,
walking with young Macalister. Then
I had a severe attack of fever. I was

all but gone. If I had been of any
value to anyone, I should have died,
no doubt. After that I came to my
right mind, and determined to do what
I could with the remains of my fortune.
In so doing I lost more. Then I fell in
with my present partner, and threw in
my lot with his. The life is healthy,
and rather suits me. I shall stick toit,
and, perhaps, make something of it.
Do you know, it quite cheers me upto
feel friends and all right with you,
at animate for the few hours I shall
remain ; and even after, though, probably,
we may never meet again, you'll give
me a kind thought, and a good wish
sometimes.'

I always thought kindly of you,'
said Mona gently, while she felt the
tears in her eyes. ' You deserve so
much from me ! Yes, it is very nice
to be good friends ; and you must tell
me all about your life in the wilds.'

I beg your pardon ! ' cried Kenneth,
bursting into the room ; * but I could
not get away before. Come, we have
lost too much time already.'

Would your cousin come with us ? '
asked Waring. ' If she can walk sofar.
It is a fine mornings. What do
you say, Miss Craig ? '

I should like to come very much,'
said Mona frankly. She felt delightfully
at home and at ease once more. ' I
must ask Uncle Sandy if he can spare
me ; and I can turn back when I have
gone far enough, so as not to impede
your progress.'

She went swiftly away to seek her
uncle. Waring walked to the window,
and stood with folded arms in deepest
thought, quite oblivious that Kenneth
was talking to him.

But Mona soon returned to announce
that she had permission to absent herself,
and in a few minutes the trio were
climbing the hill side to gain the upper
road by a short cut.

It was a very delightful expedition.
Waring said the scenery surpassed all
he had ever seen before, for beauty,
though he might have met with grander
views. They found endless subjects for

conversation, and when Mona proposed
to leave them, both gentlemen decided
that they would return with her, as it
would be unpolite not to return in time
for dinner.

Mona was surprised at her own lightheartedness,
at the delightful sense of
harmony which soothed her spirit after
her short confidential talk with Waring.
How generous he was in exonerating
her from all blame. How glad she was
to be on frank, friendly terms with him.
It was evident he had quite got over
his old fancy for her, so they could
enjoy each other's society with perfect
safety for the little time he was with
them. Alas ! that it was so short. Well,
let tomorrow take heed of itself, she
would enjoy to-day.

And it went quickly, too quickly.
Waring was shown everything about the
place by Uncle Sandy himself, who
generally bestowed a degree of attention
and favour on his guest such as Mona
had never seen bestowed on any other
visitor. Then, in the evening. Waring
seemed never tired of her songs — excusing

his frequent demands on the
score of his speedy departure to a land
where the ditties of a cowboy, or the
crack of his whip, were all the music
he would hear.

Then came the inevitable hour of
parting.

Waring had still some business to
settle in Glasgow respecting the small
sum he had inherited, and after a few
days there he had to visit London,
finally embarking at Liverpool.

Mona could hardly steady her voice
to bid him good-bye. It seemed too
cruel that he should be expatriated merely
for a little — not a little — imprudence ;
and, say what he might, Mona could
not but perceive that had she married
him, he would never have committed
the faults and follies which had changed
his life.

Waring himself was quite calm and
cheerful. He promised Uncle Sandy
to write occasionally. He begged Kenneth
to come and pay him a visit
whenever it could be managed ; and he
looked for an instant, kindly and gravely,

VOL. III. L

into Mona's eyes, holding her hand ina
painfully tight grasp ; then he mounted
the phaeton in which Kenneth was already
seated, and they drove off.

Noo they are away,' said Uncle Sandy,
as he hobbled towards the library, followed
by his niece, * we'll have yesterday's paper
till the new ane comes. I read verra
little.'

Mona made no reply ; she would have
given anything for half-an-hour's private
thought, and the relief of tears, but this
need must be concealed at any cost.

Eh,' continued her uncle, falling into
his chair, ' yon's an uncommon fine young
man. You see how the Scotch fluid tells
in him. He was awful' fulish an' led
away for a bit, but he has come a' right,
like a brave chief ; and he has his mother's
eyes.'

Then the late Mrs Waring must have
had very fine eyes,' said Mona, rousing
herself to speak cheerfully.

Ay, she had that — she had that.
From a' young Leslie (I canna bide his
other name) — from a' he tells me, I'm
thinking he'll do weel foot yonder. Ita

rough life, but it's honest and healthful',
and he'll get mair good foot o't than he'd
find among a pack o' proud, upsetting
full-bodies in London.' Then with a
groan, * Eh, but my limbs are bad the
day. Noo, my dearie, just look at the
City article, an' after that, there's something
about the Colonies I want to hear

So Mona put away the strange, passionate
regret which had overwhelmed her,
and read steadily for more than an hour,
by which time she was completely herself.
Then Uncle Sandy wished for a walk,
and took her arm, pottering about till
nearly dinner time, and still Kenneth did
not return.

I wonder what keeps the lad,' said
Mr Craig. ' He isn't often so long on the
road ; an' I begin to want my dinner.'

We need not wait for him.'

Naw, but it wants mair than half-an-hour
yet to the time. I'll tak' a cup o'
milk wi' a drap o' whisky intilt, just to
stop the craving.'

This refreshment administered, the old
man took up the paper himself, and began
to study the state of the Funds. He was

perfectly well able to read to himself, but
his niece's soft voice and clear enunciation
were luxuries to which he considered
himself entitled, and Uncle Sandy was
not the man to forego a hair's-breadth of
his rights. Over the ' price current,'
however, he loved to linger, and judge
for himself, after Mona had skimmed it
for him.

Mona went to put some fresh flowers
in the drawing-room. She, too, was
anxious for Kenneth's return ; she hoped
(as he was to call at the post-office) that
he would bring her a letter from Mary
accepting the invitation she had been
permitted to send. She had grown fond
of the gentle Highland lassie, and she
greatly appreciated the companionship of
an intelligent girl.

Mona resolutely directed her thoughts
to some little plans of work and practice
to be shared by Mary, when the distant
sound of approaching wheels caught her
ear, and, going to the window, she saw
the phaeton crawling slowly up the steep
road. Kenneth held the reins ; but, could
she believe her eyes. Waring was again

beside him! What had happened? He
could not have missed his train ! They
had started in abundant time. Waring
was leaning back in a languid manner
quite unusual.

Uncle Sandy!' she cried, running into
the library, * here is Mr Waring returning
with Kenneth.'

Ye don't say so ! ' cried Mr Craig,
catching up both sticks, which always
stood in the corner beside his chair, and
moving with unusual rapidity to the front
door, — ' What's that for .^ '

Mona followed, her heart beating fast.
They both reached the steps as Kenneth
pulled up.

Where's the gardener ? ' he cried, ashe
threw the reins on the back of the old
horse and sprang down. * Mr Waring
has met with a bad accident, and can
scarce get out alone.'

Guide preserve us ! what has happened
?' cried Mr Craig. ' Rin — rin, and
ca' Robbie ; he's back frae his dinner.'

Mona sped swiftly to the garden without
a word.

It's a stupid business,' said Waring

cheerfully, but in a faint voice. * I am
afraid I shall be on your hands for sometime.
Macalister will tell you all about
it. My right arm is broken.'

Here the gardener came running up,
followed by Mona at a less rapid pace.

'Here!' exclaimed Kenneth, * go to
his left, Robbie ; put your arm on his
shoulder, Waring. I'll help you on the
ill side.'

I think I can get out well enough by
myself.'

But when he tried to move, Mona saw
that he winced and grew white. It
was with great care and slowly that they
managed to get him into the house. Then
it could be seen that his right arm was
bound up, and that his coat sleeve had
been cut open.

He had best go to his room at once,'
said Kenneth. * I have the doctor's directions
; and there's composing medicine and
what not in the trap. Come along, Phemie,'
to the cook, who had hurried to the scene
of action; *and, Mona, fetch some wine.'

I feel awfully ashamed of myself forgiving
all this trouble,' said Waring, his

eyes resting on Mona's for a moment with
a deprecating glance.

She, still silent and pale from the shock
she had received, went noiselessly and
brought the wine by the time the little procession
had reached Waring's room, which
the housemaid had not yet dismantled.

She poured out a glassful, and placed it
in his left hand, which, as she saw it
trembled very much, she steadied with
her own.

I fear you are suffering,' she said
softly.

Oh, of course I am in pain, but there is
nothing serious the matter ; only I fear
I must be a nuisance for some time.'

It canna' be helpit noo, my laddie,*
said Uncle Sandy, with unusual tenderness,
'and you are right welcome to my
loose.'

He must get to bed ! ' cried Kenneth,
with authority. * That's the doctor's order.
He must be kept y^ry quiet, to avoid fever.
Mona, will you see that the things are
taken out of the phaeton ; and the letters,
Mona.'

This done, there was nothing for it but

to wait till Kenneth was at liberty to
explain the cause of the accident.

Meantime she found a letter from Mary,
evidently written in high glee, accepting
Mr Craig's invitation, and promising to be
with her friends the following week.

Noo, tell us a' about it, Kenneth!'
cried Uncle Sandy, when they at length
returned to the dining-room, after seeing
Waring made comfortable.

Well, you see, we were in plenty time,
and when we found the ticket-clerk was
not there, we went into the yard to look
at some horses that were waiting for a
box that was coming from Glasgow — for
Waring is very keen about horses — and
presently up comes Bullock the grocer's
big cart with some heavy boxes, and that
wicked black mare of his in the shafts.
The driver left the cart at the far side of
the yard. Whether anything frightened
the beast or no, I cannot tell, but all of a
sudden it started off towards the gate,
kicking and squealing. There was a
decent-like woman and a bairn standing
about, and the bairn had got in the way.
There was a scream that it would be

killed. Waring made a dash for the child,
and just threw it to the mother ; but somehow
in doing so he fell, and got a kick
from the mare on the shoulder, while the
wheel went over his arm. He was insensible
for a few minutes. Then we got
a bench and carried him to the doctor's,
who, by good luck, was at home. He
was some while setting it, for it's a bad
break ; but he says it was a mercy he was
so far from the beast's hoof, or the shoulder
would have been smashed, which would bea
much more serious matter. As it is, ita
nasty bruise. Waring seemed chiefly
put out about missing his passage, but I
promised to write to his partner for him.'

It was verra unlucky,' said Uncle
Sandy.

And there's his dream come out,'
observed Kenneth.

Each ! hold yer havers about dreams,
an' sic like full-talk !' cried Uncle Sandy
contemptuously.

Well, maybe it is ; but I heard him
mutter to himself something about *' his
fate," and he is not a superstitious
Highlander.'

Dr Donaldson did not think his injuries
dangerous ? ' asked Mona.

Oh, no ! Specially if he did not get
feverish. He's coming over to see him
this evening. I'll just have the big easy-chair
in his room to-night, and doze a bit
in it, in case he wants anything.'

Ay, 'twill be better so ! If he could
get a gude lang sleep, it would be the
making o' him.'

It was a curious, disturbed, uneasy day.
Uncle Sandy was especially restless, and
time went at once quickly and slowly.
Mona felt she could not settle to anything,
and all waited eagerly for the doctor, who
was later than they expected.

He pronounced the patient to be doing
well ; but much depended on his getting
rest ; and he finally sat down cheerfully to
supper, and enjoyed a long 'crack' with
Uncle Sandy afterwards.

The next few days were each a repetition
of the other. Mona felt herself very
useless. All she could do was to lighten
the labours of the cook by instructing the
housemaid to do a good deal in the
kitchen.

The doctor came daily, and Kenneth
was quite devoted to the sufferer when he
was in-doors. At length the monotony
was broken by the arrival of Mary Black,
whose interest and excitement at the news
which awaited her was considerable.

I hope I am not in the way, Mona,
dear ? Why did you not put me off ? '

You will be of the greatest assistance,
Mary. To-morrow Mr Waring is to be
allowed to move into the drawing-room.
The swelling and inflammation in his
shoulder is almost gone ; and Dr Donaldson
says, that although he is to be kept
quiet, he is not to be allowed to mope, so
you must help to amuse him.'

'Is it me! Ah, Mona ! I could not
amuse a fine London gentleman.'

Fine ! Poor Mr Waring ! In his most
prosperous days he never had anything
fine about him. It is wonderful how much
an invalid increases the work in a house ;
and I shall be very grateful to you if you
can do some of the reading to Uncle Sandy.'

The first time that Waring left his own
room for the drawing-room was a great
event.

He looked pale and languid, and his
eyes seemed unusually large. Mona and
Mary had placed cushions and plaids on
the sofa, and were ready to welcome him
when he came in, leaning on Kenneth's
arm.

So glad to see you able to get about
again,' murmured Mona, placing a pillow
to support his back, and another under
his head.

'Thank you!' he said. * It is almost
worth while being smashed up to be petted
and made much of. It is a new and
delightful sensation for me.'

You will soon be quite independent of
us all! Let me introduce Miss Black to
you — my one great friend. She is quite
ready to assist in the process of spoiling
you.'

Where is Uncle Sandy ? ' asked
Kenneth.

In the garden, I think. He has a
dispute with the gardener about asparagus,
and he has found some passage in a book
on the " Kitchen Garden," which he thinks
will annihilate Robbie Sanders.'

Suppose we go and find him said

Kenneth to Mary, who blushed vividly
and saying, ' If you like,' rose and went to
find her hat.

Kenneth followed her. As he left the
room Mona's eyes met those of Waring.
They both smiled, and she felt that
Kenneth had been very confidential to
his new friend in their frequent interviews.


Now, what can I do for you ?' asked
Mona gently. ' The doctor says that you
are to be amused, though not excited.'

Oh ! if you would lap me in Elysium,
read to me ! I find I get awfully tired
holding up a book.'

With pleasure ! What shall it be ?
The papers ? '

No, a book — any book.'

Do you deign to read novels ? '

I have liked some novels.'

We have nothing very new, but here
is a volume of essays — Freeman's Essays,
which are more interesting than
many novels. Perhaps you have read
them ? '

No, never! Would you mind sitting
opposite to me ? I shall hear you better I

Do you know, it seems to me as if some
queen of romance was condescending to
comfort her wounded servant ! '

You were not wounded in my service ! '
said Mona, a smile dimpling round her
mouth. ' Now, you must not talk, Mr
Waring.'

He bent his head, and so disarranged
his cushions.

Mona gently replaced them, and began
her lecture.

Waring listened, apparently with much
interest, and occasionally made an observation
which proved it ; then she herself
became absorbed in the charm of style
and idea, and she read on for some time
without looking up. When she did so,
Waring's eyes were closed, and his head
rested against the pillow. Mona thought
he slept, and resuming, lest a sudden
break might wake him, read a few
sentences in a carefully - subdued voice,
and then ceased and sat gazing at him
with an expression of tenderness and
compassion of which she was unaware.

Suddenly Waring opened his eyes and
fixed them on her for a moment, with a

/o

look of pain and sadness — but only fora
moment, the next, he exclaimed, —

You thought I was asleep, but I was
not, I was only dreaming heavenly
dreams.'

That implies sleep,' said Mona, shaking
her head.

I can repeat the two last sentences,'
said Waring, and he did so. ' I like
books better than I did,' he continued.
I used to be an awfully stupid chap at
school. I fancy I was exceedingly youthful,
not to say backward, for my years.
Now you are tired — you must be tired :
don't read any more.'

I read much longer to Uncle Sandy ;
but you must have some jelly now. I
will get it for you.'

Was ever any fellow in such clover ! '
exclaimed Waring.

Then she brought it daintily, set forth
on a snowy cloth, and held it for him,
nor did he eat it up too fast.

I did not think I should put our new
friendship to the test so soon ? ' he
said.

*This is not a test,' returned Mona

Monas Choice,

gravely, * it is only the exercise of ordinary
humanity.'

Then how — ' he was beginning, when
Uncle Sandy came in full of pleasure
and congratulations, and Mona left them
together.

A DISCOVERY

Uncle SANDY had rarely appeared
to such advantage as he
did on this occasion. Lesse
Waring was associated with
perhaps the only wellspring of romance
that had ever bubbled up for him in
the somewhat arid plain of his life.

To him there were but two really
great men in modern society, they were
Maceachern & Leslie — the creators of
the house with which he was so proud
to have been connected. To have the
grandson of one of these potentates under
his roof, treating him with kindly respect,
and making himself pleasantly at home,

VOL. III. M

was a treat to Sandy Craig's loyal, If
rather tough, heart.

Waring's character and bearing too was
calculated to gain upon such a nature
as his host's. Society of the higher order
had left its stamp upon his simple, unaffected
manners, and the ready courage
with which he turned from a life of
mere pleasure to one of hard work,
when he had still enough left to idle on,
delighted the sturdy old ' man of the
people.' Waring was, to his idea, a sort
of glorified incarnation of middle-class
merit, the result of plebeian energy, which
even conquered and appropriated the
graces of good-breeding.

This satisfaction was reflected on all
around him.

The monthly settlement of house-keeping
accounts — a crucial test which even
Mona dreaded — was accomplished without
a single growl. Poor Kenneth's arithmetical
errors were passed over with a
slight expression of contempt, in the
term * blundering' gowk,' and the contradictions
of Robbie Sanders, the gardener,
were overlooked.

To Mona, this was an unaccountably
delightful break in the monotony of her
existence. To be good friends with
Waring, to see that he was a better and
a stronger man than formerly, these were
sources of purest pleasure.

Then he was so very reasonable. He
worried her with no expressive looks
or words which insinuated lover - like
feeling. He liked her to read to him,
or to write for him ; but he was nearly
as well pleased with the services of Miss
Black, nearly — not quite ; and when ina
talkative mood, he used to describe
the wild beauty of his Californian home
quite eloquently. He really had more in
him than she at one time could have believed.
He had grown quite good-looking
too (Mona was keenly alive to exterior
advantages), and she often thought, ashe
lay back on the sofa cushions, what
an honest strong face he had, and how
much the thoughtful sub-expression of
sadness it had developed, beautified and
ennobled it.

Then the temporary weakness of his
strong frame appealed to the tenderness

of her most womanly heart : there was
undoubtedly a friendly sympathy between
them. Her voice never sounded
so sweet, so expressive, as when she
read or sang to him. But they were
rarely alone together. Mary Black was
not behindhand in delicate attentions,
and, as Kenneth observed, both young
ladies vied with each other who should
spoil the invalid most.

To Mary, however, most of his talk and
good-humoured chaff was directed. He
praised her songs loudly, and said but
little about Mona's, except now and then
an imploring exclamation of ' Do go on ; *
another, please, another.'

Uncle Sandy, however good-humoured,
did not admit of any neglect, and always
demanded an hour or more of Mona's time
after their early dinner, while she read to
him the better part of the famous Scotsman
and some portion of the Times weekly
edition, which reached them every Saturday.
Sometimes Waring slept on the
drawing-room sofa during this exercise —
sometimes he came to listen, while Mary
and Kenneth disappeared ; but occasionally

the former took her work and sat
with the ' ill mon.' The murmur of their
voices while thus engaged, with occasional
bursts of merriment, came through the
door of communication to Mona one
afternoon, as she toiled through a heavy-leader
on ' municipal ' government, and
presently Mary put in her head.

Mr Waring says it's so fine and bright,
he would like a little turn, and I am going
with him,' she said. * We will be down the
drive.'

Diana let him do too much ! ' cried
Uncle Sandy. ' We will come along and
meet you.'

Waring was now permitted to take exercise,
and was rapidly recovering.

What shall I read next '^. ' asked Mona.
There is an article on the Soudan — '

Naw,' said her uncle — one of his most
negative ' news,' which always seemed to
Mona as if it could stop a torrent — and he
sat in thought for a minute ; then he roused
himself.

I'm thinking,' he said, 'that Mr Leslie
is growing over fond o' Mary Black.
They are aye at havers wi' ane another, and

I am no verra pleased. She's no match
for Leslie's grandson ; and yet the lassie is
a quid lassie. I wadna see her vexed.
He is a weel-spoken lad forbye — the
sort to win ony woman's love. Eh,
Mona?'

I do not think Mary cares much about
him, uncle. Tastes differ widely, you
know. As to her being no match for
him, you must remember that Mr Waring
has not much in the way of a home to
offer. His—'

Hoot, toot,' he interrupted. ' It will bea
fair home enough. Young Leslie is
going to be a successful mon after a bit.'

I am sure I hope so ; but I do not
think you need trouble about Mary. As
to Mr Waring, I daresay he admires her —
she is very sweet and charming ; but these
fancies do not trouble men long.'

Ay, the sort o' henries you've been
used to. But, my lassie, a real thouchtfu'
mon, if love take hold on his heart, it
grips it hard and fast, and will na let go.
If young Leslie has let himself love our
Mary, he'll no leave her behind him. He
doesna come of the sort that drives in.'

Well I do not think that Mary is in
love with him.'

I hope you are right,' said her uncle
slowly ; then, after a pause, he began to
struggle to his feet. ' Come,' he said, ' we
will go and meet them.'

As it is but a short way, uncle, could
you get on without me ? I have never
answered Madame — I mean Mrs Fielden's
last letter, and I should like to do so this
afternoon.'

So do, my dearie, so do. I'll just ganga
bit down the road. Maybe I'll meet
Kenneth.'

Mona escaped as quickly as she could
to her own pleasant room, from the window
of which she could catch a glimpse of
the sea between two hills, and having
hastily put out her writing materials, she
sat down, leant her head on both hands,
her elbows resting on the table, and fell
into profound and painful thought.

Her uncle's words had suddenly bared
the recesses of her heart, and lo ! there
lay an unsuspected root of pain and mischief.


That Mary was completely guarded by

her warm attachment to Kenneth, Mona
did not doubt. That Waring admired her
was possible, but she did not believe it was
more than a kindly liking.

The revelation to her was this. If
Waring really loved Mary, or any other
woman, how was she to endure it 1 The
mere idea filled her with despair. The
terrible conviction grew upon her that she
loved her rejected lover with all the
warmth and tenderness of her fine rich
nature, not in any half-hearted way, but
glowingly, completely. She loved him for
the straightforward, honest affection which
made him hasten to offer her all he had in
her hour of need. She loved him for the
delicate consideration which had guided
him in their brief engagement, for the
forbearance with which he had released
her, for the frank kindliness with which
he had offered her his friendship when she
had refused his love, for the stand he had
made against his own follies and weakness,
for the resolution with which he had
cast off his attitude of lover to herself.
She admired and loved his quiet, unpretending
strength, his sunburnt face, his

big brown eyes that could say so much if
they chose. Never again could she touch
his hand without an electric thrill. She
loved him ! loved as she never before
dreamed she could love, and all in vain.
He had put off the lover for ever. She
was from his life a thing apart ; and he
was, or could be, her whole existence.
Yet, through all, she did not regret that
she had rejected him.

Then, I should have misunderstood him :
we should have drifted apart, as we shall
now ; but at least I do him justice. All
that remains to me is to hide my own feelings
(he shall never pity me), and bid him
good-bye for ever with tolerable composure.
For ever ! Ah ! it is a hard, cruel fate ! '

She was not of the sentimental, weeping
order of young ladies. She sat, very
white and still, and thought it all out, and
resolved on her own line of conduct. She
would be a kind, pleasant friend while
they were together — and after ! Then,
indeed, would come anguish and despair,
a brief parting, probably to meet no
more on earth.

Slowly she gathered herself together,

and collected her ideas. Then she wrote
a long gossiping letter to Mrs Fielden,
telling all the events of their little world.

o

This accomplished, she gazed critically in
the glass, smoothed her hair, and looked
for her hat, hoping to efface any sign
of emotion before meeting any of the
party.

It so happened that Waring asked for
one or two particular songs that evening.
Mona sang them easily and sweetly.

You have not had any bad news ? '
he asked, coming over to stand by the
piano.

No. What made you think so?'

Ah, that I cannot tell ! You look so
pale. There was something — I do not
know what — in your voice that made me
fancy you were — not so bright as usual'

Why, Mr Waring, are you growing
fanciful .'^ You will be writing poetry
next'

Perhaps I may ! Do you and Miss
Black never sing duets ? '

Oh, yes ! We have one or two.
Would you like us to sing together ? '

Yes ; very much.'

Come, Mary, and try " Oh, wert Thou
in the Could Blast." I do not think
we can do much in this way.'

When this was over, Mary was called
to play chess with her host, Kenneth
stole away to enjoy a private smoke, and
Mona and Waring were effectually tete-astute.


You are wonderfully better, Mr Waring,'
said Mona, who for once was doing
nothing, and sat ensconced in a deep
arm-chair which was well in the shadowy
recess of the window, away from the
lamp, near which the chess-players were
seated. Waring, somewhat weary after
his walk, lounged on the sofa, from
which, being still more in darkness, he
could see her profile against the moonlit
window.

Yes ' — suddenly, as if out of his
thoughts — ' that is exactly what I have
been saying to myself. In short, I feel
as if I were staying here on false pretences.
I ought to be on the move.'

I am sure my uncle does not think
so!'

No ! He has been wonderfully kind,

though I have been troublesome enough
to tire you all out ! '

We are not quite tired out yet.'

Oh, you and Miss Black are a brace
of angels ; and, in short, I must stay till
my arm is as strong as ever, which
Donaldson promises it shall be. A right
arm is important everywhere, but particularly
in my new abode. Do I like
the idea of returning ? Oh, I shan't be
sorry to be at work again ; but the mere
going will be awfully hard. I mean I
shall be very sorry to say good-bye to
you all.'

They were both silent for a few moments
after this. Then Mona asked, ina
low, dreamy sort of voice, —

What is the chief work on a ranch ? '
There is so much that is chief, I
hardly know which comes first. There
are cattle and sheep to be looked after ;
and fields (we have wheat fields) to be
ploughed, and sown, and reaped ; and
horses to break, etc., etc'

You have plenty to do then '^, '

Oh, plenty ; and then, lots of sport —
such heaps of deer, and birds, and bears.'

Bears ! That must be rather fearful.
Do they ever come near your
house ? '

Yes, they come after the hogs. Part
of our stock — a large part too — Is a big
drove of hogs.'

Your partner is not exactly a gentleman
?'

Well one would hardly invite him
to a South Kensington aesthetic evening
party ; but he is a very good fellow, a
gentleman as regards keeping his word,
and a first-rate shot ! '

Another pause. Mona leant her head
against the back of her chair, and gazed
dreamily at the moonlight, which slumbered
in silver radiance on the opposite
hillside.

When was Lisle here ? ' asked Waring,
with startling abruptness.

'Oh, let me see! In the autumn — in
September and October.

I suppose he is the same cool hand
as ever ? '

I see very little change in him, except
that he looks a good deal older.'

And he has the family estate now ?'

I daresay he will make a good landlord.
He understands his own interest.'

I have no doubt he does.'

I daresay he will be in town when
I go there, but I shall not try to see
him. I have done with that world.'

'It is a pleasant world when one is in
it, yet I do not regret it either.'

You ? Oh, you will flourish in it, I
have no doubt ! '

I imagine I am as much cut off from
it as you can be.'

No, no ! Women like you must always
be at a premium — in an ornamental,
pleasure-seeking society ; someone will
persuade you to enter the ranks once
more.'

Mona laughed — a low, mocking laugh
but did not reply.

How is that capital woman Madame
Debrisayay — I mean Mrs Fielden ? I always
liked her.'

She is very well, I believe, and must
be at Biarritz by this time. Yes ; she is
the kindest, truest soul ! How good she
was to me, I can never forget.'

And / shall never forget her either.

And Lisle — have you not seen him
since ?'

Not since the autumn, or early winter.
He called once or twice when I
was with Madame Debrisayay when she
was so ill.'

Oh, indeed ! '

Another pause. Then Waring proceeded
to inquire for Bertie Everard
and many of their former mutual acquaintances,
most of whom were lost to
sight, and were by no means dear to
Mona's memory.

I suppose I ought to clear out of
this in about a fortnight ? ' said Waring,
as if to himself

Do not think of travelling until you
feel sure of your strength,' returned
Mona earnestly. ' It would be dreadful
to be laid up in such a place as you
describe your home to be.'

Home ! It certainly is not one's
idea of home.'

But as the place Improves under
your hand, you will grow fond of it.'

I suppose so,' rather dejectedly. ' Of
course, I do not intend to end my days there.'

Oh, no ! of course not. When you
make a fortune, you will come back to
England.'

*A fortune! If I can screw competence
out of it, I shall be lucky.'

Competence is enough for anyone,'
said Mona.

Yes ! I know you do not care for
money,' returned Waring quickly.

Then they both blushed, and there was
a silence of some minutes.

I suppose Lisle will be up here again ? '
resumed Waring, rather abruptly.

Perhaps ! I do not think it likely. I
believe my uncle is already in treaty
with someone else for the shooting, so
there will be nothing to come for.'

Nothing to come for,' repeated Waring,
as if to himself; and Mona suddenly
thought — ' Does he imagine that / am
the attraction to St John Lisle, and does
his friendliness incline him to rejoice at
the prospect of a good marriage for me ? '

She rose, and went into the next room
to find a book, for an excuse not to talk
any more. As she returned, she met
Waring, who had followed her.

Good-night,' he said. * I am rather
tired. Miss Black is booked for chess,
and you are going to read, so I had
better go to bed.'

If you would like me to read to
you — ' began Mona, for there was something
desponding in his tone.

No, no ! I exact too much,' he interrupted.
' I will leave you in peace.'

'You know you exact nothing.'

That is true. You all give freely.
Nevertheless, I will say good-night.'

It seemed strange to Mona that Uncle
Sandy — who, though on the whole extremely
indifferent to things which did
not affect himself, was, when his attention
was aroused, a keen observer — did not
notice the complete understanding which
existed between Kenneth and Mary, nor
the very lover-like attentions which, ashe
grew more at ease in his new home,
the young Highlander could not refrain
from bestowing on the lady of his heart.
But, as many strong-willed persons do,
Uncle Sandy was very apt to make plans
without taking into account the individual

VOL. III. N

likings or disliking of the persons affected
by them.

She rather dreaded the moment when
the ruler of Craigdarroch would awake
to the knowledge that the * bit lad and
lassie,' as he considered them, had taken
their lives into their own hands, irrespective
of his consent. If he was
angry and unreasonable on the subject,
it might be terribly bad for both young
creatures, though his evident liking for
Mary was a great point in their favour.
Indeed Mona wished to turn her thoughts
from the pain, the dull aching which oppressed
her, to pros and cons of her
friends' fortunes.

It was a few days after the above
recorded conversation, Mona was in the
library, entering sundry items in an
account book, which her uncle had great
pride and pleasure in teaching her to
keep in the most orthodox fashion.

It was a lovely day stolen from May
to beautify the last hours of March.
The blue sky, the glittering loch, the
balmy air which stole like a caress
round cheek and throat, seemed to

promise that * gloomy winter was
away.'

Kenneth had taken a holiday from the
spring operations of field and byre, and
proposed to take Waring and Mary fora
drive through Strathairlie and Balmuir,
that the former might see some of the
fine views in the neighbourhood, as his
time was now growing short.

Mona volunteered to remain with her
uncle, and — with a degree of unreasonableness,
for which she scorned herself —
felt hurt that Waring had made no
attempt to persuade her to come with
them.

Mr Craig had been pottering about
the garden, and Mona thought she had
heard the tap tapping of his stick in the
hall just before the excursionists had
driven off.

The sound of the wheels had hardly
died away, when Uncle Sandy came into
the room and threw himself into his armchair,
upsetting the fire irons with an unusual
amount of clatter.

Guide preserve us ! ' was his first exclamation.
' They're gave clean daft !

Who'd hae thought o' such — such perversity
! '

What is the matter, uncle ? ' and
Mona came over to stand on the hearth-rug
opposite him.

'Matter! it's the deil's own matter.
Listen to me. When I cam' in frae the
garden, I saw the chaise at the door,
and I went into the hall to ca' them,
and was nigh slipping', but got on to the
bit carpet, and into the drawing-room ;
an' what should I see but Kenneth
standing' by the window wi' his arm
round Mary Black, and her head on his
shoulder, as if she war weel used to it !
He was saying, '' My ain love it's hard to
have patience ; " but, before I could break
foot upon them, I heard Mr Leslie's voice
behind me, and, before I had rightly
recovered my senses, they were wa'.
Noo! what do you think o' such a pair o'
tedious — o' worthless, unprincipled eediots?^

*Well, uncle,' began Mona, after a
short pause, * I am not surprised. Anyone
might have seen they were growing
fond of one another; which was not to
be wondered at, for — '

'And do you mean to tell me,' almost
screamed Uncle Sandy, 'that ye saw it,
and suspected it a' the time, and never
warned me ? '

I do not see that it was my duty todo
so,' said Mona, instinctively feeling
that a bold tone was best ; ' especially
as I think Kenneth and Mary would
make each other very happy, and you
too, uncle. You know what a

sweet — '

You'll just drive me aff my head!'
he interrupted. * Don't ye see that
Kenneth needs a wife wi' a tocher — a bit
silver ! — a careful', thoughtful' woman who'd
be a guide and a stay to him, not a bit
lassie that he'll be David an' Solomon
and the rest to.'

I fancy there is much more probability
that Kenneth would be all the wiser and
stronger for the companionship of a woman
that looks up to him.'

Whaup's the use of arguing 1 Mary
Black is no the wife I want for my nay-few
; an' if he crosses me, I'll just pit
him foot. Why should I gie my money
to a feckless loon wha hanna the sense

to consult me in the mast important
step o' his road ? '

But, uncle, of all the steps a man can
take, the most important to himself is
matrimony. Now, where would you
find a sweeter girl than Mary ? You
miss her yourself when she goes ; can't
you fancy her and Kenneth making a
happy home for you and caring for you ?
Suppose he married a rich girl, who
had been educated at some first-rate
school, do you think she would be content
to live here as your housekeeper,
and have no change from year's end
to year's end ? '

And what for shouldn't she ? '

I do not know why ; but I am quite
sure most girls would tire of Craigdarroch,
sweet and lovely as it is ; even I do.'

You ! — you tire of a braw home like
this?'

Oh, I shall be pleased to come back ;
but I like to go away sometimes ; and /
am old of my years.'

'Weel, I deserve that o' Kenneth
that he should hae spoken to a lassie
without asking me first ! '

Why, that is more than a father could
expect from a son ; and, besides, we do
not know how long these two may have
loved each other — perhaps before you
had any claim on Kenneth.'

'Ech, the follies o' children cinna reckon!'

Don't you think if Miss Leslie had
loved you, uncle, you would have clung
to her though " father and mither and
a' should go mad " ? '

Ah, my lassie, but that was a' different.
She was a gran' young laddie, wi' five
figures to her tocher ; an', Mona, my
dear, a mon thinks a deal o' the girl
that's just abuse his reach.'

Perhaps so, uncle : but the true man
thinks the girl within his reach just as
sacred and precious, if she is dear to him.'

A quick sob rose in Mona's throat as
she spoke, and Uncle Sandy, in his
quickened condition of mind, observed, —

What's wrong wi' ye ? ' he asked.
You're no fond o' the laddie yourself' } '

Only in a sisterly way, I assure you.
I am deeply interested in his welfare.'

Sae am I ; but I canna see it's for his
welfare' to wed wi' a penniless bairn.'

A bairn that would look on you as a
father, and be a daughter to you, Uncle
Sandy ! '

Naw, it's no use telling me sic a like
tale. I coot that anybody wad be as guide
to me as you are, Mona ; and I want
Kenneth to get a fortin' wi' his wife,
that I may gie you a better tocher, my
dearie. You'll wed a gran' gentleman
some day, and you must be weel tottered.'

Uncle ! ' cried Mona earnestly, * you
must not think of that ! My possible
marriage Is a long way off, and I will
go away and leave you if you let me
come between my cousin and happiness.'

If you must go, you must,' said Uncle
Sandy sternly, though his voice was unsteady.
* I did without you before, and I
can again.*

That is for you to consider. Now,
uncle, make me a promise.'

What is It .'^ ' he asked cautiously.

While Mr Waring stays, make no disturbance.
He has been so comfortable
here, let him take away his good impression
unimpaired. If you speak to
Kenneth, and show displeasure, Mary

will go away, and her people will forbid
her to speak to Kenneth ; our pleasant
life will be broken up ; I shall be too
distressed to remain ; I shall accept
General and Mrs Fielden's often repeated
invitation to go and stay with
them in Paris ; and you will bully poor
Kenneth till he does not know a mangle
wuzzel from a kale.'

You are just a trifle too clever, missed!'
said Uncle Sandy, irritated, but not conquered.
' I cinna understand why you
are so strong on they rules' side. However,
I'll mak' no disturbance whiles ]Mr
Leslie is in my loose. But promise —
for promise you must — gie me your
word not to let them know I am acquaint
wi' their foolishness.'

Mona was silent for a moment or two,
while she thought that it would do no good
to put the offending pair on their guard.

Very well,' she said ; * I promise.
But you must not be cross ; you must
be nice and kind, as you have been.'

I'm muckle obliged to you for the
compliment,' dryly.

And, uncle, don't think I want to leave

you. I am grateful to you, and I like
you ; I am interested in you, for you
are full of character ; but if you are unjust
to Kenneth on my account, or if you
doubt me, and try to worry me into
marrying anyone I do not like, I shall
just go away, because — '

Because what ? ' asked Mr Craig,
somewhat struck by her tone.

Because I do not care a straw what
becomes of me ! '

She turned and left the room abruptly.
Mr Craig looked after her, immensely
puzzled.

What's come to the lassie ? ' he said.
She's nae like herself. She is just deep
in love wi' Kenneth. I always thocht it,
and I am seldom wrong. I'll keep a calm
sough, an' maybe things may come right.
That Mary is a bonnie girlie, douce an'
handy — but, na, na ! there are few can
come up to my ain niece ! '

AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.

jHIS premature discovery was very
embarrassing to Mona. Her
conviction that it would make
matters worse If Mary or Kenneth
knew that Uncle Sandy's eyes had
been opened, gave her courage, however,
to keep it a secret from the parties most
interested. It would be a great gain if
he grew accustomed to the idea of the
engagement before he was able to fly
out and pledge himself to opposition,
for to an obstinate, headstrong nature
like his, retraction was almost impossible.
He had an immense contempt for men
who threatened and did not execute.
But Mona felt Infinitely depressed, and

singularly lonely. If she could but seethe
question of Kenneth's engagement
set at rest, she would certainly take leave
of absence and pay her dear Deb a visit.
Not that she could ever tell even that
dear friend the secret of her inner sorrow
; but the sound of her kind voice —
the change, would bring relief.

Uncle Sandy was In a very queer temper
after this discussion. He was querulous
and complaining, yet occasionally
obsequious to his niece, on whom he
had grown very dependent, and of whose
Independence he stood In awe.

Waring felt that something had gone
wrong, and watched Mona's expressive
face with profound sympathy.

Let me come with you,' he said, one
afternoon, when she had complained of a
headache, and begged Mary to read to
Mr Craig, while she went to try the fresh
air cure.

Very well,' she returned. * I will show
you my favourite haunt.'

They proceeded through the grounds
into the group of oak trees beyond. On
the edge of the little wood was a bench.

from which was a view of the sea, between
two rocky hills. A narrow ravine
opened steeply down to the beach, widening
as it descended, and here, on its sheltered
sides, the first primroses, the earliest
yellow honey-scented gorse blossoms were
to be found. Behind the seat were big
grey boulders, scattered among the tall
brackens, and from the little space of
level ground where it stood, the hill side
rose steeply up.

It is a delicious place to read in,' said
Mona, as they sat down. ' On a very still
day you can hear the dash and ripple of
the waves down there like a soft accompaniment
to your thoughts, or the thoughts
you are reading. Then, later on, the hum
of the bees as they gather the honey from
the whigs, as Uncle Sandy calls them,,
makes a complete harmony with the whisper
of the wavelets. It is enough to
make a poet even of my uncle.'

I daresay,' said Waring, resting his
elbow on his knee, and his head on his
hand, while his eyes dwelt on hers with
the grave, yearning expression they often
wore — * I daresay your uncle thinks he

might be the best poet in the kingdom, if
he ** laid his mind to it," as he would say
himself.'

Mona laughed.

Very likely. I suppose his good opinion
of himself has been a lever to hoist
himself withal'

No doubt. It strikes me he is very
exacting. You have seemed to me weary,
and — and depressed, of late. Does he
worry very much ? '

He is really very good. I have nothing
to complain of. I have been depressed
lately because I am puzzled. I
am greatly tempted to tell you why, and
to ask your advice.'

Do,' said Waring, changing his position,
and looking out to sea. ' At least
you may trust me to keep counsel, and if
I can do anything, need I say, command
me?'

Then here is my story.' She proceeded
to detail the history of Kenneth's
engagement, and Uncle Sandy's accidental
discovery. * You see it is a very serious
matter,' she concluded. * Kenneth is quite
dependent on Uncle Sandy, and were he

out of favour, and dismissed, both would
be in a very hopeless condition.'

I see that. I trust old Craig won't
turn rusty : it would be very cruel. How
can anyone be in the house with them
and not see the state of affairs ? They
seem to me made for each other. But
you have done the best you could in getting
your uncle to keep quiet. He will
get used to the idea.'

Then, Mr Waring, the help you can
give me — I mean us — is to talk in a
natural, easy way to Uncle Sandy about
Kenneth's engagement, as if you considered
it a settled thing, from your own
observation.'

Well, I do,' said Waring.

My uncle, I can see, has a very high
opinion of you — you have a sort of mysterious
influence upon him — so you must
give Kenneth and Mary all the help you
can.'

My having any influence on so shrewd
a man as Mr Craig must seem a considerable
mystery to you,' said Waring,
laughing. ' I feel much flattered, and will
do the best I can for the cause.'

Both were silent for a few minutes,
then Waring asked a Httle abruptly, —

Where is Madame — I mean Mrs
Fielden — now ? '

In Paris, where they intend to make
some stay.'

I was in hopes they might be in
London. I should like to see Mrs Fielden
again — I think she is a capital woman ! '

She is indeed ! — a true, loving friend !
And when do you think of leaving ? '
asked Mona, steadying her voice by an
effort.

Oh, about this day week ! I must
go then. And my arm is nearly as good
as new. By the time I get to the end
of my journey, I shall be quite fit for
work.'

'And — and how do you like the idea
of going back to the woods ? ' this in a
low tone.

Like it ! There is no use in thinking
about liking what must be. I have
cut myself adrift from every other kind
of life, so I must and will make it answer
; but it — it's an awful wrench to
go. I can't deny that ! Still — ' He broke

off, and meeting her eyes, exclaimed, —
If you look so sorry for me, I shall
make a fool of myself. That is,' flushing
sympathetically as he saw her colour
rise, * I shall whine and bemoan my
hard fate, in a fashion that will not increase
any gleams of respect you may
have for me.'

Is she afraid I am forgetting the bitter
lesson she once gave me ? ' thought he.

Does he imagine I am fishing for an
avowal of the affection which has died
out ? ' thought she.

I assure you I do not suspect you
of any such weakness. I daresay you
will find your new home and life pleasant
enough.'

'Oh, very likely! Indeed, given certain
conditions, I can imagine enjoying
life on the ranch very much — though
we are twenty-five miles from the nearest
city," as it is called — and it is merely
a big village, minus the rusticity of a
village, and plus the gas, the gilding,
the looking-glasses, the gambling, the
cheating, the orgies of a big modern
town.'

VOL. III. O

What an awful place ! ' said Mona.
You must be glad to have twenty-five
miles between your home and it

Between my place of abode and it,'
he returned. 'Well, yes! though there
are inconveniences. Yet you would be
surprised if you knew how many good
fellows — kindly, brave, generous — are scattered
about among the general rowdy
population, like nuggets in dirt. Are you
going—'

Yes, you have sat here long enough.
The sun is beginning to go down.'

You forget that a broken arm does
not constitute an invalid. I am as strong
as a horse now.'

Perhaps so. Then the country is very
fine about these dreadful " cities" .?'

Superb ! The redwood on the edge
of which I am located are the finest
stretch of forest you can imagine. I am
afraid to tell you the dimensions of the
trees — you would think I was romancing ;
then the beauty and luxuriance of the
undergrowth, such feed for hogs — not
very interesting stock, I acknowledge,
but very profitable — while in the more

open spaces, and where it has been
cleared, such a soil for wheat. Then, of
course, we have a number of employed —
hunters, herdsmen, keepers of various
kinds, and some Chinamen for servants.
The climate is perfection, the sunsets and
surprising marvellously lovely.'

What a wonderful country ! You ought
to be happy there.'

There are one or two things wanting
still one cannot have everything. You
see, my friend and partner Wells is a
queer fellow, sharp and clever in his way.
He got hold of this ranch by a lucky
chance. An old hunter had got it for a
song some years ago. He did a good
deal in clearing and improving, till he
came to the end of his cash, and got sick
of being settled. So Wells bought it as
it stood cheap enough, then he found he
hadn't a penny left. Just about that time
I wandered into San Francisco and met
him, so we entered into partnership. I
hope to buy him out by-and-by.'

• I think,' said Mona, * were I a man,
I should rather like the life ; but it must
be lonely.'

Oh, it would be terrible for a woman,
I am afraid,' said Waring, with a sigh.
I must take out some tough books with
me, to provide for the winter evenings.'


How long shall you be in London ?'

About a week.'

It will be full, as it is near Fasten
Shall you not look up some of your old
friends ? The contrast would amuse you."

No, I have done with all that ! There
are some relations of my father's on whom
I must call — but I really do not care to
see anyone else.'

This conversation had lasted while they
made the tour of a stony, heathery piece
of land outside the low, moss-grown wall
which enclosed the lawn and bit of pleasure
ground, and came out upon the road
leading to Kirktoun.

As they paused to look at the sunset
and just as Waring had uttered the last
words, a gentleman on foot came round a
turn of the road. Waring's brow contracted
; he glanced swiftly at his companion,
and exclaimed, —

By Jove ! it is Lisle ! '

In another moment Lisle was lifting his
hat and shaking hands with Mona.

Waring ! ' he exclaimed, in a tone of
extreme surprise. * Waring ! by all that's
astonishing. Where — how — what has
brought you here } '

Chiefly railways and steamboats.'

My uncle knew some of Mr Waring's
people. They met in Glasgow, and Mr
Waring came back with him.'

I thought you were lost for ever ! '
cried Lisle, in a tone which did not express
very lively pleasure at his turning
up again.

Well, here I am, you see, considerably
the better for a sojourn in the
wilds.'

So it seems. Why, you look years
older ! '

Now, Sir St John, pray account for
yourself,' said Mona. ' Your sudden appearance
requires explanation, as well as
Mr Waring's.'

Does it ? ' said Lisle, flashing a quick
glance into her eyes. ' Well, Finistoun
was coming north for a little rest and
fishing, so, as we both had had enough

of gay and festive scenes for the present,
I came with him, and am staying in my
old quarters at Kirktoun for a day or
two. " How is a' wi' ye ? " as your quaint
old uncle would say.'

We are all remarkably well. He will
be a good deal surprised to see you.'

More surprised than delighted, I suspect.'


It takes a great deal to delight Uncle
Sandy ; but I think he was always placidly
pleased to see you.'

'And how goes the Highland cousin?
Has he grown reconciled to his uncle's
plans ? '

Oh, no ! ' cried Mona, laughing ; ' he is
more irreconcilable than ever.'

Then Lisle asked for Madame Debrisayay,
and described with cool sarcasm the surprise
and indignation of General Fielden's
friends at that warrior's marriage.

Waring was very silent. Mona's quick
intelligence told her that each man was
annoyed by the sight of the other; Waring,
of course, did not care to meet the man
who had advised a step which led to
pain and mortification ; while the other —

well, she understood his irritation clearly

enough.

Lisle imparted a good deal of London
gossip before they reached the house,
and was then duly introduced to Uncle
Sandy.

Eh, but I'm verra pleased to see you ! '
he said, with unusual warmth. ' It's an
uncommon time o' year for a Londoner
to come among the hills.'

You see, Craigdarroch always has its
attractions.'

Maybe so, maybe so. It will be lookin'
brawly in another month. And now you'll
tak' a bit supper wi' us. We have supper
at eight, and Kenneth will put you on
your way back.'

Thanks ; I shall be most happy. I
need not trouble your nephew. In your
well-ordered country the roads are as safe
at midnight as mid-day.'

That's true ! ' emphatically. ' I am glad
you're aware o't. That great, lang, self-opinionated
young woman — how d'ye ca'
her i* — that just turned up her nose (mair
than nature had done for her) against
Scotland to a Scotchman ! — that wasna

weel-mannered for a lady that goes to the
Queen's Court, they tell me.'

Oh ! the Court is a regular olla podrida
now,' said Lisle.

A what ? What tongue is that ? '

Spanish. It means a general mixture.'


'Eh, powsowdie is the same thing; that's
rale Scotch, and mair expressive and wise-like.
Weel, that tall teddy would hold her
ain in the biggest powsowdie of a'. Where
is she ? '

You mean Miss Morton ! She is the
most appalling female I know. She has
captured a Greek prince, who goes to balls
in a white petticoat, and says he is descended
from Alcibiades.'

Eh, he wad be a shifty sort of a great-grandfather
to have ! ' cried Uncle Sandy,
who piqued himself on being a ' soon
classical scholar.'

Well, this fellow is about up to her
shoulder, and rather a doubtful personage.
They are fighting over settlements at
present ; for though she is said to be
fathoms deep in love, she does not like
to lose her grip of the L. s. d.'

'And verra rlorht she is. Noo, the tea
is ready, come wa' and have a cup.'

It was, on the whole, an uneasy sort
of afternoon and evening. A sense of
unfitness — a want of harmony, oppressed
everyone, though Mona and Kenneth
did their utmost to entertain their guests.
Both the girls sang and played and talked
their best. Indeed, Mona was unusually
gracious to Lisle, yet he was dissatisfied,
and left with Kenneth early, saying that
he was bound to Lord Finistoun for the
next day, but the following he would come
to see them, as he was going back to town
on Saturday night.

At luncheon next day, when the post
came in. Waring, after reading his letters,
announced that he must start on Monday,
that he had been away too long, and it
was time he returned.

To Mona this was a cruel stab. He
was, then, to vanish away from her — this
frank, kind, brave man, whose qualities
were the complement of her own, for
whose troubles she felt responsible, and
whose wounds it would have been the
sweetest and most congenial task to heal,

and she dared not try to hold him! No;
if it cost her her Hfe, she could make no
effort to reveal herself. He was her friend,
and nothing more. Yet a vague, dim belief
breathed through her heart that he loved
her still, to justify which there was nota
tittle of evidence.

I did not know you were here,' said
Miss Black, coming into the drawing-room
the day after this visit, and finding Waring
seated with a book before him and his
head on his hands. ' Where is Mona ? '

She has gone out with Mr Craig.'

Will you come with me and look for
them ? '

No, thank you ; I am searching for
one or two books I brought here, and I
want to put them up. You see, I have
only two days after tomorrow.'

I am sorry you are going, Mr Waring.'

'I am gratified to hear you say so. How
sorry I shall be to leave you all, it would
not be easy to say.'

Well, I think you look sad like, Mr
Waring. You must write Kenneth, and
tell us all about yourself.'

Mary ! ' exclaimed Waring, after a

short pause, and not aware of his own
familiarity, ' what do you think brings
that fellow Lisle here ? '

He says it's fishing; and so it is, but
not with a rod and line.'

Then it is Mona ? '

Mary bent her head in the affirmative.

At least I fancy so she said. * He
used to be up here in the autumn, and
Kenneth thought he would have asked her
then.'

I suppose it will be what Is considered
a good match ; but she is too good for
him!'

You might say that of a good many.'
You think so ? '

Yes. Don't you ? '
I do ; and I suppose Miss Craig will
soon be transformed into Lady Lisle.'

I cannot think so ; she never seems tome
to care about him. I have always
imagined she loves someone we know nothing
about ; but I have no right to say so.'

No, we have no right to conjecture
what she feels or thinks ; only I trust in
God what she does, and whoever she
chooses, she will be happy.' ;

He left the room abruptly as he uttered
the words.

Ah ! ' exclaimed Mary aloud, as she
looked after him, and then stopped to runover
in her own mind a dozen or more
of slight indications, which, viewed by the
new light that had broken in upon her,
made proofs as strong as Holy Writ of the
feeling entertained by Waring for her
admired friend. * And oh ! she does not
care for him either, and he is honest and
true — I am sure he is,' thought Mary.
^ Stay ! doesn't she care for him ? I am
not so sure. Oh ! where is Kenneth ?
I will go and talk to him.'

The morning after this conversation
rose bright and fair, though the night had
been so stormy that between the howling
wind and her own distressful thoughts
Mona got little sleep.

I must go down to the fishers,' said
Kenneth at breakfast. ' I hear the two
Mackilligans have been nearly drowned,
and their boat is stove in. Jock is severely
hurt. They were driven ashore in the
gale last night.'

I'll come with you,' said Waring.

You are just killing yourself said
Uncle Sandy, who was busy supping his
porridge. ' You look like a ghaist as it is I
You'll no be fit for a lang journey if ye
gang this gate.'

Oh ! 1 am perfectly fit, I assure you
whatever my looks may be. If I did not
rise up like a giant refreshed after the
care and nursing I have had in this
establishment, I should not be worth
taking care of.'

Weel, I cinna ken what's come to yea'
; there's Mona wi' a white face, and you
wi' a lang ane, and Kenneth's like a bago'
banes. Mary is the best o' ye. It is
a comfort to look at a cheerful', healthful'
countenance,' said Uncle Sandy, who had
been extremely fractious for the last ten
days.

What a compliment, Mary ! I feel
quite ashamed of myself!' cried Mona.

Let me know when you are ready ta
start,' said Waring to Kenneth, and soon
after the two young men started to see
what assistance they could afford to the
shipwrecked fishermen, Uncle Sandy calling

out injunctions to Kenneth as he went
not to commit him ' to mend a' the broken
boats in the parish.'

And who'll drive me into the town?*
asked Mr Craig. ' I must gang to the
bank, forbye the minister's and Jimmy
Bullock's.'

Mary will go with you, uncle. I have
rather a headache, and I daresay Kenneth
and Mr Waring will be back to luncheon.'

^ I hope so. I am no weel content wi'
Mr Leslie. I hope you have nae been
fashing him wi' your idle cleavers. He
needs rest and kind treatment.'

I think we have been very good and
prudent, eh, Mary?'

Weel, let us have the dinner at one
o'clock punctually.'

I will see to it, uncle.'

The dinner hour came, but brought
neither Kenneth nor Waring, and Uncle
Sandy having been comforted with a good
many * draps o' whisky,' and wrapped up
with care, started, under Miss Black's
escort, for the diminutive town of Kirktoun.

It was a relief to Mona to be alone,
but it oppressed her to be within doors.

She got her hat, and threw a plaid round
her shoulders, intending to commune with
her own heart in the fresh, sweet air.

I must put away this deplorable weakness.
Where is my pride, that I cannot
resist this overwhelming tenderness for a
man who does not care about me '^ '

If the gentlemen return and ask forme,
Jessie,' she said to the housemaid,
who was doing some extra dusting in the
hall, ' I shall be by the wood, at the big
oak tree seat.'

Here's ane coming', mem,' said the girl,
and Lisle came up the steps as she
spoke.

Going to walk,' said that gentleman
cheerfully ; ' may I come too ? '

Will you not have some luncheon
first ? '

No, thank you ; I had luncheon early
with Finistoun, who dropped me near this
on his way to Balmuir. It is quite springlike
after the storm last night. It kept
you awake I suspect. Your eyes — those
loadstone eyes of yours — droop.'

I did not sleep much certainly. Then,
if you will not have any luncheon, we will

go to my favourite point of view, and look
at the sea : it will be very fine to-days

By all means

They walked on in silence for some
little way, and then Lisle exclaimed, —

I never was so amazed in my life as
when I saw Waring with you ! It seemed
as if he was to be your fate ! What possessed
him to come here to singe his wings
again, poor devil ? '

Your compassion is wasted,' said
Mona, a slight smile curling her haughty
mouth. * Mr Waring is much improved,
and seems quite fire-proofs

If he is, why he deserves to be called
in your uncle's parlance, " a verra remarkable
person' '

Pray leave my uncle alone,' said Mona,
smiling in spite of herself.

Very well. Where is everyone ? Are
you all alone?'

Yes, just at present. Kenneth and
Mr Waring have gone to the fisher village,
my uncle and Mary to the town.'

Then the fates are at last propitious ! '
cried Lisle. * I have been singularly unlucky
as regards yourself of late. Now

pray sit down ' (they had reached the
rustic bench) 'and hear me. You have
sipped from my grasp over and over again ;
you must hear me to-day.'

Mona cast a troubled look round, and
then suddenly took courage, resolving to
make an end of the matter.

Yes,' she said nervously, and somewhat
louder than usual, ' I will hear you, Sir St
John.'

She sat down, and he placed himself
beside her.

Of course you know what I am going
to say. You know — you must know — that
I loved you from the first hour we met,
and that although in justice to you I
made the unselfish effort to recommend
your marrying Waring when poor Mrs
Newburgh met with such losses, I do
not suppose you can form an idea of
what it cost me to make such a sacrifice.'

I am sorry to have caused you pain,'
said Mona, in a low, clear tone. ' I
am sure your advice was disinterested.'

It was indeed. I confess I was surprised
at the worldly tact with which
you adopted my suggestion.'

VOL. III. p

I was carefully brought up in a
good school,' said Mona demurely.

No school on earth could have given
you the indescribable charm nature has
bestowed ! ' cried Lisle passionately. ' I
never loved any woman as I love
you ! Mona, do hear me. Cast away
this cold sweetness, that is enough to
madden any man. Give me your love,
give me a right to it ! ' He seized and
kissed her hand, which she withdrew.
There was a time when your hand
trembled in mine, and — '

My nerves are much steadier now,'
she said calmly. ' It is treachery tolet
you say more, when I have nothing
to give in return, and it pains me infinitely
to pain sou, but I cannot be
your wife.'

Then there is some infernal mystery
at the bottom of it. First you throw
Waring over in the most unaccountable
manner; now you reject me. You prefer
the awful seclusion of this wild place,
the society of these educated ploughmen,
to the world my wife could command ?
Mona, you cannot be indifferent to such

passionate love as mine, unless you love
someone else.'

That does not follow,' she returned
uneasily, and very anxious to get rid
of him.

Who is it ? ' persisted Lisle, who
was raging with mortification and disappointment.
' Can it be that the hero
of the rejected addresses has found favour
in your eyes after all ? — a great overgrown
schoolboy, who is weak enough
to let himself be robbed and plundered
by professed gamesters and designing
promoters, and then skulks off to hide
himself in the wilds of California, like
other defeated desperadoes. Your first
instinct was right, when you rejected
a man who was unfit to be your protector.'


Stop ! ' cried Mona, moved by a sudden
generous impulse to do justice to the
man she loved. ' Your judgment was
right. My instinct, if it was instinct,
was wrong. Mr Waring deserved my
love, and he has it ! You are again
right, you see. He has shaken off the
early feeling which made him so eager

to throw himself between me and the
ruggedness of poverty, and I have learned
to know him when it is too late. Your
confession deserves confidence on my
part. I feel I can trust my secret to the
loyalty of a gentleman ; and though I
am not the woman to throw myself at
the feet of one who is indifferent tome,
as Leslie Waring is now, I am
not ashamed to own that he has my
gratitude, my respect, my heart, and in
it there is no room for another.'

The tone in which she uttered these
words, the indescribable dignity and
tenderness of her air, of the slight gesture
of the hand with which she emphasised
her speech — touched and silenced
Lisle.

You are an extraordinary girl,' he
said at length ; 'and if Waring does
not love you (I suppose you must
know), it seems incredible. Well, if he
does not, I do not despair. You are
worth winning. I will not trespass on
you any longer ; but I will not say
good-bye — I shall seek you again when
the sea rolls between you and the most

r.



unlucky dog I have ever known or
heard of. To be loved by you, and
not to know it. What irony of fate !
For the present — sweetest and most provoking
of women — farewell.'

THE LAST STATE OF THAT MAN.

Diana ken what's come
to ye said Uncle Sandy, in
very discontented tones, as he
pushed away his plate and
held out the teacup he had just emptied,
to be replenished. * There canna be
better or purer air than at Craigdarroch.
It's aye west or south ; yet there's Mona
wi' a bad headache, wanting' her breakfast
in her room, an' Mr Leslie lookin'
nae, but ye look better than ye did
yesterday,' glancing at him, 'only ye
cinna eat. What's a bit laddie an' a
mouthful' o' toast to stay a mon's stomach
i' the morning' ? '

Oh ! I am all the better for my
ramble with Kenneth yesterday.'

You are well-nigh yourself' again :
but I was feared we'd be going' too far
when I hard ye hadnae come back at
tea-time.'

I left Kenneth because he was going
further on. I came back by Monks-clough
and the oak wood. I hope
Miss Craig's headache is not very severe.'

She's more tired like than in pain.
She wants quiet. Weel, she went to
bed fairly enough,' quoth Uncle Sandy,
to get it.'

I daresay she will come down soon.
Jessie says there is a new brood of
chickens out, Mr Craig,' said ]diary.
Twelve wee birdies, all strong and
lively.'

Ay, that's verra good. Now there's
another fast early train to Glasgow, we'll
dispose o' good part o' the poultry
verra profitably. I'd go down and look
at the chuckles, if Mona were here.'

'And wouldn't you take my arm, Mr
Craig, for want of a better ? ' said Mary,
blushing very sweetly.

Yes, I will, my bairns,' said the old
man, looking at her indulgently. Sandy
Craig had a great liking for a pretty
face. ' We'll go and have a crack withe
hen wife.'

Later, Mona, thinking from the profound
stillness that she had the house
to herself, came from the seclusion of
her own room to the drawing - room.
She had been greatly agitated by her
interview with Lisle, and greatly distressed,
on reflection, to think she had
trusted the secret of her love for Waring
to a man whom she could not help
considering an enemy. Yet she did not
quite wish her words unsaid. She wished
to honour the man she preferred, in
the eyes of the rival who despised him ;
but she hoped and prayed that the
knowledge of this admission might never
reach Waring. Perhaps, indeed probably,
he had formed some fresh attachment,
which held his heart against her. ' After
all,' she thought, as she stopped to look
at herself in a long glass at the end of
the room, and saw that the long straight
folds and close-fitting bodice of her dark

blue serge, with the broad band and
buckle that showed the easy roundness
of her waist, the scarf of old lace
round her throat, the soft wavy masses
of her reddish gold hair, became her
well, — ' after all, I am not worse looking
than I used to be ; but that does not
matter.'

With a sigh she opened the piano, and
began to play dreamily. How fast the
days were slipping away. To-morrow
would be his last at Craigdarroch, and
then good-bye for ever.

Is the headache quite gone ? ' said
Waring, coming up behind her.

Mona started, and changed colour.

Yes, nearly gone. You startled me !
I thought you were out.'

She met his eyes as she spoke, and
something of indescribable tenderness in
them made her heart stand still. She rose
and went to the window.

It is cold and raw to-day,' she said,
with a slight shiver.

Returning to the fire, she leant against
the mantelpiece. Waring put his arms
on the top of a high-backed chair opposite

her, and said, with a quick
sigh,—

The days cannot be too dark and
dreary to suit my spirit. I cannot gather
courage enough to think of Monday ! '

It is coming very fast,' said Mona
softly, and keeping her eyes fixed on the
fire, but feeling that Waring's were fastened
on herself.

Will you think me weak, selfish, worthless,
if I cannot leave you without saying
how dearly I love you ! To think how
near I came to calling you my wife ; and
now we are but strangers to each other.
Don't you see how bitterly hard it was ?
Oh ! you were right to break with me, if
you could not love me. It would have
been misery to us both if you could not
have loved me But it was all utter
despair at the time ! To think that you
preferred poverty and the desertion of
your relatives to me, and all I could have
given you then.'

Ah, Mr Waring ! ' cried Mona, covering
her face with her hands, ' can you
forgive me '^. '

I do not reproach you,' he returned.

I was not worthy of you, or I should not
have gone to the bad as I did, because
I was disappointed. But when I came
back to Hfe from that terrible fever, I felt
another man. I felt I had a duty to myself
that forbade this unmanly abandonment,
and I have been stronger ever since.
I was even getting over the painful longing
for you. And now we have met, and
I am worse than ever. And you, you
seem sweeter than ever ! I feel as if I
could not leave you ! '

He pushed the chair from him, and
came to stand beside her, his eyes full of
love and sorrow, his plain face beautified
by the spirit that animated him.

The fire of heaven seemed to INIona to
have descended on her heart, and filled it
with joy unspeakable. She let her hands
drop, and, quivering from head to foot, she
almost whispered, —

Then do not leave me.'

Ah, Mona ! ' said Waring, drawing
close to her, ' do not tempt me to a
renewal of suffering ! I am too desperately
in earnest to be played with ; and I
dare not hope that you, who rejected me

when I could have given you a Hfe of
ease, would share my wild, uncouth home
with me now. Sweetest, how dare I
hope ! '

He drew her gently into his arms.

Take me with you,' said Mona, raising
her eyes to his, and letting him read in
them more than words could say.

My darling ! it is more than I can
believe ! Mona, in our short engagement
I do not believe you ever gave me a kiss.
If you will give yourself to me now, put
your arms round my neck and kiss me of
your own free will.'

There was an instant's hesitation, and
then her arms stole gently to his neck,
and her lips were pressed to the brown
cheek he bent to them, but for a second,
before his lips were on hers, clinging
to them softly, passionately, as if he
drew his soul's life from that sweet
mouth.

No, not yet! I cannot let you go yet.
Tell me, when did you learn to love
me?'

I cannot tell, Leslie. I have never
been indifferent to you since — since I

refused to marry you ; and when I saw
you, I soon began to think I should Hke
to atone to you.'

Then is it only pity, perhaps ? '

I do not know what it is,' said ^Nlona,
with a sigh, as she rested her head against
his shoulder ; ' I only know that you
must not leave me.'

And all this time of delicious torture ! '
cried Waring, ' when I ruled myself with
a rod of iron lest I should show you the
love that was burning my heart out, you
imposed upon me with iciness of mere
friendship. No man could have dreamed
that there was any warmth under such an
exterior.'

How did you come to speak to me at
last?' asked Mona, with a smile.

It was an inspiration,' said Waring.
I do not know how many kisses you owe
me for the miserable moments I have had
here.'

No more now, dear Leslie,' she said,
in a low voice, her cheek growing pale,
her frame trembling, as he drew her to
him.

Not one ? ' he whispered, and he released

her, while his heart beat with the
glorious consciousness that she loved as
passionately as he did himself. * I am
afraid, Mona,' he resumed, after a delicious
silence, * that your uncle will not like
to let you come into the wilds with
me. But the place is not really bad ; it
has been cleared for a considerable time,
and—'

'Poor Uncle Sandy!' she interrupted.
I think he would be willing to give you
the best he had ; and I am by no means
sure he considers me that'

Needs must. He will miss you dreadfully.'


Then will be the opportunity to suggest
Mary as my successor.'

Exactly. Shall I ask Kenneth to join
me in making a double demand ! You are
the ruling spirit here.'

That would be too much. But, pray,
speak to my uncle to-day. He deserves
to be told at once.'

Dinner was got through somehow.
Both Kenneth and Mary instinctively
felt that something or other had taken

place, the former had a shrewd idea
what.

About a couple of hours after the family
meal, a knock was heard at the door of
Mona's room., where she had entrenched
herself till the awful explanation with her
uncle had been accomplished.'

Your uncle wants to speak to you,
Mona,' said Waring.

Oh, Leslie ! How is he ? '

The class is at fair weather. Come
along.'

Uncle Sandy was looking pale, and was
sitting unusually upright in his arm-chair
in the library when Mona, with downcast
eyes, and the air of a culprit, came in,
closely followed by Waring.

Aweel/ he said, in a solemn and somewhat
tremulous tone, * I have been hearing
what the grandson o' my auld maister
has to say. Noo, Mona, my bairn,
are you willing to tak this mon to be
your wedded husband } '

I am, uncle,' she said, softly but
clearly.

If ye are, name has a right to withstand'
you. I would be weel content if

ye had not to gae sae far wa' ; and I'll
feel your loss sir, but ye maun follow
the husband you've chosen.'

Dear uncle,' said Mona, the tears
hanging on her long lashes, ' it will
grieve me, too, to leave you ; you have
been a father to me, and I thank you.'

She knelt beside him and kissed his
thin hand.

An' a father I'll be to ye, my
lambie. Mrs Leslie, my niece, shall
have five thousand' pounds to her tocher ;
and it's glad I'll be that some of my
hard earning's go to the son of the loose
by which I earned it. But I'll be a
lonely mon when ye leave me.'

You need not be, unless you choose.
You can have a niece to read to you
and write for you, and take care of you.
Think of it, uncle dear ! Make Kenneth
as happy as — as I am.'

Yes, uncle — for you must let me call
you so. There could not be a better or
more suitable wife found for Kenneth
than the one he has found for himself!'
cried Waring.

Weel, weel, I will think of it ;

but, my lad, ye maun promise me you'll
bring Mona back to see me ance mair
before I die.'

I do promise you, Uncle Sandy ;
faithfully promise you.'

The dramatic taste of moderns will
not permit that minute distribution of
fortune to each character which all well
constituted readers ouQ^ht to demand.
None of ours came however to any
tragic end, nor was Lisle's confirmed
bachelorhood very detrimental to his
happiness.

For the satisfaction of that estimable
but diminutive portion of the public
who would ' ask for more,' the curtain
shall go up for a few minutes on the
last tableaux.

Winter and summer had come and
gone three times, and a glowing golden
autumn was gilding the hills and deepening
the purple heather, when Mona and
her husband strolled together once more
to the seat by the big oak tree.

After all, Leslie, I believe I love
this view the best of any.'

VOL. III. Q

I am quite sure I do said Waring,
a smile stealing into his brown eyes
and spreading over his healthy, happy
face.

Why are you so fond of it ? ' asked
Mona, settling her head comfortably
against his shoulder.

Because — well, I will tell you a
secret, the only one I have had from
you.'

How dare you, sir ? Confess at once !'

Well, I don't think you'll mind now.
The day before you deigned to accept
me, I had been roaming about with
Kenneth and got tired of everything,
life included, so I left and strolled up
the hollow there till I found myself beside
those big stones, where the bracken
still grows so high, and I threw myself
down amongst them and thought what
an unhappy devil I was, when I heard
Lisle's voice close by, and before I could
stir, you were both seated here. I hesitated,
and lost my chance of appearing,
until I heard too much to make it advisable
to show. Then I listened, and
if ever a fellow was lifted into the

highest heaven of pride and delight, I
was that day.'

What ! did you hear everything I
said?'

Every word ! So that I did not know
how to behave myself like a rational
creature, and pretended all the evening
to be dead tired. You see, it would
never have done to let you know. But
if I had not heard from your own lips
that you liked me — well, better than Lisle,
I should never have broken silence.'

Is it possible ? I understand though !
It is well you kept the secret. I should
have been so awfully vexed.'

Yes ; I knew that.'

Just imagine my ever having hidden
things from you, and being a stranger,
and fearing you should look into my
heart and see what a goose I was. We
could never misunderstand each other
now, we have grown so like.'

*' As the husband, so the wife is —
thou art mated to a clown ! " ' quoted
Waring, laughing.

'Hush!' she interrupted; * you shall
not say impertinent things of my guide

man ! But it is nearly half-past four ;
we must go back. Mary ordered the
carriage for us to go and meet General
and Mrs Fielden at five, and you know
what a punctual little house-mother
she is.'

Very well ; but first you might give
a fellow a kiss for the sake of old times.'

Yes, for past and present both, my
own dear.'

THE END.

COI.STON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 046433766
