OR,

UNDER THE SCARS.
VOL. I.

OK,

UNDER THE SCARS.

% gorhsl/vrc Story.

Br

MRS. G. Linnaeus BANKS

AUTHOR OF

"THE MANCHESTER MAN,"
"GOD'S PROVIDENCE HOUSE,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

All rights reserved.

Tainted BT DUNCAN MACDONALD,

Blenheim HOUSE.

WOOEES And Winners.

:^^

CHAPTER I.

\i^ AB INITIO.

IN all the land there is no district more
romantic and picturesque than that
section of the West Riding of Yorkshire
where the great Pennine chain is broken up
into rugged grandeur and beauty by what is
^ known to geologists as the " Craven fault."
^ It has been so much the fashion for

seekers of the picturesque to rush to the
Continent in search of it that it is questionable
whether, barring the geologists, the
parish of Giggleswick was not a terra 
cognate to all but a few antiquaries, artists,

A'^OL. I. B

and anglers, a scholar here and there, and
traders in luke, yarn, or cattle, until very
recent days. But now that the word Settle,
in bold characters on railway placards, stares
the summer excursions in the face from
dead walls and hoardings, it is probable
that the irregular village in a nook of the
road at the foot of the grey limestone scars,
as well as the town overhung by craggy
Castleberg, will see an influx of tourists of all
sorts and conditions, and not a few of those
vandals who chip off stalactites from caves,
and write their unheroic names to deface
the grander one Nature herself had written
before their ancestors had names at all.

In times far remote in the mists of ages
those limestone scars, now towering above
a good high-road like a protective rampart,
confronted a bold sea, or rose from out its
depths, an agglomeration of marine concretions
and mollusca.

But that must have been lonsj sons before
those Anglo-saxon days when the 
well at their base suoftrested in

o Co

its mysterious rise and fall a reason for

piety to found the Guglesvic church and
parish, whither pilgrims might be drawn to
witness a miracle, and — leave pious contributions
for the rood-priest ; those days,
when more was known of St. Alkald, to
whom the church is dedicated, than is
known now, when we have to fall back on
old records to establish the merest figments
of ancient fact.

Thus it is we find that a certain Alice
De Percy and her son, Allan De Orville,
made a gift to Henry Pudsey of all the
lands in Settle, and the church of Giggles-wick.
Again, we learn that in the reign of
Stephen the church was appropriated to the
cell of Finale. Now, Finale Abbey
was founded by Hugh Pudsey, Bishop of
Durham, who also dedicated a church at
Bishop-Middleham to St. Alkald, and
there the saint is represented in a stained
glass window as a female being cruelly
strangled with a kerchief by two men. And
thus by induction we arrive at the two
facts, that the St. Alkald, to whom Giggles-wick
parish was dedicated was a woman

B 2

and a martyr, and therewith must rest
content.

Obscure and out-of-the-way as this village,
hid among-st the crash and wolds of
old Craven, must have been when roads
were few and wilds were trackless, some
importance unknown to us must have attached
to it, or to the well from which it
presumably owed its origin, for in the reign
of Henry Veii. the little Anglo-saxon church
needed expansion or restoration, or something
of the kind, and the existing long-bodied
stone edifice, with a square tower
and square windows, rose on its site. And
then, or later, there must have been a
goodly congregation to make a gallery a
necessity. And art must have been latent
in the pious worshippers, or the two-decked
oaken pulpit would never have displayed
those curious panels symbolic of the twelve
tribes, said to have been carved by the rude
dalesmen in the long evenings of winter.
Something there nest have been of more
than common import about this sequestered
dale, whether of priestly or lordly influence,

or popular superstition, else wherefore
should Edward VI. in his short reicfn have
left his royal signet on the spot in the charter
of a Grammar School? And wherefore
should that school be free and open to the
children of the divide luorld, if the world
knew nothing of the site ?

Know nothing of the site ! Think you
that he who first discovered in the dense
forest that marvel of a well which would
in a few minutes fill and empty, rise and
fall, many feet or few, without apparent
cause, and who gave to the well a patron
saint and a church, meant the marvel to be
unknown ? The halo round the head of
St. Alkald would thenceforth shine above
the well, and brightest when the night of
ignorance was deepest. No sage had then
dreamed of " natural syphons," or traced
the mystery to a scientific cause. And
much as our " Lady of Lourdes " attracts
the multitude in these days, so would the
fame of that ebbing-and-flowing well increase
; and so to that mysterious well under
the scars may be traced, not only the name

of the parish of Giggleswick (which holds
Settle in its arms), but of its ancient church
aud its grammar school, chartered for the
behoof of the world.

And as church, school, and village, with
their pertaining, may be said to have
bubbled up out of that well in lapse of
ages, so by analogy may this story I am
simply putting to paper have bubbled up
from its depths also, for thereabouts it had
its rise.

The Skipton coach was late on the evening
of Saturday, the 6th of February, 1830,.
and to one impatient traveller it seemed
later than it really was. He had left Boar
Lane, Leeds, at six in the morning, in a
brisk, clear, sharp frost, which made his
young blood tingle, and inspired a contempt
for the indulgence of an inside seat.

So he mounted to the box-seat beside the
coachman, who was an old acquaintance,
and being well wrapped up in a thick drab
cloth overcoat, which came to his heels, and
had a small cape to cover his shoulders
(almost a counterpart of the coachman's

own), having his legs cased in Wellington
boots, and in his pockets, by way of reserve,
a pair of woollen gloves and a warm muffs
both knitted by kind sisterly fingers ;
he seemed to have made a sensible choice,
although he had a longs ride before him, and
no cheer'' prospect at the far end.

Allan Earnshaw was at that a2;e when
youth aspires to be something more than
boy, and yet has the consciousness that
manhood has not even dawned. There is
nothing more plucky or manly than the boy
of fifteen, if he has right aspirations within
him, and has not been coddled ; and he
would have felt it womanish to don his
muffled and gloves, had not the coachman
given him a hint in the business-like way he
wound a shawl round his own throat, and
drew on his fleecy-lined leather gauntlets.

Equally unmanly would he have thought
it to let the load of anxiety on his young
heart be seen, so the man launched out into
themes of his own, touching every now and
then on topics familiar to both, in the days
not so long past — when Allan had been a

Giggleswick scholar, ready to join in a
"Whoop, hurrah!" as the stage bowled off
from the " Hart's Head," along the highroad,
and on under the scars, until the dust
or the mist shut it from sight of the lads
seated on the stile across which lay the way
to the Grammar School.

Sharp and exhilarating the air, dry and
hard the roads, out of which the horses'
hoofs struck fiery sparks, as they dashed
along, with barely a flick of the long whip.
But as those hoofs trod down the miles, and
other horses took their place, change seemed
to come with the change of steeds. There
was a yellow aspect in the sky overhead at
Otley, then a fine, powdery snow-dust sifted
down, and soon they were in the midst of
whirling flakes, and the nearer they drew to
Ilkley the deeper lay the snow, in the hollows
and on the high moorlands, thick and
white, and the little beck, which at that date
ran uncovered through the one straggling
street, was swollen and turbulent. It was
hard work then for the panting steeds, for
the snow clogged the wheels, and the passengers

had to alight here and there to help
the heavy vehicle through the drifts, at
which there was some grumbling and growling
on the part of one or two comfortable
and burly insides, and stronger language
than was at all necessary ; but a middle-aged
man, whose shaggy eyebrows caught
the falling snow, shamed them out of their
inaction by his own energy of speech and
manner.

Come, come, my friends," cried he,
oaths are lame horses ; push along with a
will. Jupiter didn't help the waggon out
of the rut till the waggoner put his own
strength to the wheel."

That's right, my lad, never loiter when
there's a duty to be done," addressing Allan,
who had come from the back of the coach,
to grasp the spokes of the fore-wheel, the
speaker having breast and hands against the
hind one. " Pull away, boy, with a will ;
there are little flakes as well as big ones in
the sum-total of this drift. Combination
does it, and no good effort's ever wholly
lost ; wholly, I say, my lad ; remember that.

And remember, too, that little faults and
little vices are like snow-flakes — they mays
be soft and small, but they heap up insidiously
till they choke the road of life."

His words had poured forth in a continuous
stream, only checked by the involuntary
grunts which ever accompany
pushing and straining, and now, as if to
verify his motto that "no good effort's
wholly lost," their combined efforts set the
coach free, and the wheels had a roll of their
own.

"Tak' your places, gentlemen, an' then
ye!" cried Joe Barnes, the coachman, over
the folds of his muffler. There was a general
scramble outside and in, the horses set
off again over the snowy ground, and the
travellers, whose blood had been set in circulation
by the exercise, found example contagious,
and their tongues in motion, too.

At first the conversation was confined to
the snowfall, with its possible duration, and
consequent effect on traffic and the markets,
with uncomfortable fears that Skipton market
would be half over before they got

there, at the snail's pace they were going.
Then two or three burly individuals, of" the
wealthy farmer and grazier type, launched
into questions of crops and fleeces, oxen
and heifers, in so broad a vernacular, and
so exclusive a technicality, that even our
earnest friend of the shaggy eyebrows had
no room to edge in a word. But there
being indications that another stoppage was
imminent, a loud execration on delay called
forth a remonstrance from him, in which he
was seconded by another passenger hitherto
silent, a stout man about thirty, and this led
to discourse on the railroad then in course
of construction between Liverpool and Manchester,
and, supposing the trial proved
steam locomotion feasible, the advantages
that would result to the trade of the county
if such iron roads could be introduced into
Yorkshire.

He was a draper, he said, in York, and
could lay in his stock with much more
advantage if he could visit the warehouses
and see goods in the piece, instead of ordering
them from scraps in a traveller's pattern-^

book ; drapery looked so very different in
the piece and in the pattern. As things
were at present, he should lose all his time
in coming and going. He hoped, for the
sake of trade, that the railroad experiment
would succeed and spread over the
country.

He of the eyebrows, who confessed to
having also a commercial interest at stake,
agreed with the draper so far, when the
three cattle-dealers broke into the discussion
with loud-voiced dissent, protesting
vehemently that the country would be
ruined and done for, and the horse become
an extinct animal if steam-carriage became
general.

They were already waxing hot and angry
in the debate when there was a second
stoppage, and again shoulders, broad and
slim alike, had to be brought to bear on the
vehicle before it could be set going ; no
matter who grumbled or who did not.

Again the earnest voice of the energetic
passenger was heard to enunciate the axiom,
No good effort's wholly lost !" his peculiar

and emphatic pronunciation of the wholly
rendering it all the more impressive.

Who is that active old gentleman with
the loose dark top-coat, and comforter all
awry," asked Allan of the coachman, when
they were again on the box-seat.

Him !" exclaimed Jehu. " Ah thowt
everybody omoast i' th' West Riding' gnawed
honest John. Bud thanet bud a younker"
(patronizingly). " Weel, Maister Wilson
travels like i' th' oil or varnish line, bud
whither fur hissed or other soak ah can't
reetly mak ait. He nivver talks ov his ain
dizziness, tho' he hez th' gift o' th' gab ; na,
nor other soaks' dizziness other. Bud he's
chock full o' wise saayin's from bulks, an'
nivver loses a chance ov coin' a good turn,
or saayin' a good word iv it cures in his
way. An' he's fur education, an' says
everybody ait to be able to write his
name, an' to read th' Bible, an' ah think
he's abaght rest, tho' alive nivver mich
time fur reading' anything."

"And where does this Mr. Wilson hail
from, eh, Joe ?"

"Oh, Ripon way; bud ah take Honest
John up leer, their, and everywhere along
t' road, bud he's allays th' saanie — upreet
an' downreet, and whatever he says other
soak may swear by !" And Joe cracked
his whip with a flourish, at once to emphasise
his testimony to a good man's worth
and to stimulate his flasroincr steeds, from
beneath whose hoofs the powdery snow flew
up in emulation of the steam which rose
from their flanks.

But the snow — which had been falling,
falling, nearly all the way from Otley,
capping bushes, trees, and boulders with
delicate white hoods, spreading a fleecy
mantle over the moors, and a swansdown
trimming, as it were, atop of each hedge or
stone wall ; which had covered the oiled
sheet protecting the piled-up luggage on the
coach top until it looked like a huge cake
fresh from some giant confectioner's — appeared
to grow thinner and lighter as they
neared Skipton, and when the four panting
horses were drawn up suddenly in front of
the "Devonshire Arms" they had left the
storm behind them.

Ostler, summoned by the guard's surrounding
horn, were in readiness to release
the steaming beasts, to open the coach doors,
and affix ladders for the convenient descent
of timid outsiders, who stamped their
feet and shook the snow from their shoulders
when they alighted on terra firma.
The guard unlocked the boot (a sort of
cupboard at the back), and dragged thence
such parcels and luggage as had reached
their destination. Coachman and guard
held out their hands for their fees, and then
the companions of a few brief hours dispersed,
cramped, cold, and hungry ; the
majority, including John Wilson and Allan
Earnshaw, turned for warmth and refreshment
towards the inn, glowing with cheerful
fires, and redolent with savoury odours.
A few, whose journeys was ended, or whose
business was more imperative than appetite,
set off at a brisk pace their several ways ;
and amongst them the unpretentious draper
from York, who, with a carpet-bag labelled
George Hudson " in his hand, hurried
towards the High Street, jostling against

Allan and others in his haste, but as unnoted
in appearance, and as dreamless as
they of any link in their lives, any remote
influence he might have on their future fortunes,
or on the welfare of the nation at
large.

CHAPTER II.

HONEST JOHN.

STANDING on the broad, flat step in
front of the inn door when the coach
drove up, and in striking contrast to the
carelessly-attired John Wilson, who brushed
past him, was a trim, speckless gentleman,
considerably above middle age, who still
adhered to the fashion of an earlier date.
For instance, he wore low shoes tied with
an elaborate bow of black silk ferret, his
beaver hat was lower in the crown and
broader in the brim than was the mode ;
the upper portion of his swallow-tailed coat
was covered by a high-collared spencer,

tightly-buttoned across the chest, but not so
VOL. I. C

wholly as to conceal his broad shirt-frill of
fine French cambric, or his ample white
neckcloth, above which rose the points of a
stiff linen collar, in which his smoothly-shaven,
dimpled chin was almost buried.
His lower limbs were encased in smallclothes,
or breeches, buckled below the
knee, where they were met by cloth gaiters,
of the same dark iron-grey as the rest of his
suit; and pendent from his watch-fob, and a
heavy steel chain, was a massive bunch of
seals, which the spencer (a mere coat without
tails) did not come low enough to
cover.

Atone time his hair must have been what
is called " sandy," and inclined to be bushy,
but it was somewhat thinning on the temples
and on the crown ; his strips of whisker
were mere shadows, and there was a slight
sprinkling of life's snow upon it, which gave
it a cooler tint ; but his cheeks were fresh-coloured,
as of old ; his lips, though rather
thin and close-set, could break into a pleasant
smile which irradiated his whole face,
and, though crow-feet were then seen by

the corners of his eyes, the eyes themselves
twinkled and sparkled, as keenly alert as
the firm step and ready hand advanced to
meet those of Allan Earnshaw when he
crossed the open space between the coach
and the inn, which stood a little back from
the line of the street.

You are late, young gentleman. The
coach is monstrously behind time. Here
have I been kept cooling my heels for a
couple of hours — there or thereabouts," he
corrected himself, ''to save an old woman a
fit of the fidgets," but there was something
in the humorous twist of the lips and the
twinkle of the eves which belied the semi-rancour
of the speech.

I suppose you mean Aunt Statham, Mr.
Proctor," answered the youth, as he responded
to the warm grasp of the other.
^' I did not know she expected me. Surely
mother must be worse than Edith implied,
if Aunt Statham has been written to !" and
a shadow of alarm swept like a wave over
his open countenance.

"Now don't jump to hasty conclusions

c 2

on slight premises. There is no reason to
alarm yourself unnecessarily in any way or
shape. You know the good old lady is
tenacious of respect, and had you been
allowed to pass through Skipton without
previous intimation to her, there would bethe
very what's-his-name to pay ; and I suppose
your father, like a sensible man, sent a
line as a precaution,"

Did he write ?" exclaimed Allan. " Then
I had best run off to Aunt Statham's at once
and ascertain "

"No, you won't," said the elder, detaining
him by the arm. " You will come into the
Devonshire Arms' and have a Q-ood dinner
before the hunsfrv wolves devour it all ; and
do not let despondency spoil your appetite.
When Mrs. Statham has a cold she swathes
herself in flannel, doses herself with hot
drinks, gruel, yarrow, and what not ; and is
never visible to mortal but Deborah, until
she emerges from the flannels, and has her
newly-curled front and mob cap in becoming
order. My boy," — he saw Allan's impatience
— '' your aunt would not see you.

Deb came this morning to desire that I
would convey the regret of her mistress to
sou, and say she was alike unable to receive
^ visit or to leave the house."

But, Mr. Proctor " in a tone of remonstrance.


*' But, Master Allan," and the tips of the
long, slender fingers came down on the young
shoulders with a quiet decision which did
not admit of tenir, and so turned him towards
the travellers' room, where a huge
fire was blazing, and viands disappearing
from two long tables with astonishing
rapidity. It was market daye', and hungry
customers came and went noisily, with little
regard to order or precedence.

Mr. Proctor (or Lawyer Proctor, as he
was called in the town) only removed his
hands when he had seated his young friend
in front of a Yorkshire pie, which seemed
to have stood as long a siege as Skipton
Castle, and yet remained a pie, and a substantial
one. At his call a buxom waitress,
whose head was all cap, curls, and ribbons,
filled a couple of long talbot glasses with

ale, which they called " stingo," and Allan
Earnshaw having turned to the cheer with
good will, in spite of his anxieties, the
gentleman of the breeches and spencer
rubbed the palms of his hands together up
and down briskly, as if in self-satisfaction
that he had jot over a disagreeable business
better than he expected. He had no mind
that the young fellow should know the contents
of the letter to Mrs. Statham.

Why," he asked himself, " should he
meet sorrow half-way? Some diseases are
like chancery suits, — and Mrs. Thorpe's is
one of them, — last a lifetime before they
kill. He may find matters at home better
than he expects."

Holding this theory, he kept up a flow
of small talk, not so lively as to jar, yet
sufficient to keep Allan from gloomy introspection,
in the course of which he made
some reference to the firm of woolbrokers
with whom Allan had been placed, and their
clerks, into whose company the youth was
likely to be thrown.

As the words "Metcalfe and Polloc" left

his fluent lips, and were answered by Allan
as readily, " Oh ! the new clerk is named
Buttermere, Basil Buttermere," a knife and
fork almost opposite to Allan dropped suddenly
with a clatter, and he, looking up,
beheld the keen grey eyes of the sententious
traveller, named John Wilson, peering at
him from under their shaggy brows, with a
glance at once searching and troubled.

The gentleman in unbrushed black
opposite to us, with his neck-cloth all awry,
seems to regard you very attentively, Allan.
Do you know him'' put Mr. Proctor, in an
undertone.

Joe Barnes calls him Honest John »"

began Allan, in a like key.

"Honest John!" ejaculated the lawyer,
under his breath. " And is that Honest
John ? that man of loose joints and loose
garments ! Who would think what lay beneath
that weather-beaten countenance of
his ? How he has changed ! No wonder.
It was a rascally piece of business altogether.
I should like to shake hands with
him, if it would not recall unpleasant memories.

But perhaps he has forgotten me."
Apparently he had, for his e3^es had gone
back to his plate, and he appeared to have
no thought for anything beyond it and the
knife and fork, which were once more occupied
with a slice of sirloin.

Yet Josiah Proctor, in outward appearance
his very antithesis, was a man to be
remembered, not merely because the fashion
of his srarb had been unchanged for many
years, but because the two had many points
in common. If the one was nimble, quick,
alert even to jerkiness, and the gait of the
other somewhat loose and shambling, they
were alike fluent, energetic, genial : but the
lawyer could laugh, laugh with his whole
face. John Wilson, however beaming and
benignant, was never known to smile. If
he did remember the lawyer he sat soberly
silent, called for his reckoning when he had
finished his meal, resumed the dark overcoat
he had laid aside, and, taking a
japanned sample-case in his hand, quitted
the room with merely "Good afternoon" to
his young travelling companion.

It was no use for Allan to be impatient ;
the market-coach would not start until the
market was over and the passengers ready ;
and the snow-blocked roads, which had
made them late in coming, would be held
accountable. Mr. Proctor, to fill up the
time, took him by the arm and strolled with
him through the Market-place, calling at his
own office to put questions and give instructions
to a clerk almost as old-fashioned as
himself, and never left his charge until he
saw him seated on the box again beside the
red-faced coachman.

There was 'snow on the ground, and on
the bare, quick-set hedges and scattered
trees for the first few miles of their waj'- ;
then a sharp shower of sleet drove in their
faces, but it ceased about seven o'clock,
when the moon came out. It was obscured
at times by a swiftly-scudding rack, still
there was lio;ht enough to reveal the stonewalls
mapping out the high moorlands as
they approached Settle, and to demonstrate
that the downfall there had not been snow.
There were rain pools and runnels in the

roadway on which the rays of the coach-harass
shimmered in advance, as they also
shimmered on the window-panes of roadside
cottages and G;rev houses of millstone o;rit,
which, at first straggling, ranged in closer
rank as they entered the town at the southeast,
and, sweeping round a curve, drew up
at the " Golden Lion " to change horses and
passengers. There was another start, at a
rattle, due west, through the lonfii; main
street, and past the ancient market-place
which opened out on the right, with a quaint
old cross and market-house standing in the
midst, under the shadow of Castleberg —
that mountain steep which was once a dial
to rival that of Alias, and which still, with
lir-clad skirt, uproars its lofty head and
grandly frowns on shops and dwellings at
its base. There were lights flitting about,
showing where streets diverged, and where
shops were closing, for the Giggles wick
church clock struck the hour of curfew as
they left the inn, and, with the last stroke,
the pealing bell rang out as it had rung
since first St. Alkald's had a bell to rino^

in deference to law and custom. Settle
church had then no existence.

Country people wending homewards, lantern
in hand, called out familiarly to the
coachman, to be answered heartily, as they
dashed along the open road, where houses
became few and trees many, and Castleberg's
towering hill still held them in its shade,
until nearing the bridge, now crossing it,
Ribblesdale opened out its romance and
beauty on the right, in spite of the prosaic
cotton-mill close at hand, whilst far away to
the left spread a fertile valley with the noisy
river coursing to the south, glittering in the
Hjoonlisfht for an instant, then lost to sis;ht as
they whirled onwards, alternately in light
and shade as the scudding clouds swept onwards
too. The " Parish Umbrella," too
bare and leafless to justify its title, was left
behind, then the end of Backhouse-road was
passed at a gallop down the steep incline
known as Bell Hill ; then midway there was
a pull at the reins, the horses turned at an
angle northwards, and in another minute-stopped
in front of the *' White Hart Inn."

They had reached Giggles wick. The
northward road la' before them, white and
glittering in the rays of the moon. Fiddle-case
field showed obscurely to the right, with
Kelcoe Wood, the dark flounce of the grey
limestone scars in shadow beyond. But Allan
was more interested in the village grouping
round the church in the hollow, at the back
of the " White Hart," than in scars or wood,
or even in the old Grammar School, lying
low in the meadows opposite to the Fiddle-case,
with its front to the church and its
back to Cateral Hall grounds, which skirted
the road under the opposing lines of moor
and scar.

Even before the coach was prepared to
start afresh, Allan and his valise were on
their way back a few score yards, and, turning
sharply to his right down the steep declivity
of Bell Hill, where stood the chief
houses of the village. He was hurrying
along past the old stone cross (the ancient
rood) as speedily as young feet can, and was
about to take a final plunge round the
corner of the church which, elevated above

a narrow lane, looked down upon his home,
when aloud shriek pierced the ear of silence,
and a man, who seemed to precipitate himself
headlong down the churchyard steps,
rushed wildly past him, almost overturning
him as he shot forward and was lost in the
gloom of the unlighted village.

CHAPTER III.

A mother's care for her child.

Two centuries have flown since the 
was quarried, and hewn, and
brought together for the construction of the
curiously-shaped building in which Archibald
Thorpe had his dwelling, right under the
shade of St. Alkald's Church. And the
winds and rains of two centuries have beaten
down on its low-pitched flagstone roof and
solid walls, toning their tints and smoothing
their angles ; and at least a hundred years
have gone in the growth of the ivy that
covers it.

But, indeed, the old edifice at Ivy-fold
was an angle, —-two sides of a square, best
indicated bv the letter L, of which the two

extreme ends were the gables. The upper
one came flush with the lane beneath the
churchyard wall, significantly designated
Love Lane ; the other overlooked the level
where Bell Hill ended, and Tarn Lane
began to rise. The building, bearing date
1669 over the main doorway, had at sometime
been divided into three, a slice at each
gable-end serving as a cottage for other
occupants, the doors of which did not presume
to come to the front, where a small
garden, or court, within a low wooden
fence, filled up a vacancy and the square
plot of land. Consequently, Mr. Thorpe's
domicile comprehended more than two-thirds
of the whole, itself an L square, with
windows overlooking a pasturage at the
back, and the forecourt and the church at
the front. The heavy iron-studded door,
with thick, ring-shaped knocker, and a drop
handle, like a smaller knocker, was in the
corner opposite to the church, and from this
a flag-ed walk ran under the best kitchen
window to a small wooden gate opening into
Love Lane.

It was by no means a large abode, having
only a ground floor and another above, but,
being oddly shaped without, you may be
sure it was peculiarly constructed within.

No doubt, in olden time, when the fireplace
wa? a spacious open ingle wherein
gossips might sit together on winter nights,
the front door opened directly into the
living-room or " house," corresponding to
the baronial hall. The kitchen door, close
beside, did the same, and the staircase,
which planted its foot at that kitchen door,
ran boldly upwards, clinging to its wall.
But the early years of this century reversed
a good many primitive notions ; people with
any pretensions to gentility, even in country
villages, began to think of privacy and comfort,
and doubtless at the time the fireplace
was bricked up and supplied with an
ordinary grate, it was that the oaken partition
was put up to screen both doors and
staircase within an enclosure of their own,
and to add to the warmth of the large
apartment, thenceforth called a parlour;
the kitchen where the family meals were

taken becoming the '^ house." The partition
had also created a recess, not more than
four feet square, in which was a small
diamond-paned window overlooking the
court, and of course it held a window-seat.


Anyone coming in from the staircase, the
kitchen, or the front door, would enter by
the new door in the partition, but be as unseen
by the occupant of the window-seat as
that occupant would be by the incomer.
The room was, however, well lit from the
opposite side by two square windows, the
sills of which were almost on a level with
the field, and, as a protection against cattle,
barriers of iron rods, somewhat similar
to nursery safeguards, had been placed outside,
as also to a third window lishtinoj a
small room beyond, which had a raised
wooden floor, and was entered by a door in
the extreme corner. A room devoted to
Mr. Thorpe.

In neither room did the carpet cover
more than the centre of the floor, which
was oak, and polished. Mrs. Thorpe, like

VOL. I. D

other crowd Yorkshire housewives, would
have been allowed to think of the dust
which must accumulate under a carpet too
large to be lifted frequently for sweeping
and shaking. Yet the rooms were well
furnished — that is, solidly furnished — oak
preponderated over mahogany; the bookcase,
which fronted the fireplace, and the
square piano between the windows being the
chief exceptions. The chairs were many
shaped, some with tall stiff backs, others
roomy and cushioned like the great chintz-covered
sofa.

The best kitchen or " house," over which
one Janet Carr presided, was as large as
the family room, with such another old fireplace,
an oven and grate that looked as if
they were made for cooking, whilst on the
side overlooking the court, and between
door and fireplace, a long low window shed
light on a white kitchen-table and all needful
operations. Deep cupboards or presses
filled up the spaces on either side the ample
chimney ; whilst confronting the broad window
stood the door of a second and smaller

kitchen, where the rough work of the
household was done out of sight and hearing.
This again had an outlet into the open
air, where across a vacant space lay a garden,
for fruits and vegetables.

As a token alike of hospitality and
butchers at a distance, from the ceiling of
the larger kitchen depended bags of dried
herbs, two or three hams, a piece of hung
beef, a flitch of bacon, and strings of yellow
onions ; whilst over the hearth (where an
iron fender shone like steel), there was
suspended a square wooden frame, or
bread-slack, crossed with parallel lines of
twine, over which fresh oat-cakes or haver-bread
flapped or grew crisp in the air and
warmth.

There was one drawback to this attractive
kitchen, at least to a modern notion.
From one corner a closet appeared to be
partitioned off. Nothing of the kind — it
was only a box-bed such as may be found
here and there in the north to this day,
shut in from prying eyes.

The chambers above scarcely correspond

2

ed with the apartments below. The solitary
flight of stairs terminated with one square
flat, whence ran a sort of balustrade gallery
parallel with the stairs, from which
doors on the right hand admitted to three
successive rooms, overlooking the pasturage.
The gallery itself ended in a broad, square
space, lit by a small window, corresponding
to the one in the recess below. And close
by this window another door, painted brown
like the rest, opened into the one large
chamber of the dwelling. From its wide,
low, ransome window could be seen not
only the grassy court below, but the church
gate and steps, with glimpses of the sycamores
and gravestones in " God's acre," and
a portion of the village. A light in the
room would therefore shine out like a beacon
through the night to an'' home-comer;
whilst anyone seated at the staircase window
could watch the gate and the south side of
the elevated churchyard, although the
school-house and the side of the church it
confronted were quite out of sight, and
beyond range to the north.

Now, impatient reader — you, I mean, who
have skipped all this "dry description" —
oblige nie by turning back and reading it
carefully. I have been at some pains to
describe an actual habitation, so as to make
events transpiring therein thoroughly intelligible.
Do not defeat my good intentions.

There had been a lio;ht burning; nightly
in Mrs. Thorpe's room for many weary
weeks, shining out into the darkness with a
proclamation of prolonged pain and hope
deferred ; and neighbours out after nightfall
would glance upwards and shake their
heads, and none more ominously than Solomon
Bracken, the old sexton, who, going
to and fro on bell-ringing duty, was wont
to rub his sharp Roman nose between his
thumb and forefinger, and mutter, "It can't
be mich langer, it can't ; that's suer an'
certain !"

So he said, with his wheezy croak, for at
least the twentieth time, when he put his
foot on the first of the old worn steps to
the churchyard, on the night of Saturday,
February the 6th, 1830 (a memorable date

in his calendar), as he glanced upwards
and saw the flickering firelight through the
panes, and a face pressed against them, as if
peering into the night. There being no
opposite neighbours to overlook an}'- chamber
in the house, the linen blinds were seldom
lowered, and the inquiring young face
was distinctly visible over the short muslin
curtain. Again he shook his bent head ashe
mounted the top step, and repeated, "It
can't be lang, pair lass, pair lass !"

Lying on a four-post bed, hung with the
whitest of dimity, in that room with the
whitest of whitewashed walls and ceiling,
the whitest of covers on mahogany drawers
and dressing-table, under a white counterpane
of her own knitting, beat with feeble
pulsations the heart of a suffering mother,
whose face was the whitest thinoj in the
room, or her patient little nurse thought so,
a girl on whom a heavy responsibility had
been that day laid.

I leave Dora in your charge, Edith
dear," the mother had said. " You are
very young, too young, in fact, to be burdened

with the care of a delicate and wayward
child, but you are a good, steady girl,
-and I know I can depend on you to do
sour best for your little sister when I am
gone."

The poor creature spoke with an effort it
gave her daughter pain to witness.

Indeed, indeed, you iniiy, mother," she
answered, with genuine fervour, albeit her
voice was subdued, as all rounds there had
need to be. " But you should not speak in
this way, mother, you are better, much
better. Only this morning Dr. Burrow said
there was no immediate dancer."

*'No immediate danger! Oh, my love,
but / know better than Dr. Burrow that the
messenger is nigh at hand. Nay, do not
sob so heavily, my dear Edith, I am a great
sufferer, and long for a release. Were my life
prolonged it would only be with a continuance
of intolerable pain to myself and — and
an increase of trouble and anxiety to all."

Pain stopped the speaker's utterance,
whilst the effort to stifle her suffocating sobs
rendered almost inaudible the daughter's

protest that it was '' no trouble to wait on
her, and no one thought so !"

A dissenting movement of the invalid's
head brought Edith closer to re-adjust the
pillow on which the blanched cheek rested.
The pillow was plump, the cheek worn and
sunken with years of suffering, as was the
attenuated hand which closed with all a
dying mother's intensified affection on the
small one so prompt yet gentle in its care.

A clock in the kitchen gave warning with
a hoarse burr.

It is time you had your medicine,
mother," said the young attendant, releasing
the thin hand after responding to its pressure.
Turning to a neatly-arranged table
near the window, she selected one from
several bottles, poured out the potion into a
wine-glass, after careful measurement, and
returned to the bedside as the house clock
began to strike, and its strokes were drowned
by the heavier hammer of the church time-teller
close at hand.

What o'clock is that ?" inquired the
patient, wearily.

Six."

"I suppose Allan will not be here yefc
awhile ?" resumed Mrs. Thorpe, with a sigh.

It is Saturday, the coach will not be in
until seven, so he cannot be here earlier
even if he got my letter in time."

There was a pause.

Where is your father ?"

*' He was playing see-saw with Dora by
the fire when I came up."

Ah ! he is a kind father — but he may

marry again, and then " The half

soliloquy stopped.

Edith, having replaced the medicine-glass
and bottle in order, resumed her seat by the
bed-side, and took up a sock she was knitting,
and the dropped thread of conversation,
together.

What then, mother ? You do not think
he could ever be anything but kind. He ipso
very fond of Dora, too," urged she, with
a stronger emphasis on the very than she
was conscious of.

'true, Edith; but if— if A stepmother
would make a great difference — she

might not Edith, my dear child, promise
me to be to Dora a faithful guardian.
Do not let her miss a mother's care ; teach
her — direct her — let your own example
lead her to goodness ; be as much a mother
to her as an elder sister can. — Poor child,
she is a tender plant — a rough blast or
rough usage would kill her." She paused,
then, after a panting interval, resumed,
Give me your word, Edith, to shield my
little darling from sorrow or suffering, and
my mind will be at rest," and there was
an eager look in the sunken eyes as she
fixed them on the girl's sad face.

You need not fret about the life barn "
(little child), " mother, we all love her so
welL Whatever comes, she will be taken
c;ood care of, I am sure. But you are tiring
yourself with talking — do try to sleep ; doctor
will be so cross."

I cannot sleep, Edie. I am somehow
more anxious about Dora to-day than ever.
I think I grow more uneasy as the time
draws nigher. Societies I feel myself
wishing I could take mv barn with me

and then — then I pray to be forgiven the
wicked thought. You are but — a child
yourself, Edie, yet you are old enough to
remember your mother, and Dora "'.vill
forget me before she can read the name on
ray grave. Do promise to take care of her
as you both grow up, and let no trouble
come nigh her that you can prevent.
Promise me that, my dear — and I — shall
feel resigned."

There had been a brave effort on the
girl's part to overcome emotion that was
choking her. It was an almost inarticulate
voice that answered, " If ray promise will
make you more comfortable, I give it willingly.
I will take all the care of Dora that
one sister can take of another. But Aunt
Statham has always promised that her namesake
shall never want a friend, and surely
she will keep her word."

I am sure you will keep your word.
My aunt Statham is old and fanciful. She
may break faith with me — you never will.
You will take care of little Dora, I know.
Kiss me, Edie, that's a good girl. — God

bless you ! — Now draw the curtains, I think
I can sleep."

"Will not God take care of us best?"
whispered the young girl, as she bent to the
mother's kiss.

Certainly — but even faith commits its
dear ones to earthly charge as well as
heavenly," adding, in a dreamy tone, " I
wish Allan was here."

Edith unloosed the white dimity curtains
which hung in full festoons round the tall,
thin bed-posts ; and, standing on tiptoe to
prevent the brass rings rattling on the iron
rods, drew the folds close. She stepped
lightly across the room, and put her face
close to the window, against which a thick
February sleet was drifting ; and as she
looked out she murmured, " It is a bad
night for Allan. I, too, wish he was here."

An almost inaudible sigh escaped her as
she seated herself on a low stool in front of
the fire, and looked drearily into its red
depths, as if there lay the solution of her
long unspoken thought, " Who will take
care of me ? / am to care for Dora. Who
is to care for me ?"

There was a cricket chirping in the large
kitchen beneath, and its shrill note sounded
a blythe response, but the lone girl was too
deeply wrapt in thought to heed its utterance.
Ashes dropped from the fire on to
the hearth ; the sleet drove against the casement;
the cricket shrilled its loudest, but
she sat there silent and unheeding.

E

CHAPTER IV.

AT THE HOUR OF CURFEW.

With EARNSHAW's own father had
J for several years lain in the churchyard
with the ancestors who had, one after
another, held Ivy Fold. The father downstairs
amusing his petted child was the
father of Dora only ; the second husband of
her mother, and that mother lay on the bed
from which she was never more to rise. A
terrible internal malady had eaten into the
life of poor Mrs. Thorpe, and slowly, surely,
as the minute hand passed its shorter fellow
on the dial, as the roots of fell disease struck
deeper and deeper, so did the sands of life's
hour-glass drop.

There was no doubt of her doom, either

in her own mind or the minds of others.
Her years had been numbered, and the
mouths, the weeks, — it was only doubtful
whether days or hours would be added to
their sum. If Dr. Burrow had not said it
in so many words, it was implied when he
suggested the propriety of writing to Leeds
for her son, the Allan so anxiously expected.

Anxiously expected, indeed, by more than
the mother. The pensive girl looking so
mournfully into the fire, and musing over
the maternal love which seemed to centre
in her youngest child to the exclusion of her
elder born ; on the mental anxiety which
dreaded partial orphanhood for one, forgetful
that total orphanhood awaited the
others ; she, with a new sense of loneliness
and pain, with an aching heart crushed
beneath the burden newly laid upon it, —
she yearned for her brother, and her brother's
certain sympathy.

No wonder, for the child on whose shoulders
the dying mother had unreflectingly
cast the gravest cares of womanhood was
herself not fourteen years of age. She was

already staid and thoughtful beyond her
years, was calm and self-contained, and of a
gentle and loving nature ; but few guessed
the depth of love in her young heart, for
few had cared to plumb its depths.

Her mother's marriage with Mr. Thorpe
had followed closely her own father's death.
Mrs. Thorpe seldom referred to Mr. Earn-shaw,
and, but for his son and daughter, all
that belonged to the dead had been dead
too.

Mr. Thorpe, to do him justice, had been
far from unkind to either of his stepchildren,
but he had made no open demonstration
of affection. It had not occurred
to him that the eager schoolboy or the shy
girl could have a possible blank in their lot,
whilst they were well clad and cared for,
had a fair supply of books and toys (as
books and toys were in those days), and
uttered no complaints. He never asked
himself how it was that Allan was less mischievous
than other boys of his age, or
whence arose Edith's extreme quietude.
That they missed a father's love, or yearned

for some token of parental affection, never
dawned on his intelligence, not even when
his own babe was born, and taught lira
what that mysterious and subtle feeling
meant.

To a man of mature age, of scientific
tastes and studious habits contracted long
before his marriage, leading a somewhat
monotonous life in a country village, the
advent of a child was a golden era in existence,
and " life Dora," as she was called
(though christened Theodora, at the instance
of Mrs. Thorpe's rich aunt, Theodora Statim),
was at once the sun in her sire's
firmament, and penetrated his inmost heart.
At her birth five years before, Mrs. Thorpe's
system sustained a shock from which she
never properly rallied, and by the time the
infant could fairly " go alone," her fatal
disease made itself manifest. As the child
grew the mother faded, but as the certainty
of dissolution drew nearer the mother's love
rose in proportion. With the pertinacity of
the drowning, she clun to life for the sake
of her children, or, rather, of her child.

VOL. I. E

She had herself married so very precipitately
she could not flatter herself her
second husband would remain long; without
a second wife, and worse than death washer
dread lest her little one should fall into
unkind or indifferent hands. Allan and
Edith were sufficiently provided for, she
reasoned, and old enough to maintain their
ground against actual wrong ; but her little
Dora would have no one to care for her.
The very supposition must have grown out
of her inner consciousness, and yet she
blindly and needlessly bound one child in
fetters to the other for life.

Needlessly ! Dora had been to Edith
better than her doll ; and a lonely child's
doll is loved. She could dress and undress
the doll, kiss, fondle, and give it her childish
confidences ; but it could neither smile
nor kiss her in return. Dora could do
both. True, Dora was spoiled, wayward,
and petted, screamed and fought for her
choicest girl-treasures ; true, Dora filled the
father's heart entirely, and two-thirds of the
mother's ; true, the caresses lavished on the

little one smote her painfully with a sense
of unmerited neglect ; but the child itself
loved her, and that love was the one sunbeam
on a somewhat cheerless path.

And there she sat on the low stool, looking
dreamily and wistfully into the waning
fire, that sfirl on the threshold of her fourteenth
year; pondering, alone, mysteries of
life and death such as have troubled the
minds of abstract philosophers ere now.
There she sat, hearing neither the dropping
rush, nor the chirping cricket, nor the ticking
clock, nor the sleet, wind-driven against the
window panes ; there she sat, contrasting
her own loneliness in the present and the
future, in that still and shadowy chamber,
and the still more shadowy life beyond ;
contrasting it with the warmth and glow of
the parlour, where the father had set his
books aside to nurse and soothe with loins
words a petulant child ; loving words such
as she seldom heard, and might never hear
again. She had been exhorted to watch
over Dora — everybody'" thought of Dora —
no one thought of her, not even her mother.

E 2

No one thought of her but Allan, and he
lived so far away She wished postage and
paper did not cost so much, that she might
write to him and hear from him oftener — ■
she was so very lonely.

Just then a stray bat struck its claws into
the wood-work of the motioned window,
and flapped its leathern wings against the
glass, causing her to look round and shiver,
as she recalled stories of its ominous import ;
but as her upturned eye came back it rested
on an inscription rudely cut in the stone
above the fireplace —

'^ Nunquam soles quum solus, Gideon Earushaw.

A.D. 1672."

"Ah!" she murmured, half audibly, "if
Allan could but have translated all the
meaning of that as easily as he translated
the words, there might be some good in it.
'Never alone when alone.' It appears
senseless to me, for I seem always alone
even with people about me. I wish I could
make it true to me as it must have been to
the old Puritan whose name stands as a

witness to its truth. I am always alone.
But perhaps he had plenty of friends to
love him," and a heavy sigh was fitting
commentary on the feeling which had
shaped itself into words.

The burr-r-r-r of the clock warning for
seven, followed by seven metallic strokes on
its old cracked bell, and the seven sonorous
beats of its big rival in the church tower,
awoke the light sleeper in the bed, and the
dreamer by the fire.

"Are you still there, Edith ?" fell in faint
tones on the ear of the girl.

She was on her feet in an instant.

Yes, mother, can I do anything for

AH
you r

"Nothing; are you alone ?"

Yes, quite alone," replied Edith, in some
surprise.

I thought I heard you speaking to someone?"


Only to myself ; I often do,"

There was a pause. Then the mother
broke the silence.

Hush ! Did I not hear the gate ? I

hope that is Alain coming." An clio in
the lonely heart said, "/ hope so, too !" the
ready answer of lip and foot was only
I fancy it is too soon. I will run and
see.

As Edith descended the stairs, Janet Carr,
their one domestic, opened the iron-studded
door and let in a streak of moonlight and a
gust of wind, so keen it chilled the sensitive
frame fresh from the atmosphere above, and
she shivered for the second time that night.
"How cold it is," involuntarily exclaimed
she, but superstition had set no evil omen
down to a cutting wind, and, though it
pierced her like a knife, she had no prescience
and only pleasant words for him to
whom that sharp blast was herald.

A boy's voice outside had its polite message
brusquely interpreted by Janet, who
still held the door half open.

Oh, Jasper, is that you ? Come in,"
and Edith put out her hand with a frank
welcome, her face breaking into a smile,
adding, " Mrs. Craggg is very kind ; tell her
I do not think my mother is any worse.

She has just wakened from a comfortable
sleep. We thought it was Allan."

The boy, somewhere about her own age,
who wore a dark cloth jacket and trousers,
with a frill round his throat, doffed his cap
when she appeared, and took the proffered
hand, but did not step in.

I must not stay, thank sou, I have to
be back for prayers," said he ; then, abruptly,
"Is Allan coming by to-night's coach ?"

We expect him. He has been sent for.
Mother is growing very anxious."

The boy's face brightened in the moonlight.

"It is time the coach was in. I have not
heard the horn yet, but, you see, Edith, if
the wind blows the other wav we don't
always hear it. Suppose I run up and inquire
? It won't take me a minute !" He
had forgotten that he was bound to be in to
prayers.

Oh, if you would be so kind, Jasper, I
should be "

The gleam of moonlight was gone, and so
was Jasper Ellis ; off like a reindeer round
by the churchyard, past the old stone cross,

and up Bell Hill, with as little regard to
the inequalities of the steep ascent as though
it lead been daylight.

In an incredibly short time he was back,
out of breath. He had seen a mounted
horseman whom he called Mr. Clapham at
the "Hart's Head," who said they need not
look for the coach for an hour or more, the
snow lay so thick on the roads Skipton way,
and he brought his intelligence with the
addendum, " So you need not be uneasy,
Miss Earnshaw."

Without waiting for thanks, he was off
again. Prayers would be over, he knew,
and knew that his errand would be his
apology. But he had reasons of his own
for being early in, and to bed that evening,
reasons he did not impart either to the kind
old clergyman's widow with whom he was
boarding, or to her more vigilant daughter.

Edith had her foot on the stairs, hastening
to relieve the anxiety of the invalid, and
to press some nourishment upon her. She
was recalled by Janet.

I say, Edith, t' life bairn weren't gang

ta bed. School says sclioo's ta bide till
Maister Allan rooms. An' I's afeard ov
malkin her, gin school sets off in a tantrum
an' flash's t' mistress wiv her lutheran."

"Never mind, Janet, to-night," answered
Edith, with a faint sigh, " better let her
stay up than run the risk of disturbing
mother ^zow;," and the unconscious emphasis
on the now was a stronger ari]i;ument than
her words. " I will be down again directly,
and try to coax her to bed,"

School's bean ta be wished. It's Yesterday
meet ! I'se gotten t' tub an' t'
water ready, and I'm amaast agit a pay-shuns
waytin," said the maid, who stood
with her bare arms in the kitchen doorway,
a large-limbed, healthy, fresh complexioned
woman, but one little likely to consult the
whims of a child.

Never mind, Janet, to-night," repeated
Edith, " Dora may be washed in the morning
for this once. Besides, Allan might
come whilst you were busy with her."

Alius t' way !" muttered the woman,
as she hastened to remove the bathing-tub.

If that bairn don't mak soon soaks*
hearts work " (ache) " ane a theeas days,
it's rich ta me ! Bud I's non bean ta stand
it, an' I weren't."

In a few minutes the grumbling Janet was
summoned up-stairs to lift the feeble
patient whilst her bed was re-arranged, and
then every trace of ill-humour had disappeared.
Gently, tenderly, and easily'' the
strong arras raised the fragile form which

o o

was yet far beyond her little daughter's
strength to move, and her broadly dialect
tongue shaped itself to soothe the disappointment
of her sick mistress, whose son's
coming was so long delayed. Half an hour
at least was spent in the invalid's room, and
then she went back to her kitchen, thanking
her stars that she had not had Dora in the
tub when there was so much need for her
active services above stairs.

Her presence there had enabled Edith to
step below with a bulletin for her stepfather,
whom she found with the big family Bible
on a small round table near the fire,
endeavouring to interpret its pictures to the

small comprehension of Dora, who still
maintained her place on his knee, and was
by no means to be "coaxed" to bed
before brother Allan " came.

Back went Edith to her post, and whilst
active Janet bustled about to lay the
supper-cloth and fry ham and eggs, as if she
thought anxiety had no effect on appetites,
she alternated between her fireside stool
and the window, where she kept a close
look-out through another half hour, which
seemed three. All was silent outside, but
the rain was over, and the moon showing
a hazy disc. She kept closer watch as the
minutes flew. At length she caught the
glimmer of a distant lantern, and guessed
that it was Solomon Bracken on his nightly
errand ; and she saw him pause with his
foot on the worn step of the churchyard
and look up. She knew that the clocks
were on the stroke of eight : then came the
bur-r-r, the thin strokes drowned by the
eight full-toned ones, and then the clamour
of the bell, and the feeble voice from the
pillow saying, "Eight o'clock, and Allan
not here !"

How Edith wished she could silence the
bell, that she might listen for the guard's
horn. Once she thought she heard footsteps
and voices in the lane, but a cloud obscured
the moon ; when it shone again the bell
had ceased, and there was no one to be seen
and no one to be heard. More than half the
vilhiu;e would be in bed.

She had asjain administered her mother's
medicine, and had re-arranged the pillow

and counterpane when a loud and

unearthly shriek rang through the silent
air with awful clearness and intensity.

Mrs. Thorpe, weak and enfeebled, gave a
startled cry and clutched the bedclothes
in excess of fright and terror. Edith, also
startled and terrified, after one hasty glance
towards the bed, rushed to the window,
as another fainter scream rose like an echo
from below.

One minute later, a dark mass seemed to
fling itself or be flung down the churchyard
steps, come into collision with an advancing
form, dash onwards, and then — their own
gate was swung open. She glided softly

enough from the room, yet spurred by a
double excitement darted along; the landing;
and down the stairs, with all the haste she
could.

Allan stood on the door-mat and caught
her in his arms. As she sprang to his
embrace and clung to him convulsively, he
saw that she was white with fear, as she
cried out, "Oh! Allan, lam thankful you
are here. Whatever was that awful shriek?
You heard it, did you not ?"

Others had also heard, and before he
could reply the parlour door stood open and
Mr. Thorpe was there with Dora in his arms,
clutching; at his neck and sobbing; in childish
fright.

CHAPTER V.

Solomon's declaration.

WHETHER the sharp cry of Dora had
completed the mischief wrought by
that wild shriek from the churchyard, could
never be ascertained. Edith, going into
the room alone to calm her mother's fears
and prepare her to receive Allan, found her
with livid face and eyeballs fixed, the
coverlet still clutched with rigid and
spasmodic grip.

Another cry, that was a wail of agony,
rang through the house. " Oh ! mother,
mother, why did I leave you? Speak tome
! Oh ! dear mother, speak !

But ere the cry had left her lips, or Edith
had time to fling herself frantically down by

the bedside, and strive to loose the rigid
fingers, Allan was in the room, in like
distress ; there was a rush of feet up the
one flight of stairs, and the whole household
stood around the bed. The screaming:
child was stilled to quietude ; but there was
no recognition in the mother's staring eyes,
no word for the anxiously expected son.

restoratives had no effect. In a state of
distraction Allan was darting; off for the
doctor, without waiting for his stepfather's
Ay do, lad !" but Janet caught him by the
arm, and in her blunt way said, " Stop ye
here, Maister Allan. If school rooms rand
we'd best be at hand. School may lev
suiiirnat to say ta ye, an my shanks are as
long as yours," and, without waiting fora
reply, the rough but well-meaning woman,
forgetting the previous terror of the night
m the newer terror on that awful countenance
before her, was "one.

The old bonnet she kept on a hook
behind the kitchen door for wear in wet
weather, was on her head in an instant,
and as quickly was the candle in the ever-ready

lantern alight, but no cloak went onto
fetter her free limbs ; Janet Carr was as
quick to think as prompt to act ; but country
servants in those days — and town ones, too,
for that matter — did not stop to cumber or
adorn themselves with outer garments when
running ordinary errands ; the full bordered
white linen cap was a sufficient covering for
the head indoors or out, and only on special
occasions did they seem to think preparation
necessary. Frippery had not come into
fashion for servant maids, certainly not in
our northern villages. The dark woollen
petticoat, the short printed cotton jacket or
overgrown, and the check apron in ordinary
work-day use, had a homely fitness and neatness
about them, now looked for in vain, and
a girl so attired was ready to run out at a
moment's notice, and was a study for a
painter when she did so.

So it was that Janet Carr only threw her
bonnet on her head, although she had a
mile of road before her. The lantern was
a necessity to one unaccustomed to go
abroad after nightfall, a safeguard against

loose stones, or outlying doorsteps, a
guarantee that she should go ahead to Settle,
and not to Backhouse, where the road
forked off so conveniently for mistake in the
dark. But Janet had not paused to reason,
hers was only intuitive perception.

Dr. Burrow, as the surgeon was called by
courtesy, occupied an old house at the
corner of the Market-place, abutting on the
main road, and known as Lazy Corner
from the fact that there loungers and idlers
most did congregate " to the annoyance of
the peaceful inmates. He was a man of
middle stature, always dressed in professional
black, had a frilled shirt and neat
neckcloth, trousers and short-waisted swale
coat, had dark brown hair and
whiskers, and a capital face for a doctor, a
round, pleasant, cheery-looking face, with
bright, dark eyes ; a face to inspire confidence
in a patient, for the under-lip of his
rather straight, wide mouth closed over
the upper lip as if in assurance that he
could keep a patient's secret — and his own.
A needful qualification this for a country

VOL. I. r

doctor, for him especially so, as he was the
confidential adviser of more than half the
parish ; and, had he not kept his lips close,
what pulling of caps and ears might there not
have been !

He had been called from his supper before
Janet had reached Settle Bridge, on which
she was met and passed by a woman seemingly
in as great haste as herself, who took
the horse-road, and before she had gone a
hundred yards beyond she encountered the
doctor himself.

He was hurrying on as fast as his active
limbs would carry him, when, something
familiar in the coming step causing her to
raise the lantern, the light fell on her face
as on his.

"Hill, Janet!" cried he, "what brings
you here ?"

"Oh, wheel 'ta bean, doctor ?" was her
exclamation, with the prompt addendum,
Ye nun coom vi' rash right off, an goa
'tother folk at after. Ar missis hez hed a
fit o' sum sort, an school's dein."

A shade passed over Dr. Burrow's beaming

face as he stopped short in his rapid
walk.

Dying ! A fit do you say ?"

The stoppage was but momentary'. Janet
had turned to keep pace with him, even ashe
put his first question. He went on
rapidly, saying in an undertone, as if
communing with himself,

"Dear me, this is a strange coincidence.
Mrs. Thorpe in a fit, and Solomon Bracken
in a fit, both at the same time."

What ! Ovid Solomon in a fit. Weel,
I nivver !"

Betty's biggest lass," explained the
doctor, " came tearing up to the surgery
like a madwoman only just now to fetch
me. You must have passed her going back.
She said her grandfather had been frightened
by a ghost in the churchyard."

"A ghost!" jerked out Janet, in a loud
tone of contempt. " Him a sextant, an
flayed wi' a ghost ! An' it wur Solomon
hez shrieked alit, t'owd file's med a rare
night's work on it ! He's killed mal missus,
or I'm noon Janet !"

i^ 2

Genial Dr. Burrow was the friend of high
and low ; he was well used to familiarity,
but here was something to be checked.

Stop, Janet," he said, with quiet decision.
Your mistress was in a very critical .condition
when I saw her this morning. I did
not expect her to live forty-eight hours.
Whatsoever' and he laid an emphasis on the
word, " whatsoever may have caused this
sudden collapse, we must not be too ready
to accuse."

I'll say m}'' say !" interrupted Janet,
Ah expect missis t' be dead afore we rich
t'haase, un it's nowt but t' strike at's to
blame."

What shriek ?" he asked, and by the
time Janet had answered his query they
were at Ivy FoM. «

For all the service Dr. Burrow could ren '
der there, he misfht have visited his humbler
patient first.

There had been a relaxation of the muscles,
a dropping of the eyelids, a release of the
clutched bedclothes; momentary sight and
recognition ; a searching, yearning look that

passed from face to face, an effort of the lips
to shape a word — "Allan" or "Archie," they
knew not which — another spasm crossed
the face, then settled into a smile as the
lids fell once more, and breath was gone before
the doctor crossed the threshold, or a
word was spoken to husband or son.

At last the blinds were drawn at Ivy Fold,
and there were aching hearts and bursting
sobs behind them, and a little fair-haired
child had cried itself to sleep in the soothing
arms of another child with darker hair and
eves, on whom womanhood had fallen in a
night, and a chivalrous youn": brother bent
over both, and promised — ah, what did he
?26>^ promise of love, and care, and protection
in the time to come !

The fire was out in the white room upstairs
— two fires were out, and the cold clay
upon the bed mocked the inscription which
had outlived so many births and deaths in
that chamber ; for there, with his face half
hidden in the white sheet, a widower knelt in
lonely grief, vowing to deaf ears how true a
father he would prove to the orphans left

WOOERS AND WINNERS.

behind, the orphans comforting each other
elsewhere.

Blinds down at Ivy Fold. Did the village
need other token that the hoof of the pale
horse had trampled on that roof, even though
the death-bell Alas not set heard ?

Hark ! surely that could not be the knell !
Solomon Bracken must have stayed too long
at the " Black Horse " overnight, so irregularly
was it tolled ! Such were the comments
of the inhabitants rising; from their
beds, or taking leisurely their Sunday morning
meal. But when it ceased, and, after
the interval of an hour or more, the bells
beam to ring; for mornings service, the whole
village was on the qui vive. It hardly
recognised its own bells.

Commotion hushed to consternation before
noon. It had transpired that Joe Guyer, a
grey little man with an undoubted liking for
his "drops," a sometime assistant to the sexton,
had been hastily summoned to take the
post, and that Solomon Bracken himself had
lost the use of his limbs.

It was bruited abroad that he had run

home from his bell-rinsincf the nio;ht before,

CO O '

crying, "Aghast ! a ghost !'' had straightway
dropped on the floor in a fit, and never
spoken since.

The sexton's affrighted exclamation found
ready interpreters. Rumour spread in
breathless undertones. Before the afternoon
service it was currently reported that
the man had seen the wraith of Mrs. Thorpe
as a death-token. Then counter-rumour
went forth that the spirit of Mrs. Thorpe's
former husband had burst its bands to summon
her to join him. The natural voice of
Giggleswick sank to an awe-stricken whisper,
people were drawn into groups, and a sort
of shrinking from solitude was manifest.

Solomon Bracken was a tall, thin, bony
man, with a strong flavour of mould about
him. He had contracted a slight stoop in
the shoulders, possibly with much deep digging,
and had a wheezy croak of a voice
suggestive of handling overmuch damp
earth ; he was somewhat self-opinionated,
had a habit of thinking aloud, and a temper
as sharp as his nose. There was no other

harm in the man ; he was not unkindly or
ill-disposed, but he was by no means a general
favourite, and there was always more
or less antagonism between him and the
Grammar School boys, who persisted in
saluting him as "Nosey," and "Wellington,"
in spite of his protests and Dr Hobson's
wonderfully elastic cane.

The mystery' deepened when, in the course
of a day or so, Solomon recovered the partial
use of his tongue, and manasseh to falter
forth that as he was picking up his lantern,
after locking the belfry door, he beheld an
awful spectre, in a winding sheet, rise before
him in the moonlight, with its arms extended,
and fiery eye-balls glaring in its grinning
skull. It rose slowly, he said, as if from the
ground close to the churchyard wall, on the
Grammar School side, and scared him so
that he dropped his lantern, and could remember
nothing; afterwards.

The old vicar, Parson Clapham, as eccentric
a clergyman as ever mounted pulpit,
scouted the idea of a spectre, and roundly
affirmed that Solomon had been drinking and

had taken a white gravestone for a ghost.

This Solomon as stoutly denied, and but
that Dr. Burrow came in and put an end to
the controversy the man might have fared
badly through the excitement of altercation
in his then condition.

He was equally positive aud consistent
when the Rev. Rowland Ingram, the headmaster
of the Grammar School, and the Rev.
John Howson, the usher, went together to
interrogate him. His story never varied, he
was as certain of the grinning skull, the fiery
eyes glaring with the light of the bottomless
pit, the flowing drapery, and open arms that
seemed ready to clasp him, as he was that he
had lost the use of his limbs, and was likely
to be crippled for life ; and, as Solomon was
by no means a man of vivid imagination, the
two clergymen arrived at the same conclusion
that he was either under the influence of
some delusion, or that a trick had been
played off upon him, which it was their business
to find out.

He had other visitors, had Solomon, although
Dr. Burrow had recommended quiet

for his patient. The sexton's widowed
daughter who took charge of him, and who
was so much a counterpart of himself as to
be nicknamed " Mother Wellington " by the
tribe of irrepressible — notwithstanding her
combative nose, had not so strong a mind as
to say "Nay"' when clergy and gentry
crossed their humble threshold, whether the
visit was of condolence or curiosity. Betty
Dyson held the official appointment of
sweeper, scrubber, and duster in ordinary
both to church and Grammar School, and
Betty was supposed to know on which side
her bread was buttered.

And, though her own temper was ruffled
on finding Solomon disturbed by the incredulity
of his clerical visitors, she could but
smile a welcome, and hasten to dust a dust-less
chair with her blue check apron, when
Mrs. John Hartley came from Cateral Hall
with kindly sympathetic face, and a few
niceties for the use of the invalid, such as
were otherwise beyond reach.

Nor could she be more discourteous when
the wheel-chair of old Mrs. Craggg, in some

measure a fellow-sufferer with Solomon, was
pushed in at the open doorway of the little
shop where Betty sold tops and marbles,
buUs'-eyes and parkin, kites and balls, pencil
and crackers to the juveniles of the
community, pins, tapes, cotton balls, pepper,
salt, snuff, and tobacco to the elders.

Since Solomon's catastrophe her shop had
been literally besieged by purchasers, and
every purchaser was an inquirer. The
pence of the Grammar School boys had
always an affinity for Mother Wellington's
till, and now every boy seemed to have
pennies to spend. Betty liked money well,
but she liked her father better, and the
frequent calls into the shop when he
needed attention had not sweetened her
temper. Still she smoothed her apron
Avhen she caught sight of j\Irs. Craggg's plain
satin bonnet, and of the benignant countenance
under it, round which was set a cap-border
as prim as that of a Quakeress.

She was not often seen beyond the
precincts of her own home, and Betty
Dyson's ejaculation proclaimed as much.

Why, Mrs. Craggg, t'seight o' ye's gude
fer sore eyes ! Coom in. Ov all t'folk at's
bin ta see father, their's non roar welcome,
I'se suer."

Mrs. Craggg's conveyance was simply an
arm-chair, to which strong castors and a
footboard had been attached. Tim, the
gardener, and Janet Carr's sweetheart,
acted as outdoor charioteer, an office of considerable
trust, if we take into account the
steep inclines to be faced whichsoever road
they took. Betty gave the man a nod as if to
say he was not wanted, and, laying her own
hand on the chair's high back, wheeled it
round the end of the wooden partition or
screen which separated the original open
apartment into shop and " house," observing
as she did so, in a tone intended to be
complimentary to the present visitor,
whatever it might be to former ones, " Aw
others lev bin strong an hearty like, an it
need him mad to sae them sa wish, an him
higgins " (lying) " their in such a hobble. But
inebbe it'll be soon comfort ta see there's
Gathers as badly as hissed."

Was there any echo in the good lads's
heart ? Had she ever felt a pang as young
hearts and limbs bounded before her day by
day, that she smiled so sadly as she
responded " Ah, no doubt, it is a common
failing."

"Father, here's Mrs. Craggg coom ta ax
how ye bin," cried Betty, as she wheeled
the chair close to the high-backed wooden
couch or long settle softened for repose by
cushions, strongly suggestive of acquaintance
with church pews, on which Solomon lay,
with his arm tightly bandaged after bleeding,
and a bristly grey beard which had not felt
the keen edge of the Sunday morning razor.
There Betty left the lady, an impatient
tapping on her primitive counter with the
edge of a coin serving as a summons into
the shop.

CHAPTER YL

NOT TO BE FORGIVEN.

MRS. ESTHER Crags had been twice
married. Her second husband had
been the Rector of Hornby, on the Lancashire
border, where her ancestors were said
to have held lordly sway in times remote,
and where the father of her spouse had held
rectorial sway before him. Learned men
both, but they and their learning lay
together under the chancel wall of the
church they had served so long, and
Hornby's castle-crowned steep cast its
shadow on the slabs of slate which kept
the brief record of their lives and deaths for
posterity to ponder — if posterity where so
minded.

Yet is it an injustice to say that their
learning had gone to sleep with them. The
sire had indoctrinated the son, and from
him wife and daughter had imbibed such
learned lore as served for an inheritance
when the late rector's stipend was handed
over by death to a successor. Then it was
the widow took up her abode in Giggleswick,
in a roomy house opposite to Parson
Clapham's on a road leading from the
summit of Bell Hill to the moors, and close
to the limpid spring known as Bank Well,
which supplied nearly all the village
with water, and save its name to the
house.

Here she and her learned daughter
Elizabeth established a boarding school for
the reception not only of young ladies, but
of young gentlemen also. The latter were
chiefly juvenile probationers for the Grammar
School, or simply boarders already
placed on that classical foundation ; and
seeing that sixty pounds per annum was the
minimum fee for a boarder, and that the
maximum ran into three figures, the repute

of Mrs. Craggg's boarding school may be
inferred, no less than that of King Edward's
Grammar School.

With regard to the school itself, it was
more select than large, including a few
young ladies from distant homes, and a
sprinkling of day-pupils from the vicinity to
make up the number, and — I have a
boarder's word for it — Mrs. Craggg made the
place a pleasant home, to which the school
was a supplement.

The extent of the premises could not be
estimated from its frontage, although that
was respectable ; and it overlooked a sort of
private way which led to fields beyond,
turning only a broad shoulder to Well Bank,
as that part of the main road was designated.

From the small central gate in the garden
(or court) rails you saw merely a double
house of the common grit-stone, with a
paved walk straight to the porch-shaded
door ; broad low mullions windows spread
out to light rooms on either side, and three
of the same type for each of the floors
above.

Corresponding apartments at the back
might be conjectured, also the long line of
kitchens and minor offices built out in the
rear at a right angle on the village side,
with dormitories overhead. From the other
gable extended an out-building or turf-shed
devoted to a colony of ducks and poultry,
whilst as large a colony of pigeons was accommodated
with dovecotes here and there
outside, and re pounded to quacking, cackling,
and crowing, with the soft low coo peculiarly
their own.

Here too was stabled Punch, the fat pony,
and here on a kind of granary floor were
kept gardening tools and winter stores of
many kinds. In a line with this outbuilding
of many uses was the large side gate which
gave egress or ingress to Punch and his
numerous young friends from the bye-path,
beyond which lay the pony's paddock.
And over the back of house and turf-shed
had been trained a magnificent pear-tree
of sufficient importance to form an item
in Mrs. Craggg's lease, and to set unlicensed
lips watering for its fruit, for the double

VOL. I. G

reason that it was luscious and forbidden.
In spring the tree was a mass of white
blossom, and the autumn show of fruit was
glorious, but Parson Claphara, who retained
the tree for his own use and benefit, was
wont to grumble and say that it had been
titled before it was ripe for his gatherer,
and that none but the parson had a right to
take tythes.

There were busy workers in that ,
young and old, but they had
their exemplars in yet another colony of
workers, for whose straw hives niches had
been left in the far boundary-wall of the
kitchen garden beyond the spacious yard,
and for whose use and delectation beds of
the sweetest herbs were planted ; a noble
orchard, stocked with the choicest fruit,
adjoined this prolific garden, and here,
where the Grass Q;rew thick and rank under
the trees, ducks and ducklings fattened on
slush and snails and "such small deer."

The path from yard to orchard lay between
the outer wall on the village side,
and a tall hedge, — hedges are rare in that

locality — and on the other side of this spread
a smooth square plot of closely shaven grass
to freshen up the stony yard, and bleach
fine lace and muslin.

Close as was the village well the household
had seldom need to draw upon its ample
resources, for a spring as pure bubbled up
clear and cold in the paved yard, then ran
like liquid crystal over its stony channel, to
lose itself and its purity in a duck-pond
under the orchard trees.

In this orchard mioiht be found something
more than a duck-pond. There, too,
stood a small octagonal edifice known as
Apple Tree Hall, and regarded as the private
property and sanctum of the boys. In fact,
it had been built with considerable pains
and ingenuity by Mrs. Craggg's elder
boarders ; outsiders, of whom Allan
Earnshaw had been one, assisting in the
collection of stones and other matters.
There was no proper fire-grate, and but a
rude attempt at a chimney ; a few iron bars
procured from the village blacksmith
served the purpose of the former. A

G 2

carpenter bad been bird to put in a door
and window frame, but the boys themselves
had glazed the latter, and added to the
door a secure lock, the eldest boarder being
the custodian of the key. Their seats were
merely stools of very rude construction,
their table equally rough ; but no palace
could have been dearer to its owners.

It was regarded by Miss Craggg with
much disfavour, as a nursery of mischief,
but soot-natured Mrs. Cras and Miss
Vaseyy, her equally good-natured little niece,
who had her home with them, and who
played the part of general utility, held it to
be a safety-valve for superabundant animal
spirit, and the best guarantee for a quiet
house. Had the twain been initiated into
all the secrets of Apple Tree Hall they
might perchance have veered round to the
more rigid ruler's opinion.

AYe must, however, leave Apple Tree Hall
with its secrets unrevealed, for Mrs. Craggg
had left Solomon Bracken's with only half
her errand accomplished, and was at the
nail-studded door of Ivy Fold. Yet, if she

had failed to convince him that ghosts were
creatures of the imagination, she had
conveyed to him consolation both spiritual
and pecuniary, and he was not the only one
comforted.

On her way from the sexton's her
chair had been met and taken possession of
by two of her own boarders, Jasper Ellis
and Martin Pickersgill, who had committed
their school books to Tim, in their joint
desire to convoy the old lady they reverenced
to the house of mourning where
dwelt the young lady whom they both,
in boy-fashion, adored. And as there too
dwelt Tim's sweetheart we may presume Ke
was not too well satisfied with his summary
dismissal.

Janet opened the door. The chair was
gently tilted back to bring the front castors
to a level with the low step, was wheeled
forward into the larcje room, and then the
boys, after bowing with unwonted gravity to
their unconscious enslaver, as if in mute
sympathy with her sorrow, decorously retreated
to the " house," where Janet invited

them to seats by the fire, and, being hospitably
inclined, did her best for their mental
comfort bv enlarging on the death of her

^ DO

mistress, and the fright the " daft sextant "
had given them, and for their bodily by regaling
them with well-buttered pikelets, fresh
from the girdle, of which she was preparing
a supply for the morrow's use and that
afternoon's tea. Both Jasper and Martin appeared
constrained and reserved, but Janet's
baking, in the darkened kitchen, claimed so
much of her attention that she failed to notice
the peculiar expression of their two faces as
they talked.

Mrs. Craggg had found the parlour redolent
of black crape and French merino — " the
newest thing in the market," John Tatian,
the Quaker draper of Settle, had told Miss
Vaseyy, who had done inexperienced Edith
the service of shopping for her, and Martha
Dyson, Betty's eldest girl, was putting the
finishing stitches in a dismal frock for Dora to
wear on the morrow. Edith, whose needle
had also been busy, moving about with a

noiseless step and sad white face, was clearing
away the dressmaker's litter.

She had not noted the opening of the
outer door, but little Dora, nursing a pet
kitten on the window-seat in the recess, had,
child-like, lifted the linen blind on the sound
of wheels, and crying out " Missy Craggg !
Missy Craggg !" scrambled down from her
perch in haste to hug the dear old lad' who,
albeit she had a somewhat red face, and had
little beauty to boast of, won her way to
young hearts without an effort.

Over Settle the clouds weep with much
persistence ; fair weather in February is not
to be looked for, neither was Mrs. Crack;
when rain was falling. That was the first
fine day since lier mother's death, but the
morning having passed without bringing her
old friend, Edith was even then feeling
herself deserted in her loneliness. Miss
Craggg, gravely reflective, had been to
scatter crumbs of comfort, Mrs. John
Hartley with kindly consolation, and little
Ann Vaseyy, to show her sympathy, with

active service and tender-hearted tears, but
the bereaved girl lacked the motherly arms
of old Mrs. Craggg wherein to shed her
own.

At Dora's cry she bounded forward, to
check herself as suddenly, as the two young
chairmen became visible — she had early
learned self-repression. She was glad,
therefore, when, content with her low-voiced
"Thank you, tolerably well," the pair
retreated, and Martha Dvson, obedient to a
sign from Mrs. Craggg, took up her work
and followed them, nothing loth.

Left with her aged friend, of whom
Dora had already taken possession, Edith's
enforced serenity gave way. She sank on
her knees beside the welcome guest, and,
burying her face in the receptive lap, let
her imprisoned sorrow forth in sobs and
tears.

"Oh! Mrs. Craggg," she cried. "My
poor, dear mother! What shall we do
without her ?" It was all so sudden at the
last, so awfully sudden, so terrible !"

My dear," said the old lady, gently,

smoothing the mass of dark hair with one
hand, whilst the other arm held wondering
Dora, whose lips began to quiver. "Your
good mother had long looked forward to
this release from pain. You could not have
desired to prolong her sufferings, could
you ?"

'• Oh, no, no," was the instant answer, half
choked by sobs. '' But mother had so longed
to see Allan, and say something to him
before she died ; and she could neither see
him nor speak to him, although he was
there."

That is sad, my dear, she may have had
some especial caution or instruction for him ;
a dying mother's words, kept in memory,
might serve as a safeguard in many an hour
of temptation and worldly peril. Yet do not
be distressed, her anxiety might be only the
natural yearning of a mother to take a last
leave of a beloved son. What remains unspoken
is the secret of the Lord, and He
knew when to call your parent home and
what was best said or unsaid."

Dora, knowing little of her loss, but

whimpering for companionship, had leaned
across and slid her small soft arm round her
sister's neck. Edith raised her head and
answered, gravely,

]either gave me a charge, Mrs. Craggg, a
very precious charge. She made me promise
to watch over darling Dora, and be like a
mother to her. And I wilL"

There were tears upon their lashes, but
the dark steadfast eyes that looked so clearly
into Mrs. Craggg's were full of resolute purpose.
No fear of that girl faltering over
aught so sacredly undertaken.

Mrs. Craojg: drew a lone breath before she

Co o

replied,

"Did she, my dear? Why, you are only
a child yourself. We shall have to call you
a little woman now. Most likely Mrs.
Thorpe's intent was to commit you both to
your brother's care."

"So Allan thinks," and Edith kissed the
forehead of her little half sister as she spoke.
But Allan is so noble and so good, he is
sure to care for us, even if father " and

she stopped short, as it flasher] across her mind
that her mother's suggestion of a possible
second marriage was too sacred a confidence
to be breathed to others.

Mrs. Craggg noted the pause, and took the
opportunity to lead the girl to speak of her
mother's last hours, and the immediate cause
of her release. As Edith told how she had
watched Solomon Bracken go into the
churchyard, heard the outcry he made, and
saw hiui flinfj himself headlong as it were,
down the step?, to stumble against homebound
Allan, Mrs. Craggg put the question,

Did you see no one in the lane at the
time?"

"Not a creature."

"Neither before nor after?"

Neither before nor " Recollection

dawned on Edith. "Stay," she said, " I saw
no one ; yet I fancied I heard some one pass
the sate when the bell was rincfin^ but was
not sure."

I thought as much !" and Mrs. Transgressed
her lips tightly on the words.

"Thought what, Mrs. Craggg?" asked
Edith, rising to her feet, her eyes expanding
with expectancy.

"Well, my dear, if the sexton saw what
he says he saw, he has been the victim of a
cruel practical joke. There must have been
perpetrators. Intangible ghosts are born of
drink or delusion."

Edith stood transfixed, as if unable to
fathom the depths of such villainy. Her
eyes flashed. "Then my mother was a victim
too ! It was a wicked and cruel thins.
1 could never forgive it — never T

Mrs. Craijsj was struck with the sudden
change in the quiet girl. " Hush ! Edith,"
she said, softly, "you must not say that.
No one contemplated any injury to your
mother, if consequences were calculated at
all, and you know that her death was inevitable.
At the worst, we can but say it
was accelerated."

But Edith was not to be soothed. Neither
Allan nor Mr. Thorpe had heard her
mother's last wishes. She had imbibed
Janet's theory that she had been killed, and

persisted in her declaration that she could
never forgive the cruel act, a reiteration
utterly at variance with the gentle nature
of the girl. It was clear there was a hidden
force beneath the surface, hitherto unsuspected.


CHAPTER VII.

SUSPECTED.

BEFORE Mrs. Craggg took leave she
naturally inquired after the widower
and Allan, neither of whom had made his
appearance. She also asked if Mrs.
Statham was expected.

Aunt Statham was written to at once,
but she was not well enough to be seen
when Allan was in Skipton," said Edith,
so we do not expect she can come. Indeed,
I hope she will not, for I might not be able
to attend to her properly, and I should
not like to offend. I was very thankful
when Miss Craggg offered to preside at table
tomorrow ; I should be overrated."

"No doubt, my dear; but about Allan
and your father ?"

Oh, Allan goes back to Leeds on
Tuesday. He has now i>;one over to Parson
Clapham's, and to the undertaker's. He is
quite a business man now," (how her face
brightened with sisterly pride), " father does
not seem able to attend to anvthino^, he is
in so much trouble," and the fleeting light
faded from her eyes.

A sound something; like " Hm !" issued
from Mrs. Craggg's compressed lips, that was
all, but interpreted it meant, " In trouble !
and shifts his burden on to the shoulders of
this boy and girl. Will it be always so. How
will they bear it ?"

Edith responded to the unsatisfactory
sound. " Yes, father sits all alone in the
little sitting-room. He has kept his papers
and geological specimens there since mother
was so very badly. But I do not think he
is doing anything. For the first three days
he sat, with his elbow on the table and his
head on his hand, staring out of the window
into Wildman's pasture, and I don't think he

saw or heard anything, for when we went into
the room he never stirred until we touched
lira, and then he started. Mr. Hartley and
Mr. John had been and talked to him, so had
Mr. Ingram and kind John Tatham, but
no one seemed to do him any good, and
it made Allan and me miserable to see
him."

"1^0 doubt, my dear, no doubt. But
you implied that he had thrown off
his desponding lethargy — at least in part."

"Well, he has been better since Mr.
Wilson was here on Wednesday."

"And who is Mr. Wilson?"

"Oh, quite a peculiar old gentleman;
he travelled part of the way with Allan,
and they had to help to get the coach
through the snow. My brother met him
in the village inquiring for Ivy Fold. And
when Allan brought him here and asked
for father, he was so surprised to find they
were related. He had a letter of introduction
to Mr. Thorpe, but I was afraid he
would have to go away without seeing him.
However, father no sooner cast his eye over

the letter than he came out of his room and
shook hands with Mr. Wilson as if he had
known him all his life."

"It was not a very seemly time for a
stranger to intrude,' observed Mrs. Craggg,
with her head on one side as if debating the
point with herself.

"Oh, I don't think he intruded at all.
Father has not been the same since,"
replied the girl. " And he did make an
apology for calling. He said that he had
to go on to Lancaster by the coach that
night, and should not be in Settle again
for four months ; and it turned out that
he knew one of Allan's masters, Mr.
Polloc."

Then I suppose his business concerned
Allan ?" remarked Mrs. Craggg.

Oh, no ! Father said Mr. Wilson — he
knew him well as ' Honest John,' — having
found his name amongst the directors of
Settle Mechanics' Institution, and knowing
the interest he took in geology, wanted
him to ' widen his sphere of usefulness ' —
yes, those were the words, and to attend

VOL. I. n

some meetings in Leeds and Ripon, and I
fancy he said to lecture as well."

Public meetings ! Lectures !" Mrs. Cra^fij
looked amazed. Lectures were not so
common then as now.

"Yes, Mrs. Craggg, and I daresay he will,
for, since the idea has been put into his
head, he does not seem half so unhappy.
I am sure I was very much obliged to Mr,
Wilson, though he is such a curious gentleman."


I'se sure he's a very nice old gentleman,"
stoutly advanced little Dora, who had been
listening attentively ; "he stroked my hair
and gave me some toffy, and he said I was
pretty, and he liked pretty little girls, they
were always so good."

Nay, nay, Dora love," interposed Edith,
he said he liked pretty girls, but only good
girls were really pretty."

The child pouted at the slight correction.
It all the same, Edie, I sure; isn't it, Missy
Craggg?"

No, my little dear, very different. But
I hope Dora will try to be good, and then

we shall all think her pretty," was the

smiling answer.

But little Miss — she had a sort of
consciousness that she was not always
disposed to be good — with a toss of the
head which implied that she felt herself
unjustly rebuked, rejoined promptly, " I is
pretty ; father says I is pretty."

How very injudicious," thought the old
lady ; but, as though she had not heard,
she changed the subject by expressing a
hope that the new mourning Miss Vaseyy had
selected was approved — and very soon
departed.

When Mrs. Craggg's chair was drawn up
the toilsome ascent of the village, sweeping
with a curve to Well Bank and turning
again from the high-road to her own gate,
she saw standing on the low, broad step
beneath the porch, the erect figure of the
Kev. Rowland Ingram, Bea., and his
somewhat less stately, though not less
magisterial, usher, the Rev. John Howson,
M.A., whilst Miss Craggg herself, with
smoothly-banded hair and dark dress,

h2

severely plain, was ia the act of closing the
door behind them.

As the chair was wheeled up the path,
the boys doffed their caps to their masters,
who raised their hats to do reverence to
the respected widow of a fellow-clergyman,
the door was again thrown back, and they
returned to the parlour they had just quitted,
followed by Mrs. Craggg and her daughter.
Martin and Jasper, bowing with much
ceremony, retired.

The Reverend Rowland Inn-ani was a
fine, tall man, with well-chiselled features,
in which dignity, benignity, and intelligence
were blended.

Seating himself close to the old lady
he addressed himself to her with little
prelude or circumlocution ; whilst his
companion, half closing his eyes and leaning
over the back of a tall chair in front of
them, kept time to his senior's speech with
a pair of grey silk gloves, which he held in
the right hand and beat upon the left,
drawing them gently through the circling
thumb and forefinger.

"Madam," be began, "from prior
conversation with Miss Craggg and Miss
Vaseyy, I infer that you have no inkling of
our unpleasant business here. Nevertheless,
you cannot be unaware that a disastrous
mystery holds the village in a ferment. I
will not insult j^ou by a supposition that
you believe the unfortunate sexton to have
beheld an apparition, but conclude you
agree with us, that the painful problem
admits but of two solutions : Solomon's
inebriety or an inconsiderate (' heartless,'
threw in the usher parenthetically) practical
joke."

Precisely so," assented Mrs. and Miss
Craggg, in a breath.

That being the case, we may require
your assistance, ladies, in the investigation
which devolves upon us, as a duty, since
our aged vicar declines to stir in the matter."
He did not say that old Parson Clapham
had laughed in their faces, and said it was
no business of his, Bracken was an old fool
and should have had his wits about
him.

The ladies simply bowed in acknowledgment.


•'Mr. Howson," he continued, " has made
inquiries at the ' Black Horse ' and elsewhere,
but cannot discover that Solomon Bracken
was less clear-headed than usual. Thus weare
thrown upon the other horn of the
dilemma, and suspicion naturally'' points to
the pupils of the Grammar School."

The young gentlemen in our charge,
Mrs. Craggg, our charge ^^ supplemented Mr,
Howson, with emphasis, and an extra flick
of his grey silk gloves, as though he would
have said, '"' and yours."

Precisely so," again assented Miss Craggg,
but the old lady did not fall in so readily
with the view of the two masters.

Why, naturally T she asked, drawing
herself up and looking Mr. Howson full
in the face, though her query was addressed
to the head master. Then turning to Miss
Vaseyy, who had come into the room (so
slight and small a creature, she was more
like a young girl than a woman nearing
middle adze), " Ann, Mr. Ingram and Mn

Howson suggest that our boys have got up a
ghost to frighten poor Solomon ; do not you
think there is some one in the neighbourhood
as capable of playing such a prank as any
schoolboy ?" her manner implying that she
had made up her mind on the subject.

Little Miss Vaseyy coloured up to the side-combs
which kept her stiff little curls in
order ; but, though nervous and disconcerted,
she answered with sufficient readiness, " I
think our vicar could answer that question
without referring to me."

The gentlemen glanced one towards the
other. A new light had dawned upon
them.

"Ah, to be sure," said Mr. Ingram,
reflectively, in an undertone; "we forgot
young Mr. Clapham !"

Young Mr. Clapham, be it observed, was
close upon fifty, if he had not passed that
Rubicon, and his faculty for practical joking
was notorious beyond the confines of Craven.
Moreover, he had been a suitor of Miss
Vaseyy for more years than I would like to
name, and still the little gentlewoman of

slender means said " nay " to the rich man,
although there had been times when her
warm heart had fought a hard battle with
her cool head.

Mr. Ingram rose. " Thank you, madam,
for your hint," he said, " we will make a
point of questioning Mr. Clapham. Meanwhile,
we will trouble you to ascertain if
any of your boarders left these premises
about the hour of curfew on Saturday
night ?"

"That they did not," volunteered Ann
Vaseyy. " They were all in bed a quarter
before eight, and every light out. I always
go the round of the rooms as a safeguard
against fire."

There is nothing like being sure, Ann,"
said Miss Craggg, in a tone of superior
wisdom, " and we owe it to the character
of our establishment, to clear up any
doubt of the kind. If any of our boarders
are the culprits, they must be punished."

They will be expelled from the
Grammar School whosoever they be," said
Mr. Howson, with a nod, and down came

the grey gloves on the back of the chair, as
if to enforce his decision.

Provided he is a pupil, and be
found out," suggested Mrs. Craggg, as an
amendment.

Certainly, certainly !" acquiesced the
other, somewhat testily, as he followed his
senior to the door ; and Mrs. Craggg said, as
the door closed upon them, and the chair
was wheeled to the tea-room, " Oh, dear,
this is a weary business. I hope none of
our boys were concerned. Expulsion from
a public school leaves a stigma on a boy for
life, to say nothing of the load upon the
conscience in a case like this, Edith declares
her mother's death was precipitated by the
outcry made by Solomon in his fright, and
vows she will never forgive the doer of the
mischief, whosoever he be. She heard
some one about the lane whilst the bells

were ringing."

Meals were eaten in the big best kitchen
or " house " there, as elsewhere. The
boarders had been kept waiting for their tea
during the two long confess in the parlour.

There was a sudden shuffling of feet when
Mrs. Craggg entered, talking as she came ;
Jasper hurried officiously across the floor
to push her chair to its corner near the fire ;
and the change which came over certain
faces was unobserved in the diversion so
created.

The table was well provided, and the
pupils were expected to wait upon each
other. Save for the elder boarders, youths
verging on sixteen or seventeen, tea was
scarce, but milk was plentiful ; oak-cake
contested the palm with wheaten bread ; and
honey, clear and pure from the hives in the
garden, served as a tempting substitute for
butter, although the latter was not excluded
from the board.

Miss Craggg, standing at the tea-tray end
of the long table — two rows of 
earthenware mugs represented the
young patrons of the cow — asked a blessing
with slow impressiveness before she seated
herself, aud the long delayed meal began in
earnest. *-

But there was something in the manner

of their elders, no less than in the words
dropped by Mrs. Craggg, calculated to
destroy the serenity of the meal. Looks and
whispers were exchanged, and little damsels
and tall youths alike pondered the question,
'' What next ?"

Miss CraofCT returned thanks, the vouiif;
ladies were dismissed to the school-room to
prepare their lessons for Monday, the young
gentlemen to the boys-room for the same
purpose, and for a while all was hubbub
and clatter. No sooner, however, was the
handle of the baize-covered door turned
upon them than Burton, the senior boarder,
took up a position at the corner of the
fireplace, whence he issued a peremptory
command to Danson and Smith, juniors of tenor
eleven, to haul down the books and clean
the slates, and be brisk about it, an order
the youngsters thought best to obey, though
ears and eyes did not seem to move in unison
with hands and feet. Robins and Wardrobe,
Burton's class-mates, joined him by the fire
jasper followed, and Martin, who had held
aloof, was summoned to their conference.

With their heads close and their backs
to the minors, they whispered together in
undertones, and apparently without too
much amity, for Martin Pickersgill, with
an angry flush showing through the clear
olive of his complexion, soon turned abruptly
away from the group, saying with more
heat than caution, " You should have taken
my warning."

And you'd best take ours," was sharply
retorted, at which little Danson pricked up
his ears, and blurted out, "What's the
chatter?"

"That's the matter. Long-ears," and
Jasper's hand set the said ears tingling.
And take care you don't have your ears
pulled as long as your tongue." Jasper had
a faculty for bestowing epithets.

Martin was interposing, when the creaking
wheels of Mrs. Craijo-'s chair were heard in
the passage. There was a sudden scramble
for books and places, the chair stopped at
the door, and by the time it was opened,
and Miss Craggg had propelled her mother
into the room, all were at work save Burton.

He had turned leisurely to the bookshelves,
and stood, with arm extended, reaching
down his Greek Testament.

Of the whole group, Martin Pickersgill
and little John Danson alone appeared
discomposed, the red ear of the one and the
flushed face of the other attractiniijthe easfle
eye of the learned spinster, with whom
Martin was no great favourite.

It was no uncommon think; for Mrs. Craofcp
to spend an hour with her boarders, and
hear the younger ones' lessons ; but her
coming this night somehow carried another
meaning with it.

There was a troubled expression about
her lips and brow, and her voice lacked its
wonted cheerfulness, as she began, seriously,


Young gentlemen, can you conjecture
what brought your honoured masters here
this afternoon ?"

"Not the slightest notion," answered
Burton, with coolness, as spokesman for the
rest, whilst Martin only compressed his
lips.

Then you must know that suspicion rests
on the boarders under this roof, of having
personated a ghost last Saturday night for
the purpose of scaring the sexton. Now, I
can well believe that the actors in the
unseemly frolic never contemplated its
serious consequences, and, I have no doubt,
regret their part in it, much as I shall regret
if I find that any one of the young gentlemen
under our care had a hand in the
transaction." She paused before she continued,


Mr. Ingram and Mr. Howson have left
me no alternative but to put to you the
question : 'Did any of you play that ghost?'
I trust in your honour to give me a truthful
answer."

There was a general and emphatic denial.


'* Had rhone of you a share in this
business ?"

I had not," answered Martin Pickersgill
distinctly, to be echoed in varied tones by
the rest.

"Then I may rest satisfied no one here
has any knowledge of the culprits ?"

Each and all proclaimed ignorance — all
save Martin, and Miss Craggg, silently
observant behind her mother's chair, noticed
that his lips never moved.

She looked at him steadfastly across the
table, and the blood mounted to his forehead.
Her look said plainly, " You are the
delinquent, and I know it."

CHAPTER VIII.

IS IT SATISFACTORY?

ri^HAT is satisfactory !" quoth the benign
i old lady, as her daughter thoughtfully
wheeled her back to their cosy private
sitting-room, where by the faint light of
two mould candles in squat brass candlesticks,
and the brighter light of the fire, Ann
Vaseyy was occupied in trimming with narrow
black love-ribbon (gauze ribbon striped
with satin, now out of date) a net cap of
almost puritan primness for Miss Craggg's
wear at the funeral next day.

When I say trimming, I simply imply
strings to be tied beneath the chin, and plain
folds of ribbon to cover joining of the net.

'No lighter style would have suited the
woman for whom it was made. Miss Crac-cap
was part and parcel of herself. From
the crown of her head to the sole of her
foot, her dress was representative.

Quakerism — the leaven of Cromwell and
his puritans — flourishes in and around
Settle, and, albeit herself a clergyman's
widow, Mrs. Grass's father had been a
quaker, who took a sort of worldly pride in
his own descent from one of the illustrious
rebel's daughters.

Methodism has also a foothold in Settle,
and when it is told that fox-hunting Parson
Clapham thought it no sin to convert the
sanctuary into a market-house, and sell his
own cattle from the pulpit, we need be under
no surprise if parishioners, more pious than
their pastor, gave in their adhesion to that
evangelical offshoot of an establishment so
scandalised ; and whilst so far conforming as
to attend morning service at the parish
church betook themselves to the more devoutly
conducted chapel in the afternoons.

The descendants of the ex-quaker were

VOL. I. I

of this number, and in Mrs, Craggg's raiment,
no less than in that of her daughter, might
be seen the influence of Quakerism and
Methodism toned down by strong good
sense. The latter had accepted her spinsterhood
longs before she crossed the borderland
of forty, and placed a covering on her head
as more becoming a woman of mature years,
who had undertaken the training of young
lives. Her gowns, always dark and of good
self-coloured material, rose to her throat
and came down to her wrists without superfluous
plait or fold, the narrow skirt, as plain,
descended to her instep, and revealed shoes
always adapted to the roads and the weather.
As a relief to a dress otherwise severe, she
wore either frill or collar round her neck,
secured by a small brooch, and a thick gold
chain, to which hung a highly prized watch
and seals, once her father's. Fully proportioned
in form and features, she was
neither gaunt nor massive, harsh nor imperious,
yet you saw at a glance she was born to
rule, and on good terms with herself.

And you saw this never more clearly than

when, as now, Ann Vaseyy was near to suggest
a contrast. Only three or four years younger,
yet the small, slight figure had the airiness
and jauntiness of twenty ; a certain dapper
primness told its tale of unwedded preciseness,
but there was that in her attire and
manner which suggested that matrimony
was not a relinquished possibility. Her thin,
light brown hair was drawn up from the
nape of the neck into erect bows on the
crown, backed by a tall Spanish comb, which
gave to the little lady fictitious height, whilst
on either side her pleasing face clustered a
faint show of curls. She cased lier tiny feet in
sandalled slippers or dainty boots, and had
not scrupled to widen her skirts, and shorten
them likewise, when the fashion reached
the north. Then she saw that sky, and
grass, and flowers were brightly tinted, and
so left sombre hues to her more sober relatives,
and, being but an uncalled blossom
herself, thought it no harm to add in her
own person a bright spot of colour to a
landscape or to a faded room.

She must have been very pretty in her

i2

youth ; even then she was the perfection of
littleness ; her tiny feet and hands, little
learning, no lofty ideas or intellect, little
in all but her heart, and that was larger than
her frame.

"That is satisfactory'' repeated Mrs.
Crawford ^vho had no desire to find the black
sheep in her own flock.

Yes, I think it will do," said Miss Vaseyy,
holding the finished cap in her hand, and
surveying it from all points critically.

Yes, it is very nice, Ann, but mother
does not refer to my cap," explained Elizabeth
Craggg, as she stepped towards the
table and snuffed the candles. "She is
satisfied with the examination of our boys.
I am not'' and down the brass snuffers went
into the tray, with decision. "If Martin
Pickersgill is not the prime offender, I have
no discernment."

Miss Craggg's superior wisdom and discernment
were tacitly admitted facts. It was not
without some trepidation Ann Vaseyy ventured
to break a lance with her, but the little
woman was strong in the cause of the

weak, or of justice, and she had reason to
believe her sagacious cousin was biased by
prejudice. Both she and Mrs. Craggg lifted
their hands in amazement.

"Martin? never!" they cried.

Yes, Martin. I watched him, mother, and
saw how uneasy he was under your questioning,
how he changed colour, and kept
silent when the others answered you boldly."

Sensitive people are not to be judged by
change of colour," Miss Ann observed,
faintly.

He answered one question clearly, and
that is sufficient for me. The boy is the
soul of honour," was the old lady's protest
and opinion.

So you two seem to think. And that is
the reason, I suppose, he was assigned the
only bed-room with a window a boy could
get out at."

The other ladies looked at each other
inquiringly. She continued :

I have long suspected it was he who
steals the fruit. His West Indian mouth
was sure to water for it."

Yes, he likes fruit," assented Mrs.
Craggg.

"But the apples and pears vanished
before he came to board vvitli us, and even
his West Indian mouth could not consume all
the fruit stolen," objected Miss Vaseyy. The
fact was incontrovertible ; and the little
lady, having made a point, went on : "Now,
Elizabeth, it is not like you to be unjust.
Pray remember how superstitious Martin is,
from living amongst those negroes. Why, I
think it would kill him if he were forced
into a churchyard at night, and to fancy
he would play a ghost is ridiculous."

I did not think of that," mused Miss
Craggg, adding — with no will to be convinced
— " Still he is no favourite with the
other boys."

He is no favourite with Jasper, I admit,"
urged her mother, " but John Danson seems
to worship him."

Oh, John ! as he shares his room, he
may share the stolen fruit, and John has-good
reason to like him."

Listen !" said Ann.

During the greater part of this colloquy
the sound of a guitar had floated in from the
hall, but, as she spoke, a musical voice was
also heard singing to the guitar, with strange
pathos, " Home, sweet home."

Listen !" said tender-hearted Ann Vaseyy,
"that poor boy has no home, no parents to
defend him. It would be a sin to breathe a
syllable of suspicion against him; just or
unjust. I would not have his expulsion
from the school on my conscience, I know !"
and her weak voice was strong in indignation.
Sweet home," she added, in a softer tone,
Poor Martin !"

She had scarcely known a mother's
fostering care, a parent's home.

Miss Craggg looked at her watch.

"It is time for prayers," she said, and so
closed the debate.

About five years previously', Mrs. Craggg
had been visited by a brother's son, a
Jamaica Indigo-planter, who had come to
England as supercargo to his own consignments,
having at the same time a valuable
consignment of another kind on board.

This was no other than Martin Pickersgill,
the son of Mr. Vaseyy's dearest friend and
partner, who had left the mother country
along with him when both had their fortunes
to seek. Both had married. Mr. Vaseyy
had lost the whole of his family by a
catastrophe which does not affect this history
Mr. Pickersmll, whose wife had been a
wealthy and lovely Spanish girl, lost her
and three children during an outbreak of
yellow fever, leaving only Martin, his
youngest boy, who was visiting his foster-mother
— a negress — in a distant part of the
plantation when the epidemic broke out,
and was kept apart. The sudden shock
thoroughly unnerved Mr. Pickersgill, and
under the assured conviction that he should
not long survive, he made his will, binding
his partner by a solemn promise to fulfil its
obligations. He lingered in a shattered
condition about five months, during which he
made an idol of his boy, and then the same
yellow monster laid its hot paws upon him,
and poor Martin, in his tenth year, stood
orphaned by a newly made grave, with his

hand in that of his only friend, Elihu Vaseyy,
his father's partner, his own godfather, and
his guardian.

But there was vet another Guardian to
whom Martin was consigned, with whom
Laurence Pickersgill had maintained a
correspondence during the whole period of
his settlement in Jamaica. This was no
other than Josiah Proctor, the Skipton
lawyer, whom the will characterised as "an
honest, upright man, well acquainted with
the Pickersgill family and affairs, who would
surely watch over Martin and his interests,"
and who was moreover enjoined " to assert
the boy's rights when he became twenty-three,
or earlier, if occasion required."

What those rights were the will did not
specify, but it provided that Martin should,
if possible, be entered at the Giggleswick
Grammar School, where his father, the
testator, had himself been educated.

Elihu Yasey was deputed to carry on the
plantation as heretofore, for the joint benefit
of Martin and himself, two-thirds of the
Pickersgill profits to be remitted to Mr.

Proctor for safe investment in England, the
other to be placed out by Mr, Yasey as he
thought best for his ward. There was a
very liberal provision made for the two
executors, and also for his son during his
minority. The will was made in duplicate,
and one copy placed in a small sandal-wood
box along with sundry other papers — attestations
of marriages and births — to be lodged
with Josiah Proctor.

He accepted his trust, the box and the
boy, as though he had expected them. He
made interest to obtain his ward's entrance
into Giggleswick School, and Elihu Vaseyy
made interest of another kind to place him
amongst his aunt's boarders.

The parting between Martin and his West
Indian guardian was a sorrowful one, and,
though the planter went out into the
world and its bustle, he could not forget the
mournful look of those black, lustrous eyes,
or the trembling of the full lips, the quiver
of the curved nostrils, or the pallor of the
clear, olive complexion, as the boy strove to
play the man and keep his emotion under in

the presence of strangers. He went away
haunted by the handsome melancholy face,
and Martin hurried to find a quiet corner
where he could shed his tears in secret.

Ann Vaseyy found the ten-year-old child
crouched down in the shadow of a great
sofa in the best parlour, sobbing bitterly.
She smoothed his wavy, jet-black hair, and
said a word or two of solace, and from that
moment the two understood each other, and
were fast friends. They were alike of quick
and hasty temperament, but generous and
forgiving nature, and had a like contempt
for aught that was mean or dishonourable.
In Martin's idea, deceit and meanness were
characteristic only of the black slave.

He had been in Giggleswick barely three
months, when, on his way from school one
day, he met Tim at the side gate, who told
him " ta rank haste in ; their war a rare
big box coom for him."

In he went, to find Miss Craggg kneeling
on the floor of the best kitchen, by the side
of an open box, with a letter in her hand,
also open, which she read to the end, and

then handed over to Martin Pickersgill, to
whom it and the box also had been addressed
by EUhu Vaseyy, then on the point of
sailing.

The box contained books, music, dominoes,
draught-board and men, a magic
lantern and slides, a huge plum-cake, and
a iTjuitar in a case, but Martin took cognisance
of nothing but the open letter and the
broken seal.

His fiery blood was up. Without a
second glance at its contents, he cried,
passionately, " How dared you — 'how dared
you open my letter ? What right had you
to open either box or letter addressed to
some one else ? It is mean and dishonourable
!"

Miss Craggg rose slowly to her feet, and
confronted the indignant boy, who stood
there, flushed and angry, crushing the letter
in his clenched ri<]jht hand. Never before
had she been so brought to bay. Her hand
was half raised as if to strike the insolent
lad who had presumed to call her privilege
in question. At that instant Mrs. Craggg,

then less infirm, came on the scene ; Ann
Vaseyy and a maid-servant hurried in from
the back-kitchen, and the other boys came
tripping in from school.

Mrs. Craggg had overheard half of Martin's
indignant protest ; the open box and letter
in his hand explained the rest. To her
immaculate daughter's surprise she maintained
the right of the boy to receive his box
and letter inviolate, and admonished her
never again to commit such a breach of
trust.

The rebuke so publicly administered preserved
intact all other letters from Martin's
guardians ; but from that time forth there
was a tacit antagonism between Miss Crags
and him. Her impeccability had received a
blow not to be forgotten, and hardly to be
forgiven.

Her dislike took the form of favouritism,
when, twelve months later, Mr. Proctor
brought another pupil to the Grammar
School, another boarder to them in the
shape of his own grandson, Jasper Ellis
whose mother had made a runaway match

and left a doting parent for a worthless
vagabond. Pinching want and privation
had Jasper known before his mother
surrendered hint to his grandfather, and the
boy's character had no doubt taken a tinge
from his early surroundings. His schoolmates
nicknamed him " Foxes," whether
from the colour of his hair, or from other
peculiarities known only to them, has yet
to be seen. At all events he was wondrously
obliging, and was careful in many small
matters which commended him to Miss
Craggg — ay, and to others.

CHAPTER IX.

MRS. Chatham's dignity.

Saturday was the weekly holiday of
y both public and private schools. Miss
Craggg betook herself to Ivy Fold shortly
after breakfast, advising Miss Vaseyy to
lose no time in following her, as " poor
Edith would be sure to need countenance
and support."

Ann lost no time ; but the domestic
arrangements of a boarding-school are not
reade with a wave of a fairy's wand, and
although Burton had undertaken the supervision
of his fellows, and Miss Metcalfe, the
eldest pupil, had been deputed to watch
over the younger ladies, under the presidency

of Mrs. Craggg, it was nearly ten
o'clock before she could assume her own
mourning habiliments and follow her cousin.

As she was about to turn from Well-bank
down Bell Hill, she beheld Jasper Ellis
running at full speed from the top of the
hill, and stood still until he drew near, when
she observed that he had buttoned his
topcoat over something bulky, and that
there was a broad grin on his face. She
had supposed him engaged on Monday's
lessons in the boys' room,

I say, Miss Vaseyy," he called out before
he reached her, " here's Goody Statham ina
posthaste ! I saw her queer bonnet
poked out of the window. Fancy ' Pretty
Poll' at a funeral !" and on he rushed to the
side gate without pausing to be interrogated
or examined at closer quarters.

He dared not have so avoided Miss Prairie,
but no one stood in much awe of little
Miss Vaseyy.

She went on with her short steps to the
house of mourning, to repeat Jasper's news
and put all there in commotion.

Aunt Statham ! and not a word to say
she was coming !" ejaculated Edith, almost
piteously.

"And her parrot, too !" exclaimed Mr.
Thorpe, in a tone which at any other time
would have been lugubrious.

"Then there'll be that Deb, as sure as
foire burns and waiter's wet !" cried Janet,
in a huff, when the news was repeated to
her. She had some knowledge of Deborah,
and there was little love lost between the
two. Deborah was as stiff, slow, and
methodical, as her mistress was restless,
nervous, quick-witted, and, if anything,
rather more tenacious of respect, as Mrs.
Statham's confidential maid was likely to be
after more than thirty years' service.

But for once, Mrs. Statham was unaccompanied
by either her parrot or Deborah.

In consideration of the steep hill, and
Mrs. Statham's apprehensions, the chaise had
been wisely left at the "Hart's Head,"
and slowly, as befitted her sixty-five years
and that solemn occasion, she made her
way down to Ivy Fold, leaning on the arm

VOL. I. K

of her friend and legal adviser, Josiah
Proctor, whilst idlers stood still in the road
or round the old cross gaping after there,
more than one saying as they passed out of
hearing, "There's a queer pair."

And certainly they did look peculiar.
The brisk, bright, middle-aged gentleman,
whose deeply dimpled face would not
smooth into solemnity, and whose dress
was at least a decade behind the time ;
as his ao;e was about the same distance
behind that of his coronation, looked
juvenile beside the woman whose garments
had not chauE^ed their fashion or their hue
for nearly four decades ; from the time
indeed when the first French Revolution
stamped its fashion, and something worse, on
civilised Europe. Had her hooded cloth
cloak been crrev, or even scarlet, and come
to her heels, it might have passed muster,
for such were still current in country places,
but it was black and descended little below
her waist ; and her dress was an open robe
of bombazine worn over a quilted petticoat
of taffeta, all black. It was her bonnet,

liovvever, which attracted attention. Imagine
the penthouse brim of a "mushroom
hat," with a huge bag-crown inflated like a
balloon ; and imagine the deep boarder of
a mob-cap showing beneath this over the
curls of her " front " (a genuine mob-cap of
fine French cambric, with a bag-crown and
frill-boarder deepening towards the ears).
Imagine, too, a face beneath the bonnet
somewhat pinched and lined, with keen,
restless grey eyes, an aquiline nose brought
into prominence, and the chin also by the
retirement of the lips where teeth were
deficient ; and suspend a fan nearly half-yard
long to a spare arm encased to the
elbow in a black-kid mitten, and you will
not be surprised that the "queer old dame,"
on the arm of the attentive gentleman in
the spencer, attracted the attention of more
than village rustics.

Giggleswick was, however, not wholly
unacquainted with the peculiar old lady's
appearance, and by the time the door of
Ivy Fold had closed upon them, it was
buzzed about that Miss Statham had come

K 2

to Thorpe's. She was Miss Stathain. Her
spinsterhood had been the one dominant
fact of her life's history, to which all that
was peculiar might be traced and dated back.
Only very recently had she intimated to her
friends, through Deborah, that Mrs. would
be a more respectable prefix, considering
her age, and friends had taken the hint.
There was, however, nothing peculiar about
the manner in which, as soon as she entered,
she threw her arms around Edith and Dora,
and even Allan, exclaiming, " Oh ! my poor
children, to think that my dear niece is taken
from you in her prime, and I, a worn-out
husk, I who have waited and longed for
death, am left behind !" Nothing peculiar
about the tears which rolled down her prematurely
withered cheeks, and fell on Dora's
new crape, to crystallize and glisten there
as a memento, or in the way in which she
wrung the widower's hand, and sobbed out
her hopes that her niece was happy, and
that he would bear his loss like a man for
the sake of the children.

Nor was there anything peculiar in the way

in which she wept over the coal, white, passive
face in the white room upstairs, and
renewed old promises to care for those the
dead had left behind.

Nothing peculiar. There had been other
tears and promises — many promises. Would
the promises be kept?

There was, however, some restlessness
apparent when she came downstairs into the
large room, and found Miss Craggg presiding
over the funeral cake and wine, and Miss
Vaseyy handing it round to the assembled
guests ; but she drew Dora to her side, and
hid an}^ displeasure she might feel under
cover of her bonnet-brim, as she dived into
the pannier-like pockets beneath her robe,
and drew thence a large paper of sweets
wherewith to console the "life bairn" who
had caught the infection of Aunt Statham's
tears, and cried, in part, because they had
spoiled the crape bows upon her sleeve ; but
the old lady knew not the shallow foundation
of Dora's tears, and the drops found
the way into her heart. Abstractedly she
drew from another receptacle a gold snuffbox,

fitted with a tiny snuff-spoon, whereby
to console herself, but closed it with a
sharp snap, as if self-rebuked, and dropped
the box back into its pocket with a sort of
twinge.

She kept the child close to her, caressingly
smoothing the fair silken curls, which cost
Edith so much trouble night and morning,
her keen, restless eyes all the while glancing
right and left, under covert of her bonnet's
drooping brim, noting all that passed,
from Miss Craggg's very much-at-homeness,
and Mr. Thorpe's mental absorption, to
Edith's seeming composure, as she handed
i>;loves and husbands for distribution to her
brother, who, for his part, appeared only too
Ready to spare his sister in performing these
little offices, which we now-a-da3's delegate
to a paid functionary, one of those who soon
appeared with a bundle of hideous cloaks
Wherewith to envelope the mourners of the
male sex, whilst Edith tenderly withdrew
Dora to equip her for the sad ceremonial.

There was a hearse of some kind stored
in a barn at the foot of Bell Hill, where a

horse was also kept to assist carts or other
laden vehicles up the ascent ; but with the
churchyard so near to the house its use
would have been absurd. Four gentlemen,
friends of the family, bore the sad burden
to its last resting-place, the mourners following
in order, Mrs. Statham, whose face was
twitching with nervous tremors, marshalling
herself with her two grandsires clasped by
the hand on either side, which the onlookers
regarded as a good augury for their future
the old lady having the repute of being
richer than she really was, and " uncommonly
good where she took."

Where she took !" Ah, there was the
rub ! She was somewhat peculiar in her
likings and disliking. Apt to take prejudices
and prepossessions, for which she gave
no reason — and was supposed to have none.

Among the spectators congregated in the
churchyard to witness the restoration of a
twice-wedded wife to her first husband, and
the overwhelming "ries of the second, there
was one who listened whilst the solemn
service was mumbled by the Vicar as a

business to be despatched somehow, a mere
youth of fifteen, who fixed his mournful
gaze on Edith, as the moisture gathered
in his black eyes, and his thoughts travelled
over the ocean to far-off graves in a tropical
isle, where his mother and father were laid,
but not forgotten.

His own orphanhood made him keenly
alive to that of others, and his aspect told
it.

Miss Crash's dance rested on Martin.

Ah !" thought she, " his conscience is
pricking him."

Poor fellow !" said Ann Vaseyy to herself,
"I suppose he is thinking of his own
mother."

You see, people's thoughts will wander
even at such times, and differ as the people.

It was all over. The clods had fallen on
the coffin lid, with a sound that had its echo
in sobs and groans ; the red-eyed mourners
and their friends went back to Ivy Fold ; the
men to the large room where Janet and
Betty Dyson (always in request when lives
came in or went out) had joined table to

table and spread out the best napery, the
best glass, the best black-hafted knives and
three-pronged forks, the silver tankard,
salts and spoons, the quaint cruets and the
willow-pattern plates in piles, hot as the
dinner prepared to fill them, when the
blinds were drawn up, hats and cloaks laid
aside, bonnets and pelisses left above stairs,
and their owners ready to take their places.

All had gone pretty smoothly until this
said taking of places.

But no sooner had Janet planted a huge
smoking sirloin at one end of the table,
and a Yorkshire pudding at the other end,
a boiled leg of mutton and a ham midway,
with a few light matters in the way of fowls
and vegetables in the intermediate space
and Miss Craggg, in her temporary character
of hostess, indicated the seats of the guests,
right and left, assuming her place in front
of the pudding, and assigning to Mrs. Theodora
Statham the post of honour to the
right of the host, than the old lady's dignity
was touched. She threw all into confusion
by her sudden resentment of a supposed

affront, and a breach of prerogative.

She clasped her black-listened arms
across her waist, drew her slender figure upto
its full height ; the tremor which ever ran
through her frame when she was agitated
twitched her wrinkled face, disturbed the
regular folds of the white lawn kerchief
which decorously covered the withered
neck, shook the pendent borders of her
mob cap over her aged ears, and gave
undue prominence to her aquiline nose and
pointed chin.

"Methinks it is somewhat early, Miss
Craggg, for a stranger to occupy the place of
my dead niece."

And what a glance of fiery scorn and indignation
her keen, grey eyes shot at the
bewildered widower, then brought to bear
on Elizabeth Craggg as she flung the words,
as it were, in her face.

There was a breathless pause, men stood
with their hands on the backs of their
chairs ; Mrs. Hartley and Miss Vaseyy rose,
and so did Mr. Thorpe; Allan stood dismayed.


For a moment Miss Craggg's eyelids trembled,
and her colour changed, but only fora
moment ; she was not one to blench when
she was conscious of no wrong.

Before Edith could do more than lay her
timid hand on her grand-aunt's arm, and
cast an imploring look, with the ejaculation,
"Oh, Aunt Stathara, don't!" Miss Craggg had
answered for herself.

I think, madam, you labour under a
misapprehension. I occupy this place as
j\Iiss Earnshaw's very old friend, anxious
only to relieve my inexperienced young
pupil of an onerous duty at a trying time.
Had you, Mrs. Statham, announced your
intention to be present, no doubt other
arrangements would have been made."

No doubt !" echoed the old lady, with
infinite scorn.

Oh, aunt," pleaded Edith, " Miss Craggg
has been so kind."

No doubt !" repeated the dame, in the
same icy tone.

"I shall be most happy to exchange-places
with Mrs. Statham, if "

"No doubt!" and the close lips curled
into a contemptuous smile.

Mr. Thorpe blundered out something
unintelligible.

Allan came forward boldly.

"Come, auntie," said he, "this won't do.
Edith asked Miss Craggg to preside to-day,
and I know she is here at great inconvenience
to herself. We thought 3'ou were too
ill to come. You ought to be ashamed to
insult so kind a friend. You do not know
how good she has been to poor mother."

Mrs. Statham looked at her grand-nephew
blankly. Was this the subdued,
retiring boy she had hitherto known ?
Surely Leeds had wrought a marvellous
transformation !

There was a hankering; on the table to
arrest attention. Dr. Burrow spoke.

Ladies, dinner is spoiling ; cold Yorkshire
pudding is uneatable and indigestible.
I vote that we eat our dinner and settle
disputes afterwards." He had nothing either
to lose or gain by the touchy old dame.

I agree with the doctor in every way

and shape," seconded Mr. Proctor, who had
left his place and come round to try hi
powers of" suasion.

Mr. Thorpe did the same, and finally
Mrs. Stathani filled the place Miss Craggg
insisted on vacating, whilst Mrs. John Hartley
sat by Mr. Thorpe, and Miss Craggg took
that lady's seat, having preserved an equable
demeanour that did infinite credit to her
forbearance. Mrs. Statham had contrived
to spoil the dinner, to substitute a real
affront for an imaginary one, and to make
everyone at the table uncomfortable, none
more so than herself. She felt anything
but triumphant, and not a little annoyed
when she discovered that agitation had
made her too nervous even to help the
pudding with dignity and composure.

CHAPTER X.

A man's will and a woman's will,

APPETITE amongst the Yorkshire hills,
where the air is keen and bracing, is
Riot to be calculated from a smoke-dried
Londoner's dainty point of view. Meals
had need to be substantial, and " kickshaws"
were of small account there in the days of
which I write. Funeral feasts were always
solid, and washed down by pure home-brewed
ale, and plenty of it ; sometimes a
little too much.

It was not so on this occasion. Mr.
Thorpe himself was a temperate man. Dr.
Burrow drank only water, and there were
two lawyers present who knew there was
business to follow the dinner.

It was this " business " which had determined
Mrs. Stathani to dispense with her
maid and impress Mr. Proctor into her service
for the day, her plans by no means
embracing the discomfort of a " strange
bed," or a toilet without Deb.

She was therefore impatient to see the
table cleared and the said business introduced,
being anxious to know the precise
position of her nephew and nieces with regard
to money matters. She had come to
look into affairs," and brought Josiah
Proctor to watch over the children's interests,
" lest there should be any roguery,
you know ;" having quite made up her own
mind that the second husband must be adverse
to the children of the first marriage.

No sooner was the cloth removed than
she tapped on the bare mahogany with her
fan, to call attention, contriving at the same
time to arrest a conversation between Miss
Prairie and Mr. Proctor relative to his ward
and his grandson,

Business, sir," said the old lady to her
lawyer. "Time is flying."

Had a drill-sergeant called " Attention !"
to his men, the effect could not have been
more instantaneous. The flow of talk was
checked, chairs were pushed back, spines
stiffened, and heads held up to attend.

Archibald Thorpe flushed slightly, leaned
across the table to say a word or so in an
undertone to old Mr. Hartley, the other
lawyer, then threw himself back in his
chair, and beckoned to little Dora to come
and take her accustomed place on his knee.
Lawyer Hartley began to fumble in his hind
coat pocket, and Josiah Proctor, bending
his head forward with a jerk, as if to acknowledge
Mrs. Statham's intimation, struck
his hands smartly together, gave the palms
a brisk rub, and began to say, whilst Allan
and Edith, seated together, looked in each
other's faces as if to ask what was coming,

Mr. Thorpe, at the instance of our
friend, Mrs. Statham, when the intelligence
of Mrs. Thorpe's lamented decease reached
us, I communicated with the late Mr. Earn-shaw's
solicitor, and requested that the will
of the said deceased Allan Earnshaw should

be produced this day, and read over, for
the better instruction and satisfaction of all
parties concerned, and the due observance
of its conditions."

Mrs. Statham nodded.

Again Mr. Thorpe flushed slightly. " I
am not much of a business man myself, sir,"
he answered, quietly, " but I am quite as
desirous as Mrs. Statham can be to ascertain
the precise terms of — of — Mr. — the will, by
which my late wife held the property under
her control, not merely with regard to my
own position, but its bearing on the children
of her former marriage, and our future
relations to each other. I had therefore
anticipated Mrs. Statham's wishes, and conveyed
to Mr. Hartley my own desire that
the will of Mr. Earnshaw should be read
and duly carried out. But let me say this
beforehand, that, whatsoever be its provisions,
I trust that the connection between
myself and my step-children may not be
disturbed, and I venture to say that they
will find in me as much a father as they
have hitherto found me."

VOL. I. L

"Eugli!" muttered Mrs. Statuary, grum-
pity, " much that has been, I know," whilst
Edith wiped her tearful eyes, and wondered
if in her secret heart she had done her stepfather
injustice.

Mr. Hartley had the will open, his gold-rammed
spectacles descended from his forehead
to his nose, and he proceeded to
peruse a lengthy document, of which it is
only needful to give an abstract; restless
Mrs. Statuary fidgeting with her fan or her
snuff-box, and throwing out an occasional
interjection meanwhile, but never shifting
her keen grey eyes from the face of Mr.
Thorpe the whole time.

This was not altogether a pleasant position,
as will be understood from the tenor
of his predecessor's will, which, in the first
place, conveyed to the testator's beloved
wife, Edith, Ivy Fold, and all the personal
goods and chattels contained therein, for
the term of her natural life, provided she
resided on the premises, and kept them in
good preservation for transmission to his
son Allan, and Allan's heirs in due course.

It set apart for the said son Allan two
thousand pounds, to be paid to him at the
age of twenty-one years, and one thousand
pounds for his dear daughter Edith, to be
handed over to her on her marriage or her
coming of age, the interest in these sums to
be expended in the education or maintenance
of the children at the discretion of his
executors.

All other properties whatsoever were left
unconditionally, for the use and benefit of
his wife Edith for the term of her natural
life, and at her death to be divided between
his son Allan and daughter Edith, in the
proportion of two-thirds for Allan, and one-third
for Edith ; and, in case his wife should
decease before the majority of Allan or the
majority or marriage of Edith, such proportion
of rentals or interest to be applied for
their use or benefit as the executors, his
friends William Hartley, solicitor, and
Thomas Dixon Burrow, surgeon, should
think fit, the executors' right and control
ending with the periods named.

Many an interjectional " Eugh !" and

L 2

"Celia!" had Mrs. Statim thrown out in
comment. As the last word fell from the
reader's lips, she jerked out, " Eugh, always
the lion's share for the lads !" adding;, " And
what may the separate shares be worth,
now ? At a rough estimate, that is, sir,"^
addressing old Mr. Hartley.

The old gentleman lifted his head from
the parchment he was re-folding, looked
quizzically at the speaker down the long
table, over the gold rims of his spectacles,
and answered, drily,

Values fluctuate, as you will be well
aware, Mrs. Statham ; but if we say approximately
three thousand five hundred for the
girl, and seven thousand for the boy — exclusive
of Ivy Fold — we shall not overshoot
the mark. Eh, Dr. Burrow ?"

Dr. Burrow nodded assent. The eyes of
brother and sister, who sat with hands
linked together, met once again with an
expression which told how greatly inexperience
magnified their fortunes. Mr. Proctor
rubbed his hands together as expressively
as if he had said, 'perfectly equitable and

satisfactory," and he no doubt would have
said it but for j\Irs. Stathani's fresh interruption.


Eugli ! And what's to be done with
Ivy Fold ? And where's Edith to go ? And
what shall you do with Dora, Mr. Thorpe,
since this is no longer your home, and Allan
lives in Leeds ?"

Allan started to his feet before Mr,
Thorpe could well stammer out, " Really,
Mrs. Statham, sou — you take me by surprise,
I have not had time to consider," and
impetuously, as if he thought she had outraged
all their feelings, the youth exclaimed,

Not his home, Aunt Statham ? If it is
my home it is father's home, and Dora's,
and Edith's above all. She will not go
anywhere else if I have a voice in the
matter," and he threw his arm round his
sister as if to enforce his protest against any
separation, whilst a general murmur of
approval ran round the room, in which
hone was more hearty than Josiah Proctor.

Edith here put in a timid word.

"If you please, aunt, mother gave Dora

into my charge. I was to take very great
care of her, and not to let any harm or
trouble come near her — so we must live
together, you see."

"Oh, you must, must you?"

"Yes, and if you please, aunt, mother
thought that, as Dora was your namesake,
you would — you would "

She hesitated. The old lady, with her
face twitching, concluded the sentence :
Be a fairy godmother, to shower gifts and
good fortune upon lier, I suppose! Thai
came here with a plan of my own for you
girls, but, as everything seems pretty well
settled without me, I shall go back as I
came. Come, Mr. Proctor," and she rose
from her seat, " there is nothing for you orme
to do here ; there will be a loll to draw
up when we are back in Skipton," and the
borders of her cap flew wide with the toss
of her old head.

There was a general movement in the
room. Mr. Thorpe put Dora down, and
came forward to explain. Edith clung to
her arm and Dora to her robe; Allan tendered

an apology ; the two lawyers intervened,
but she was not to be mollified. A
second affront had been put upon her, inasmuch
as she, the wealthy head of the family,
had been utterly ignored from first to last
even in the will just read to her. That
was why her niece had always kept her in
the dark about it, she said.

With a wave of her fan ^ she rejected all
overtures, and, with as much majesty as she
could assume, she marched out of the room
on her high-heeled shoes, and mounted the
stairs to Edith's chamber, where her cloak
and bonnet awaited their owner, she having
previously expressed a desire, which was
tantamount to a command, that Mr. Proctor
should give orders to have the posthaste in
readiness immediately.

There was a wonderful deal of imperturbability
under Mr. Proctor's friskiness, and he
was in no such desperate hurry. He had
determined on a call at Well Bank to seethe
boys, Jasper and Martin, before he went
back. Besides, glasses and decanters had
been placed on the table, and he had no

mind to go without his glass of grog, or to
travel with the old dame in her then frame
of mind.

Whether, as he left the cottage, ostensibly
to obey instructions, he gave a hint to Janet,
or some one else did, certain it is that that
diplomatic individual hurried up to the bedroom
where the offended old lady was
vainly endeavouring, with nervous hands,
to dispense with Edith's proffered assistance,
and adjust her bonnet on her shaking head
to her satisfaction.

"Why, Mrs. Statham," she cried, in amaze,
*' ye's nivver going' ! I's fair baffled ! Going'
withaght yer tay ! Going' all t'way ta Skipton
withaght bite or sup ! I nivver heard
av such a things. I'd nivver lev baked them
pikelets if I'd thowt we'd goa back afar
tay. Yes bean ta stay an lev yer tay, an
taste mal pikelets. I'm not going' ta lev ye
eoa loam half hemmed. We'd be rare and
badly afar ye got their. An then I'd lev
Deb abaoht mal lugs, suer as foire burns
and water's weet."

Janet had measured the length of Mrs.

Statim's foot before that day. She bad
fitted her now to a nicety. If the ancient
spinster had a special weakness, it was for
strong tea and pikelets ; and Janet's pikelets,
like her haver-bread, were incomparable
; and if she stood in fear of mortal, it
was of Deb — her own maid. The very
mention of Deb's name suggested that individual's
aspect if a fit of spasms followed the
fifteen miles' ride without the previous sustenance
of pikelets and hyson. Would Deb
regard her self-inflicted martyrdom as heroic
or quixotic ?

Deb was certainly a good naaie to conjure
with. She stood irresolute. Janet's
unsophisticated attention was evidently
soothing. The tearful caresses and entreaties
of her grandsires moved her more
than she would own. An appeal in the
name of the dead niece whom she had
loved did the rest. She embraced both her
grandsires, graciously condoned offences
which had never been contemplated ; consented
to have her bonnet and cloak rearranged
— not removed ; and, not without

considerable hesitation, allowed Editli to
escort her downstairs, and usher her into
the room below, much as one who had
condescended to remit a sentence of excommunication.


Her humours were pretty well known.
Janet had acted as courier in advance. She
was received with deference. No allusion
was made to what had crone before. She
entered into affable conversation with Mrs.
John Hartley and Miss Vaseyy. Compared
notes with Miss Craggg in respect to certain
pains in the head and face to which
both were subject, expressed her willingness
to adopt a certain specific with which
Dr. Burrow provided Miss Craggg, and, by
the time Janet appeared with the tea and
hot pikelets, had apparently forgotten that
her messenger had delayed his return, or
the possibility of post-horses being kept
waiting.

But she did not change her purpose about
her new will, for which Josiah Proctor received
instructions during the ride home.

DO

CHAPTER XI.

Apple-tree HALL.

WHATEVER might be Mrs. Statim's
presumed haste, Josiah Proctor, on
his way to the '' Hart's Head," did not hesitate
to make a detour towards Well Bank,
rubbing his hands together in high glee,
and presenting his speckless person at the
door with a face as brimful of satisfaction
as that of a mischievous schoolboy in the
height of a frolic.

Give the old dame time to cool," he
murmured, as he lifted the knocker. "I
am glad the family pie was baked before
she could put her finger into it. What does
she or Deb know of young children, in anyway

or shape ? Let her be content with
spoiling Poll and Fido."

So radiant was his smile, so cordial his
salutation, that Mrs. Craggg, who had heard
from Martin of his presence at the funeral,
was surprised out of her own gravity, returned
his hand-shake with like heartiness,
and in five minutes was chatting; as easily
with him as if there was nothing mournful
in existence. It was very hard to do otherwise
with Josiah Proctor, though he carried
some sorrow under his spencer, and had
felt a hard hand grip his heart many a time
and oft. Blows dealt at his daughter had
fallen heavily on him.

Who suspected anything of this ? Not
Mrs. Craggg, as she bade him be seated, and
answered so cheerily his questions anent
the health and conduct and progress of Jasper
and ]martin, well pleased to be able to
furnish so good a report on the whole.
Lost frills, and rent and muddy trousers,
counted for nothing with Mrs. Craggg. So
long as the lads broke no limbs in climbing
trees or scrambling over scars, she overlooked

minor offences? which the laundress
and the seamstress could put right, and lead
some stiff arguments with her daughter on
what the latter was wont to consider " false
indulgence."

She recounted one or two boyish escapades
with almost as much gusto as Mr.
Proctor showed in hearing;. But when he
asked what was the ghost story to which
Miss Crao^o; lead darkly alluded, a chang-e
came over her features, and she gave the
details, so far as known, with much seriousness,
dwelling upon the consequences to the
Thorpes and to Solomon Bracken, and the
trouble it would be if she thought any of
their boys were to blame.

"Then you don't fancy the spectre a reality
?" propounded the lawyer, with a sly
twinkle in his eye.

Real ! Preposterous ! I wonder you
put such a question to me."

Hem ! You would not be the first old
woman — I beg pardon for the word — who
believed in ghosts. Mrs. Statham is by no
means a fool ; but let anyone so much attention

an apparition in her presence, and
then see what she is made of ! True, that
reminds me," he abruptly added, " Mrs,
Statham may be for making; a host of me
if I keep her waiting too long. Can I seethe
lads ?"

Yes, he could see the lads, and, such
being his wish, see them as they were.

The twas: of a <:i;uitar led him to the
boys' room, where he found Martin alone,
with the instrument which had been his
mother's, and which Mrs. Crags*? said was
the youth's chief companion, in his hands.
He sat in a corner of the deep window-seat,
with an old music-book before him, but evidently
not consulting the notes, for his fingers
seemed to wander mechanically over
the strings, he meanwhile looking drearily
out into the yard where the younger boarders
Avere playing leap-frog, John Danson making
a back for the frogs.

Martin did not stir until his guardian
spoke, and then the light which irradiated
his handsome countenance needed no interpreter.
His visitor was surely welcome.

At first the latter bantered him on his
unsocial habits, love of solitude, and melancholy
music, urged the necessity for open-air
exercise, and strove to elicit the cause
of his isolation from his proper companions,
Jasper among the rest.

Alternately frank and reserved in his
answers, on the last point he was impenetrable,
a deep crimson flush being his sole
reply.

Nor was he any more communicative
when questioned about the ghost which was
troubling Giggleswick, and the kind lawyer
took leave of his ward in some perplexity.
Josiah Proctor was a deeper judge of human
nature than Miss Craij^. He had an
innate perception that there was something
wrong, which it was her business to fathom,
but he did not attribute that wrong to Martin
Pickersgill ; and when he left him, a
crown-piece had passed into the olive-tinted
palm, with the smiling intimation that it
would serve to buy cat-gut. A very desirable
" tip," for somehow Martin's guitar-strings
broke unaccountably.

A thoughtful face the visitor carried with
him across the passage, and through the
large bright kitchen (where Nancy was setting
the tea-things), down the steps into the
yard, past out-buildings and grass-plots,
along the hedge-side path, to the grassy
orchard, and Apple-tree Hall.

The door was closed, and there was a
shuffling within before it was opened. When
it was, Josiah's nostrils detected the reek of
stroke which never came from the dying
turf fire, and his sharp eye observed wet
rings upon the rough table, as though some
drinking vessel had there left its autograph.
Four or five youths, in age varying
from sixteen to eighteen, were seated
or standing within, as if disturbed. Jasper
Ellis, the junior, confronted his grandfather,
with the door in this hand. He was, by
virtue of his discretion, admitted to the
freedom of the hall, and, that admission involving
subservience to orders, he became
general scout and lackey to the small
establishment, hence his errand to the
Hart's Head " ; but I have a notion he

turned his alacrity in service to his own
account.

He had been detained at a secret conclave
held in Apple-tree Hall that morning, which
Pickersgill had declined to attend, and he
had taken for granted Mrs. Statham's companion
to be Deborah ; consequently Jasper
was unprepared for his grandfather's appearance,
and his face showed it.

But, if Mr. Proctor was dissatisfied, his
manner did not reveal his private opinions.
The jaunty way in which he asked if visitors
were always kept so long waiting at the
door for admission, or if they barred it to
keep out the churchyard ghosts, and humorously
suggested that a horse-shoe nailed
thereon might prove equally effective, betrayed
no suspicions he might entertain ;
whilst his " Snug place this ! How do you
amuse yourselves here ?" certainly invited
confidence other than the evasive " Oh !
sometimes one way and sometimes another."

But he went on, " I see you have a game
of cards now and then," and he pointed to
the nine of diamonds lying face upwards

VOL. I. M

under the table. " Well, I like a quiet rubber
myself, and see no harm in it if you
play for love ; but once make money an
element in the game, and you will find
another curse besides the curse of Scotland
in the cards."

Oh, they never played for money, never !
was almost an outcry, when other disclaimer
was discovered to be useless.

At all events, I trust Jasper does not
play for stakes."

What, Foxes ! He's too close-fisted for
that, sir," cried one. " Don't be afraid,
sir, Foxes loves his money too well," vouchsafed
Burton. " We don't play with juveniles,"
loftily observed another, a stranger
to Mr. Proctor, who interrupted Jasper's
flurried " Oh ! grandfather, I hope you

don't think I " with what seemed an

irrelevant question.

Where is Martin ? Why is he not
among you ?"

There was a general curling of lips.

"He has got a fit of sulks, as usual,"
blurted out Jasper.

"The Senhora prefers ' the light guitar,
to our uninelodious society," sneered Robins.

A third suggested contemptuously that
Miss Pickers<^ill might be most likely
found with the oilier young ladies."

A change came over their interlocutor.
I am glad my ward shows so much good
taste, young (gentlemen. I would prefer
misses to mischief. Good afternoon." And,
leaving them to digest his words at their
leisure, he took Jasper by the shoulder, nor
released his hold until he had him safe out
of earshot in the bye-lane.

Then Josiah Proctor had a private word
or two with his grandson, cards being the
one topic, Martin Pickersgill the other. He
was not angry, but he was terse and peremptory.
What he had heard with his ears he
had filtered through his understanding.

Jasper," said he, quietly, " I am not
satisfied with the way you spend your holidays.
YounfT men of seventeen or eighteen
are no associates for lads of fourteen. Young
men with much pocket-money are no companions
for boys with little. The boy is upt

M 2

either to sell himself" or ruin himself. Yoii
had better cultivate the friendship of Martin
Pickersgill. One good friend is worth more
than a dozen doubtful comrades. I desire
you will keep on friendly terms with Martin ;
it may be for your good hereafter." (He
did not say "for your interest'' if he meant
it.) "And now, lad, look in ray face and
listen. You cannot have forgotten what
comes of card-playing. I have taken you:
away from loan and penury. I have promised
to make a man of you, if you will let
me ; but, if I know you so much as shuffle a
pack of cards again, I cast you off to sink or
swim ; so remember !"

And away he went, without another
word, and without leaving any crown-piece
in the palm that had been itching for it.
Had he forgotten? Josiah Proctor was nota
man with a defective memory.

He carried av/ay with him from Giggles-wick
doubts requiring solution. The very
nicknames of the two boys troubled him.
Mrs. Statham poured instructions for her
new will into muffled ears, for which the

rattling of the chaise had afterwards to be
made responsible.

He had left the ghost mystery as he
found it, but he decided that others had the
matter in hand whom it concerned more
nearly, as he imagined.

The old Grammar School was a plain,
very plain oblong stone edifice, standing in
the shade of ash and sycamore in the middle
of a field below the northern wall of the
churchyard. A portion of this field was
used as a playground, and a path on a
gradual incline under the shadow of the wall
ascended from Love-lane to the Lancaster
highway, guarded by a stile at either end.
Stiles are of stone in this part of the world,
and seldom more than a slab placed on end
between uprights, or a narrow gap between
stone posts only. There was a bare, bald
aspect about the structure common enough
among the dales and moorlands of Yorkshire.
The small-pane, unadorned, square
windows seemed to stare at you like two
rows of eyes without lids. The stone was
grey, and lichen-tinted with age, and Whittaker

conjectures the building to have been
originally the house of the Rood-priest, on
the strength of a somewhat obscure inscription
over the doorway — otherwise naked as
that of a barn — in which one ''Jacobuni
Carr " prayed "Alma Dei Mater" to defend
him and his house from evil, and further
indicated his priestly calling.

If the historian be right, then had the
Rood-priest a house solid enough to resist
the blasts of winter, and roomy enough to
shelter wayfaring guests, but with no more
pretensions to architectural beauty than a
carpenter's workshop.

Yet, ugly and unpretentious as it was,
Paley, the theologian, and other men of
mark, found their Alma Mater within its
walls, and the invocation with which the
inscription closed, ** Young and old praise
the Lord," had in it the ring of prophecy
How many have had cause to " praise the
Lord " for education under that roof since
Jacobus Carr set up the stone !

The building had, however, an uninviting
aspect at best of times. Especially uninviting

was it on that Black-Monday morning
in February when the grey skies opened
their sluices over Settle, pelted the ground
into mire, and put a damper on the most
spirited youth who ever swung satchel
behind him, or rejoiced that his exercise
was safe under cover of a book-slate.

Young masters and misses, there was a
tax upon paper in those days, and no steel
pens, and rain was apt to wash the pencillings
from slates. But woe betide the
youth who had an illegible exercise that
particular wet Monday, for never was "Old
Howson " more disposed to test the suppleness
of the lithe cane he carried in his
pocket, doubled up snug and warm, ready
for use, where none could tamper with it ;
never more inclined to fling the loose-leaved
Eton grammar he kept on his desk at the
head of the first boy who stammered over
a declension, or was guilty of a false quantity,
and to set him also the task of collecting
and arranging the so scattered leaves.

Nor was Mr. Ingram as amiable as his
wont. The deputation which had waited

on Mrs. Craggg, taking the cue from her, had
likewise waited on Thomas Clapham, Esq.,
and Thomas Clapham had laughed more
heartily than his clerical sire had done,
grinning like one of Darwin's friends, as he
declared he never enjoyed a ghost story so
much before, that it was " a devilish good
joke, an admirable farce," and, after indulging
in considerable fun, seasoned with not a
little blasphemy, wound up with a request
that they would let him know when the
storm they had brewed in their tea-pot had
poured itself out.

A thin, monkey-faced, monkey-limbed
man was Thomas Clapham, all legs and
arms, as it were, raw-boned, and large-jointed.
His loose, dark coat failed to conceal
the angularity of his elbows, and his
drab breeches and gaiters brought the knees
into undue prominence. Mischief was born
in him, had grown with his growth, and
no doubt he had many an eccentric joke
fathered upon him for which he was nowise
responsible. But what cared he ? The
reputation was his glory. If he did any

damage, his purse was open to pay for it.
And that he did damage was unquestionable,
although, as a rule, his fun inclined
more to coarseness than to viciousness, and
sometimes may be it had better prompting
than was apparent.

It was no easy task to tackle Thomas
Clapham. He was slippery as an eel, and
stood in no awe of his clerical catechists.
He was not a poor man, or a tradesman,
to care for either frowns or patronage ; he
was a land-owner, with wealth at command
to throw away if he liked — and he
very often did like, but he must have his
jest out of it first. He was not greatly
troubled with a sense of responsibility, and
held that golden ointment was a panacea
for all wounds. To him it was good fun to
throw dust into the eyes of two schoolmasters,
and to send them away in greater
perplexity than before. It was also fan for
him to stand in the rain at the vicarage gate
that Monday morning, and salute Mrs.
Craggg's boarders with loud " Hills !" as
soon as they marched round the corner on

their way to school, writhing and grimacing
suggestively, as if undergoing a smarting
castigation from somebody's supple-jack.

CHAPTER XII.

HO son's cane.

WET morning though it was, the fire at
Howson's end of the long schoolroom
had only just been lit, that at Ingram's
end was barely bursting into a blaze, and
Betty Dyson and her daughter 'Lisa were
still in a bustle with their dusters on the
magisterial chairs and desks on either
platform, when Mrs. Craggg's contingent
encountered a shoal of Settle and Stack-house
lads, wet and muddy with their long
tramp, coming from the opposite end of the
footpath, and they trooped in together at
the open door pell-mell, with as much
clatter and as little ceremony as a band of
wild Indians.

There was a chorus of disappointment in
every note of the gamut, " No fires ?"

I say, Mother Wellington, what is the
meaning of this ? School time, and neither
fires nor room ready ?" demanded Burton,
authoritatively, as spokesman for the rest.

The woman began to apologise, '' Why,
ye see, father niaks so mich work for ryan,
sin he wor flayed wi' t' ghost, an' had t'
fit, I cannot banish to leave harm ez sun
ez I sud."

"That's no excuse for Lizzy Lie-abed,
Mother Wellington," bawled Jasper, always
ready to follow Burton's lead ; but he punctuated
his speech with a pretty loud " Oh !"
as a pair of sharp nails met in his ear, and
he knew by experience that "told Howson"
was behind him.

"And no excuse for bad lanofuao;e, sir!
Apologise on the instant, or," and out of a
coat pocket came the elastic cane with a
very ominous swish.

At the first touch of the magic wand,
Jasper stammered out something which Mr.
Howson allowed to pass muster for an

apology. With a parting cut at the youngster's
jacket, and another slash on his own
desk to arrest attention, he threatened corporal
punishment to any pupil who should
apply offensive sobriquets to Betty or her
daughter in his hearing, in the future
There was a smirk on the rosy face of 'Lisa,
but Betty had the worldly wisdom to drop
a civil courtesy before retiring;, and to intimate
she " Didn't mich mind."

By this time Mr. Howson's own boarders
had defiled in, and then the select band
from Craven Bank, with Mr. Ingram at
their head, followed by sundry stragglers
from the village and elsewhere. There was
a shuffling of feet whilst caps and coats were
hung up, places taken at the two rows of
seats ranged on either side, and a buzz and
a hum as books were opened with a sudden
show of assiduity.

The masters shook hands, and then, instead
of separating, marched to Mr. Ingram's
end for a few minutes, and stood together
over the fire with their backs to the school,,
as if in consultation.

Hurried, low-voiced whispers ran down
the forms, then silence fell on the school,
for all, from the eldest pupil to the least,
knew something was wrong, and some one
was likely to smart for it ; the theory of
the period being that birch and cane made
boys smart in more ways than one.

The masters turned their faces, and very
awful faces they appeared to be that morning.
The Rev. Rowland Ingram, Mr. Lang-horne,
and the Rev. John Howson remained
standing. The cane of the latter gave a
double rap on the desk of the former. All
ears and eyes were alert.

Each monitor was called by name. Then
orders were issued for the monitors to bring
their respective classes to the front of the
platform, and range them there, the juniors
foremost, the seniors in the rear.

And then the arbiters of destiny scanned
the phalanx of young faces with so keen a
scrutiny that surely conscious guilt must
have made some sign.

Young gentlemen," began Mr. Ingram,
^' several months have elapsed since it was

my unpleasant duty to admonish you
collectively from this platform. On that
occasion, you will remember, the parish
bone-house had been surreptitiously entered,
fragmentary relics of the dead irreverently
abstracted, and still more irreverently placed
within the pews of the congregation. The
Grammar School was, at that time, supposed
to shelter the delinquent, and, seeing that
the appeal I then made to your honour as
gentlemen was effectual, the inference is
conclusive. The offender or offenders must
have been in your midst ^

Here the Rev. John Howson drew his
cane affectionately between the forefinger
and thumb of his risjht hand. There was a
weary movement of feet, but not an eye
dared glance aside lest the glance should be
misconstrued.

"Now, young gentlemen," Mr. Ingram
continued, "a much more serious offence
has been perpetrated. I refer to the senseless
device for terrifying the sexton. No
doubt the effects have been more appalling
than were contemplated. An honest, hardworking

man has been stricken down, and
most probably disabled for life. The death
of an estimable invalid lady has been precipitated.
The fears of ignorance and superstition
have been aroused. To check credulity
the cheat must be exposed and punished.
If the offenders be in our midst expulsion is
the only remedy." He paused to give
weight to the question which followed.
For the honour of the school, I demand
to know who had a hand in getting up the
o;host !"

There was many a deep-drawn breath, but
never an answer.

The question was varied, but faces were
set like flints in ignorance or wilfulness.

The masters looked disturbed. Possibly
Thomas Clapham was the only one to blame
after all !

Again — "Does no one among you know
anything whatever of the matter?"

Pickersgill, stand forth !" broke the
silence like an electric shock.

The peering, half-shut eyes of the Kev.
John Howson, wandering from face to face,

had rested for an instant on Martin, and
seen the quick blood leap in answer to his
brow. The frank, intelligent youth ; the
model scholar whose diligence defied the
cane, stood high in his esteem. The reaction
was swift ; the usher felt he had been
deceived.

A dozen hands were ready to thrust the
fallen favourite to the front. It is the way
of the world ; and what is a public school
but a world in embryo ?

Gripping his blue jacket collar the usher
jerked him on to the platform, amidst a
fresh buzz of surprise and excitement.

The cane went swishing in the air, "Now,
boy, confess ! Who were your confederates
?"

I have nothing to confess, sir," answered
Martin, but his voice was far from steady,
and his eye glanced furtively at the cane.
To him it was an instrument of utter degradation.


Nothing to confess, sir," repeated the
usher, severely. " Your guilty face condemns
you. Name your accomplices at

VOL. I. N

once," and down came the cane in a couple
of sharp strokes on Martin's supple form.

The boy's black eyes flashed like meteors.
Before the cane again descended, the youth,
whose whole soul was on fire, wrenched
himself from the usher's grasp, and stood
aside with panting nostrils and orbs aflame,
confronting school and master.

They whip slaves where I come from,"
he said, haughtily. " I am free-born, and
have done no wrong, and will not submit
to it."

We will see that directly, young gentleman,"
cried the Rev. John Howson. " You
shall be hoisted."

And hoisted he might have been but for
little John Danson, who started forward
from the ranks, crying piteously,

"Oh ! please, sir, please, sir. It was not
Pickersmll. It wasn't indeed, sir."

Then who was it, Danson ?" asked Rowland
Ingram, kindly, but decidedly.

"Please, sir, I don't know, sir, but it
wasn't Pickersgill," and the boy looked up
imploringly.

How do you know that ?" demanded the
usher.

"If you please, sir, I had had the earache
all that Saturday afternoon, and
couldn't learn my collect for Sunday, and
Pickersgill kept awake after we went to bed
to teach it me in the dark. I sleep in his
room, sir, and we went to bed before
eight."

I think there is some mistake here,
Howson," remarked the head-master, in a
quiet undertone. " Boys are not ubiquitous,
and this sounds like truth."

"I'm afraid there is," assented the other,
'' and I'm not altogether sorry," in his satisfaction
that a favourite pupil was exonerated,
overlooking the temporary rebellion, for
Howson was not a bad fellow in the main,
though he did rap knuckles and dust jackets,
and grope in pockets for forbidden miscellanea.


You may go down, sir," to Martin, who
obeyed slowly, casting, as he went, a searching,
reproachful glance along the ranks to
which he was returning, and when lie took

N !i

his place there was a curl of contempt on his
3^oung lip.

Just then a queer, sly voice from the door
broke in on the masters' conference. "Well,
have you caught the grinning ghost?" and
there was seen the apish head and shoulders
of Thomas Clapham thrust forward,
his singular features twisted into a grotesque
leer.

At once all heads were turned, and there
were sounds of suppressed laughter.

I say, when you do send for me, good
spirit or bad, I'm your ran ! Hurrah for
hobgoblins !" and with the shout, and a
parting grimace, head and shoulders disappeared.


Discipline and decorum were outraged.
Burlesque had kicked out solemnity. The
masters were annoyed and baffled, so suggestive
was the grinning face in the doorway.


The boys were abruptly dismissed to their
seats and their lessons. Not to admit defeat,
the Rev. Rowland Ingram attempted
a grave harangue prior to the dinner hour.

It was a failure, and he felt it. The subject
was dropped. They had done with it.

In the playground it was otherwise. All
there was commotion. Notes of interrogation
and exclamation ran about in broad-doth
and fustian. Pickersarill and Danson
were surrounded, and no sooner had the
masters disappeared than " Bravo, pluck !"
"Brave lad!" "Bold young chap!" and
sundry like eulogies were emphasized on
Martin's shoulders with many a hearty slap
by Burton and other upper-class fellows.
But he pushed through them all, and, taking
John Danson by the hand, marched off
homewards, looking; neither to the risrht nor
left. A sense of shame and injustice was
rankling in his breast ; he had no ear for
greetings such as these.

At the foot of Bell Hill they came face to
face with Allan and Edith Earnshaw, and he
would have passed without a word, had not
Allan and his sister put out their hands to
invite the other's clasp, saying they had
^'just left Miss Craggg's." If her sable suit
made Edith's face pale beside her brother's,

what a contrast did it present to Martin's !
As they met, the hot blood surged upwards
to his forehead, and tingled in his cheeks
and ears as the thought swept over him,
'''' She will hear! She will hear! Jasper is

sure to tell her, and then she will despise


me.

What was said by either he hardly knew.
He heard her gentle voice as if in a dream,
and when they had shaken hands and parted
he went on up the bank, as much troubled
with oppressive fears as if he had been
eighteen instead of fifteen.

He had barely entered the house and
hung up his cap in the hall, when Miss
Vaseyy, who was coming downstairs with a
maund, or basket, of linen for the next day's
wash, with a motion of her head beckoned
him towards her, away from John Danson,
and, sinking her voice to a mysterious whisper,
said,

What have sou been doing with your
top sheet, Master Pickersgill ?"

Nothing," faltered he, nis heart sinking
at the question.

"Well, but it is all over dirty finger
marks, and one corner has been trailed in
mud."

Yes, I know, I know ; but, oh ! Miss
Yasey, I didn't do it, 1 really didn't."

"Well, but some one must have done it.
How was it done ?"

She had set down her basket inside the
kitchen door, and followed him into the
boy's room, where he flung himself into the
window seat, and, leaning his arm against
the woodwork, buried his face upon it to
hide the tears springing into his eyes.

How was it done ?" she repeated, in the
same undertone, but John Danson's thin
ears caught every word.

Oh, this is too bad ! I do not — I

cannot — I Oh, do not ask me, Miss

Vaseyy, Believe I would tell you if I "

the last word was choked in a convulsive
sob.

Ann's tender heart could never withstand
the test of tears. She bent over him and
whispered for his comfort, "Never mind,
Martin, you will tell me some day. I will

put the linen in steep for Sally, and then no
one will be the wiser."

A grateful pair of eyes looked up at her,
and she was repaid.

As she turned to go, she caught the eager
gaze of John Danson fixed upon her face,
as if full of a secret too big for him to keep.

The boy was following her, when a
peremptory, half-choked " John !" arrested
his steps.

If John Danson and Ann Vaseyy held any
communion in private afterwards, it never
transpired. One thing is certain, Johnny
thenceforth came in for an extra share of
good things, and Martin was higher in
favour than before.

As she left the rather dark little room,
the other boarders, who had been detained
by Thomas Clapham on the way, came
plunging in as gleeful as larks.

"Hill !" cried Jasper, "if here isn't the
Senhora blubbering."

Upon my word ! Miss Pickersgill in
tears !" exclaimed Robins, as if in lackadaisical
surprise.

"Johnny dearie, haven't you a pocket-handkerchief
for your dear young lady ?"
drawled a third named Wardrop, in tones of
mock condolence.

They had rushed in together, and all
seemed to speak together. Martin sprang to
his feet, his tears gone.

Cowards !" he hissed between his teeth,
as he stood like a young lion at bay.

Burton, the last to enter, found Jasper
within reach, and dealt him a smart cuff on
the side of his freckled face, crying out, in a
tone of command, "Drop that, Foxes, or
it will be the worse for you, or any of you "
and he looked round — " who dare apply
such epithets to Pickersgill again in my
hearing. Never mind his tears, I feel that
he is right, and we are a set of sneaks
and cowards beside him."

Here ! I say !" remonstrated Robins.

I repeat it, cowards," insisted Burton.
"Pickersgill and Danson have the only
manly hearts in the room." Then in
another and rather patronising tone, " Yes,
Johnny, you're a downright grateful little

fellow. I wish I could say the same for
some one else."

Do you mean me ?" blustered Jasper
Ellis, with an air of defiance.

"Yes, Foxes, I do; and if you give meany
of your cheek, you shall have another
ducking, and one you will remember."

1 say, my lord, have you done ?"
interposed Robins, sarcastically.

No," was the prompt answer, and the
young man stepped up to silent Martin.
"Look you, Pickersgill, there's my hand, if
you're not ashamed to take it. I tell you /
am sorry for my conduct towards you,
whatever others are."

The proffered hand was taken, and John
Danson cut a caper at the prospect of such
an ally, just as Miss Craggg opened the door
to say that the dinner bell had rung twice.

This altercation had not been carried on
in whispers, and it is likely that she had
heard much of it, and waited her time to
interfere. As a rule the boys were left to
settle their own disputes, and they pretty
generally righted themselves.

CHAPTER Xii

Fishing-tackle.

GRATITUDE and ingratitude. Do raan3r
of us exhibit the former? Will any
plead guilty of the latter? Shall I show
why Burton connected the words with his-young
schoolmates ? If so, T must go back
to Martin Pickersgill's first examination
before the governors of the Grammar School,
when he was but a neophyte.

The twelfth of March, or Fig-day, was-set
apart for the examination of the scholars,
and was a day of jubilation when the panting
little hearts had sot through their ordeal.
The governors met at the school.
Several boys — mostly the heads of classes —
stood up before them and recited passages-from

Greek or Latin authors, and then such
of the governors as happened to have kept
up their acquaintance with those languages
would follow them book in hand ; sometimes
cross-questioning uncomfortably at
the close.

It so happened that amongst the oral
traditions of the school had been handed
down sundry free renderings of classical
subjects, for private indulgence in oratory
or vocalisation — when masters were not
supposed to hear.

Some of these, set to old rollicking airs,
which Burton trolled out with considerable
spirit, had been caught up by Martin — for
instance :

Queen Dido sate at her palace gate.
Darning a hole in her stocking, ;
She sighed as she drew her needle through,
While her foot was a cradle rocking, O,
For eneas the soldier lad — "

I have said that Martin Pickersgill was
intelligent and diliiiijent. The latter fact
was due in part to the inborn horror of the
cane which he had brought with him from

Jamaica, where slavery, and consequently
whipping, was in full force, and not even
its frequent use on the white skins in the
school could obliterate his early impression
that it was meant only for a degraded race.
He had also brought with him no small
share of the planter's hauteur, to wliicli the
proud blood of the Spanish lady and the
independent blood of the Yorkshireman
had, I presume, contributed. Time toned
it down somewhat, but those were comparatively
early days when he stood to be cross-questioned
by one of the governors of the
school, no less a personage than Lawyer Hartley.
The old gentleman, dressed in a bluecoat
with brass buttons, with drab vest and
breeches, seemed to Martin to make quite
a dead set at him through the heavy gold-rammed
spectacles, which came down from
his head when a question was asked, and
went up again when it was answered.

At all events, he kept the boy long under
inquisition, and at length began to put questions
in advance of his class. Martin must
have felt somewhat like a frog under a harrow,

for even the Rev. John Howson looked
anxious for the credit of his scholar. But,
thanks to persevering industry, the tyro
acquitted himself pretty fairly. Finally, asa
test and a poser, the old gentleman turned
to the first pastoral of Virgil, and bade the
youngster translate it.

Pickersfrill took the book and read outwith
sufficient clearness the first line, but
for a translation out came, with the facility
of familiarity, one of Burton's burlesques.

Eh !" said the examiner, with a backward
jerk of his head, before it came as
suddenly down to make a closer examination
of the translator's face, which rapidly
reddened as the gold spectacles went up to
the top of the governor's head, and his uncovered
optics peered curiously into those
of the boy, now evidently beginning to chafe
under undue pressure and scrutiny both.

A shrewd observer was Lawyer Hartley.

"Well, my boy," said he, drily, "don't
put yourself out, but if you can give me the
Latin for goose, you'll do."

Martin, rightly enough, took this as an

insinuation that he was a goose, and, his
temper up, replied hotly and without premeditation,
but with considerable emphasis,

I might answer, senilis antiques /"

Instead of getting his ears boxed, as he
certainly deserved and expected, immediately
the words had passed his lips, the old
gentleman turned his head with a comical
smile to the usher, and said, " Hear that,
Howson ? He'll leave this class !" to the
no stall relief of the lad himself, who had
been amazed at his own teraeritv. He had,
however, cooled down, and regained his
equanimity by the time the buns and parcels
of fides were distributed, and was as alert
and eager as any when the residue of the
figs were thrown in their midst to be scrambled
for according: to custom.

The school broke up after the announcement
of promotions and exhibitions. Martin
was hurrvinrr off with the news of his promotion,
when his badu;erinf]j examiner called
him back, saying he wanted him to carry a
note into Settle.

Well, what are ^'ou cooing to have ?"

7 ^ t-^ O

was the query of Harrison, the Settle shopkeeper,
when Martin handed in the note.
A surprised stare, and the ejaculation
"Eh?" was the only answer. The note
was shown, and, to his delight and astonishment,
an order for fishing-tackle was thereon
the bearer's behalf.

Running home, with all speed, to Well
Bank, to exhibit his prize in high glee, he
found that while he had been in Settle his
friend of the gold-rimmed spectacles had
been there aloncr with Mr. Howson, had
asked who and what he was, promised to
keep an eye on him, and said the youngster
was pretty sure of an exhibition if he continued
equally persevering. Mrs. Craggg
patted Martin's black head as she repeated
these praises, and admired his fishing-tackle,
but he blushed as much with modesty and
bashfulness as pride, for, on a stool beside
the old lady, sat a dark-eyed maiden nine
years old that day, who had been "kept
in," to pick out and re-mark some defective
letters on a yellow sampler, and she smiled
as if she had been a pleased listener, too.

That was his first introduction to Edith
Earnshaw.

It was also his introduction to the river
Kibble as an angler, for be sure he lost no
time in testing the quality of his tackle, and
many a dish of small trout did he lay as an
offering at the old lady's feet, Allan Earn-shaw
and Wardrop taking him in tow and
showing him how to bait his hooks and
manage his lines.

Two or three years went by. There had
been many changes. Jasper Ellis and John
Danson had, at long intervals, both entered
the Grammar School and Miss Crasrsj's
household, and the former had been removed
from Pickersgill's room to make
way for the latter, who was at once given
into Martin's charge — a smaller image of
himself when he first landed in Liverpool.

On Wold Fell, some fourteen or fifteen
miles from Settle, may

Be traced a little brook to its well-head.
Where, amid quivering weeds, its waters leap
From the earth, and, hurrying into shadow, creep,
Unseen, but vocal, in their deep-worn bed,"

VOL. I.

to join another and another tiny rill, until
on crossing Greenstone the newly-born
Gale-beck is strong enough for re-baptism,
and, as the river Ribble runs on thence, still
feeding and feeding from many a runnel
and rillet, as it goes, through many a gill
and cave and chasm, over many a deep pot-hole,
leaping in cascades, foaming over
rocky boulders, deepening and widening
from ''Pennighent's proud foot" to Rib-glendale,
where, here and there, under the
ramparts of the lofty scars and crags, its
limpid waters have been utilised for mills,
till, gliding under Settle Bridge, it spreads
and flows and winds its way under the verdant
umbras of fair trees, fertilising and
beautifying pasture and landscape in its
meandering course towards Lancashire.

The region of the Kibble's birth and
growth is peculiar and mysterious. There
waters come and go, no one can tell whence
or whither. The waters of Malham Tarn
and Cove are of this class ; and twice within
record the river Ribble has stopped in its
course, or suddenly ceased to flow (as did

Jordan of old), leaving for several hours a
dry bed ; then, whilst wonder was at its
height, came dancing merrily along again as
coolly as though its temporary disappearance
was nobody's business but its own.

What a surprise it must have been to the
fish and fishermen when the stream disappeared
in one of these freaks ; but no such
catastrophe occurred whilst Martin Pickers-gill
held rod and line over its rocky bed.
Yet another and a different catastrophe
nji<2;ht have occurred had he not been
am^jlinsf there, which would have changed
the current of my story, perhaps sealed its
fountain altogether.

Some distance up the dale was a spot
where trees spread a grateful shadow over
bank and stream, and notably an aged
sycamore which long had held an outstretched
arm, as if in benediction over the
translucent water, where trout and salmon
sported pleasantly. Or it might be in
silent warning the leafy arm pointed with
downward Answers.

Pellucid was the water, and smooth the

o 2

rocky bed beneath, but, like a danger-signal,
a round black spot marked a swallow
hole of depth unfathomed, and hereabout
the fattest trout were said to congregate.

It chanced one holiday that Martin, having
become the possessor of a new and better
line, handed over his early one to Danson,
and the pair set forth to try them, accompanied
by Wardrop and Jasper.

Johnny, as was the wont of the younger
lads, mounted the tree and crept along the
overhanging bough, where, lying perdu at
full length, his baited line dangled below.
Soon his float disappeared, and a sharp tug
told that he had hooked a monster, and
that his tackle was in danger. The little
fellow had no mind to lose either line or
fish. He called to Jasper, who was idly
looking on, to run for Wardrop with his
landing-net.

Instead, regardless of frequent cautions
from their elders never to venture upon the
bough two at a time, and regardless of
John's cry for him to keep back, Jasper was
up the tree and along the bough with all

speed, when crack ! it broke off short
and fell with the boys on it into the
river.

Their cries, the splash, attracted Martin,
then unhookino; a fish some little distance
away. "Hold fast," he called. Down went
his line, off went jacket and boots, he was
in the water and after them in a trice, whilst
they held on to the bough like grim death,
as it made for the black " pot," then floated
safely over it and swept on down stream,
dipping John Danson and Jasper in and out
as the current swayed it in its course.
Martin was a bold swimmer, but he had the
treacherous black hole to avoid ; that past,
lie struck out and gained upon them. Not
too soon, for fright and the drenching were
telling upon them both, and they might not
have held on much longer.

With a warning; word still to " Holdfast,"
he caught the drifting blush, caused
it to swerve, and gradually steered it to the
bank where the water was shallow, and
Wardrop was ready to wade in and grasp
the branches whilst Martin released the two

half-drowned lads and helped them to dry
land.

And helped them, moreover, to land
their fish, for John had held fast, even to
this rod, and lo ! a fine salmon trout was
there to compensate for a ducking which,
but for Martin, might have been a drowning.

There was no going home to Miss Craggg,
drenched and dripping as they were. Martin
fished out two caps as they were floating
farther down the stream, and careful Jasper
was loudly deploring their loss. Then he
recommended a run to the lime kilns at the
end of the scars to dry themselves, picking
up his own boots and jacket by the way,
whilst Wardrop was left in charge of fish
and tackle.

They were not in much better plight after
the hasty drying, so much had broad cloth
shrunk, and there was a lamentable tale to
be told to abate Miss Craggg's displeasure
when they did get home with their fish as a
propitiatory offering. But little said Martin
of his own exploit. Indeed he scarcely
gave it a second thought.

Yet it was to this Burton had referred asa
"ducking" when he reproached Ellis with
ingratitude.

CHAPTER XIV.

LETTERS HOME.

THE ghost was laid — in a sense. Thomas
Clapham twitted the reverend
gentlemen at the head of the Grammar
School with their small success in ghost
hunting, and they, fully persuaded that he
was the offender, proceeded no further with
their official inquires; and it somehow got
wind that Parson Clapham's son had played
the " board."

Yet even that theory had its disputants.
It was urged that young Mr. Clapham had
been to Skipton market that very day to
get rid of a broken-winded horse, coming
back with a sound one.

Others — Jasper Ellis for one — affirmed

that he was back a few minutes after seven
o'clock, and had been spoken to by him at the
Hart's Head " door, on horseback, before
he rode home. He had had plenty of time
for mischief if he were so minded, and he
was well primed for it.

Then the " Black Horse " claimed the company
of Thomas Clapham for the rest of the
evening ; but again came the reminder that
the " Black Horse " had a door opening
conveniently into the churchyard, and, if
the churchwardens found it convenient on
the Sunday, some one else midst find it
convenient on the Saturday.

All these speculations and arguments
found their way through Betty Dyson's
open shop door to the disabled sexton.
But the dogmatic old man was not to be
argued out of his original belief; and to
have convicted him of affright at anything
less than the supernatural, would have
brought shame on his bravery, and been
a greater affliction than his paralysed frame.

The end of it all was to place fear as a
sentinel at either end of the path beneath

the northern wall of the churchyard, and to
leave Solomon Bracken and superstition
triumphant.

Such was the condition of things when
Allan Earnshaw returned to his high stool
ill the counties-house of Messrs. Metcalfe
and Polloc (situated in close proximity to
the Coloured Cloth Hall and Boar Lane,
and not far away from Brigade, the main
iu-tery of Leeds), the bearer of sundry
complimentary messages from Mrs. and
Miss Craggg, and of a quarto-sheet of gilt-edged
letter paper, duly folded and sealed,
containing Miss Grace Metcalfe's private
budget of news to " Dear Papa and Mamma,"
accompanied by one or two little tributes
of her affectionate regard.

He also bore with him, under another
cover, a memento or two of a still more
private nature; one in the shape of a book-mark,
fashioned after a bygone style, with
cardboard, coloured paper, and purse twist,
the two former so deftly over-wrapped and
interwoven with the twist as to present on
the upper surface the pale blue paper

motto, " Forget me not," on a dark blue
silken background ; the other, a trite, now
utterly out of date and use, inasmuch as it
belonged to the time when watches were
made with separate outer and inner cases,
and ornamental watch-papers were laid as
preservatives between the twain. Watch-papers,
however, were not always of paper,
1 remember one so-called — a smooth disc
of mouse-skin, and the one Allan carried
away within his own watch was just a bit
of flimsy muslin on which was wrought, as
on a sampler, but with nothing less sentimental
than the marker's own auburn hair,,
the touching inscription, —

a couple of hearts and a true lover's knot
in red and blue silk being added for picturesque
completeness.

It is needless to inquire how often the
watch was opened to ascertain the time,
during the journey to Leeds, or how seldom
referred to within the walls of the counting-house,
where curious clerks had eyes to see,
and a stern parent had suspicious to be
awakened.

Alas ! for sixteen-year-old chivalry, with
the secret of a fifteen-year school-girl in its
keeping ! And, alas ! for the silly schoolgirl,
whose precocity runs so far ahead of
common sense!

Although a good premium had been paid
with him, Allan Earnshaw was then but
junior clerk at Metcalfe and PoUoc's, there
being other rungs in the clerkly ladder
between himself and the head man, Mr.
Sheepshank, in whose home at Workhouse
arrangements had been made for him to
board, in order that he might have the advantage
of elder supervision after business
hours ; and Mr. Sheepshank had reported

well of the youth alike to Mr. Thorpe and
to his principals. Youth is elastic and
business imperative ; the little memorials of
Miss Grace exercised a consoling influence,
and in time the restless speculation what the
unspoken words of his dying mother might
have been ceased to usurp the throne of
thought.

Years before, he and his sister had
dreamed dreams of a future in which they
where to be all-in-all to each other, when
he, a man, should make a cottage home for
her, and they should dwell together, beaches
and maiden-sister, serenely
happy in the good they would diffuse.

The bustle of the busy town soon dissipated
that placid dream. He remembered
it but to say "that was a dream for drones,"
and whilst busy with pen and ink, copying
London and foreign price-lists for the firm,
looked ahead to the time when he should
enter the wool-market with his samples and
have clerks at his command. And now the
reading of his dead father's will had given
a basis for the edifice he was building in his

brain. What might not a than of industry
and energy accomplish with seven thousand
pounds as a lever at his command? He
would make himself master of every detail
in the business, and then — the vision of
Fortune's palace, in which the goddess was
a sort of sublimed Grace Metcalfe, would
be rudely dispelled by a reminder from a
senior that whilst he was chewing the feather
of his pen he was more likely to make blots
than figures with the nib.

This was not often. His general 
was the hour he spent in his own
room between supper and bed ; or, being
an early riser, before the dressing-glass in a
morning, when he made so much ado over
shaving away down, and brushing his curling
locks (a dark compromise between sable
and chestnut) into orthodox trim. Not that
he was gainer of his good looks than any
other young fellow of his age, but his co-mates
in the office were studious of their
appearance, and it naturally followed that
he must be so too. Fresh from the country,
he Alas desirous to shape himself after the

town models. There was a faint sensation
of regret that his mourning suit had been
made in Settle. Leeds, in respect to fashion,
might be far away from London — but
Settle ! how much more remote !

Of course, he wrote home to announce
his safe arrival ; negligence on such a point
Avould have been inexcusable. And, perhaps
it was also of course, he sent word to
Miss Metcalfe, via his sister Edith, that "the
small package of which he had been the
honoured bearer, had been received with
the very fullest appreciation ;" a message
she innocently delivered, all unaware that
the words had a double meaning.

About a fortnight later, another missive
was received from allan, closely written on
the three available sides, and even on those
portions of the quarto sheet which were
hidden in the folding, for be it remembered
envelopes were not in use ; the back page
was the cover, and the address formed a
part of the latter. It may be well to make
an extract : —

Who do you think walked into our office

yesterday afternoon? Who but my old
stage-coach acquaintance. He seems to be
here, there, and everywhere, and to care no
more for his personal appearance in Leeds
than in the country. Mr. Polloc, for whom
he asked, was not in. ' Then I'll wait,' said
Mr. Wilson, and, without more ado, he came
over to the long, high desk at which we
clerks were seated, and, planting himself
close to my elbow, in the angle formed by
the desk and the wooden partition, the
upper part of which is glazed, looked
straight down the desk at our new clerk,
Basil Buttermere, from under those great
rough eyebrows of his, so curiously and
searchingly through his heavy silver spectacles,
that (as I saw with half an eye across
the ledgers) Buttermere quite changed colour
and grew uneasy under the scrutiny, as well
he might. T know it would have put me
out of countenance to have been stared so
hard at. Yet Buttermere must be over
thirty, and is not the sort of fellow one
would expect to be over-sensitive. He makes
such a boast of being ' a man of the world.*

After the old fellow had made such use
of his eyes, I was not surprised to hear him
use his tongue. His mode of address was,
however, as queer as himself. He began,
still leaning against the desk, and talking
across the backs of myself and Deacon,
until I saw Mr. Sheepshank grow fidgety
at the interruption.

' Well, Mr. Buttermere, and how have
you used that oyster, the world, since I saw
you last ? And how h-as the world used
you all these years ?'

' Oh ! middling,' was the answer.

' And how is that delicate creature, your
wife T

"I did not know until then that he was
married.

' Oh ! middling,' was again the only
answer, and I thought somehow these replies
seemed forced from the man, for he is not
generally so reserved, and his voice had not
its natural tone.

"rand how long is it since you left
London ?'

' About four months.'

VOL. I. p

' Ah ! and you have been here three
months, almost as long as our young friend
here' (meaning me). 'I trust you will both '
(and he seemed to lay an emphasis on the
word) 'do your duty in the face of God and
mv friend PoUoc, as fine a man and cjood a
master as any in Leeds ; rather lenient, perhaps,
but you will find his partner, Mr.
Metcalfe, not a man to be trifled with by
any means, as Mr. Sheepshank there will
testify.'

' Quite right, Mr. Wilson, our senior is
not to be trifled with : but he never fails to
reward merit,' was the testimony elicited.

' Well, who is going to trifle with him ?'
grumbled out Butterraere.

' No one, I hope,' and the old man's
eyes shot a keen glance into the other's,
scarcely raised from the book before him.
Your wife in Leeds ?'

'eyes.'

'Any more children?'

'' ' Two.'

'Perhaps you will favour me with your

present address. And perhaps you would
like to know how I became aware that you
were here, and how long you had held your
situation. I chanced to hear so much as I
passed through Skipton on my last journey.'

It was my turn to change colour, and I
think Basil Buttermere observed it as he
passed behind Yeadon to Mr. Wilson a slip
of paper on ^vhich he had scrawled something.
Like lightning it had flashed over
my mind that I had named the new clerk
to Lawyer Proctor, during dinner at the
'Devonshire Arras,' and that Mr. Wilson,
then sitting opposite, dropped his knife and
fork with a clatter which caught Mr. Proctor's
attention, and brought on some discourse
about ' Honest John,' whom it seemed
he lead formerly known, when in some
sort of trouble or other. You may recollect,
Edith, I mentioned this to 3'ou, the day
he was at Ivy Fold.

"Well, the old gentleman no sooner got
the paper, and cast his eyes over it, than he
took out of his top-coat pocket a great

p2

pocket-book bursting with papers, and laid
the address very carefully within. Then he
turned to me with a sharpness that made me
start, and spoil the figure I was putting
down, and began to ask all sorts of questions,
about home and school, mv studies
and my schoolfellows, and I think he too
gave a little start when I named Jasper
Ellis. At all events, he asked me the name
over again, aud where Jasper came from,
and who his father was, and seemed disappointed
that I only knew him as Lawyer
Proctor's grandson. You know, Edith,
Jasper never did talk about his father and
mother, Mr. Wilson went on to ask me
where I lived, and said he was glad to hear
that I was under Mr. Sheepshank's fatherly
care ; it was so very sad for a lad of my age
to be cast adrift, as it were, on the perilous
sea of a great town, where there were so
many stony rocks, so many sharks, and
other sea-monsters and temptations, ready
to snap up an unwary youngster. Then he
asked what books I read? what I did
with my evenings ? and if I had any companions

? Then he launched out on the
necessity'' for all young men to avoid evil
companions, said there was no companion
like a good book ; asked if I had a Bible ?
bade me read it thoughtfully", and to make
myself well acquainted with Proverbs, on
the first chapter, tenth verse, of which he
laid great stress, telling me to search it out
when I got home. I find it is, ' My son, if
sinners entice thee, consent thou not.' He
might have thought I was in some particular
danger, he was so emphatic. At last he
wound up with a suggestion that I should
become a member of the Mechanics' Institution,
and attend the lectures, use the
library and reading-room, and join any
evening class likely to advance my education,
' For remember, young sir,' he said,
education does not end with school or
college ; it only begins there, tutors lay only
the foundation, the superstructure must be
reared bit by bit in the outer world, and, if
you can avoid the whip of the sharp schoolmaster,
Experience, by your own prudence,
so much the better. Never mind difficulties,

press along the straight path onward
and upward ; no good effort's wholly lost I
Remember, I say wAoUy.'

Mr. Polloc, who had come in unobserved,
here touched him on the arm, and,
as they went into the private office together,
I was struck with the contrast between
them, he so bent in the shoulders, loose and
shambling in his joints and gait, so homely
» and untidy in his attire ; and neatly-dressed
Mr. Polloc, who is fully six feet high, so
erect and dignified, so noble in his bearing,
with fine features and a lofty forehead, that
only seems to want a crown to make him
ever'' inch a king. Before the glass door
of the inner office well closed upon them, I
heard Buttermere, who looked uneasy,
mutter grumpily, ' Thank God we are rid of
the old bore at last ! I wish he'd keep his
lectures for the dirty mechanics he's so
plaguey fond of. Nobody wants him here
hindering business.'

"And — what do you think? If Buttermere
did not stop me on my way home,
after closing, to ask, peremptorily, what I

had been saying about him ! And to advise
me in future to keep my tongue within my
teeth in public rooms, or I might do more
harm in a minute than I could mend in a
life ! I did not like his domineering way,
but I think his advice worth taking; and I
also think of taking Mr. Wilson's advice,
and joining the Institution, for I find the
evenings dull here, with no young friends,
and no books I care for."

Allan's long communication ended abruptly,
with a signature half under the seal, for
lack of space ; although he had spent two
nights thereon, and used his neatest calligraphy,
to avoid the necessity for an extra
half sheet, which would have made a double
letter of it, and consequently have doubled
the seventeen postage fee.

He had written in the newness of surprise
and perplexity ; dropping all sense of uneasiness
into the box with his epistle, and,
it may have been, folded it up in the paper,
for the letter was read twice over, both by
Edith and Mr. Thorpe — a sort of misgiving
of the clerk, Buttermere, creeping over their

minds — and in Edith's coupled with a wonder
why Mr. Wilson had been so inquisitive
about Jasper Ellis.

CHAPTER Xv.

ARCHIBALD Thorpe's ANTECEDENTS.

ALLAN EARNSHAW's long letter had
given Archibald Thorpe's memory a
sharp fillip; and recalled two promises made
to John Wilson during; his somewhat untimely
visit at Ivy Fold.

Virtually, that visit had been made in
the interests of popular education. John
had the history of the movement at his
fingers' ends, and could tell how the Leeds
Mechanics' Institution and others had sprung
up in the north since Dr. George Birkbeck,
who was born in Settle, had conceived the
idea and founded the first of them in London
some five or six years before. And to
incite Mr. Thorpe to follow somewhat in his

"wake, and help on the cause of these helps
to the working classes, he urged that a
man's time was not his own ; he was bound
to use it for the good of others ; that his
talents were not lent to be buried in a napkin
or a country village ; that he had a light
within him not to be hid under a bushel,
but to be held forth for the illumination of
outer darkness ; and that, if he would prepare
and deliver a few homely lectures on
botany or geology, gratuitously, to the
members of such institutions, he would bea
public benefactor; the seeds of knowledge
so sown would spread and fructify for all
time to come ; and he hammered the whole
down with his favourite mottoes: "The
liberal soul devised liberal things," and
"No good effort's ivlioUy lost."

The enthusiast had carried his point, and
promise the first was given. The second
concerned Allan. With an interest in the
young fellow utterly inexplicable to the
step-father, but which Honest John explained
as arising from the pity he always
let when he saw a frank, open-hearted lad

sent from a quiet country home alone into
the whirl of a large manufacturing town ;
he dilated on the dangers which beset the
path of such a youth, the traps and pitfalls
in the way of the unwary, dwelling especially
on the danger of one so apparently
impulsive and impressionable associating
indiscriminately with his unknown fellow-clerks.
Mr. Thorpe, who had more knowledge
of plants and stones than of humanity,
opened his eyes in amazement, and wished
he had not been so ready to second Allan's
desire " to go out into the world and make
a man of himself" He did more, he promised
before his step-son went back to his
desk to give him the best counsel and caution
in his power.

Genuine promises both. But Archibald
Thorpe was an absent man, in great mental
anguish at the time, and, between the excitement
of Mrs. Statham's appearance at the
funeral, her remarks during the reading of
Mr. Earnshaw's will, and his discovery that
his home was no longer his home, both
promises drifted into oblivion.

The executors, of course, took the matter
of tenancy out of Allan's hands. It was
settled that Mr. Thorpe should continue at
Ivy Fold, paying such a rental only as
might satisfy his self-respect, though Allan
grumbled, and said it was a shame his stepfather
should pay any rent at all. Arrangements
were also made for Edith to remain
in her old home. But the business connected
with all this was so uncongenial that
the widower's palpable duties as mentor
floated into oblivion.

And here, lest Archibald Thorpe and his
position should be misunderstood, let me
sketch him as he sat in his sable suit, with
Allan's letter in his hand, pondering its
contents.

He was a fair-haired, broad-shouldered,
wiry man, on the shady side of forty, with
a massive forehead, and deep-set, speculative
eyes that always seemed lost in a
dreamy mist indoors ; but only set him on
the mountain or the crag, and those same
eyes could waken up to see the tiniest plant,
the faintest outline of a fossil.

And what if he lacked superfluous flesh ?
Think you he could have burdened himself
with so many " specimens," vegetable and
mineral, if he had been of the Daniel Lambert
order? And what if his long-armed,
short body, narrowed from shoulders to
feet like a wedge, and his head, narrowing
from forehead to chin, was set on the square
shoulders like a smaller wedge ? — he was
agile and tireless as a boy, and, if incipient
crovvs'-feet were gathering at the corners of
his eyes, they came of thought, not time.

His botanical tastes had developed early,
in spite of home discouragements. His
father, a country squire of an old and pronounced
type, who rode hard, drank hard,
swore hard, and fed in a like ratio, and
who leased to strangers the coal-mine on
his estate, had more feeling for oxen and
swine, dogs and horses, than for science and
study. He pitched the lad's plant treasures
into the fire, prohibited any more " weeding,"
enforced his prohibition with his horsewhip,
and held Archibald's younger brother
up as a model of all that was manly, because

he could ride his horse at a stone fence, and
take the leap flying. But when the Squire
died of repletion after a putting-feast, and
the family papers came to be looked over, it
was discovered that the Thorpes were but
usurpers, that the dead Squire held, by no
law but possession, the estate of a sister's
son, who had been his ward, had been
cruelly used, and was said to have run away
before he came of age, and never to have
been heard of since.

The discovery filled Archibald Thorpe
with dismay. There was a fierce quarrel
between the brothers. The Squire had
executed deeds of gift conveying the estate
to Archibald, the coal-mine to Robert ; but
the former renounced the gift, and advertised
in the Times for the lost heir. No
heir put in a claim, but the elder refused to
hold, and Robert, with a chuckle, laid his
hands on all. There was, however, a small
property in another county, to which Archibald
had honest ri^jht — a share in a Wear-dale
lead-mine — and so, content with a
diminished patrimony, he turned his back

upon his brother and his cousin's broad
acres for ever.

To Weardale he transported all his own
belongings, and, shortly afterwards, mounting
a knapsack on his square shoulders and
a wallet by his side, became a wanderer.

Far and wide, over hill and dale, he
strayed, but rarely among the haunts of
men. He was a true student of nature, an
observer and collector. With occasional
returns to Weardale, such was his life for
sears. But he began to weary of his wandering,
and to long once more for a settled
home where he could turn his observations
to account, when, as Providence would have
it, he came upon Mrs. Earnshaw in her
widow's weeds, sitting by the Ebbing and
Flowing well, onp sultry evening early in
July.

Her two children were Gatherings flowers
close at hand, Allan scrambling up the face
of the scar to gather for his sister the nodding
plumes of Solomon-seal growing in
the clefts, whilst she below had filled her
little hands from more accessible stems with

the yellow pimpernel, the red vvood-betony
the azure forget-me-not, the purple foxglove,
wild thyme and basil.

The traveller, laden with spoils from the
rocks and caves of Singleton and Clapham,
stopped to rest and refresh himself at the
wayside well, offering as an apology for
intrusion that he was a stranger desirous to
quench his thirst.

The sparkling water was up to the brim.
He dipped the leathern cup of his flask into
the well, and was about to drink when his
uplifted eye fell upon the widow's son
clinging to the rock in a most perilous
position. Down went the flask, and up
went the man only in time to catch the boy
as he was falling. How sincere and tearful
were the mother's thanks may be imagined.

And the stranger's surprise may be imagined
too, when he found an empty well
where he had left a full one, not to say his
disappointment. But while the interesting
widow gave such explanation of the phenomenon
as she was able, up rose the coquettish
water swiftly, to sink again almost

before a draught could be secured, and the
astonished traveller, lost in abstraction,
seemed to question the fitful waters and his
own brain.

A second service the dusty pedestrian did
the lady before they left that well-side,
snatching from the very lips of the wandering
little girl a bunch of berries she had gathered
for black currants, undeterred by their
odour.

It was the fruit of the Hyoscyamus Nigei\
the deadly properties of which the botanist
explained to the children and their mother
as they walked together down the dusty
road towards the "Hart's Head," where the
pedestrian was left, with grateful thanks, to
stop for the night.

He stopped not one night but many, and
in the end took up his permanent abode at
Ivy Fold, when the young widow blossomed
forth as a bride for the second time, to the
unmitigated disgust of Aunt Statham and
others, who set Archibald Thorpe down asa
needy adventurer. He was simply reticent
about his private affairs.

VOL. I. Q

But he was liberal, unobtrusive, and unassuming,
and soon lived that down, whilst
the very nature of his pursuits made him
friends among local scientific investigators —
Dr. Burrow foremost; for long before this
he had added geology to botany, and he had
a rich field for study and discovery around
lira in Craven.

The litter of leaves and dirty stones disconcerting
housewifely Mrs. Thorpe, the
little sitting-room she had once called her
own was surrendered to him, and there he
gathered around him not only his own collections,
but the works of geological pioneers,
perplexing his mind with their conflicting
theories. Then, as he made discoveries
and deductions of his own, he
entered upon a sea of controversy and correspondence,
which took the edge off his
trouble during his wife's long illness, but left
the children too much without elder supervision.


Allan's letter had set the scientific enthusiast
thinking for the time being ; but the
lines of thought crossed and diverged, and

soon his fears for his stepson were lost in
the reminder of his other promise to Honest
John, and in the gathering up of ideas and
the marshalling of facts for the lectures to
be written.

He put on his hat, left the letter on the
table, and went out, at first to pace backwards
and forwards, with his hands clasped
behind him, to and fro in Love Lane, then
opened the wicket which gave access to the
Cateral Hall grounds, within which, close
at hand, a picturesque waterfall leaped and
frisked as it fell from rock to rock with
cadences and murmurs so musical as to lull
the soul to contemplation. There, though
the over-arching trees were bare, he took
his stand, with his hands behind him, in
sheer forgetfulness of time, until the whoops
and hurrahs of schoolboys let loose recalled
him to earth, and making his way back
home, the door of his study closed upon
him, until Dora was sent to remind him that
tea was waiting, and Janet impatient, Dora
never waited to tap at his door ; in she ran
boldly, secure of welcome ; her voice acted

Q'2

like a charm ; the unfledged lecturer's pen
went down on the instant ; the child went
up in his arms, and so they found their way
to the tea-table. And, though such was
pretty generally the manner in which father
and daughter entered the "house" at mealtimes,
something closely allied to pain crept
round Edith's heart that afternoon, and
smote her with the desolation of orphanhood.
The one word "danQ;er"in Allan's
letter had filled her with vague fears for
him, and perhaps that had made her more
than ordinarily sensitive to the reserve between
her stepfather and herself.

Yet, as she lifted the child into the hi^li
chair that had once been her own, and did
her best to accommodate the whimsies of
little miss, first with regard, to her place at
table, and then in her likes and dislikes, no
one could have suspected that she was crushing
bitterness and impatience down, with
self-reminders of the promise made to her
mother.

She had not an easy task before her. A
child, slightly delicate, had been rendered

more so by indulgence. She had been
humoured lest a cry of hers should reach
the sick-room ; and now Mr. Thorpe petted
her the more, as his lost wife's legacy, and
seemed inclined to perpetuate the mischief,
and render futile Edith's attempts at discipline.
She would soon have grown unbearable
had not Janet Carr sturdily set her
face against " spoiling' t' life bairn."

It chanced, about a week or two afterwards,
Dora had been especially fractious all
the day, " gotten at at wrong side o' th'
bed," as Janet phrased it ; had been cross
and troublesome when Edith dressed her in
the morning — a process always carried on
before the warm " house" fire so long as the
cold weather lasted — had over-set the bowl
of water on the white hearth, as a protest
against being washed ; had kicked off her
socks and shoes as fast as Edith put them
on, and, when the latter rose from her
knees to recover a stray shoe, scampered,
half-dressed, over the stone floor, with bare
feet, regardless of her sister's expostulations
or fears lest she should take cold, dancing

round the big table, and mocking at attempts
to catch her.

Half this had been fun, half wilfulness,
but it was of almost daily occurrence, and
Janet had not Edith's patience.

Coming from the back-kitchen, whither
she had gone with her floor-cloth after mopping
up the wet hearth, the energetic woman
caught at the child, lifted her up, and, with
a smart shake, set her down ao;ain on the
chair by the fire, with a sharp intimation
that she had better be still.

The shake, and still more Janet's determined
tone, produced submission, and,
though Miss began to whimper and pout,
she submitted, after a sort, to have her feet
and body clothed ; but no sooner did Edith
begin to remove the curl-papers from her
silken hair, and attempt to comb out her
curls, than the young vixen roared out,
You're lugging me, you're lugging me,"
ending with a roar which brought Mr.
Thorpe upon the scene.

At once Dora rushed sobbing to his arms,

and to his concerned inquiry, " What is the
matter, my pet?" blubbered forth, " Edie's
been cross, and been lugging me," She
would have liked to say Janet had shaken
her, but she had her share of childish cunning,
and judged it unsafe to tell tales of
that individual.

I wish, Edith, you would be more careful
with Dora, you know how tender and
delicate she is," remonstrated Mr. Thorpe,
not too well pleased at having been called
downstairs with only one side of his. face
shaven, the other all lather, and a slight
wound on his chin. His fears for Dora had
driven away all thought for his own appearance
in the first instance. Now it annoyed
him.

Indeed, father," pleaded Edith, " I did
take all the care I could, but she would not
keep her head still, and if I hurt her I could
not help it."

Well, life Dora will be still now won't
she, darling ?" said he, fondling the pettish
child, and smoothing down the uncombed

curls, " sister will be careful and not hurt
her again ;" and after that wise speech went
back to finish shaving, with tepid water.

But as he trod the stairs he could not fail
to hear loud-voiced Janet's exclamation,
whatever construction he might put upon it.

Hurt t' bairn ? I know wha's hurting' on
her ! She'll be ta nesh " (tender) " ta luik
et sun. Bud I'm nut ganging' te stand it
mich longer."

The low whisper in which Janet was
answered could, however, reach only the
ears for which it was intended. " Never
mind, Janet. Perhaps we were as troublesome
when we were as little. Children
copy the tempers they see, and we can only
make her better by being better ourselves.
And you know she has a loving little heart.
Remember when Martin Pickersgill brought
the little starved kitten he had found lying
hurt in Tarn Lane, how she cried over its
wounds and bruises, and how she feeds and
nurses Tippie still."

"Ay, an' plagues kittling as weel. An
I seed moor ov her live an' less ov her

tantrums I'd be gay pleased. Copy tempers,
indeed !" and Janet looked as though
her own had been impeached.

CHAPTER Xii.

Dora's doing.

PETTED when she should have been
rebuked, no wonder Miss Dora continued
the day as she began.

The village was dependent for its butcher's
meat on a cart which came from Settle twice
a week. It was the butcher's day. It was
Edith's birthday, Fig-day likewise; and there
was a keen March wind blowing from the
east ; a strong, blusterous wind, that nipped
the freshly-budding trees, swept a shower of
old leaves from the ivy, and drove back the
heavy door with a clan; when Edith lifted
the latch, almost overturning her with it.

Now, from this said east wind, the wind
that blew straight across the churchyard and

into the house, Edith had been especially
cautioned by her mother to guard Dora.

But Dora had a will above winds or
guardianship ; and Dora had decided that it
was a delightful day for a walk. Fatherly
authority had to be called upon to decide
otherwise. Then followed petulance,
which sorely tried Edith's self-control.
\Yhen she would have made entries in her
housekeeping book wilful Miss shook the
table and spilled the ink. When she brought
out her work-basket to repair a rent in a
little pinafore, the numbers were picked off
her cotton-balls, cotton unwound, and the
knitting-pins drawn from a sock in progress.
To keep her out of mischief whilst these
were replaced a spice-cake was cut into
prematurely. With a sigh of resignation,
Edith set work aside, and, with a box of
ivory letters, made an attempt to give an
alphabetical lesson. The little one was deaf
to the voice of the charmer ; flung A and B
into the batter Janet was mixing for a :,
and clamoured for her doll. The
letters were fished from the batter, put back

clean into the box, and the doll dressed.
Soon she tired of that, and Edith was called
upon to give Tippie a lesson in sitting upto
beg, and offer a paw to be shaken, and,
truth to tell, the kitten was more docile
than the child. Then " latins," i.e.^ playthings,
were in demand, and Edith, with
scissors and paper, manufactured a set of
chairs, and dolls to sit thereon.

Barely were these complete when the
butcher's cart was heard, and a penny from
Edith's pocket-money given as an inducement
for Dora to play quietly, and keep
out of the cold, whilst their purchases were
made.

But no sooner did Dora see Edith and
Janet pass the "house" window on their
way to the gate than she left her toys,
darted out of the open door, bareheaded
and barefaced, and, whilst they were engaged
with the butcher, ran off as fast asher
little legs would carry her round the
churchyard corner out of sight.

Until Edith was back in the house, Dora
was not missed. There was a hasty run

upstairs, a search from room to room, and
then — the truth surmised — the elder sister,
reproaching herself for leaving the door
open, rushed out in quest of the truant, just
as the Grammar School boys came noisily
trooping into the lane with their books and
parcels of figs.

At the end of the lane the anxious girl
stood looking hither and thither with a
troubled countenance, her curls and garments
blown by the wind, undecided which
way to turn, seeing that behind her lay the
road to the school-yard and Cateral Hall,
and that, whilst Bell Hill rose to her left,
Tarn Lane swept past the gable of Ivy Fold
to her right, with a curve round the back
of Wildman's pasture, past the dwellings of
Howson and Ingram, on to the Tarn.

At that moment little William Hartley
came racing down the hill fresh from Miss
Craggg's school-room. She accosted him,
hurriedly.

Willie, have you seen Dora ?"

'' Have you lost her?" " What, lost your
sister?" came in twofold answer from voices

in the rear, and, barely waiting her affirmative,
books and figs were thrust into John
Danson's hands, and off went the speakers,
Jasper and Martin, in search of the runaways,
with others at their heels,

Martin, with an instinctive dread of beck
and tarn, at once took to the right ; Jasper,
another instinct uppermost, paused as he
ran to ask " Had she any money ?" and,
being answered with a nod, made straight
for Betty Dyson's spice shop.

Back came he, triumphant, half carrying,
half dragging Miss Dora by the arm, whilst
William Hartley held the other, she fighting
and strucrorlincp to release herself

CO o

I found her at Mother Wellington's,
wanting half the shop for a penny," Jasper
exclaimed, as Edith met them, and Dora
scratched and kicked to get free.

I sa3% you're a little tigress !" he cried,
with the addendum, " I shall call you Feline
in future."

"You sa'ant!"Dora screamed. "I not
Feline — let me ^o !"

Edith meanwhile thanked her sister's

captor, offered an excuse for her wilfulness,
and begged her to " be quiet and come
home like a brood girl."

I don't envy you, Miss Edith," observed
Jasper, when they had got Dora as far as
the gate ; " and nobody need envy the man
that gets her for a wife when she grows
up.

I wouldn't be your wife if I was growed
up !'' snapped out the irate five-year-old
damsel, cheeks and eyes aflame, as strong-armed
Janet came on the scene and snapped
her up.

I'd tame you, Felina, if you were," the
lad of fourteen called after her, and, with a
laugh and a nod to Edith, was away after
his hilarious fellows.

Janet had a summary method of dealing
with the refractory damsel, the efficacy of
which was in good repute at the time, and
had been well tested on herself, and she
did not fail to apply it now, without waiting
for Edith's assent.

Dora's roar had stilled to quiet sobbing
when Mr. Thorpe, who had been " gathering

ideas " in a stiff walk, came in with hurried
anxiety, accompanied by Martin, whom
he had met in his search for the lost child
at the junction of Tarn Lane with the Lancaster
highroad.

As they crossed the threshold, the cry
broke out afresh, and some time elapsed
before any explanation could be given.
He had known nothing of Edith's patient
forbearance during the morning, nothing of
her endeavour to amuse. He blamed her
for negligence, and though his reproof was
mildly administered, still it tuas reproof,
and gained poignancy from the fact that
Master Pickersgill was present, and would
not know it to be untrue.

Though swelling with a sense of injustice,
Edith was too proud to reply, and Martin
Pickersgill, self-instructed, " read the rede
aright."

Had he not done so, Janet, whose wrath
had been gathering all the morning, would
have enlightened him. She broke forth not
only in defence of Edith, but in protests
against spoiling Dora by false indulgence ;

and the wrong that was done to both by
keeping them from school, winding up with a
threat to leave at the next hiring unless
Dora was sent to school ; a threat which put
the widower in a quandary, for Janet was
a first-rate cook and a capital manager, and
more brusque than ill-tempered.

"Well, well, Janet, I'll see about it,"
said Mr. Thorpe, hurriedly; and then,
observing that Martin was desirous to depart,
shook hands, thanked him, and gave the
youth an invitation to come and inspect his
fossils, at which the black eyes brightened
with pleasure.

He next brought a book out of his room,
and determined to keep watch over his
darling that afternoon for himself. Little
was the reading he got over, although Dora
was on her best behaviour ; at all events he
satisfied himself that the duty was irksome,
to say the least.

At Edith, however, the child contrived to
have another fling before the day was done.

To keep Dora quiet at bedtime during
her mother's illness, it had been Edith's

VOL. I. R

wont to lull her to rest with nursery rhymes
and fairy tales. Her store was soon
exhausted. The wayward Miss objected to
a thrice-told tale, and soon her sister had to
draw upon her own imagination, or to dress
up facts in fiction's robes.

The Ebbing and Flowing Well was made
the theme for many a romantic tale,
besides the true one, how a gallant knight
named Archibald rescued a fair lady's
children from peril there, and was rewarded
with the lady's hand. There was generally
a fairy of the fountain who had wondrous
gifts to bestow, and always a good child set
as a foil to the bad one ; and no wonder if
the morale of these narratives pointed to frailties
of Dora.

That night, Edith, weary with the harass
of the day, hoped to escape without being
so taxed, but Dora was imperative, and
Edith had to yield. She began, " Once
upon a time, there was a little girl "

Up in bed started Miss Dora. "Now,
Edie, I'm not a 'coin to have any 'tories
'bout me !"

''I shall not tell you one at all, if 3''0u do
not lie down and be stood," answered Edith,
quite worn out.

"Then, if 3'ou don't," said the child, with
cunning emphasis, " I'll cry, an' I'll say you
slapped me !"

Edith was herself ready to cry, but she
sat down again by the bed-side with a weary
sigh and related first the old story of
*' Diamonds and Toads," then "The Yellow
Shoestrings," and was half-way up the Bean
Stalk with Jack before the remorseless
tyrant was content. By that time she was
asleep.

Not downstairs did Edith go when once
at liberty, but into the cold white room
where her mother died, and where in fancy
she still saw her form beneath the counterpane.


Down she sank on the floor at the bedside,
poured out her heart and her trouble
as if God and her mother could both hear,
and prayed for strength to bear and ability
to do her duty.

The prayer was no doubt vague and

II 2

incoherent, but it came from the heart, and
such prayer is audible in heaven without
words.

An impatient call from below roused her.
She gave a look at the Latin inscription over
the fireplace. "Never alone when alone!"
she murmured. " Shall I ever understand
it? I seem more lonely every day. Poor
Allan ! he must be lonely too."

In the morning, Dora seemed desirous to
atone for her previous wilfulness by clinging
to her sister, putting up her pouting lips to
be kissed, following her whithersoever she
turned, and sitting on a footstool beside her,
with her head in the willing lap, when she
sat down to sew.

Edith was delighted with these tokens of
affection, stroked the shining head, and
resented Janet's shrewd remark.

Moore like, shoo's taken a boast," by
which she meant a cold, " and wants fondling'
lessen. I's gie t'barn soon hot wey tenet,
and she'll be a' rest in th' morn."

Janet's inference was right, but Dora was
not.

In the middle of the night, notwithstanding
the hot whey, Edith was awakened by
that sound which once heard is never to be
mistaken.

Croup had Dora's throat in its savage
clutch.

To slip from the room and hammer at
her father's door was the work of a few
seconds ; to glide down the dark staircase
and arouse the sound sleeper in the box-bed,
whilst she groped for the tinder-box, took
little longer. Edith had no thought for

CD O

herself, the cold night, her bare feet, her
thin robe ; her soul was filled with the
danger of her darling Dora, and that
only.

Janet was more thoughtful. Snatching
flint and steel from fingers trembling too
much to use them, she brusquely bade her
young mistress "gang and put soon class
on, or there'd be twee ill instead o' one ;"
and stirring up the peat-raked fire soon had
a blaze, with the aid of a lonir brimstone
match or two.

After one hasty look at his child Mr.

Thorpe was speeding to Settle, but, before
lie was back with Dr. Burrow, Janet's
rough remedy — a dose of goose oil — had
been forced down an unwilling throat, and
the child was in a warm bath.

Dr. Burrow complimented the woman on.
her promptitude, nevertheless there was a
iona; after-battle for the little one's life, and
anxious Edith, utterly regardless of a chill
taken by herself, would surrender her precious
charge to no one, night or day.

The consequences were easy to foresee.
By the time Dora was so far out of danger
as to bear removal to the big soft downstairs,
Dr. Burrow had another patient,
over whom he shook his head in private,
and Archibald Thorpe, whose heart had
been stirred by her devotion to Dora, sat in
perturbed dismay beside the couch where
delirium told so much.

There was no lack of feminine sympathy
with the distressed widower, no
dearth of volunteer nurses professing
interest in Miss Earnshaw. To some of
these Janet was barely civil, and no sooner

did the doctor breathe the word " fever "
than, without taking him into her confidence,
she contrived to drop the additional word
"rattle," i.e., infectious, so as to drive
away the more officious of these "single
ladies wi' double rains," as she called
them.

She did not drive away the two lads,
Jasper and Martin, who, fearing nought,
Avere constant inquirers ; but I rather fancy
she made the former her medium for keeping
Aunt Statham and Deb at bay.

Somehow or other these two youths had
made rapid strides into Archibald Thorpe's
good graces since the day of their race after
Dora, more especially the West Indian.
And it could not be that he took his tone
from the little convalescent, who at first
treated Jasper Ellis with some disdain, for
when a finely present of birds' eggs — which
had cost nothing but a holiday scramble —
purchased pardon for all offences, and she
was extra-gracious to him, the father's
preference for Pickersgill underwent no
diminution.

And so, one sunny Saturday when April
(the fickle month that gave Dora to the
world) had melted into May, the large room
was fragrant with flowers these two had
brought as offerings to another convalescent,
and Dora came dancing gleefully in to announce
the advent of Edie downstairs.
Allan's two young school-fellows pressed
forward to help her to the chintz sofa Dora
had vacated, just as though they were on a
familiar footing in the family. Mr. Thorpe
hovered in the background, not less kindly
in his greeting, and notwithstanding her
pallor Edith's face flushed with animation at
the pleasant surprise. Allan's friends both !
She was glad to see them there, and
said so !

CHAPTER XVII.

VISITORS.

AFTER this, I fancy, rare fish found
their way from the Ribble to Ivy
Fold than to Well Bank ; and many a
plant and fossil only attainable by lithe
young limbs, regardless of rent garments,
were brought for Mr. Thorpe's collection.
Here Martin bore off the palm, for, though
Jasper was equally reckless with regard to
his limbs, he was wonderfully careful of
anything that cost money, his clothes and
books to wit. Many was the stray sixpence
that found its way to his pocket from
Miss Craggg, when his companions came
home from a holiday ramble, with extra
work for the mender and the washer ;

and he, if not quite so trim and speechless as
his grandfather, brought in a minimum of
mud, his frill round his neck and not in his
pocket, one or both of his shoestrings, and
not a tatter or a fray for repair. And did not
half-crowns occasionally follow the sixpences
when his grandfather received the bills for
both ward and grandson, accompanied with
Miss Craggg's flattering report that Master
Ellis must certainly be taking Mr. Proctor for
his model, he was so much more neat and
careful than any other boarder; so very
polite and obliging.

What became of those sixpences and half-crowns
was not very clear. He was never
lavish with his coin. Betty Dyson's most
toothsome cates never drew a penny from
his pocket. From her he bought twine and
marbles, and slate pencils, never sweets ; the
latter he bought from Miss Craggg, and
others, with his polite readiness to run
hither and thither; the other articles he kept
in reserve, to be disposed of at a profit to
less provident schoolfellows whose kite-strings
ran short, whose pelops and cobnuts

were useless Without leverage, whose
marbles were crone before the came turned
in their favour, whose pencil had slipped
through the luckless hole in the pocket, and
whose back would smart if sum or exercise
were not ready in due course.

Waste not, want not ; politeness costs
little and gains much," had been the teaching
of his mother in those early years when
privation, caused b}' prodigality, had given
force to the lesson — and he had certainly
bettered the instruction.

His grandfather had told him to make
the most of his time at school, he would
have to earn his own living in the world,
and he had made the most of it ; had been
sedulous at his studies ; had been always
willing to help idler lads, whose balls and
fishing-tackle and what not were consequently
at his service, and, having a fund
on which the impecunious could draw — always
on interest payable on pocket-money
days — he was sure of help from the upper
class boys when needed ; and he had managed
it all so cleverly that he was a general

favourite ; and if he had been dubbed
*' Foxes," it was more in admiration of his
peculiar talents than otherwise ; indeed, he
rather regarded it as a compliment.

Oddly enough, he never attempted to
conciliate Martin, whose liberal allowance
of pocket-money came, so he presumed,
from the same purse as his small one, which,
to his thinking, was hardly fair.

Probably he thought there was more to
be gained by joining the majority in tantalising
the outlandish foreigner, who twiddled
with the strings of a guitar ; and he did not
feel better disposed towards him after
Burton and his grandfather spoke their
minds so freely, even if he felt constrained
to be civil. The rapid advance of Pickers-gill
at school he attributed wholly to
favouritism, and the manifest prepossession
of Mr. Thorpe added another drop to the
jealousy in his cup ; it needed but a like
show of partiality from Edith to brim it
over.

There can be little doubt that the lonely
lot of the handsome West Indian, parentheses

like herself, struck a sympathetic chord in
Edith's breast, but she was too innately the
lady to give it emphasis, to the neglect of
his more ordinary companion, and was
equally friendly with both.

When Janet lowered the danger flag she
had hoisted, and the little housekeeper resumed
her nominal rule, and showed her
face at church, other visitors, "gentle and
simple," came to Ivy Fold, the former to
munch spice-cake and sip gooseberry wine,
the latter to be regaled with home-brewed
ale, cake and cheese, and both to offer congratulations.


Amongst the latter, Solomon Bracken,
who thanked God Almighty he could
banish to git aba2;ht a bit i'th sunshine wit'
help o' twee sticks," must be noted, his
homely congratulations had such a professional
flavour, and were so mingled with
lamentations that anybody but himself
should have tolled the knell and opened
the grave for poor j\Irs. Thorpe, he lead
counted on dein' his best for shoo sa lang,
an' ta think that gaumless Joe Guyer sold

dee 't at last an' aw through t'ghoast!"
As he recalled the memories of that awful
Saturday night which had left such a blank
in her 3'oung life, Edith shivered, not the
less that he dogmatically insisted on the
evidence of his "own even " that he had
seen a disembodied spirit, " a token " of her
mother's end, and scouted as an insult to
his common sense her secretions of human
agency.

She had been trained to disbelieve in
such, but as she listened to his imperfect
utterance, and watched from the gate she
herself had kindly opened for him, how
painfully the old man dragged his limbs
along the road, to her lips arose once more
the decisive, "I could never forme mischief
so thoughtless and cruel."

She had not left the gate when the postman's
loncj tin horn was heard, warnings the
village scribes to have their correspondence
ready for him to carry away, and to hail
him, for he made no pause where he had
nothing to deliver; and Settle post-office
was a mile away.

Edith had a letter for Allan awaiting; the
postman ; and he had two letters for Ivy
Fold, on which the united postal charge was
eleven pence. Both were for Mr. Thorpe,
and Mr. Thorpe was " over the hills and faraway."


Edith turned them over, wondering if
either required immediate answer ; and
Dora insisted on knowing all that outsides
could tell. One, apparently from Leeds,
was addressed in a minute, cramped hand,
which the former at once recognised as that
of Honest John, and she knew well that,
whatever might be the nature of its business,
pithy sayings and moral quotations
would fill up all valuable space, as her stepfather
had shown her. Nay, a verj^ shower
of tiny slips might tumble thence when the
wafer was unfastened, scraps of wisdom and
terse philosophy cast aside by the receiver,
but gathered and treasured in the desk and
in the brain of the young girl.

From her Aunt Statham came the other,
to set curiosity on the qui vive, Mrs. Statham
being chary of her correspondence. Dora's

small stock of patience was exhausted long
before the pedestrian returned from his
three days' ramble, laden with spoil from
moss and moorland, rock and cave.

Mrs. Theodora Statham had been right sofar
as her namesake was concerned. In all
Edith's elfin lore the fair' godmothers had
gracious gifts to bestow, and the antiquated
spinster having had an open hand, it followed
that Dora looked upon her oddly-dressed
godmother chiefly as a bestower of
crowd things, and wondered if there was
half sovereign under the hem red seal.

She sat nearly all the third day in her
window-seat, with dolly and Tippie in her
arms, the latter by this time developed into
a finely marked cat, remarkable alike for
intelligence and affection, which could only
arise from a grateful sense of care, caresses,
and protection, contrasted in memory with
previous cruelty and starvation. As proof,
it never forgot Martin Pickersgill, and would
sit at the back door to watch him pass to
and from school, greet him with a quiet
*' mia," then walk gravely in, as if a duty

had been done, and, if he entered the house
and failed to caress him, would sidle up to
him or mount his lap, and, untaught, with
uplifted paw draw his hand to his bent
head, as an intimation it was there to be
stroked. And not alone with him, but with
Edith and Dora, in whose arms puss was
wont to nestle, with his head on her shoulder,
and his paws round her neck, as if he
had been human. Indeed, there were
human beings within his sphere to whom
Tip might have taught a lesson.

A tiny black spot on the end of his white
nose, and a habit of putting out the tip of
his tongue when purring his satisfaction, had
won pussy his cognomen which had grown
with the handsome tabby from Tip to Tippie.

Mutually caressing, he and his little mistress
watched at the recess window, as they
had often watched before, Tip's sharper eyes
and ears "divino; the signal to dismount and
clamour to have the door opened that she
might rush, with puss at her heels, to meet
her father at the gate.

"A letter from Aunty 'Tatham " had

A^OL. I. S

been proclaimed in advance, but, to Dora's
mortification, John Wilson's communication
was opened, read and re-read before the
other was even glanced at.

Indeed, in Archibald Thorpe's pre-occupation,
it might have been forgotten, but for
impatient Dora, who would then have had
to forego — not a coin concealed from postal
authorities — but a visit to her great-aunt,
who had therein sent a formal invitation to
both her nieces, and expected an immediate
reply. The invitation was equivalent to a
command. Even Mr. Thorpe considered
he had no right to resent personal indignity
to the detriment of Dora, and accordingly a
letter, assigning absence as a cause for
delay, was written and packed up in brown
paper like a parcel, to be sent by the morning
coach, and so save a day. Saving
postage was no part of Archibald's thought.

John Wilson's letter also contained a sort
of invitation. Several friends of education
were about to meet in a friendly'' way at the
Leeds Mechanics' Institution, to take into
consideration the dense ignorance amongst

the working-class, and to discuss the problem
which was to be started by Mr. Polloc,
How to advance the cause of Mechanics'
Institutions," and both Mr. Polloc and J.
W. were anxious to have Mr. Thorpe
amongst them on the occasion. It went onto
say that, as neither the class-room nor
the library of the Institution was very
large, being little more than the garret of a
house in But's Lane, having an entrance
from Park Row, it was probable the meeting
would adjourn to the rooms of the
Philosophical Society, where their lectures
were delivered, and where he hoped to have
the pleasure of listening to Mr. Thorpe, and
moreover expected that j\Ir. Edward Baines
would once more bring forward his project
of the union of Institutes for mutual benefit.
He hoped, too, something would be done at
the meeting towards the erection of a
suitable building few words were then
adroitly thrown in about Allan, who had
become a member of the Leeds M. L, and,
as he said, " bade fair to be a worthy member
of society also."

s2

In all his life, Mr, Thorpe had never felt
himself of importance to anyone but his
wife and child. He began to feel he had
another place in the scheme of creation, was
called into the ranks of the earnest army
fighting against ignorance, and so he decided
that when he took Edith and Dora to
Skipton he might just as well extend his
journey, see for himself how Allan was getting
on, and attend the meeting as a silent
listener.

Mourning does not require jnuch change ;
but Janet was all in a bustle with suds and
starch, box-iron and Italian iron, to make
the young ladies superlatively presentable
to Deborah and Deborah's somewhat less
important mistress.

Precisely seven days after the receipt of
the letter, the Skipton coach received the
three travellers, Janet husdnsr the mrs, and
crying over them before they stepped in, as
though they were her own and parting forever,
sending sundry messages to Deb,
which were forgotten on the road, and
giving the guard as many charges about

their hair-trunk as if they were going alone,
and were helpless.

It may be she had floating reminiscences
of" parcels, brushes, collars, and cravats left
behind by their guardian when he went
journeying on his own account.

She watched the handkerchief waved
from the window whilst the coach was in
siiiht, then hurried back with a determination,
now the house was clear, to give it the
thorough turn-out impossible in the spring,
and " mak very inch on it es sweet an'
clean es a new pin afore thea doomed
loam."

Deb was duly at the " Devonshire Arms "
to await them, with her arras sedately folded
across her waist ; and not Deborah only, but
Mr. Proctor; he with a face all smiles, she
with a countenance of rigid gravity, cast in
no smiling mould, but in her dress as speckless
and old-fashioned as he, with not a plait
or a fold out of place.

Mr. Proctor was there to convey the
assurance that Mrs. Statham would be glad
to receive the widower, if he had time to

spare for the call, and he was only too well
pleased to be able to excuse himself with a
good grace. He had not yet overcome her
insinuation on the day of the funeral.

Mr. Proctor had o;iven the old lady to
understand (wherever he acquired his information)
that her " supposition respecting
Archibald Thorpe was utterly unfounded,
he was the last man in the world to indulge
a mercenary motive, in. any way or shape."

And Mrs. Stathara, with all her oddities
was the last to retain an unfounded prejudice
once assured that it was unfounded
She was apt enough to conceive one.

^^

CHAPTER XVlir.

AUNT Chatham's SONG.

IT was the first visit the children had
paid to Aunt Statham since Dora was
a hah. To lier, with the parrot, the ,
and the fairy godmother in perspective,
it was a vision of delight, and she
literally danced along, with her hand in
that of Edith, who for her part had much
ado to hide her trepidation. Not that she
was timid on her own account, but she
knew not how soon Dora would get into
disgrace, either with Aunt Statham or stolid
Deborah.

To Edith, therefore, Mr. Proctor's presence
was something beatific, so 
his elastic step and the cordial welcome

ill his voice and smile. They chatted as
they went along of Allan, of her friends at
Well Bank, of his grandson and his ward,
until all that was formidable in anticipation
was forgotten. Had Deborah alone met
them, the young girl would have presented
a very different countenance to the old lady
on their arrival, and it is more than probable
their reception would have been less
gracious in consequence.

As it was, by the time Dora, who ran in
first with expanded arms, had got over
her hu(Z2;in£!; and kissing, Mrs. Statham was
read}'- for the less demonstrative embrace
of the elder grand-niece, and to meet her
pleasant smile with one as encouraging.

I am glad to see you, my dears. I
hope you will consider yourselves welcome,
and make yourselves at home," said she,
the deep frill of her mob-cap shaking not
with the breeze from the open window, but
the earnestness of her speech.

Her voice was, however, almost drowned
in the shrill echo from lier grey parrot,
wonderfully glib with its lesson.

Glad to see you, my dears ! Make
yourselves at home ! Heartily welcome,
heartily welcome ! Kiss Poll, pretty Poll !"

Away with a rush went Dora to return
the greeting of her old acquaintance, who
had made more than one visit to Settle.
Ere she was half way across the large room
to his cage in the embayed front, she
stumbled over something unseen, and fell
sprawling her whole length on the sad-coloured
Brussels carpet.

Of course there was an instantaneous
roar.

Oh ! Fido, Fido, what have you done ?"
exclaimed Fido's mistress, with fan uplifted
in semi-rebuke.

I'm afraid you have hurt the carpet,
Miss Dora," said JMr. Proctor, as he raised
the fallen damsel.

Don't cry, dear," entreated Edith. " It
was not poor Fido's fault," and out came
her handkerchief to wipe away tears.

Not much damage done either to the
beast or bairn," grimly suggested Deb, who
had been waiting stilly apart until the girls

were ready to be shown to their rooms.

Dora, not much hurt, was twinkling away
her tears at Mr. Proctor's suggestion, her
mouth hesitating between a sob and a
smile. At that instant her eye sought the
offending Fido. With a shriek, up went
her hands ; in her fright she started back,
almost overturning Polly and her cage.
This time she was not so easily stilled.

Fido was a large land tortoise, and not a
poodle !

Dora's eyes dilated with horror as she
saw the silent monster slowly put forth the
snake-like head he had retracted, and crawl
along the floor towards her aunt, across
whose wrinkled features grave displeasure
was creeping as silently, her trembling hand
meanwhile going down to caress the head
of her pet, " poor Fido !"

With a stride Deborah reached the terrified
Dora, caught her by the arm, and
simply raying, " Come, it's time your things
were off," nodded to Edith to follow, and
drew the little one from the room.

When they had mounted the stairs and

reached the quaintly oil-fashioned chamber
assigned to tlieni, where the spindly chairs
had worsted-work seats, where amber-lined
netted curtains draped both the windows
and spindly four-post bed, where the very
floor was covered with broadcloth, overlaid
with faded pansies and nasturtiums of tinted
cloth, in a stra<Z2lingj device that would have

7 COO

gladdened the hearts of modern mediaeval
needle workers, then, and not till then, did
Deborah open her lips again, and it was
with a caution.

We'd best, Miss Edith, make th' little
one understand that yon dumb beastie Fido
won't harm her. But it may happen harm
both of ye, if she don't take kindly to her
aunt's pets. So mind !"

A motion or two of hand and head to
indicate that the open drawers of an oaken
bureau were ready for the contents of the
unforced hair trunk, and that there were
dress pegs in a corner closet, and Deborah,
always sparing of words, was gone.

Edith's thanks for the timely hint were
uttered in tones which, clearly as words,.

conveyed her sudden discovery that Deborah
\Yas not as grin as she looked, and, with the
discovery, long instilled repulsion faded like
a mist. In future, Deborah was to be trusted,
not feared.

Before they went back, clothes had been
put away in order, and Dora had been
schooled to regard the tortoise as a wonderful
creature, Robinson Crusoe having been
pressed into the service ; but Dora's first
repugnance was not to be so easih" conquered.
Luckily, Mr. Proctor was not gone
when Edith led Dora into the room where
her aunt sat in somewhat ruffled state, and
he, seeing the blue eyes in quest of the monster,
carried the child to the window, where
under cover of conversation with Poll, who
reiterated her welcome, he contrived to
screen her from the keen grey optics of her
aunt, leaving Fido full in view. When he
fancied her familiar with the unwieldy form
of the peculiar pet, he asked, in his airy
manner, if she had ever heard of the race
between one of Fido's brothers and a pussy
called a hare, the tortoise coming in winner,

and so managed that, before he took leave,
he had induced her to examine Fido's wonderful
armour, and even to put out her little
soft hand to feel how hard it was.

That danger was past. The fluttering
fan was stilled, the snufF-spoon allowed to
rest in its golden case, the puckered lines on
Mrs. Statham's face smoothed into graciousness,
and Edith was inexpressibly grateful to
the old gentleman.

The room in which they ordinarily sat
contained, besides the parrot cage and its
noisy inmate, an old-fashioned harpsichord,
with music and song books to suit. There
was also a fine harp in one corner of the
room.

With this latter instrument both sisters
were familiar. There was one at Mrs. Crash's.
But the curiosity of irrepressible Dora led
her to an examination of the harpsichord,
and finally to inquiries concerning its name
and use, in a stage whisper, to Edith.

The whisper had been overheard. In
excess of affable condescension, Mrs. Statham
rose from her arm-chair, took her seat in

front of the key-board, yellow with age,
and ran her withered fingers over it. The
sound, it could scarcely be called music, did
not seem to satisfy Dora, but presently the
old lady, who had kept a once melodious
voice in marvellous preservation, broke out
into snatches of song, and gave them one or
two Jacobite strains with much spirit, considering;
her are.

The girls were delighted, and so was she.
She had discovered a way to amuse them,
and they to gratify her; she was always
willing to oblige with a song, and never
better pleased than when she caught either
of them humming snatches of her melodies.

Dora" was soon at home even with the
tortoise. At first she only watched hiui
crawl in and out through the open glass door
at the back, appear and disappear amongst
the garden shrubs, but, after a while she
grew bold enough to take a seat upon his
back for a ride on the well-kept walks.
And then Aunt Statham, in the plenitude
of her satisfaction, called Deborah as a
spectator.

In spite of her withered features, Mrs.
Statham was not infirm. It was sunny
weather, and every morning found her stepping
out of doors to take the air and exhibit
her grand nieces, of whom she was not a
little proud, introduced them with much
precision as "Miss Earnshaw" and "Miss
Theodora Thorpe," to the friends, married
and single, she called upon or met. There
were delightful walks around Skipton, and
always with Deborah in attendance — these
were traversed, and then, treat of treats to
Edith, permission was obtained to explore
the Castle, Mr. Proctor being called upon
as cicerone. Mr. Proctor's "two plagues;'
as he playfully dubbed his ward and grandson,
were then in Skipton for their midsummer
holidays, and of the favoured
party.

Josiah Proctor had the history of the
place and people at his finger ends, from
the time when William the Norman granted
it to his follower De Camille, to its brief
possession by the luckless Piers Gaston,
through the fierce battering it underwent at

the Lands of the Cromwellians during its
three years' siege, and its final restorations
by the noble lady, Ann Clifford, whose
motto "Desormais" is stamped in stone
above the chief gateway, and who holds
high place in history as "the repairer of the
breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in,"
and, as they traversed long stone passages and
staircases between the one large octagonal
tower and the numerous old round ones,
scanned monumental brasses and tombs, he
had ample space to discourse on salient
points of character, and of the changes
wrought by time in families.

I'se tired," said little Dora, long before
they stood outside the gate again, where
Mr. Proctor, who had been silently watching
the animated faces of Edith and Martin,
paused once more to impress the motto
"Desormais" upon the latter, as that of a
grand woman who had done a great work.

"It must have cost a lot to build all
those tiresome passages and towers," remarked
Jasper. " I wonder where she got
so much money to waste !"

Waste !" was Edith's sole response.
She had been revelling in the " Sicilian
Romance," "The Mysteries of Adolph,"
"The Old English Baron," and other
volumes of a like nature contained in her
aunt's book-case. Skipton Castle had carried
her back to times remote, and made
them living realities to her.

Waste !" echoed Martin. " I don't call
it waste to build up the ruined home of
one's father, and his people before him.
And only think what a monument she has
built for herself!" he exclaimed, the solidity
of the massive building having impressed
him greatly.

"Then take care you build up your
father's house when you come into your
fortune, Donna Martini," said Jasper, with a
curl of the Hp.

I hope he will'' put in the lawyer, with
quiet emphasis.

"It would not take much of a fortune to
build that up," remarked the West Indian.
"You should see how soon the houses are
built up in Jamaica after a hurricane. They

VOL. I. T

are card houses compared with that," and a
backward glance pointed the words ; then
in an undertone to Jasper only, " But don't
you call me Donna Martini again, or you
will find I shall knock yow house down
pretty quickly."

He looked as if he meant it, and, being in
his grandfather's presence, Jasper thought
silence his best shield.

Tea was waiting for them all at Mrs.
Stathara's. The parrot screamed its loudest
welcome, and Edith carried away the tippet
and bonnet of weary little Dora, too
fatigued to walk upstairs herself It was a
substantial tea, with cakes and sweets, ham
and tongue, the freshest of salads, and
appetites ready to enjoy. Mrs. Statham
was in her most chatty mood, and, when
tea was over, proposed they should " have
a sono all round, " and that Mr. Proctor
should lead off. He. havens Dora in
his mind, after a little preliminary clearing
of his throat, began, with infinite drollery,
"A frog he would a- wooing go !" at which
little Miss was highly amused.

Then Mrs. Stathara, trifling with her fan,
declared her inability to select her own
song, and left the choice to the company.

Dora at once put forward a suggestion that
her aunt should play the harp for there.

Nay, dear, my fingers are now too old
for that," she answered, patting her fair
head, and putting her comfit box in the
child's hand. "The harp will have to wait
for little fingers to "row h\^ ; and now,
what shall I sinir?" and, closing her fan,
complacently seated herself at the harpsichord,
and struck a few notes with every
suspicious line smoothed out of her features,

Edith had been turning over an old
music-book from the bottom of a pile.

Oh, aunt, here is such a sweet song !
Can you sing this, ' Mary's Dream ' ? " and
she placed the book in front of the player.

The change was instantaneous. The thin
hands wandering over the yellow keys were
arrested, then dropped, then clenched as
the listened arms grew rigid, the strained
eyes closed, and the face, from which every
particle of colour faded, became convulsed.

T 2

Edith shrieked, and caught her aunt as
she was falling, Martin coming to her aid.
Dora screamed her loudest.

There was a rush and a commotion.
Deborah was in the room before she could
be called.

Mr. Proctor helped the handmaid to bear
her mistress to a sofa, discomposing her
head-gear thereby. Hartshorn, kept at
hand, was applied to the pinched nostrils of
the sharply-defined nose, and while Poll
cried "What's the matter? what's the matter
?" Deborah demanded stiffly what had
been said or done to " make the mistress
go off," as she called it.

'nothing," said Edith, white and aghast.

Mr. Proctor whispered something to
Deborah.

Nothing ?" cried Deb, with more emotion
than Edith had thought she could display.
" Why, if t' lass had gone th' world
over for something worse, she'd not have
found it. But it's her own fault. I shall
tak' th' book away'' ! Hush-sh ! She's coming
round."

Stand back, all of yon, out of" sight !"
And, at Mr. Proctor's command, the young
people stepped back, Dora sobbing, all more
or less awed, until Poll's solemn echo of
Deborah's " Hush-sh !" changed Jasper's
mood to mirth, and he had much ado to
keep his face in order during the silence
which followed.

Soon they overheard, in tones of acute
pain, "Cruel! cruel! How could she?
Oh ! Deb, I saw him, I saw him 1" The old
woman burst into a flood of passionate tears
on Deborah's sustaining shoulder, and, in the
motion, lost her head-dress altogether, leaving
a closely-cropped, white crown exposed.

The outburst was but momentary. The
grief-bowed head was raised, and, through
the tear-blurred eyes, the aged woman saw
reflected in a mirror before her, Jasper,
with one hand over his mouth, as if to hold
his laughter in, grimacing and gesticulating
with his whole body, while his other hand
pointed to the fallen wig and the grey hair,
which should have been sacred in its owner's
sorrow.

One passion overmastered another. With
vehemence hardly tempered by her late
attack, she — pointing in her wrath to the
mirror — cried,

Out with the wretched imp ! Out with
him, I say !"

And out he went, with Josiah Proctor's
hand upon his shoulder, to receive as sound
a drubbing as ever was administered by
Howson's cane.

That was not all. As Martin retreated
also, and Dora, Edith lost what followed in
the sound of footsteps and closing doors.
It seemed as if Deborah was remonstrating
with her mistress.

"The book should have been put away
lang syne ; how was th' poor lass to know ?"

"Pack them off, I says pack them off!"
was the only answer, and Edith stayed to
hear no more.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE SPIRIT OF POESY AND THE SPIRIT OF
MISCHIEF.

SURE enough when Edith arose next
morning their trunk was packed, and
the owners of the trunk were " packed
off" with it in the afternoon coach, with
no further leave-taking than could be transmitted
through Deborah, Mrs. Statham being
invisible. She had been closeted with Mr.
Proctor best part of the days another last
will and testament being on the tapis. Most
certainly she was a profitable client.

The lawyer's office occupied the ground-floor
of his dwelling-house within hail of the
Market-place, and thither Deborah had been
despatched as soon as Mrs. Statham was up

and dressed. On the step she encountered
Simon Postlethwaite, sober, dry, and
caustic, as his master was vivacious ; and if
Deborah had a friend besides her mistress,
the formal clerk was the one.

She delivered the message of her mistress
with a supplement of her own, whereupon
the clerk took his way to the " Devonshire
Arms," and booked " two insides " for the
Giggleswick coach, feeling as well paid with
Deborah Gill's thanks as Lawyer Proctor
with Mrs. Stathani's guineas, Simon holding
the grave handmaiden, who moved like a
machine, in no small reverence.

He moreover wrote out a clerkly label for
the small hair trunk, and, when the two
sisters, thus ignominiously " packed off''
reached the inn under Deborah's guardianship,
their box going on ahead on the
gardener's shoulders, Simon Postlethwaite
was there to meet them, to tender his humble
services as protector on their journey,
supposing they were at all timid, he having
a dispensation from his master to that effect.

Edith thanked him, but declined. Her

proud spirit was rebelling against her aunt's
caprice and injustice; she would much
prefer travelling alone than with a strange
man who would have to be talked with.

Miss Earnshaw," said Deborah, with
impressive gravity, as the coach was being
horsed, " you will find something at the
bottom of your box. Keep it out of your
aunt's sight. It always makes her ill. She
will come round some day. And, mind!
never let her hear of the fjhost as came afore
your dear mother departed."

As gravely, Deborah shook hands, then
stood with arms folded across her waist to
watch them off. Simon Postlethwaite had
given the guard charge of" box and bairns,"
and it may be the word he exchanged with
one of the other inside passengers was also
in their behoof.

When they were fairly off, Edith found a
small reticule basket in Dora's hands filled
with cakes and strawberries, but she did not
accredit Mrs. Statham with the attention.

That might have been a very sad and
thoughtful ride for Edith, but for a duty at

hand, and Simon Postlethwaite's precaution.
She was inclined to dwell upon her own
loneliness, and, under the shade of her great-aunt's
displeasure, her musings might have
become morbid, had she been allowed to
indulge them.

Dora, however, did not leave her much
time for reverie. She had no talent for
sitting still, and in a very short time became
restless. She would have liked to stand at
the coach window and look out, but the
long legs of the opposite traveller were in
the way, and Edith was at first afraid the
fidgety little one would incommode him.

He was a young man some twenty years
of age, and six feet in height, giving
promise of a stalwart and muscular frame
in maturer life. His face had the same
massive outline, and was lit with an intelligent
eye that looked as if it could kindle
into enthusiasm. His apparel was of homely
texture, but in colour and cut proclaimed
the Quaker, even if his speech and broad-brimmed
hat had not done so.

He speedily relieved Edith's fears for his

discomfort, and, taking Dora on his knee,
said pleasantly that he would " make room
for both, and would gratify the little bairn,"
who soon began, as was her wont, to ply
him with questions fast and thick.

So long as these referred to objects along
the road, Edith let her run on, but when
little miss drifted into personalities, and
required to know the stranger's name,
whence he came, and whither he was ^oina:,
she thought it quite time to interfere, and
give her a quiet lesson in politeness,
at which Dora was inclined to pout.

The young man only seemed the more
amused, and soon they were possessed of
the fact that his name was Thomas Lister,
that he came from Barnsley, was the son
of a farmer and gardener, had gone to a
great school at Ackworth, was going to
Settle, going to see John Tatham, had a
garden of his own, but only cultivated flowers
of poesy'.

Equally communicative was Dora, exchanging
confidence for confidence. At the
mention of John Tatham Edith claimed

acquaintance with the worthy scientific
quaker, and Dora volunteered the information
that their frocks came from his shop.
But, when he spoke of cultivating " flowers
of poesy," Dora was lost in perplexity, and
Edith in a mist of sublime ecstasy.

A poet ! Could it really be her favoured
lot to meet a living poet?

Dora soon settled the point. " Flowers
of poesy! You mean 'specimens. Father
brings home 'specimens." "

Edith explained that Mr. Thorpe amused
himself with botany and geology.

"Then I may meet thy father at John
Tatham's some day, for he and I study
the book of nature from the same leaves ?"

The last word alone caught Dora's
comprehension.

"Leaves — 'specimens? Father don't call
Specimens flowers of poesy !"

At this juncture the coach stopped, and a
farmer, his wife, and son, who had occupied
the other seats, were put down.

As they alighted, the Quaker smiled and,
in language better adapted to Dora's

capacity, explained that he, too, collected
specimens of plants and fossils, but the
flowers of poesy " were of another order.
And in elucidation, with all the enthusiasm
of a young poet who had chanced on good
listeners, he favoured them with specimens,
not only of his own versification, but of
other and better known bards. He started,
just to amuse the child, with Southey's
"Cataract of Lodore," and drifted to the
rest, having a long spell with Ebenezer
Elliot.

Dora's ear was caught with the rhyming
jingle, the rhythmic flow, the sonorous
voice, but as with a lullaby, and soon her
eyelids closed, and her cottage bonnet was
crushing against the collarless drab coat.

But Edith seemed to have entered upon
a world of enchantment. Enthusiasm is as
contagious as fever to kindred souls. Her
dark hazel eye glowed as she listened, and
though the voice of Yorkshire breathed in
every cadence and inflection, she, "native
and to the manner born'* heard only the
utterance of divine poesy. A new spirit

seemed to waken within her. There was no
such living fire in the poetry of Miss Craggg's
class-room.

Would she ever look at a waterfall aojain
without thinking of Lodore ? How she
wondered if it were like Stanford Foss, or
Scalebar !

Aunt Statham, Deborah, Janet, all were
forgotten, and, when some timid query of
her own elicited that Thomas Lister had
verses in print when a boy ten years old,
her thoughts went wandering into dreamland
very far.

The coach, lurching in a deep rut, wakened
Dora to a remembrance of the cakes and
strawberries, putting poetry and dreams to
flight. It was almost time ; they were
drawing near to Settle.

At the "Golden Lion" Thomas Lister
got out, and bade them good day, not, however,
before he had expressed his satisfaction
that there had not been room for him
on the roof of the coach, and his hope to
meet with his young friend again, a hope
reciprocated.

Aunt Stathara little fancies what a
pleasant journey we have had," thought
Edith, forgetting how she had " talked to a

strange man

Janet's surprise was only equalled by her
displeasure, and that was only exceeded by
her delight to have there at " loam aspen ;"
but nothing would persuade her that
Deborali was not "at bottom on it all."

Tippie frisked about there, a poor meagre
shadow of his own self, Janet's explanation
being that "t' cat had fair pined ester 'em."
She had been " too throng i' getting' th' place
redd up t' sit an' leak wi' a cat."

And truly the house was "in apple-pie
order'" she could not have had much time
to play with cats.

Rather too much in " apple-pie order."
She had invaded Archibald Thorpe's sanctum
with brush, pail, and duster, and on his
return was he not wrathful thereat? The
dust she had kicked up was nothing to it !
Even his annoyance at Mrs, Statham's
vagaries was thrown into the shade.

What mischief she had done it was impossible

to say, even he did not realise it all
at once. He could only cry out, " Order,
woman; you have put everything into disorder
; you do not know the very meaning
of the word. 1 cannot find a things I want.
Newton's dog, Diamond, was not more
destructive to his master's papers than you
have been to mine. Heaven save the
student and collector from a tidy woman
and her duster !" and he sat down in a chair
by the window, gazing woefully on the new
classification of papers, stones, and plants by
Janet's method.

A soft hand touched his square shoulder.

Is your loss irreparable, father ? Diamond
destroyed the labour of years. Is
Janet more to blame than the dog? She
was equally unconscious of the mischief she
might do ; and I am certain her intention
was to do you a service."

"Well, well, Edith, perhaps you are
right," Mr. Thorpe said, with a heavy sigh.
I forgive her this time, but never let
her bring brush or duster into this room
again."

From the room, disordered by the very
spirit of order, Edith turned to the kitchen,
where Janet was flouncing about as irate asher
master. "Compare me to a dog ! Ah
nivver wor called a dog afore, an a' for
ridden' agit a heap o' clary rubbing !" she
was muttering, angrily. " He may clean it
agit hissed next time, fur Janet. Dog,
indeed !" And Edith found it a much more
difficult task to soothe the wounded pride
of the domestic who had done the unconscious
wrong, than the temper of the scientific
inquirer who had realised at a glance what
tidiness had done for him. Possibly Janet
had upon her conscience sundry stones and
other " litter " cast into the midden ; and
was less placable in consequence.

Edith had, however, the blessed power of
throwing oil on troubled waters. Janet
toned down, and early next morning
brought in an apron-full of stones and dead
plants, for which she had groped amongst
dust and ashes, and laid them silently in the
window-seat, in sight of her master.

At the bottom of Edith's hair-trunk lay

VOL. I. u

the faded music-book, with a slip of paper
inserted at the unlucky song. In Deborah's
stiff and large hand was written,

Miss Edith,

I trust this book with you for
safe keeping. I would burn it if I dared.
Read the song, and remember it. Some
day, when you are older, perhaps your aunt
will tell you all about it. If not, I will.
Keep the book out of sight.

Deborah Gill."

Dora happened to be downstairs nursing
Tippie, and giving Janet her impressions of
Skipton from the castle to the tortoise, or
it might not have been easy to comply
Dora's inquisitive eyes were everywhere.

The ballads were old and precious, a
future store of wealth to Edith, in whom
poetry lay dormant like gold in quartz.
Yet had she the resolution to put the book
away in a sure place? Nay, she had no
care to proceed when she had gone through
John Lowe's pathetic old ballad —

Aviary's DREAM.

■" The moon had climbed the highest hill

"Which rises o'er the source of Dee,
And from the eastern summit shed

Her silver light on tower and tree,
When Mary laid her down to rest

Her thoughts on Sandy far at sea ;
When, soft and low, a voice was heard

Saying, ' Mary, weep no more for me !'

■" She from her pillow gently raised

Her head, to see who there might be,
And saw young Sandy, shivering, stand
With visage pale and hollow ere :
0, Mary dear, cold is my clay,
It lies beneath a stormy sea.
Far, far from thee, I sleep in death ;
So, Mary, weep no more for me.

' Three stormy nights and stormy days

We tossed upon the raging main,
And long we strove our bark to save,

But all our striving was in vain.
E'en then, when horror chilled my blood,

My heart was filled with love for thee ;
The storm is past, and I at rest,

So, Mary, weep no more for me !

*' ' 0, maiden dear, thyself prepare ;

We soon shall meet upon that shore
Where love is free from doubt and care,
And thou and I shall part no more !'

u2

Loud crowed the cock, the shadow fled,

No more of Sandy could she see ;
But soft the passing spirit said,
Sweet Mary, weep no more for me !' "

Eclith closed the book with a saddened
feeling;, as if she had been intruding into her
aunt's heart and history. How little could
she foresee the circumstances under which
both would be unfolded !

Edith went back to school, and Dora with
her, and never was child so watched, so
tended, so assiduously guarded from sun
and shower, from draughts and discomforts,
as was she. Her wants, her requirements,
were paramount ; so imperceptibly were the
thousand little sacrifices made to her caprices
that Edith ceased to perceive the sacrifice.
There was a dying charge ever in her mind
to influence her action, though asse and experience
were too immature to suggest its
probable tendency.

For some few days the companionship of
other little misses made the change a pleasurable
one, but no sooner did the newness
wear away than Dora began to chafe under

the restraint, and to break out into utter
rebellion. Not even Miss Vaseyy could
induce her to look at the letters on her
battledore (a leafless book of folded cardon
which the alphabets were printed large
for little learners), or to repeat them after
her. She snatched the battledore from her
kind teacher's hand, and threw it across the
room, to the dismay of the assembled school.
Equally refractory was she over her early
lessons in sewing, and gentle Ann Vaseyy
was in despair.

Then Miss Crash; took her in hand, and
Miss Grass's will was stronger than Dora's.

It was some time, however, before discipline
prevailed. The indulgent father at
home, who could see no fault in his loving
little darling, would grant anything so long
as he was not disturbed.

On any pretence, or no pretence, Miss
Dora could buy holidays with kisses, and a
holiday for Dora meant a game of romps,
or a ramble in the fields, or up Ribblesdale,
and consequently meant also so much time
wasted for Edith, whose anxiety to recover

lost ground by close attention to study was
apparently of no moment.

Mrs. Crags; and Miss Crajro; both called at
Ivy Fold to remonstrate with the widower,
but he pleaded the child's delicacy of constitution,
her affectionate nature, her want
of a mother as so many reasons for indulgence,
and could not see how an occasional
holiday could affect Edith, save for the
better.

He was not always at home, fortunately,
and Janet was apt to whip the demurrer up
in her strong arms, and, in spite of kicks
and scratches, bear her off up the village.

Sometimes the boys bound to the Grammar
School would meet them by the way,
when Jasper never failed to salute her as
Felina," and offer to "cut her claws," and
not infrequently would Thomas Claphara
rub his hands in glee as he saw the fight for
mastery between the woman and child.
More than once he had called across the
road, "Shall I come and gobble up the naughty
bairn?" with a display of ogreish grimaces,
certain to frighten her to obedience.

It chanced on one of Dora's refractory
days, when Edith herself had been the
patient victim, Thomas Claphara, standing
at the vicarage gate, had been a witness of
the ineffectual coaxing and pleading the
child required. In the afternoon, about
four o'clock, he loitered near the Bank Well
to watch for the coming of the day-pupils
with their bags and books.

Miss Dora was always one of the earliest
to break loose. As she danced up the
narrow lane he darted upon her, with a
grin on his apish face, caught her in his
bony arms, and ran up the road as fast as
his long, thin legs would carry him, she
shrieking her loudest. On he went for
several hundred yards before he quitted the
road in search of a tree to suit his purpose,
then, climbing like a cat, he placed her
between a fork of the main branches, and,
bidding her hold on, left her there, with aa
intimation that that was the way he cured
bad tempers.

In extremity of horror she clung to the
tree, afraid to fall, afraid to cry out, afraid

lest he should leave her there to starve, and
foxes or bears come and eat her up. Anyway,
the prospect was dolorous.

He was out of sii2;ht, there was no one
there. Minutes seemed woful long. Presently
she began to sob. Then her little
arms grew tired, and, fearing to lose her
hold, she cried out, piteously, " Oh, Edie,
Dora iviJl be good, Dora loll be good !"

She could not see Edith running: distractedly
hither and thither in search of her,
with a conscience full of self-accusation for
losiuGj sii^ht of the child. But she cried to
Edith, nevertheless.

After a time, a terrible time to her, her
tormentor appeared at the foot of the tree,
capering and making antic?, but not offering
to release her. She besjan to identify
Thomas Clapham with a legion of goblins
and evil genii, her notions of either being
somewhat crude.

At length, when his innate spirit of mischief
was satisfied, and he concluded she
had been fairly punished, he opened a
parley, the end of Vv^hich was a vague threat

of horrors in store for disobedience, and on
her part a ready promise of future good
behaviour.

Thereupon he went up the tree, like a
monkey, and descended with Dora to terra-firma,
set her on her feet in the middle of
the road, and bade her "be off." He
laughed until his sides ached as he watched
her dash down the hill ; then followed to
keep her in view, talking to himself all the
way, as was his wont.

Miss Dora's fright was not soon forgotten.
She was thenceforth more amenable to
control, a reminder of Mr. Thomas Clapham
being an unfailing specific for obstinacy.

Of course Mr. Thorpe was indignant, and
called at the vicarage to demand an explanation
and an apology, with some reference
to a horsewhip.

He got the explanation ; for an apology
was told to " be thankful," and was reminded
that his interlocutor's arm and
horsewhip were both as long and strong as
his own.

CHAPTER XX.

A MIDNIGHT EXCURSION.

T has been said that Martin and Jas
per had found favour in the sight of
Archibald Thorpe, but just as the former
was the senior in years and grew in stature
more rapidly than his fellow, so did he
overtop the other in Mr. Thorpe's estimation.
Not that he took more pains to earn
that good-will. One was as ready as the
other to rise with the lark on a holiday
morning, and tramp with him over moorland
and mountain, to hammer away at
rocks, dig up roots, pare off moss and lichen,
or help to carry home the spoil. But even
Mr. Thorpe could discern that the one had
his heart in these expeditions, the other
feigned an interest he did not feel. It mattered

not to Martin whether they rambled
to Singleton or Attermire, to Malham or
even to Ingleborough ; he was gaining health
and strength and information with every
step ; the languor and listlessness of the
West Indies had passed away ; he trod the
heather or the crag with a fire], free step'
and a kindling cheek, and was quick to
learn what the elder was proud to teach.

It was not he who strayed away to chase
the sheep from their pasture on the scant
herbage above the scars, and occasionally
got into difficulties with the angry rams,
whilst Archibald Thorpe, low on his knees,
bent over and measured the curious holes in
the limestone pavement, and speculated on
their ancient use and origin. It was not he
who talked of "weeds" when the botanist
discovered some common plant, with minute
efflorescence in an unknown habitat. It
was not he who ruthlessly shied a group of
divinities or quartz crystals at an anxious
peewit, and deprecated blame with the easy
declaration " there were lots to be had
where those cause from."

Something beyond either plants or fossils
must have hin at the bottom of this reticent
man's liking for the dark-complexioned
youth who knew nothing of his pedigree, so
little of his immediate kith and kin ; who
could only tell that his mother's name was
Nez, and she of Spanish blood, and that
his father, the indigo-planter, Lawrence
Pickersgill, was an Englishman. Certainly
something, or Archibald Thorpe had never
been stirred to question him so closely, or
to resolve he would some day ask Mr.
Proctor what he knew of Martin's relatives,
even though the absent man forgot, and the
'' some day " never came.

Absent indeed, for he never tliouirht of
future possibilities when, at the close of
these holiday excursions, he carried the
boys home with him to Iv}^ Fold for early
supper; or when, the meal over, he would
spread out his earthy collections of roots
and stones on the polished parlour table,
to the sore annoyance of Janet, or seated,
well contented, in his chintz-covered armchair,
with his back to the recess, would

cross his long limbs and listen, whilst Martin
and Edith practised with voice and
piano — to which sometimes the guitar was
added — the duets Mr. Julian, their music-master,
set them at school, calmly looking
on while Jasper — whose education did not
include music, and to whom nature had
denied a voice — found an outlet for his
boyish jealousy in tantalizing Tippie, which
was equivalent to tantalizing Dora ; or, to
show his indifference, built card-houses for
the child, or with the same cards initiated
her into the sublime mysteries of ,
his grandfather's prohibition
notwithstanding. Absent, indeed ! But why
should a man, pondering the occult secrets of
creation, be expected to note the actions or
development of young people, even though
one should be his own ? The fossilized
past had a more intelligent voice for him
than had the human present.

It is true he had been awakened to the
intellectual needs of the people at large,
and was filled with the importance of the
mission he had undertaken, to carry the

stores of his information to the uneducated
in dark corners of the county ; but, intent
on the enlightenment of the masses, his
mental vision had so wide and comprehensive
a range, it is small wonder the inconsiderable
individuals on his own hearthstone
were overlooked.

Matters went on at Well Bank pretty
much in the same round. Miss Craggg, the
Minerva of the establishment, Mrs. Crafjcr,
the Penelope, her busy fingers darting the
swift hook throuoi:h the muslin in the ,
or plying netting or knitting-needles
even when drawn into the garden
and the sunshine by ever-ready hands.
Poona-painting and velvet-painting, hem-ranch:,
seamimx, and backstitchinof, with the
Reading-made-easy and Major, found occupation
for Miss Vaseyy in the school-room —
out of it her duties were multifarious.

Apple-tree Hall kept up its repute as a
focus for mischief, the lads varied their
lessons with gallant or elfish tricks on the
girls, got into and out of quarrels and scrapes,
stole the fruit, smoked surreptitious pipes,

frightened the maids and Mother Wellinfrtoii
with her own rip-raps and crackers, and performed
sundry exploits for which there is
no space in this chronicle ; but throughout it
all Jasper kept in favour with Miss Craggg,
When Martin would leave a scrap of his
stout fluttering on the top of the tallest
tree in the parish, Jasper would come home,
neat and trim ; then he had an eye like a
hawk for stray pins, needles, buttons, tacks,
or twine, and was not beneath stooping topick
them up in the house or on the road.
If a pin was wanted there was always a
collection under the coheir of Jasper's
jacket; if a parcel or a jar needed tying
he was sure to have a ball of scrap twine in
his pocket, so very careful was he, and this
frugality of his commended itself to Miss
Orao'O".

^* "no*

That year wore itself out, and another
was on the wane before Martin had his
innings.

It chanced that some of the Clapham lads
conveyed to the Grammar School intelligence
that a tribe of gipsies lead encamped

on Clapham Common. Here was food for
adventure ! A conclave, with Burton at its
head (assembled in Apple-tree Hall, when
all good folk were supposed to be abed),
decided on a moonlight visit to the encampment
the following night, and Martin, whose
imagination had been excited by gipsy tales,
and who had more than once been likened
to a Spanish gitano, consented to be of the
party. Within the last few months lie had
strengthened considerably, was no longer
afraid of exposure to the night air, or a
midnight ramble ; besides, was it not September,
ripe and mellow as its fruits ?

The "Ebb-and-Flow " was appointed as a.
general rendezvous, the hour for starting
eleven, b}' the church clock. Six or seven
miles lay between them and Clapham Common.
They must be oflP in good time if
they meant to have a fair gossip with the
gipsies, yet must they wait until there was
small chance of meeting tell-tale stragglers
by the way.

It yet wanted souse ten or fifteen minutes
to eleven when Martin was awakened by a

slight noise, which he took to mean Burton
and Jasper at his door. He had
laid his clothes ready overnight, with his
shoes tied together for slinmno; round his
neck, whilst he descended the pear.tree
ladder. Quickly slipping on socks and
trousers, he had his waistcoat in his hand,
when a sort of stifled groan met his ear,
and made him pause. It was followed by
a crash as of glass, and another suppressed
moan.

He was fully awake now. The sound
came from the next chamber, where Miss
Craggg slept.

In another minute he was tapping at her
door, but a moan was the only distinguishable
answer, and he ventured to raise the
latch and speak through the slightly-opened
door.

"Are you ill, Miss Craggg? Can I do
anything for you ?"

Oh-h ! my face is aching dreadfully.
My bottle and glass are both gone. I dropped
them in a sudden spasm. Oh ! what
shall I do ?" she gasped rather than said.

VOL. I. X

Wait awhile, I'll soon get you some
more," cried Martin, and he was gone, leaving
her in pain, and in perplexity as to his
meaning?.

Had not her head been muffled in a
woollen shawl, she might have heard other
footsteps pass her door, and been in greater
perplexity.

Martin had known at once that her " bottle"
meant the specific of Dr. Burrow for
face-ache, or as we call it now neuralgia, and
he had his vest and jacket on, his window
opened, and was down the great pear-tree
and putting on his boots in less than three
minutes.

He had bridled Punch and led him from
his stable as the church clock was striking,
and under cover of the sound his companions
joined him.

Off to Dr. Burrow's and not with us ?"
was the general exclamation when he had
explained.

I say now, that's not fair, to sneak off
that way !" cried Jasper, as Martin opened

the gate and was mounting the bare-backed
pony.

I'm not sneaking off. I'll be after you
and overtake you before you are two miles
away. Or you can wait for me at the ' .'
" I cannot let Miss Craggg suffer
if I can help it. It would spoil all my pleasure,"
and off he went as fast as Punch's
shanks would permit, leaving Jasper to sneer
at his leisure and to "go gipsying " without
him.

But Martin did not follow

He reached Lazy Corner, pulled the night
bell — the doctor always kept a night-lamp
burning — and before long was speeding
back with a fresh bottle of the infallible
remedy.

Punch was turned loose in his paddock,
and up the tree, bottle in pocket, went
Martin. The clatter of Punch's hoofs on
the paved yard had roused Ann Vaseyy as
they went. Her listening ears caught her
cousin's moans. There was a light burning
in ]\Iiss Cragfoj's room when he handed in the

DO

x2

bottle, and an explanation was required aston
his means of exit when doors were locked
and barred.

The specific did its duty, and Miss Craprg
must have been grateful, but there was no
going off for Martin.

Ann Vaseyy remained with her cousin so
long as pain was paramount ; and, not being
inclined for after-sleep, was awake to the
fact that there were footsteps in the house,
before it was the servants' hour to rise.

The spirited little woman was out on the
landing to confront the supposed robbers
without a moment's hesitation. She confronted,
not thieves, but midnight excursionists
who had fallen amoncr thieves, and
were somewhat airy in their apparel.

Their trip had scarcely been as satisfactory
in fact as in anticipation, although they had
seen the gipsies ; since those interesting
nomads had obligingly relieved them, not
only of the coin in their pockets, but of the
pockets likewise, and that without the
preliminary of severance from outer broadcloth.


There was immediate work for the tailor.

and work for gibing tongues, schoolfellows
being as ready with banter as croaking Solomon
Bracken with his after-date wisdom.
Thomas Clapham was in ecstasies, and in
face of his derision Mrs. Craggg's homily was
as nothing.

There was an immediate change of apartments.
Miss Vaseyy took possession of the
room over the pear-tree.

There was an end to night rambles, an
end also to Miss Craggg's tacit hostility to Martin,
and she was less ready to open her ears
to hints and suggestions in his disfavour.

If she was more gracious, his fellow-boarders
were not. They, Burton excepted,
resented this desertion and their detection
as an act of treachery. Jasper in particular,
whose jacket had gone, and with it not
only seven or eight shillings hidden in the
lining, but the prospect of his grandfather's
crown piece at the end of the " half," was
bitterly incensed, and resolved to "' pay the
rascal off." He had been wounded in his
most vital part, and such wounds are long

in healing. There was another grudge ot
longer standing against Martin, and he calculated
on paying off both at once.

He did not wait long for his opportunity,
and probably without the opportunity
Jasper's threat might have been mere
vapouring.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

villi 040258292

S ,y^

%

LIBRA

OF TH

UN I VLR

or Ill r



31Z

>/.2

E

city
OIS

\J^

ys^s^sBtisp

m

OR,

UNDER THE SCARS.
VOL. n.

OB,

UNDER THE SCARS.

% ^oxl\%hm StoriT.

BY

MRS. G. Linnaeus BANKS

AUTHOR OF

THE MANCHESTER MAN,"

"GOD'S PROVIDENCE HOUSE,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1880.

AH rights reserved.

PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD,

BLENHEIM HOUSE.

<< -, .?

WOOERS AND ¥0!(ERS.

CHAPTER I.

THE MAGIC LANTERN.

THE shortest day, that precursor of
Christmas, the season of steaming
breath and roaring fires, was close at hand ;
the yew-trees, in their prime, were darkly
green against the grey scars ; the red berries
of the mountain ash were almost gone,
icicles were pendent from the bare boughs
of oak and sycamore, from the cottage
eaves, and from the rugged, spray-encrusted
rocks, over which the Cateral waterfall
leapt, noisily defiant of the frost, although
the parent-beck seemed already shivering in

VOL. II. B

the sharp air, and inclined for a drowsy-sleep.
The robins came to windows and
doorsteps for their meed of thoughtful
crumbs, and home to Ivy Fold had come,
all unexpectedly, Allan Earnshaw, proud as
so young a man well might be, who had
come on such an errand.

His was a brief holiday, little more thana
week. It did not include Christmas, but
it gladdened other hearts besides his own.
People in those days were not holiday-mad ;
they had scarcely begun to live and travel
at railway speed, and his visit comprehended
the charge of Miss Metcalfe on her final
journey home ; a charge the importance of
which had been doubly impressed upon
him.

Firstly, by Mr. Metcalfe, solemn and imposing
always, stern and unbending on
occasion, who, in the glazed privacy of his
inner counting-house, graciously' informed
him that he never allowed Miss Metcalfe to
travel alone ; that hitherto Mr. Sheepshank
had been his deputy when business demanded
his own presence in the town ; that

he had been impressed with the steady
habits of Allan, his close attention to business,
the way in which he spent his evenings,
and, above all, with his strict sense of duty
and honour.

It had occurred to him, therefore, so he
said, that, as Mr. Polloc was in London,
Mr. Sheepshank ill at home, and himself,
consequently, tied to Leeds, he could not
better mark his appreciation of conduct and
character than by selecting Mr. Earnshaw
to act as his deputy on the occasion of j\Iiss
Metcalfe's farewell return from school. He
need not remind him that he entrusted him
with a precious charge, but he believed him
fitted to transact all needful business with
Miss Cra22:, and did not doubt his attention
to the young; lady's comfort during the
journey. He could depart at once, Mr.
Metcalfe added, so as to have a few days
also with his own friends.

Allan's colour rose and his fluency forsook
him as he thought of the two hearts embroidered
on a bit of muslin, and heard his
watch tick-tick as if it throbbed in keeping

Y. 2

with their secret. But in the dim limit of
that inner office the great man saw only
modesty overpowered by condescension and
favour.

Mr. Thorpe was a dreamer — a speculative
dreamer : his wits went wanderings amongst
antediluvian and mythic existences.

Mr. Metcalfe was also a speculative man,
but he was wide awake — at least, in any
matter of business or brokerage, and, if his
wits went wool-gathering, he generally
brought home the wool and other people's
sheep were shorn, so wide awake was he,
and yet upright withal. But they did not
traffic in human hearts in the wool-market,
unless, perchance, the few that were broken
on their way to bankruptcy ; and Mr. Metcalfee
had left his own youth so very far
behind that in the matter of young hearts
he was as blind as a bat — or Mr. Thorpe.

Had anyone given either a shake, the one
would probably have said, "Pshaw! schoolgirls
and school-boys !" waved a contemptuous
hand, and turned again to this price-list;
the other have looked up hazily,

ejaculated, "What! those children?" and
smilingly resigned himself to the contemplation
of that scientific problem, the 
Well, so as to bring his theory
into accord with that of Dr. Burrow ; or to
his lecture on the " Germination of Plants."

But in Metcalfe and Police's outer office
was one always wide awake. Basil Buttermere
seemed to have eyes for everything;
and to dive into hearts and motives as
though, being " a man of the world," he
had found the study of humanity a necessity.

The heightened colour, the glad eyes of
Allan, as he returned to his desk, put books
and papers in order, and mounted his top-coat,
did not escape his observation. He
very soon was master of the fiict that his
junior was bound to the Boar Lane coach-office
to book inside places for Giggleswick
and back, and that Miss Metcalfe had been
entrusted to his care.

Buttermere's eyebrows lifted, and his
shoulders. Stroking his chin, he said,

I say, youngster, you're high in favour.
Take care of your romantic heart. I hear

Miss Grace is a wonderfully captivating
demoiselle. And wouldn't there be the
devil to pay if the wrong knees bowed to
Mr. Metcalfe's divinity, or the fair divinity,
fresh from the schoolmistress, should cast
her eyes on the wrong cavalier."

Mr. Buttermere ! you forget yourself !"
exclaimed Allan, loftily.

Then take care you don't forget yourself,"
quoth the other, drily, as Allan, hot
with indignation and a multitude of other
feeling's, hurried out, i2;lad to seek the solitude
of the busy thoroughfares, where
other people had their own business to
mind.

Mr. Sheepshank was away at home ill,
Yeadon was gone to post the London
letters, or Basil Buttermere would scarcely
have expounded his views so openly and
freely. "Was he minding his own business,
or that of others, as he tilted his high stool
back and sat on the edge with legs outstretched
to the wooden foot-bar beneath
the tall desk, nibbling the feather of his pen
and speculating ?

It is said in Craven that whoso is born on
Midsummer Day, or St. Thomas's Day, is
born on the edge of a razor, i.e.^ whichsoever
way he turns he is certain to cut himself.
Be the proverb truth or falsehood, it so
happened that the sunshine of seventeen
midsummers had shone on Allan Earnshaw's
face since that first midsummer when he
opened his eyes to cry at the light, whilst
Jasper Ellis was one of the luckless wights
St. Thomas had patted on the head for
fifteen years.

Other boarders at Well Bank had small
birthday festivals of their own, when a
dainty cake was especially concocted, and
when home hampers held welcome birthday
cheer. But Jasper had no such individual
good fortune ; his festival was always amalgamated
in that of the general " breaking
up " for the Christmas holidays, whereby he
somehow felt himself defrauded of his
rights.

And what a fuss those Christmas 
occasioned, to be sure! What a
whisking of eirQ;s and pounding of sucfar :

what a picking of currants and raisins ; what
mincing, grating, mixing, rolling ; what
an attack on the preserve pots ; and what
a dire calamity for the pigeons and the
poultry !

And what a business was the gathering,
and bringing in, and hanging up of ever
greens, the furbishing of tin sconces for the
walls, the trimming of candles with coloured
paper frills, the completion and arrangement
of needlework for exhibition, in
which pupils and boarders alike took part,
and what a large amount of small flirtation
was carried on under it all.

This was a special occasion. Not only was
Miss Metcalfe returning home with solid
learning in her head, and light work at her
finger ends, but Burton also was retiring
from the scene with the honours he had
gained under the Rev. Rowland Ingram's
rule. Edith, too, was to say good-bye to
school ; and here was her brother, honoured
by his master, and consequently of all
honour here.

It was a special festival, marked by extra

music practice and recitation study ; and,
in the midst of all, by the search for Martin
Pickerssill's mame lantern, without which

Co ?

white sheets and painted slides were useless.


Who has seen my magic-lantern ? It is
two years since I used it last," was heard in
all parts of the house, as Martin went from
one to another with a small oblong wooden
box in his hand. " Here are the glass
slides, but what has become of the lantern
?"

No one knew, or no one would confess
his knowledge. The boys' room was overhauled,
then there was a general rummage
of closets and boxes, for the exhibition of a
magic-lantern at a country school-party was
by no means to be despised, and the loss of
the lantern meant disappointment to more
than the extreme juveniles — still no lantern
was forthcoming.

Have you got it in Apple-tree Hall?"
was John Danson's suggestive query.

"No, we have not, Master Ready," answered
Jasper, snappishly.

Martin took the youngster's hint. " I
may as well ascertain for myself," said he.
Burton, hand me the keys."

"I don't think you'll find it, Pickersgill,"
said the other, as the keys were handed
over. And he did not find it.

I'll tell you what ! We had best club
together and buy Pickersgill a new one ;
Harrison sells them," was the proposition of
Burton, who had justice as well as generosity
in his composition, as soon as Martin's back
vias turned.

Jasper buttoned up his pockets. " I
don't see," said he, with a knowing wink to
intimate the presence of young pitchers,
I don't see why ive should find money
for anything of the kind. If he wants to
show off and play the grandee, let him
buy one himself;" and Jasper's suggestion
overruled Burton's. Yet no one appeared
more fussily anxious to find the missing
lantern, suggesting all sorts of unlikely
places where it might by chance have been
deposited.

They were very merry in the school-room ;

the girls engaged in tying up ivy and holly,
laurel and fir, in long garlands, and Robins,
the tallest boarder, mounted on a ladder,
hammering up the graceful festoons as Allan,
a well-pleased volunteer, obtained them
from the wreath-makers (at the head of
whom were Edith and Miss Metcalfe), and
handed them to him. Mrs. Cracks, seated

CO?

by the fire, gave an occasional hint to the
decorators, and "played propriety" very
graciously. In burst Pickersgill.

It's no use looking," he cried, " the
lantern is not to be found. I'm downright
vexed, because Mr. Vaseyy sent it me before
he sailed, but vexation will not brincj it
back if it is lost. And so, Mrs. Crasjoj if

7 CD?

you have no objection, I will run off to
Settle and buy a new one. I should be so
sorry to disappoint anybody."

Go, certainly," assented the old lady,
with a smile. " It is very kind of you."

"How he does get praised," muttered
Jasper to himself, as he stood in the doorway.
" I'm sick of it. And there's Edith
Earnshaw smiling; as if he had done something

wonderfully generous. It's easy to be
kind and generous if you've lots of money.
But I'll put a stop to it, see if I don't."

He darted into the room as if struck with
a sudden inspiration.

Oh ! Pickergsill," he blurted out, " have
j^ou thought of looking in your old room ?"

Miss Vaseyy has looked," answered Martin.
"It is not there."

Miss Vaseyy," called out Jasper, through
the open door across the hall to the parlour,
where she was laying out wafer baskets,
painted velvet stools, bead-work bracelets,
silk watch-guards, and purses, all to the
best advantage, *' Miss Vaseyy, did you lookin
the corner cupboard in your room for the
lantern ?"

She answered in the affirmative.

Did you look in the recess at the back
of your bed ?"

Certainly not ; we must have moved the
bed."

I'll move it, Miss Vaseyy, if you don't
mind us looking there."

It's no use your looking there," unfortunately

put in Martin, "■ an out-of-the-way
place like that."

"Isn't it?" said Jasper, with a knowing
wink at Allan, which puzzled the latter ;
and, Miss Vaseyy being willing, he went to
her sanctuary, which, prior to the midnight
gipsy party, had been the dormitory of
Pickersgill and Danson. First he scrambled
up to bring his eyes on a level with the
cupboard top. It was not there. He knew
it was not.

There had formerly been two windows in
the room, but when William Pitt, of glorious
and national. debt memory, imposed a war-tax
upon light, people blocked up spare
windows in excess of the number allowed
by law, and one of these two windows had
been so boarded up, leaving a recess in the
thickness of the wall.

This was concealed by the chintz-covered
head of the four-post bed, but Jasper, drawing
the curtain aside, showed that a gap was
left uncovered.

Through this narrow opening he thrust
his arm, as if to feel aloncr the shelfJike

ledge; then, drawing something forth, with
a shout and a bound, he was off downstairs,
with Martin and Ann Vaseyy close behind
him.

I have it ! I have it ! I thought it
must be hid somewhere," and he flourished
a japanned lantern, covered with dust, full
in view of the whole assembly.

"Well, I'm glad it's found," said Martin,
"but how it got there puzzles me," and he
appeared as if he were diving into his
memory.

Perhaps Sally laid it out of her hand
when your things were removed. Master
Pickers<2;ill," su2;2fested Mrs. CraQ-gj, " and the
bed was put up without its being noticed."

Very likely," assented Martin, taking
the lantern in his own hand; "but what is
this ?" he cried, in very palpable surprise,
"the oil-box is gone, this is only an empty
case ! Some one has been meddling with
my lamp ; and I should like to know who
it is !" and he looked from one to another.

Martin and his defective lantern were
surrounded.

Wardrop blustered,

And pray who should meddle with your
paltry lantern? Who cares to play the
showman but yourself?"

Martin's colour rose, and it is likely some
temper was rising with it, but Ann Vaseyy
and Mrs. Craggg interposed, and checked the
altercation at the outset.

Mrs. Chairs's, " Young; gentlemen, remember
there are ladies present !" was more
effective than such reminders usually are
when insults are resented.

Jasper took note of this, and slily whispered
to Allan,

I say, don't you think Peppery Pickers-gill
is deuced tame over this thing of his ?
It looks as if the dark lantern could tell a
tale if it had a tongue. Do you think he
had really lost it, or it had been hidden
behind the bed, on purpose, out of the
way ?"

Well, he does take it more coolly than
one might expect from him. But why
should he hide it ?" asked Allan, in the
same undertone, apart from the rest.

Well, you know it has never been seen

since " and, as if a runaway horse had

been pulled up b}^ a sharp pluck at the
reins, Jasper stopped short.

*' Since when ?" asked Allan.

"Oh, never rain. I had forgotten myself,
that was all," and Jasper made as
though he wished to slip away.

"Now, look you, Foxes, you wear forget
yourself, so just out with it," said Allan,
bluntly

But nothing more was to be got out of
Foxes, except — and that seemed to be extracted
from him as if it were a double
tooth — "Well, then, since February twelvemonth,"
and then he stood under the ladder
and began to help j\Iiss Vaseyy very industriously
to clear away the litter of leaves,
string, and so on.

February twelvemonth !" pondered
Allan, as he moved towards Miss Metcalfe
and Edith, who stood with her bonnet on
ready to depart. "February? Why, that
was the month ni' mother died. I wish
people would say nothing, or sa}- what they

mean. But what does it matter to me ?
I've nothing to do with the fellow's lantern.
I'll ask Edith. No, I won't. I've no right
to make her uncomfortable."

How serious you do look, Mr. Earn-shaw
!" said Grace Metcalfe, in a tone half
simper and half banter ; " you might have
been at a funeral."

If his thoughts had been, they soon came
back, though every now and then the unsolved
puzzle would return, " What does
Foxes mean ?"

The decorations were complete, the litter
cleared away, the assistants gone home, and
Martin was on his way to Settle to purchase
another magic-lantern, his good nature
having decided the question that the disappointment
of a number of children and
others who had not joined in the sneer at
the "showman," would be no balsam to
either wounded pride or honour. Not that
he meant to sit down tamely under the insult,
or to remain quiescent whilst his property
was spirited away, to be returned so
strangely.

VOL. II. C

And whilst he pondered on his way to
Settle, Jasper might have been seen peering;
amon2j the o;rass and Gravestones in the old
churchyard, on the side near the northern
wall, and, after a time, to raise his head
and hurry off with a face as gleeful as
though he had found a prize.

CHAPTER IL

BREAKING UP.

THAT shortest day was all too long for
the expectant misses and masters who,
arrayed in their best "bib and tucker,"
assembled at four o'clock in the decorated
school-room at Well Bank, and, after being
duly regaled with tea and spiced cake,
handed round by the young gentlemen in
attendance, prepared to recite verses, or to
display their proficiency in music or singing
to such friends or relatives as chanced to be
present.

Hard and frosty were the roads, keen
and biting was the air, but under cover of
cloaks and hoods, who cared for frost, when
the walk ended at the open door beneath

c>

the porch, and from the chrysalis-covers
emerged butterflies as airy buoyant, and
vari-coloured as the flatterers of spring and
summer?

And once within the well-warmed house,
brilliantly lighted by ornamented mould
candles in tin sconces, and embowered in
evergreens, who felt that gauze or muslin
was too light or thin for the season ? Who
does think so at a festival, whether it be a
full-grown ball or only a "breaking-up "?

Certainly the young gentlemen rejoicing
in glossy white trousers, and white Marseilles
waistcoats (brilliant with gilt buttons,
as were their blue jackets and swallows
did not think so ; the somewhat
short-waisted, short-sleeved, low-necked
frocks, with the modest lace tuckers to set
off and screen bare shoulders, and the
strings of pearl or coral beads around the
throat, were all that could be desired to
adorn the fair damsels to whom they were
devoted — for the time being — whether aged
six or sixteen.

And was there a youngster there, from

little Will Hartley and John Danson upwards,
who had not singled out some
special white muslin or pink gauze as the
cynosure of the evening, if only" to be gazed
upon at an unapproachable distance ? for
there is, or used to be, such a thing as
shyness even in a school-boy.

There was not much of that same shyness
about Allan, who, being accredited by Mr.
Metcalfe as the guardian of his daughter,
seemed inclined to make the most of his
privilege, and looked imaginary daggers at
Robins and Burton whenever they approached
the azure crape skirts of the charming young
lady who had wreathed her chestnut curls
with artificial forget-me-nots, and clasped a
string of turquoises round her full whitethroat.
Basil Buttermere was right. She
was an attractive demoiselle, and at an
attractive age, sweet sixteen, with full, red
lips, and languishing brown eyes, which
made the forget-me-not wreath a superfluity.


It was quite time Grace Metcalfe left
school, and Allan felt it, ay, to his fingertips,

as they came in contact with hers, even
though her long white cambric gloves and
his kid ones intervened. She had never
appeared half so lovely and entrancing before,
and there needed no whisper of his to
acquaint her with the fact.

His much-loved sister, Edith, so long the
standard of all that was excellent and
admirable, seemed in her plain white muslin,
unrelieved by coloured bow or sash, quite
tame beside the blooming beauty ; yet it
was scarcely possible a girl with such large,
dark, steadfast, intellectual eyes, such a mass
of shining black-brown hair, so broad a
forehead, brows so arched, teeth so regular
and pearly, so intermittent a colour on her
cheek ever could be tame.

Two years in Leeds had done their work
on Allan, physically, morally, and mentally ;
his frame was larger, there was a periodic
harvest for his razor, his clothes had a
better cut, his confidence was greater, his
views of life were wider, this ideas of things
in general had expanded by reading and
association, but his knowledge of the human

heart needed cultivation, and so, it may be,
in contrasting the two girls he misunderstood
the sedateness of the younger, in
whom the stability and thought of womanhood
had developed prematurely, under the
pressure of cares and duties to which the
inner self had been in a great measure
surrendered and subdued.

It may be, too, that young love had
bound its fillet over his eyes, so that he
failed to see how she, entrusted to his honourable
care, was ripening rapidly also into
womanhood, but under the glowing impulses
within ; that Edith was a woman
where Grace was but a child, and that Edith
would be an unsophisticated child in something
more than years, long, long after
Grace was a full-blown belle, a beauty, and
a woman.

Dissimilar as were the twain, they were
close and affectionate friends — I will not
say confidential, for, although there was
some natural reticence in Edith, she would
have shrunk from aught clandestine, and
Miss Grace was not only conscious of this.

but imagined that in a love-secret lay all
the romance and poetry of existence. Yet
had these friends a common theme, a
common bond to link them together, a
knight of romance of whom both were
enamoured, but without fear of rivalry ;
and here he stood as they sat side by side
near the shrouded windows, and hastily
compared them.

"The snowdrop and the rose," murmured
he, bowing low before them. But others
caught the words.

"Take care," said a voice at his elbow.
He turned, saw clear-eyed Dr. Burrow,
who went on, in tones intended but for
Allan's ear, 'take care, my lad, the red
heart of the summer flower mays glow and
burn, but thorns surround the stem, and too
adventurous hands may feel the smart."

"He who would pluck the rose must not
fear the thorns," answered Allan, hotly.

Is it even so ?" sighed the doctor, as he
moved awa3\ " I think I should prefer the
snowdrop, the blossom to weather life's
storms."

Young fellows, as a rule, prefer other
people's sisters to their own," said Burton,
drily, to the doctor, offering at the same
time to relieve him of his empty cup and
saucer ; " but there are fellows without
sisters very much of your mind, sir, or I'm
mistaken," and, with a glance, he directed
that of the doctor to Martin and Jasper,
contending, with seeming anxiety, which
should supply the white-frocked damsel
with cake.

"Ah, well! It may be so. 'The child
is father of the man,' " responded the
doctor. " But the snowdrop is scarcely out
of its sheath yet, and whoso would crop the
flower will have to wade through a snowdrift
to reach it."

Just then Dora, her fair curls shaking
loose as she ran, crossed the room with a
flushed face, saying, as she pushed Jasper
aside to reach her sister with some grievance,
"Move away, Jasper, you'll crush my white
frock, I want Edie."

'' I think, sir," said Burton, confidentially,
^' there is a summer rose growing up to

overshadow your snowdrop, and whoso
would pluck the one, will have to beware
the thorns of the other."

"Think so?" said the doctor, but no
more — and a sudden call, " Seats ! seats !"
put an end to the colloquy.

And now followed an interval of recitations
by Miss Craggg's pupils, the Grammar
School boarders being condemned to listen
whilst the "lovely young Latina " gleaned
another's fields; whilst Cato "reasoned on
the immortality of the soul " ; whilst " Miss
and master went up town, and saw a poor
boy coming down." At last Edith stood
before them with a poem of her own
selection, " The Slave." Her voice faltered
timidly as she began :

Wide o'er the tremulous sea,
The moon shed her mantle of light,
And the gale gently dying away
Breathed soft o'er the bosom of night."

But as she proceeded to tell how

On the forecastle Martin stood
And poured forth his sorrowful tale,"

she seemed to forget her hearers, and to

lose herself in the pathos of the poem.

It was very evident Thomas Lister's
involuntary lesson had not been lost. Miss
Craggg was taken by surprise. Plaudits and
compliments greeted the young elocutionist
as she returned, half-abashed, to her seat,
to be asked by Allan, with some little
annoyance,

I sa', Edith, was there nothing you
could have spoken but that ? Had you
forgotten that Pickersgill, and his father
before him, were slave-owners ? He will
think you meant to insult him."

He will not think anything of the kind,"
answered she, promptly, when Dora ran up
Dora's were not lualkiiig feet —

"Edie, what's the matter with Martin;
he's got his face in his hand, there in that
corner, and won't speak to me ?"

Edith now crossed the room.

Martin, I hope I have not given you
offence with my ' piece.' The selection
was quite inadvertent."

He raised his head, and his eyes looked
up at hers.

Offence ! Impossible 1 No, you have
set me thinking, that is all ! I am deeply
obliged to you. I never saw the evils of
slavery before."

That was a hard hit at Pickersgill," was
Jasper's only comment. " I wonder how
he liked it."

Recitation was followed by fruit and
home-made wine, and then besran the
concert, vocal and instrumental, when
Burton, Wardrop, and Pickersgill took part
with the vouno; ladies. Miss ]\Ietcalfe
rattled over the pianoforte keys in all the
agonies and triumph of "The Battle of
Prague ;" Burton and Wardrop, on piano
and harp, gave selections from " Creation "
and the "Messiah;" and then Pickersgill
and Miss Earnshaw played and sang together
an old-world duet, his guitar accompanying
her piano and voice.

Jasper had sat apart, biting his nails the
while, and looked none too well pleased at
the applause they elicited. Not a few of
the young ladies envied Edith the preeminence
of that duet with the handsome

West Indian, whose coal-black eyes had
done more havoc amongst little hearts, and
caused more rivalry and jealousy, than he
was aware of. Now Jasper had an inkling
of this ; all the more that lie sighed to bethe
admired of all admirers, and could not
understand why he, who was not without
his good looks, and who laid himself out to
be attractive and agreeable, should prove
less fascinating than Martin, who appeared
to think nothing about it. His jealousy of
his grandfather's rich ward was many-sided ;
to-night it seemed as if a fresh grievance
was superadded.

I don't see why the fellow should cut
me out in everything," he muttered, but he
thought proper to come forward and compliment
the minstrels, nevertheless.

A few minutes later John Danson plucked
Martin by the arm.

Pickersgill," said he, "you take care of
your guitar. I overheard Robins and Ellis
just now chuckling together, and 1 caught
the words ' his guitar.' I am sure they
mean mischief."

"Nonsense!" replied Martin. "They
were only making game of me and my
music, as usual," and, the room being now
clear of visitors and pupils, who were busied
inspecting needlework and prizes in the
parlour, he began to clear the temporary
platform and adjust his apparatus, whilst
Jasper, Smith, and Danson re-arranged the
seats, and extinguished the liojlits. The
large white sheet on which his pictures were
to be cast had been previously suspended
across the windows on the opposite wall.

Martin's exhibition was a treat, and went
off most successfully. There was laughter
and clapping of little hands as comic and
grotesque figures were made to dance
upon the disc, and quieter exclamations from
maidens more mature, and when the slides
were withdrawn some little eifmlinsf and
whispering under cover of the dark, never
to have been tolerated in the full blaze of
the candles.

The exhibition over, the door was opened,
light streamed in from the passage, and spectators
and exhibitors were expected to pour

forth into the other room for sandwiches,
tartlets, and other comestibles, prior to
breaking up.

As Martin leapt down from his elevation
in the semi-darkness a music stool in his
wa' upset and he fell over it.

There was a crash, as of something broken,
followed by a chorus of cries and ejaculations
from startled girls and others.

Ann Vaseyy rushed in with a light.

Martin was on his feet again. The guitar
his mother s guitar — was a wreck.

As tenderly as the doctor would have
raised an injured child Martin lifted the
shattered instrument from the floor, and
gazed upon it with straining eyes, as the
blood forsook his olive-tinted skin, and left
him ghastly.

His heart midst almost have been broken
with it — he stood there so still and
speechless.

Gone, my dead mother's guitar, gone !"
burst from him at last, passionately yet
sadly. "I shall never plays again; the
music of my life has gone with it."

A crowd had gathered round full of
condolence and regrets. He heard but the
oily voice of Jasper.

We are all very sorry for your loss,
Pickersgill, but you really have no one
to blame but yourself. You should have
been more careful how you moved in the
dark."

For an instant Martin had the aspect of
a lion about to spring on its prey ; then he
gulped his passion down as he was thus
reminded his own impetuous haste was in
fault.

Yet was not John Danson's caution fresh in
his mind ? And was he not sure he had
placed the music-stool and the guitar upon
it under the piano for safety before the
room was darkened ? Could he be sure
that accident and not design had removed
them into his way ?

Ashamed to stand there a gaping-stock
for pity and curiosity, Avitli emotion and
rage contending for the mastery, he hurriedly
thrust the crowd aside, and, with the
treasured relics in his hands, dashed up the

stairs to his own room and fastened himself
in. A needless precaution ; not even John
Danson would hare cared to obtrude upon
him then.

He had a fiery, yet a tender, soul ; and
he was wont, when angry passion threatened
to o'er master him, or wounded feelings to
grow womanish, so to seclude himself until
he could come forth the conqueror.

He was not seen again that night. Who
suspected Jasper? Jasper, so sorry, so
sympathetic over the disaster of his grandfather's
ward ? Or who, suspecting him,
would have said it was anything more thana
" boy's trick " ?

If he had any compunctious visiting they
had vanished by the time hats and cloaks
were donned, or he would never have
whispered what he did to Allan, in the
shadow of the porch, whilst Edith stood
at the gate in the frosty starlight ; wondering
how she could have borne the destruction
of any such memorial of her mother ;
and muffled-up Dora was stamping about
impatient at delay.

VOL. II. D

That shortest day had a busy next
morning; there was a house to be cleared,
not merely of the miserable fragments of
a festival, but of the human atoms for
whom the festival was instituted. Ann
Vaseyy was as much at her wits' end as Sally
and her subordinate, so many half-packed
boxes waited to be filled with holiday attire,
to have the neatly folded bill laid atop, to be
fastened and corded.

But where were the strong hands usually
so willing to help her at cording ?

Had she been less occupied she must
have heard through the clear air the sound
of loud-voiced altercation from Apple-tree
Hall, where the customary parting words
had given place to quarrelsome disputation.


Burton had called a meeting to surrender
his key of office, and Martin had gone
thither to protest openly against the last
outrage on his feelings and patience, and
to demand information respecting his magic-lantern.


You bound me to secresy when first I
was admitted here," he said, his eyes glowing
like red-hot coals, "and I have kept
your secrets, so far as I knew them, even to
mv own dishonour. But I insist on knowing
how far I am compromised ; and to what
use my lantern has been put. I know who
found it. I can guess who hid it. I cannot
tell why it comes back defective, and I insist
on knowing who placed that music-stool
and guitar where I was certain to fall over
them !"

Many ejaculations expressive of contempt,
hauteur, indignation at his presumption, had
broken in upon his speech, but he would
not be put down or interrupted.

Burton took part with Pickersgill, and
maintained that, having bound himself to
keep their secrets, he had a right to know
them, and that if any one of them had, out
of malice, caused the destruction of an
instrument he prized, the offender ought to
apologise or be expelled.

"Oh-heh! ouahthe?" said Robins.

D 2

Apologise to Senhora, who hasn't spirit
enough to set a game on foot or share in it!"
said Wardrop, loftily.

Who whimpers over a piece of po-entry,"
added Jasper, with a curl of the lip.

A dip candle, stuck in a bottle neck, was
all their light, but it sufficed to show the
face of Jasper as he spoke, and guide
Martin's hand, as he struck out and hit him
straight between the eyes.

The candle was overturned. There was
a struggle in the dark, Martin gripped the
other by the collar, dragged him into the
orchard, and insisted on "having it out"'
then and there.

But Jasper, who stood in fear of his
grandfather, if not of Martin, shook himself
free and, safe under the wing of Robins,
accused Pickersgill of coming to disturb a
friendly parting with base insinuations and
bravado. And Martin, not caring to act on
the defensive to such an accusation from one
too cowardly to defend himself otherwise,
with a glance of infinite contempt, took the
arm of Burton, and left the orchard.

Breakfast was over, and the boys free
until coach-time. Burton and Martin betook
themselves to Solomon Bracken's to
have a chat with him, and listen to his
harangue on the hard times, the Reform
Bill, and all it was to effect (for Solomon
was a politician), and to leave him a satisfactory
Christmas box as a memento. He
little thought of what ! Or that what he
called " generosity," Burton knew to be
only reparation.

Whilst thus engaged, Allan had met
Jasper under the leafless sycamores in the
churchyard on the Grammar School side,
away from village observation.

Now, Allan," said Jasper, confidentially,
you saw the fuss that Pickersgill made
over the pretended loss of his lantern, and
how small he sang when I hunted it up.
Now, do you think that hot-tempered fellow
would have put up so quietly with the spoiling
of the thing if he had not good reason
to keep quiet ? AVell, it put me up to snufF,
and — but I'll not tell you any more without
your solemn promise not to mention a word

of this to your sister Edith, for she thinks no
end of the fellow, and, besides, I know she
would be very much cut up."

Allan readily gave the required promise,
in wonder what was coming.

"Whilst my gentleman was gone to
Settle to buy a new thin gum bob, I took it
into my head to come and look if I could
find nothing here. Now, just put your
head over that upright gravestone near the
wall. Well, what do you see ?"

I see a bit of something like rusty tin,
but it is so overgrown with grass and weeds,
I cannot make out Avhat it is."

Hook it up with your stick. There ! Is
not that the oil-box of his lantern? And
how long do you suppose it will have lain
there rusting ? It vias dropped there out of
the grinning skull, when the ghost took frigid
as well as Solomon Bracken f

Are you sure of that ?" asked Allan,
with a grave face.

"Certain; and I'm sure Miss Vaseyy knows
it as well, for I heard her ask Pickersgill ina
whisper what he had done to the top

sheet of his bed ; it was all muddy and torn.
You heard that he had been removed from
his old bed-room. And you knew he was
up before Howson and Ingram for it ; but
that little toady Danson told some lie or
other to get him off."

I could never have believed this of
Pickersgill !" exclaimed Allan, in amaze.

No, nor anyone else who was not
behind the scenes. And I don't think he
played the ghost by himself either ; but who
helped him I'm not prepared to tell."

How is it you never told me or anyone
else before ?"

It never struck me until that oil-box
was missed, and I could not keep it in when
I saw how simple and innocent he made
himself out. But, now, be sure you do not
tell Edith, or she would never forgive him

Had Jasper calculated that Allan could
not keep a secret from his sister ?

Anyway, it was carried to Leeds with
that other secret of Allan's, and, if so, Jasper
was disappointed.

CHAPTER III.

STAGE-COACH PASSENGERS.

IN these days of railroads and steam
locomotion, when it iS competent for
station-masters at termini or junctions to
add extra carriages to trains in order to
meet the public demand, it is scarcely possible
to realise the discomforts and delays
attendant on the old coaching system ; that
is, for the present generation : fathers and
grandfathers will remember it well.

Stage-coaches had no power of expansion
; their capacity was limited. If the
roads were unusually' bad, it was possible to
add extra horses at the larger posting
houses on the route ; but there was no such
thing as tagging another coach-body to the

vehicle so as to accommodate a flux of
passengers at particular seasons.

If places were not taken, fares paid, and
booked sufficiently in advance, and the
coach chanced to be filled at the outset of
the journey, people waiting to be taken up
at the roadside inns were likely to wait —
wait one day or more, according to the traffic
and the number of stasje-coaches on the
road.

Unless — for there was the alternative —
the closely-packed six insides were benevolently
disposed, and unanimously consented
to admit an extra light-weight — a child, ora
woman, who might sit on some other
passenger's knee for a short stage. But the
unanimity of six promiscuously gathered
persons to be incommoded, where at the
best accommodation was scant, was not of
very frequent occurrence, and any attempt
at overcrowding otherwise was sure to bringdown
threats of information against the
coach proprietors for infringement of their
licence. Or it was free for an adventurous
being, whose business was of more importance

than risk of life or limb, to mount
a-top of the luggage on the roof, and bide
the chance of a vacated seat.

Young people, as a rule, require more
space for their small bodies than their
elders, simply because the faculty of repose
is not abnormal, but comes with years ;
nevertheless, they can be packed up closely
in a vehicle in a case of emergency, without
giving the horses extreme cause for complaint.


Yet, on that particular December raorn-
in" Miss Craves; discovered — not for the
first time — that she had more passengers
waiting for the coach than there was space
to squeeze them in. Places for Allan and
Miss Metcalfe had been taken a week previously
in Leeds, and were reserved ; but a
testy old gentleman and a young one were
already ensconced within, whilst there were
four or five little ladies to be accommodated,
for whom exposure on the outside could not
be thought of. It was clear some one must
be left behind or go outside, where Robins
and Wardrop had already found front

places, and were shouting to Ellis and Smith
to be quick and join then, the understanding
being: to exclude Martin and drive him
to a back seat amongst strangers.

It was quite a scene of confusion, so much
luggage to be stowed away in the boots or
hauled up on the roof, where tea-chests and
hampers, filled to repletion with Christmas
gifts, already made a heavy substratum, to
say nothing of the bags of Lancaster
mussels the coachman and c;uard had stowed
away for private customers of their own ;
and so much indecision about luCTgaore until

COD O

seats could be found for its owners ; and
so many people crowding round to shake
hands and see them off, and come into
collision with ostler and others.

Miss Craggg was in perplexity ; Miss Metcalfee
was already seated ; Allan had his foot
on the step — light as a snowflake fell Miss
Edith's hand on his sleeve.

Allan dear, if you would only go outside,
the Miss Palliser and Miss Mortons
might all be squeezed in."

I would, with pleasure — you know I

would, Edith, as I told you before, but Mr.
Metcalfe's charge was so imperative, and he
would think me unfit for my trust if I went
outside and left Agra — Miss Metcalfe — alone
among strangers."

He had not spoken so low but that one
■of the " strangers " could catch what he
said ; one young enough and sharp enough
to detect the stumble over the name, and
to mark the disappointment on the faces of
Edith and Miss Craggg. A peculiar smile
flitted over his countenance as he motioned
Allan back. " Stay," he said, politely. " If
the young lady be in your special care, you
shall not be required to leave her with
transfers, nor shall the other little misses
be left behind. I will go outside."

Followed by the cordial thanks of Miss
Crao;cr and the little ladies, who soon settled
themselves inside, to the apparent discomfort
of the older stranger, the speaker
mounted to the only vacant seat on the
roof from the one side, just as Martin had
his foot on the opposite wheel to clamber
up. There was no room for both.

Instead of calling the guard to settle a
dispute over the seat, Martin, who saw the
situation at a glance, merely said, " I give
place to you, sir," and descended. His
luggage was already in the boot.

As the guard mounted, and the coachman
settled himself in his seat, Martin called to
Jasper to look after his box at the far end,
and to explain why he was left behind ;
and before the latter could recover from his
surprise — it may be, chagrin — the ostler had
left the horses' heads, the coachman's wdiip
flourished and cracked, the stuart's bugle
sounded, and he was whirled away, leaving,
as he fancied, Martin to walk down the
village with Edith, and no doubt to spend
most of his hours at Ivy Fold until the next
coach da'. Solace came to him with the
reflection that the presence of Martin might
prove embarrassing if he were required to
render a reason for returning home with
black eyes, and he chuckled to think he
should have sole possession of his grandfather's
ear at least a couple of days, and in
that time he might make his own ground

sure. There was no clanoier of Martin
telling tales out of school," that was one
good thing. And so Jasper laughed and
Jested with his fellow-travellers on the clever
way in which they had ousted Pickersgill.

Whilst this afforded merriment for the
party in the front, the stranger to whom
Martin had given place, and who had looked
him well in the face as he thanked him,
evinced no little interest in "the handsome
young fellow with the dark skin who had
surrendered his seat so gracefully," and asked
the guard more questions about him than
the guard was able to answer. In fact, he
expressed himself so greatly struck with the
young man's noble and intelligent countenance
that the guard was led to remark,

Ah should think you'd not forget Maister
Pickersgill in a hurry, sir, yo' seem so
taken wi' him."

I do not think I shall. I have a good
memory for faces, and his is one not easily
forgotten."

The party inside were crushed and
cramped, to the great annoyance of the

testy old gentleman ; but two, at least, were
in elysium, even though the presence of
others was a drawback to private conversation.


At Skipton the old gentleman and three
of the girls got out, and two prim spinsters
got in ; and here Jasper put his head in at
the open door to shake hands and say
*' good-bye," when ho did not fail to
whisper,

'' I hope you did not tell Miss Editli."

Of course I did not," returned Allan,
*' Did I not promise ? But, I say, Jasper,
what did you do with the thing?"

Oh ! pitched it back again. You don't
suppose he would have thanked me for finding
it, if I had taken it to him," was the
reply.

I suppose not, if what you say be true,"
rejoined Allan.

"If!" and Jasper's long thin nose made
an effort to curl, as he gave a nod, shouldered
his own box, and, forgetting Martin's,
was truclsimT; off, when Simon Postlethwaite
came up in haste, and appeared discouraged

to find only his employer's grandson there,
though his ward's trunk was waiting to be
claimed. It was not to do honour to so
small a personage as his nephew that Lawyer
Proctor had despatched his trusty clerk
to meet the coach.

At Ilkley the prim ladies alighted. At
Otley the other schoolgirls found a vehicle
waiting for them ; and then, for several
miles, Allan Earnshaw was left alone with
the object of his adoration, almost for the
first time since they were children. It maybe
said they were little more then ; but at
no period of life do years tell so much as in
our teens, and, looking; back over the two
years Allan had spent in Leeds, both the
young people felt as if an age had gone by
since those jacket-and-pinafore days when
they had vowed to be all in all to each
other, and exchanged locks of hair as love-tokens.


Poor Edith had, all unconsciously, helped
to keep their love-romance alive during
their severance, and now they were thrown
together again, with passionate hearts beating

and throbbing for each other, to find
that all the freedom of their old intercourse
was gone. Delicacy and convention hedged
the maiden round, whilst honour bound the
lover more than bands of steel.

It was all very well to be complimentary
and play the gallant in the crowded
rooms at Well Bank, where attention and
courtesy to the young ladies was the duty
of the young gentlemen, and quite another
to tell the blushful beauty at his side in all
seriousness that he loved her more devotedly
than ever, and in so doing break the
trust reposed in him.

In all those two years he had been looking
forward to some such opportunity as
this, when he might pour forth the torrent
of his love at her feet, and seek an assurance
that she was still his own, and now he was
doubly tongue-tied. It had been ecstatic
only to sit by her side in the close contact
of overcrowding; and whilst her schoolmates
were present he had been not only fluent of
speech, but eloquent with his eyes. But,
once alone together, he was almost dull).

A^OL. II. E

He felt that he mio;ht lose her if he made
no sign ; yet what could he say to his
master's daughter, that should not violate
that master's confidence. To her his reticence
was utterly incomprehensible, so
opposed was it to the yearning language of
his e3^es, tender solicitude for her comfort,
the softening of his voice to her even in the
veriest common-place. Before the next
stage he did, however, contrive to say that
he "hoped she would correspond with Edith
from time to time," and that he " feared he
should see little more of Miss Metcalfe in
Leeds than in distant Giggleswick."

The latter remark suggested an apparently
irrelevant question in reply. "What
church do you attend, Mr. Earnshaw?"

'* I have hitherto gone with Mr. and Mrs.
Sheepshank to St. John's."

Oh, indeed. We have a pew at St.
Paul's. Papa is one of the churchwardens."

And if Miss Metcalfe had any discernment
she might perceive that a cloud seemed
dispersed by the mere breath of this
information.

After this there was another long pause,
and then Allan managed to stammer out
something; to the effect that it had been a
proud moment for him when Mr. Metcalfe
called him into his private office, and
delegated to him the precious charge of his
only child on her journey home, with full
confidence in his honour, and it would be
equally proud a moment when he surrendered
the young lady into her father's care,
conscious that he had kept his trust inviolate.


But there was that in his eyes sadly at
variance with this assumption, and Miss
Grace, raising hers for an instant, became
sensible that honour had set a seal on lips
which else might have told a passionate tale
of love. A lovely complexion had she at
all times ; now her cheeks wore the rich tint
of a damask rose, and her languishing eyes
sought the safe counsel of her grey-squirrel
muff as she responded, with assumed ease,
"lam much obliged to my father for his
great care of me, and — and to you also, Mr.
Earnshaw, I am sure."

E 2

University OF lUINOf,^

I iRRARY

Yet, truth to tell, she was much less obliged
to either her father or her cavalier than she
might have been. "Why could not papa have
sent Allan for me without that long speech
about honour? Did he think anyone was
likely to run away with me ? I suppose
that is what makes Allan so stupid and so
reserved. He cannot care as much for meas
he used to do, or he would not be
influenced bv such a trifle. I am sure it
would be more honourable to tell me what
he means than to leave me in suspense after
all he vowed to me long; ao;o.'' And here
a deep sigh punctuated the young lads's
silent cogitations, and was answered like an
echo from the troubled breast beside her,
"There is no knowing when he may have a
chance of speaking to me again if he neglects
this," — her thoughts ran on — "Perhaps he
does not wish to speak. He may not care
to be more than friends with me ! Well, I
can be as cold and distant as he !" And
up went her eyes and head with a little toss
of determination, and a swift compression of
the full red lips.

As if gifted with the power of divination,
Allan unbuttoned both his coats, drew his
father's watch from his pocket, as though
to look at the hour, put it to his ear as if to
be sure it had really stopped, and then, although
the coach had begun to jolt over the
rough pavement of Leeds, took off the outer
ease, and laid it on the opposite seat whilst
he proceeded to wind up a watch which
would have run on until midnight untouched.


Surely the changing countenance, the
unconscious sighs of Grace, must have
stirred the young lover's heart to its depths,
or he would scarcely have paltered with
"honour" so far as to lay that open watch-case
on the seat before them with Grace's
own love-gift, the embroidered watch-paper,
full in view, to tell the story he might not
utter with his lips.

It was all-sufficient. A gleam of intelligence
shot into the girl's eyes and irradiated
her face, as she saw the watch carefully
replaced in its case, and as carefully
deposited in a pocket next to the owner's

heart ; and, if no word was spoken beyond
a remark on the punctuality of the coach,
Grace was satisfied, and had a sunny smile
to greet her father with when the coachman
drew rein at the Boar Lane coach-office.
There Mr. Metcalfe stood waiting with his
arms folded ; and Allan's struggle between
duty and inclination ended in a formal
leave-taking.

CHAPTER IV.

HARP STRINGS.

AS the loaded coach drove away from
the " Hart's Head," and the crowd of
idlers began to disperse, Miss Craggg put to
Martin the question, "How do you propose
to reach Skipton before Christmas ? You
will not surely think of travelling on
Christmas Day?"

Oh, no ! I am off at once, I've engaged
Shanks's pony," he answered, cheerily,
"safe and sure-footed, you know."

Dora, skipping and jumping along in
front, turned to ask, " Who's Shanks ? Is
he somebody in Settle ?" Whereupon there
was a general laugh, with a loud echo from
behind, which somewhat disconcerted the

little maid, who slipped her hand hastily
into Edith's, and clung timorously to her side.

'Tm Shanks, I'm going to lend him ni''
black mare," came from the voice behind,
that of Mr. Thomas Clapham, who had
watched the loading and departure of the
coach from the inn parlour.

Is he ?" whispered Dora to Edith.

"Yes, he is, if the young gentleman be
willing," came aejain from the lonsr figure
in the rear.

I am greatly obliged, sir, but I am not
much of a horseman, and thuik m}^ own
animal the safer. Your black mare might
pitch me over a wall, or land me in a ditch ;
and ditches in frosty weather have hard
bottoms."

Egad, and so she might," quoth Thomas
Clapham, heartily, "and ' Trudge ' is safe,
if slow."

Dora looked from one to the other,
puzzling her little brains over this incomprehensible
dialogue, but, ere she could put
another question to Edith, her wondering
attention was arrested.

A light taxed-cart, containing a lame and
singular packing-case, narrowly escaped
collision with the fore wheel of the stagecoach.
Then the man in the cart gave a
jerk to his reins, and, hesitating which way
to take, called —

Wliilk be rest road to Ivy Food,
maister?"

Thomas Clapham's long arm pointed
down-hill.

Turn the corner of the churchyard,
and don't run arrack at the barn door
right before you, or you may get unpleasantly
iiifo the churchyard instead of round
it!" he called after the driver, whose
vehicle was going down the steep hill faster
than the man or his horse had bargained
for; and, but for Martin, who darted to the
animal's head and checked its pace, they
might have fallen foul of the barn door,
and then and there would have been an
upset !

An upset! Mrs. Stathani would never
have got over the disaster. The queerly-shaped
packing-case contained no less a

treasure than the harp from her drawing-room,
as a Christmas-box for her little
grand-niece, Dora, and the formal epistle
which the bearer handed in contained a
bank-note to pay for the favoured little
lady's tuition during the ensuing year.

It was the first sign of returning favour,
a substantial one, and, as Mr. Thorpe (well-pleased
for his child's sake) made the girls
acquainted with the gist of the letter, Dora
clapped her hands and danced about the
grassy court in glee, flinging her arms
around her sister and hufjjzing her in most
ecstatic delight as she watched her father
help the man with the unwieldy case out of
the cart, Janet, of course, lending a hand
whether it was needed or not.

Just then, Martin, who had turned back
to say good-bye once more to Miss Craggg,
came round the corner to go through the
same ceremony at Ivy Fold, and, seeing how
they were engaged, hurried forward, saying,

"Here, Janet, let me take your place."

"Very well," cried Janet, in a huff,
suddenly removing her guiding hands;

whereupon the case had a jerk against the
gate-post, and she indemnified herself by
calling out, " Their, I gnawed how it ud be !
New mind, minister, or ye'll run agen t'
door-pooast next !" which was not unlikely,
considering that Mr. Thorpe was walking
backwards.

Meanwhile Dora had, in her glee, called
out to Martin, "Guess what I've got for a
Christmas-box?" and, without waiting for
his guess, " Aunt Statham's harp ! Aunt
Statham's harp ! and to be my own, my very
own ! all to myself, only think ! Oh, I'm so
glad, aren't you, Edie?"

Yes, my dear, I am, and I hope " — what
Edith hoped was cut short by Janet's impatient
ejaculation,

"Why, maister, that's non true, be it?"

"What?" asked Mr. Thorpe, from within
the doorway.

Why, be that their harp fur Dora's
sen ?"

"Yes," answered her master, complacently,
and a very handsome present it is."

An' be their noa Kirstmas-box for Miss

Edith?" Janet went on, following the box
and its bearers into the parlour.

"No, Janet, Mrs. Stathani mentions no
one but Dora."

"Then it's a shaanie, a downreet shame,
making fish o' one, an' fowl on another ;
bud it's o' that Deb's coin', I know."

Hush, Janet," whispered Edith, plucking
at the outspoken woman's gown from behind.
Aunt had a right to please herself. You
know I have a piano, and Aunt Statham, I
daresay, thought that was sufficient for me.
And, Janet, the man has come a long way,
he will want some refreshment."

I know what some one wants !" muttered
Janet, as she jerked off into the kitchen, more
inclined to visit Mrs. Statham's shortcomings
on her messenger, than to display the
wonted hospitality of the family.

Mr. Thorpe went to the front door with
the man, to point out the " Black Horse " asa
place where his horse might be baited,
whilst he came back to the cottage to be
entertained ; and then Martin, who had
waited to shake hands with ]\lr. Thorpe, observed

that it was time he was off, unless the
carter felt disposed to give him a seat in his
conveyance.

Nothing loth was the man at the prospect
of a companion and a douceur both — the
consent of the beast was never asked — and
then Martin remarked that he had better step
across to Well Bank to mention the new arrangement
to Mrs. Craggg ; and Mr. Thorpe
re-entered the house with Dora at his heels
to gratify her by unscrewing the wooden
case.

Edith, who had not removed her bonnet
and pelisse, lingered at the little gate. She
was far from envious of Dora's good fortune,
but was feeling most acutely the omission
of her own name and that of Allan from
Aunt Statham's letter ; and not the less
keenly that Mr. Thorpe did not see anything
particular in the omission.

As Martin passed out he paused to say,
"Miss Edith, I hope you will not let sirs.
Statham's neglect or caprice trouble you.
We all know her humours. She has not
forgotten that we saw her without her weir.

But probably Mr. Thorpe read her letter
hastily, and has overlooked some — eh !
what's that, Solomon ?"

This sudden diversion was caused by the
appearance of Solomon Bracken, who, leaning
on his stick with one trembling hand,
flourished something; undistinguishable in
the other, and was calling to "Maister
Pickersgill" in his wheezy croak as he
shuffled along the churchyard walk towards
the steps.

A simple "Excuse me," to Edith, a light
bound across the lane and up the worn
steps, and Martin's' black eyes expanded
with surprise as he exclaimed,

"Why, Solomon, where did sou find
this ? It is mine, it is out of my magic
lantern."

Ah thowt as mich ; ah heard as you'd
lost sum mat oath' sooart. Weel, ah sand it
aback o' yan gravestone ; that's wi' twee
•cherrybims on't nighest t' wall ;" and the
man looked wondrous knowing.

I wish you had found it before the
breaking up. It would have saved my

buying a new one ; and yet it is so rusty it
mii^ht have been useless. I wonder how
it act there ! " observed Martin, half to
himself.

Bud ah'd no call to luik ferret altare
t' breaking' op, " rejoined the old man.
*' 'Tweed only yesterday morn as I wur coon
for a whist o' fresh air, like I allays rooms
every morn, Maister Pickersgill, to luik at
th' owt grand wheel I'll never handle a
spade aegean — an' I saw Maister Ellis shew
summit to Maister Earnshaw, and they twee
had a chat over it : an' then afore they
colonies audit, I seed Maister Ellis chuck t'
thing agit on his hand. Joe Guyer wur
calling' me ta lev half a pint wi' him then,
an' I reckoned as t' thing, what ivver it wur,
would nae gang wieout legs, an happen th'
yale might, gif I waited till another time.
Bud I wur a gay bit curious what them twee
lads hed gotten thee ta rank' them hand
their heads sa choose, and Maister Ellis
lev such a straight face. I thowt it wur
mischief, an' I'd look ta be at t' bottom
on't. Howsomever you've gotten yer tin

back, an' may happen mak' agit wheel t's
bin a' along."

Martin had listened to the man without
farther interruption than a slight start at
the names of Ellis and Earnshaw, and
wondering why the former took Allan into
his confidence, if, as was apparent, he had
known where both lantern and oil-box
could be found, Seeing the rusty condition
of the tin, he concluded that Jasper had had
the lantern for some time in the damp of
Apple-tree Hall, and affected ignorance
lest the damage should be imputed to him.

Thank you, Solomon, I am glad it is
found. It may be cleaned, and then the
lantern will serve for one of the little lads.
Where did you say you found it ?" he asked,
without attaching any importance to the
question.

Hint von stane, sir ; rest over their
wheel t' ghost riz op to flay a chap. I'm
non like to mak' a mistake. I'll show

you
T
Martin wherever he turned.

The o;host as-ain ! It seemed to haunt

No, thank you," he said, carelessly,
turning away. " It is of no consequence.
But here is a shilling for your trouble, and
pray say nothing about what you have found
I do not care about it. And I would
not talk so much about the ghost, if I were
you. It makes our friends at Ivy Fold very
unhappy."

If he had said " our friend " he would
have been nearer the mark, and closer to
his own meaning. Mr. Thorpe seemed to
forget everything in his studies and pursuits.
Dora was a mere child, but Edith, left far
too much to herself, brooded over the past,
and clung to the memory of her dead mother
as a shipwrecked mariner clings to a spar.
And he knew it ; and, knowing it, longed,
oh ! how earnestly, to say to her that it had
been so with himself, but that neither need
be lonely any more, if she would only lean
on him, and could only find solace in his
deep love. But she was yet too young, too
unconscious, to suspect aught beyond friendship,
and he was afraid to disturb their
friendship by a warmer breath even.

VOL. II. F

Solomon promised to be " silent as t'
grave," and pocketed the shilling, after
spitting on it for luck, and Martin went
back into the lane, hoping to have a delicious
half-hour in Edith's presence before
the conveyance was ready to start. .

Edith was still at the gate, she knew
Dora was too busy superintending the unscrewing
of the packing-case to miss her ;
and was perplexing herself with the question,
" would Aunt Statham never forgive her
inadvertent selection of a song?" and at the
same time pondering what Solomon wanted
with Martin Pickerssjill.

What is that in your hand ?" she asked,
as he came towards her.

It is the missing oil-box from my magic-lantern,"
he answered. " Solomon found it
in the churchyard. Some of the boys must
have thrown or lost it there."

He felt strongly tempted to say " Jasper,"
but he held his peace.

It is very rusty."

Yes ; it must have lain in a damp place

before it was thrown away," he added, in
perfect good faith.

Oh ! Edie, Edie," sounded from the
house, " come and look at my harp, it is all
gold, and black, and beautiful."

Martin took leave, promising Mr. Thorpe
that he would write to Jamaica for specimens
of certain West India plants, and lingering
with Edith's hand in his, as if he were loth
to let it go. And when the last good-bye
was said, and he on his way to Skipton in
the taxed cart, that touch yet clung to his
palm, that one gentle voice sounded in his
ears, the pathos of those deep dark eyes
was felt in his inmost soul.

How blind Mr. Thorpe appears to the
treasure in his keeping ! What would I
not give to drink of the unfathomed fountains
of love and tenderness in that girl's
heart, which he seals down so heedlessly !
Poor Edith, she must be very lonely ; Mr.
Thorpe is no company for her ; and Dora —
if it were not for Janet, glorious Janet ! the
child would ride roughshod over her. Ah,

it shall be altered some day, if "

F 2

Some day — and if !" Martin was outstripping
time and futurity, buoyed on the
volant wings of love and hope. But so did
Icarus soar, and Icarus fell into the wave.

CHAPTER V.

AND so gr
Mrs. Rii

BLACK EYES.

ND SO grandfather is not at home,
ripley?" said Jasper, accosting
the lawyer's housekeeper, a rouncj-faced
dumpling of a dame, who appeared the
very picture of snug content, as he broke
in upon her occupation, that of laying the
dinner cloth.

Deary me, Master Jasper, how you do
take one by surprise !" was the startled
answer to his abrupt salutation.

Did you not hear me come upstairs ?
You expected me, surely ?" was his response.
"And how do you find yourself after all
these months ?"

The comfortable old dame, who had once

upon a tiQie possessed a respectable home
of" her own, before misfortune drove her to
accept service and a refuge in the house of
Josiah Proctor, looking beyond Jasper to
the open door as if for another figure,
replied :

Oh, hearty, Master Jasper. Ay, you
were expected sure-ly ; but I was just then
counting the Where is Master Pickers-gill
?" she suddenly broke off to ask.

"The coach was full, there was no room,"
replied Jasper, carelessly throwing himself
into his grandfather's chair, and stretching
his legs across the hearth, thus bringing his
face into the full light of three windows and
a blazing fire.

The housekeeper put up her hands.

Room for you, and no room for Master
Pickersgill !" she exclaimed, in accents of
dismay. Then, changing her tone, she added,
soberly, " I'm afraid your grandfather
will not be over well pleased."

"Then he must be displeased," rose to
Jasper's lips, but he substituted, " Well, I
could not help it. It was no fault of mine.

I know I'd have been deuced glad to have
been left where he is, and let him come on.
Will grandfather be here for dinner ? Let
me see — where did you say he was gone?"

She had not said where, neither had
Postlethwaite, who had answered his questions
with the one word, " Business." But
she fell into his trap.

Well, it's awkward weather for travelling
; if it should happen to snow between
Barnsley and Wakefield, he might be too
late to catch the coach from Wakefield —
but, goodness me. Master Jasper, whatever's
the matter with your face ? It's all black
and blue about the eyes !" In her progress
round the table she had chanced to confront
him.

How savage he felt, to be sure ! He
answered, as coolly as he could —

"Oh, I ran my head against a post in the
dark ! But this confounded weather would
make anyone look blue," and the bright
brass poker was sent with a plunge into the
fire.

Deary me ! You should have had a

bit of raw steak laid upon it. It quite
disfigures you. Is Master Pickersgill as
handsome as he was ?"

She was driving him wild. Ignoring her
remarks, he threw out his fishing-lines once
more.

"Gone to Barnsley, is he? He went
there before we came home last half. I
remember he had been down a cockpit.

Does he stay with Mr. — Mr. Dear

me, I forget his name."

Mrs. Ripley smiled.

"Mr. Proctor does not tell me his business
or the names of his clients. I should
not know he had gone to Barnsley, if he
had not offered to take a letter to a person
I knew when I was a young lass, and lived
thereabouts."

Jasper did not feel interested in Mrs.
Ripley's friends, although he had long been
curious to learn what called his grandfather
to Barnsley so frequently. Had it been
Wakefield only, he might have set the
journey down to assize business. He had a
suspicion that his grandfather had money

sunk in a coal-mine there, and, if so, a little
rare information might be of personal
importance.

I wish you would hurry dinner, Mrs.
Ripley. I am hungry as a hunter, and 1
hope you have got something nice."

"There's a jugged hare. Master Jasper,
and a loin of pork, and an apple tart,
but "

Jasper rubbed his hands together in satisfaction,
unconsciously imitating his grandfather's
habit.

Jugged hare ! Capital ! Let it be served
up in a jiffy. I'm famishing."

But, Master Jasper," pleaded the good
dame, " what if your grandfather should —
had I not better ask Mr. Postlethwaite
before I dish it up ?"

Bother Postlethwaite ! What has he
to do with my dinner ?"

Why a, he might say it would only be
manners to wait a bit," she answered,
quietly ; " and, you see, he knows best
what chance there is of master coming back.
Besides, it's barely dinner-time, Master

Jasper. You lead better let me send you
up a bit of something as a biting-on. What
say you to a nice slice of spiced beef, or of
collared head ? Or — that's a lovely 
cheese there on the sideboard, and
master tapped a fresh barrel of ale before
he went, and better ale was never brewed,
though I say it, for I brewed it myself."

Oh, well," assented Jasper, wearily, as
one who made an unwilling concession,
"hand the cheese over here, and now the
bread. I may as well have a tuck-in at
those, since the jugged hare is not forthcoming.
And, Mrs. Ripley " (she had placed
the japanned cheese-biggin before him, in
which nearly half a cheese reposed, and
was reaching the bread trays, also of
japanned tin, in which was white and brown
wheaten bread, as well as haver-cake),
you need not fatigue yourself with coming
upstairs, you can send Kitty up with the ale.
I suppose Kitty is with you still ?"

Sure-ly, sir; what would hinder? And
thank you for thinking of the stairs, for
they does tire one."

Down went Mrs. Ripley, and up in due
course came Kitty, a tall slip of a girl
between fifteen and sixteen, with a coarse
pinafore tied round her, and a small jug of
frothing ale in her hand. She gave a dip,
intended for a curtsey, at the door, and,
having shyly placed the jug on the table
within reach of the young master, was as
shyly retiring when lie called her back.

"Why, Kitty, what a hurry you are in !
I have not had a look at you yet."

The bashful blood mounted to the girl's
forehead as she made another dip and an
excuse that Mrs. Ripley told her to make
haste.

"Never mind Mrs. Ripley, it's six months
since I saw you. How you have shot upto
be sure, and 1 think you are prettier than
ever you were."

Kitty's eyes turned towards the carpet,
and her fingers nervously caught the corner
of her pinafore as she stood in confusion
sidling towards the door, but never a word
Alas said.

Why, you'll be having no end of

sweethearts before another Christmas coins.
Maybe you have one already."

Oh, Maister Jasper !"

Kit-ty !" the word came floating up the
staircase from below in remonstrance, and,
thankful to the housekeeper for the excuse,
Kitty hurried down to the kitchen to be
called to account, when she spot there, for
her crimson face, and for loitering so long.

Jasper Ellis had, from his first introduction
to Giggleswick Grammar School, hung
at the skirts of the upper-class boys, had
witnessed many a little scene of flirtation
with Mother Wellington's rosy-cheeked
lasses, and, having a natural susceptibility in
the matter of pretty faces, seldom missed
an opportunity of practising his early-learned
lessons at second hand. He had a notion
that it was manly, and was quite eager in
his race towards manhood — and mastership.


His " biting-on," as Mrs. Ripley termed
his luncheon, occupied some twenty minutes
or half-an-hour, then he strayed to one of
the windows, and, whilst picking his teeth,



watched the passers-by, some pinched and
shivering with cold, others vigorous and
hearty, all in a glow with the brisk exercise
of limbs and lenses.

There being no signs of his grandfather
amongst them, he, in his very vacuity, began
to calculate the interest on two or three unrepaid
loans, which were to be cleared off
when the borrowers returned to school with
filled purses, and, the occupation being
congenial, he forgot to calculate the lapse of
time.

In the midst of his arithmetic, his eye fell
on the figure of Deborah Gill crossing the
road, as stiff and prim as if she had swallowed
a poker, and found it difficult to digest,
and by some mental process his thoughts
strayed to Deborah's mistress, and from
Mrs. Statham to her nieces, and having got
so far he becjan to think of Martin, as he
had seen him from the coach top walking
away from the "Hart's Head" by the side
of Edith.

The prospect was by no means exhilarating.
Young as he was, a very ugly word

befjinninfT with the fourth letter of the
alphabet, found its way between his big
white teeth ; and turning sharply from the
window, as a relief to his feelings, he took
up the bright yellow poker and pounded
away at the fire, as if he had been pommel-king
an enemy, — or a rival.

Above the painted chimney-piece, enriched
with carved cupids and wreaths of
flowers, extended a wide, low looking-glass,
in three divisions, with a black frame
around all; and on the mantel-shelf were
three tall blue and white china jars, with
perforated lids to let out the perfume of
the rose-leaves and fragrant spices enshrined
within. Two Chinese fissures, with
heads that nodded on a touch, almost with
a step across the floor, had also a place
there, and on either side the looking-glass
hung a card-board letter rack, in
which were sundry cards and papers,

whilst pounding away at an obstinate
coal which refused to shatter at his bidding,
he caught a glimpse of his own face in the

glass before him, and in sheer surprise the
poker had a rest.

He was wont to look in a glass with
some complacence. Had a notion, in fact,
that he was something more than merely
good-looking, especially in winter, when the
freckles which came forth to greet the
summer sun had sunk almost from siojht
beneath the fair white skin. What saw he
but a couple of pulpy-cushions streaked
with blue and green and red and yellow, in
which the small eyes were almost lost.

Again the ugly word crossed his lips, and
he laid the poker down to pace the floor.
Then his eye rested on the letter-racks, and,
being of an inquiring turn of mind, ho
began to take the papers out one by one to
occupy the time and his memory with their
contents.

They were mostly household bills or
trivial memoranda ; but his own last epistle
from school was placed there, and behind it
lay another letter which even his inexperienced
eye could tell was from abroad.

In opening it his glance fell upon the
signature, " Elihu Vaseyy," and on a postscript,
" I would endeavour to secure the
coal-pit, if the lease falls in as you say ;" but
before his impatient fingers could lay open
the first page he was glad to re-fold the
letter and replace it in all haste.

His grandfather's brisk voice was to be
heard below, and his active foot was on the
oaken stairs. Up he came, two steps at a
time, talking to some one all the way he
came.

Jasper had turned sharply round from
the fire-place, hurriedly traversing the room
to street his relative at the door, and so
keep his own back to the windows and his
face in shadow, but in his haste he gave the
white damask table-cloth a drag which
overturned one of the three-legged silver
salt-cellars, and in his momentary stoppage
to prevent further mischief, lost his opportunity.


Unbuttoning his spencer as he entered,
in came Josiah Proctor, not with ready
hand extended, but with the question,

How's this ; you here, and not Martin
Pickersgill ?"

Jasper hastened to explain,

"No room, and the coach drove off,"
repeated Mr. Proctor. " Then you had
mounted first, secured your own seat and
left him to take his chance ? Gentlemanly
behaviour, upon my word !" and for once
there was no rippling smile upon the
lawyer's countenance, as he tossed spencer
and gloves upon a chair, which he was not
wont to do.

Disconcerted by his grandfather's penetration,
Jasper flushed, and he so stumbled in
his excuses as to draw the keen-eyed
lawyer's attention to the other colouring of
his face.

Upon my word, sir. You are a pretty
spectacle ! Very reputable for my grandson
to come through the town with a pair of
black eyes !"

You may thank your precious ward for
it then," returned Jasper. " He struck at me
like a savage."

Hah ! struck at you ? and for what ?"

VOL. II. G

The story Jasper had ready was cut off
b}'' the entrance of Mrs. Ripley and her
subordinate with the delayed dinner. She
'had overheard the youth's answer, and
blurted out impulsively, " Oh, Master
Jasper, you said you ran your head

against " She broke off, "Oh, deary me,

who has upset the salt ? That's ill-luck for
somebody."

"I shall think it ill-luck if the jugged
hare is spoiled," observed Jasper, thankful
to have a chance of turning the conversation.


Well, sir," replied she, in an apologetic
tone, addressed more to her master than to
him, as she lifted the cover, '' I am afraid
it's almost done to rags, but then it's been
kept waiting nigh two hours."

"Never mind, Mrs. Ripley," said her
master, re-assuringly, his old smile breaking
over his face. " To a man fresh from a
cold journey the very odour is delicious ;
neither Jasper nor I will be disposed to find
fault," and he rubbed his palms together in
satisfaction, as Jasper placed a seat for him,

Q

thanking his stars that dinner had come
in time to put his grandfather in a better
humour.

The housekeeper was quitting the room,
Josiah called her back.

Mrs. Ripley, by some mischance I left a
letter on this table. Did you find it ?"

Yes, sir. I put it in one of the card-racks.
There it is."

Just like ray luck," thought Jasper. " I
meant to read it through before the day was
over ; that chance is gone."

It was ; for when the housekeeper laid
it beside her master's plate he straightway
put it into his breast pocket.

Mr. Proctor's grace was short. He
helped his grandson and himself, and then
set to with the keen relish a lonqj drive
through a frosty atmosphere is sure to give
even to plain fare. Appetite served as an
excuse for silence, but it did not interfere
with mental processes. He was as little
satisfied with Jasper's excuses as with his
personal appearance, and had not failed to
note Mrs. "Ripley's interruption. But he

G 2

was never so hasty as to let a good dinner
spoil whilst he prolonged argumentation.
Almost the first remark he made was an
ejaculatory wish that Martin was there to
sit down with them.

As if conjured up by the wish, a vehicle,
running over the hard frosty ground with a
rattle, stopped in front of the house. In a
minute or two a light step came bounding
up the stairs, the door handle was turned,
and Martin presented himself.

Up jumped Mr. Proctor, his face beaming.
"Why, Martin, where did you spring from ?"
and he shook the young man's hand as if
he had lost siojht of his grandson's blackened
eyes.

"From Will Scott's taxed-cart," Martin
replied, returning the hand-shake with
interest. " He reached Ivy Fold in time to
bring; me back, or I should have walked."

Should you ? Ah !" ejaculated Mr.
Proctor. "But now take your seat. Here
comes Kitty with hot plates. Don't let
dinner go cold, we can talk afterwards."

If Jasper had a notion his grandfather

had forgotten him he found out his
mistake as soon as the cloth was withdrawn.


"Now, my lads," cried Mr. Proctor, with
his vivacious promptitude, seating himself,
not in his ordinary chair, but in another
equally easy on the opposite side of the
hearth, by which arrangement the rapidly
fading daylight would fall on the faces of
those he addressed, "the dinner business
despatched, I'm your man. Bring your
chairs to the fire and let me hear all
about it."

Martin looked puzzled, yet he took his
seat in front of the fire, Jasper having
already taken possession of his grandfather's
easy chair.

"All about what?" he asked.

The blue-grey ej^es twinkled merrily.

All about the pugilists who could not
travel together lest they should fight by
the way."

It was Martin's turn to flush.

Oh, mr. Proctor, that was not the
reason. A gentleman gave up his inside

place to accommodate some one else ; and
when we mounted to the top at the same
time, to find only one seat vacant, I could
do no less than yield to him. He had the
prior claim. Besides, he was older than I."
Hah ! Why not go to the back ?"
That was the back seat, sir ; all the
others were filled."

"Then my handsome grandson did not
get his face painted in a battle for places?"
and there was the slightest touch of sarcasm
in the lawyer's tone, of which there might
have been an echo in the answer.

Assuredly not, I do not fight for trifles."
"Then what did you strike me for?"
whined Jasper. " Do you call that paltry
tin thing of yours anything but a trifle?
And what had I got to do with it ?" There
Alas more assertion than interrogation in
these questions, which were jerked forth as
the very outburst of aggrieved virtue.

"What tin thing?" asked Mr. Proctor,
scanning them both attentively', as he leant
back with his legs crossed, his hands folded

together, and his elbows resins on the arms
of his chair.

There was something at work within
Martin's breast which sent the surging blood
upwards to deepen and darken the tint on
his clear olive skin ; memories of long-borne
persecution, struggling with a feeling that it
was scarcely honourable to expose his
schoolfellow to his grandfather ; yet was
Mr. Proctor's question so direct lie had no
alternative but to fetch the rusty oil-box
from his top-coat pocket, and say,

That, sir. It is part of a magic-lantern
sent to me by jMr. Vaseyy, which was missing
yesterday, and has turned up to-day in
the condition you see. It was given to me
b}^ Solomon Bracken, the poor, paralysed
old sexton, after the coach had gone. He
told me he searched for the tliincr because
he saw Ellis show it to Earnshaw in the
churchyard, this morning, and then fling it
behind a gravestone."

Mr. Proctor looked searchingly across the
hearth at his grandson.

I only pitched it back where I found
it," cried Jasper, as if anxious to exculpate
himself.

His grandfather, turnings the rusty vessel
over in his hand, bent forward on his seat,
with thoughtful face, as if turning the matter
also over in his own brain.

*' You struck Jasper — when ?" addressing
Martin.

"This morning, sir, before breakfast."

You suspected him of abstracting and
secreting this tin vessel, and in your irritation
struck him, and without inquiry ?"

Very even was Mr. Proctor's voice, indicating
nothing ; yet Jasper began to feel at ease.

I did suspect him — of what I need not
say," and Martin, his nostrils panting, and
his eyes on fire, rose to his feet and paced
the floor as he spoke. " But think you I
would strike your grandson for hiding a hit
of tin f and his lip curled in contempt.
"No, sir, a wantonly cruel joke had been
played upon me. The guitar that was my
mother's is splintered. My inquiries were
met with laughter, scorn — I was insulted.

How I resented the insult you can see. I
would have fought it out with him, but he
shrank from me like a poltroon."

Mr. Proctor's eyes turned from one to
the other.

Look you, grandfather, it's all very fine
for him to put on airs like a grandee," interposed
Jasper, also rising to his feet, " as if
he never did anything wrong ; but he ought
to tell you how he came into Apple-tree
Hall last night, accusing us of stealing; his
trumpery oil-box, and of laying his guitar
where he was sure to tumble over and
smash it, as if he were rav lord and we were
nobodies. But I'd have him ask Allan
Earnshaw if we did not find that think; at
the back of the gravestone with the weeds
all <]jrown over it. It had lain there Iouq-
enough for the grass to have grown white
underneath it, whoever dropped it there,"
and he looked wonderfully knowing.

With all Jasper's assumption of wounded
integrity, there was much in this outburst
which grated on Josiah Proctor's ears.
Jasper had overshot his mark.

"Then your guitar has been damaged, as
well as the magic-lantern ?" put Mr. Proctor
to his ward. He knew the store he set
upon the instrument.

"Utterly destroyed."

How came it all about ?"

Martin told him brie, accusing no one.

When he had done, Mr. Proctor said,
gravely,

"I must inquire into this. Jasper, ring
for candles and for tea."

CHAPTER VI.

SETTLED.

JOSIAH PROCTOR did inquire into it,
but in his own time and in his own
way ; meanwhile he did his best to restore
harmony where there was dissonance, and,
unknown to either his ward or his grandson,
watched them both very narrowly. He
had another inquiry to make beforehand.

Opening Mr. Vaseyy's letter to fold and
docket methodically for preservation, he
discovered that other hands than his own
had meddled with it.

Curiously folded to baffle impertinent
scrutiny, the blue quarto-sheet had been its
own detective. Jasper had, in his hurry
and ignorance, turned over that which

should have been turned under, and Mr.
Proctor's quick sight lead noted the dragged
cloth and overturned salt, and he had asked
himself why his grandson had made such a
hurried rush to meet him.

The inference drawn thence gave him food
for contemplation not of the most agreeable
kind. His own daughter had deceived him,
and the man in whom she had trusted,
Jasper's abandoned father, had woefully deceived
her. Had deception come to the boy
with his blood ? and was he to be once
asrain deceived ? In removing him from
evil influence, he had hoped to train a
worthy legal assistant and successor, one to
whom he could commit a great and important
trust, should his own health fail.

In making a GiiiGjleswick scholar of the
lad, and placing him along with Martin at
Mrs. Crao!;o;'s, his chief intent had been to
promote a boyish friendship, which should
strengthen with their growth for mutual advantage.
Instead, and notwithstanding the
rescue from the Ribble, there appeared to
be a growing antagonism between the twain ;

and, ill spite of Miss Craggg's flattering
reports, he was not disposed to espouse the
cause of his grandson against his ward, or
vice versa, without sifting; evidence and comparing
hearsay with his own personal observation.
True, his opportunities for observation
were few and limited, but in one respect
he was struck with a discrepancy in Miss
Craggg's summing-up.

How much of the vaunted politeness and
complaisance had appeared in Jasper's manner
towards Martin? Was not Mrs. Statham
still incensed at his unfeeling rudeness ? And
now this interference with a private communication
!

Ah ! Jasper, it was likely to prove a key
to an intricate lock. A small matter wilt
turn the current of a life.

On the Monday after Christmas Day, Mr.
Proctor mounted a dapple-grey horse which
had grown old in the service of the law.
Nothing was said in the house of his destination,
but he had walked home from church
with Mrs. Statham the previous evening,
and had offered to bear any message she

misfht have for friends in GisfOileswick.
Had he neglected such attention, the offence
would have been unpardonable, he well
knew, although its sole result was a "parcel
of spice" for Dora, and a private mission
of Deborah's to Edith, " not to mind, it
would come all right some dav, if she only
feared God and did her duty," a message
faithfully delivered and strengthened by
himself

He judged it expedient to leave Dapple
at the " Golden Lion," and stroll leisurely
through Settle, making a call or two as-if
merely to exchange Christmas greetings,
yet contriving so to mention his " two lads"
as to elicit opinions without open inquiry.
For this a cool, clear head, and a strong'

7 7 t ^

sone, was necessary, and no one knew it
better.

It is scarcely possible for a Londoner to
realize what was meant by Christmas hospitality
in the North before railways levelled
hill and valley, and levelled human characteristics
at the same time. It was something
hearty, overpowering, genuine. Good times

or bad times, hospitality was the first and
foremost virtue of the individual at all seasons,
and at Christmastide there was no
escaping it. In every house, in every shop,
there was something to be partaken, something.
to eat, and something to drink, variation
in the viands and beverages beincr the
only distinction. To refuse the proffered
refreshment was to insult the provider, and
was regarded as anything but a token of
goodwill. As well refuse to eat salt with
the friendly Arab in his native desert as
reject the bountiful fare of the genuine
Yorkshireman in his native home.

It required some diplomacy for Josiah
Proctor to escape from the pressing invitations
both of friends and strangers at the
Golden Lion," and he soon found it advisable
to press on to Giggleswick, if lie
meant business.

Almost every second person he met along
the road, whether drunk or sober, saluted
him with a " Merry Kinsman." Little children
dropped courtesies to the same refrain,
and were answered with ready smiles and

halfpence. Even the broken voice of Solomon
Bracken croaked it out to him from
the south gate of the churchyard. How
naturally then slipped the silver Christmas-box
into a trembling brown palm, less
horny than of yore, as a reward for his late
"find," and how naturally followed Solomon's
explanation how he came to look for
the " tin thing," and his offer to show where
he " sand it, rest hint th' stane wheel t'
ghost riz to flay a chap," and what more
natural than for Mr. Proctor to look behind
the stone and discover that Jasper had
spoken the truth, and that sure enough
there was a small patch of sickly whitish-fellow
grass, almost bare to the roots, having
all the appearance of rank vegetation
excluded from light and air by something
lying above it.

Thence he went straicjlit to Ivv Fold,
rendered up his parcel of sweets, and his
two messages, and, hospitably pressed by
Mr. Thorpe and Edith, sat down to share
their mid-day meal. There he set Dora's
tongue wa2f"in2r about the errand doings of

i) DO O O >—

the " breaking up," and the fine preparations,
and, between the little loquacious one
and her more retiring sister, got a pretty
accurate idea of the chapter of accidents,
without having put a leading question.

Of course, Dora showed the harp that
was " all her own," asked a score of questions
about Fido and the parrot, was incredulous
about Fido's long winter sleep,
exhibited Tippie as a prodigy, and told the
cat's history, whilst Mr. Thorpe, on his part,
launched out into the large subject of
Mechanics' Institutes as a means of elevating
the industrial classes, growing wonderfully
eloquent on the subject, telling of meetings
in which he had taken part in conjunction
with Mr. Polloc and John Wilson, and of
others to come.

Suddenly, as their visitor was about to
leave, Mr. Thorpe bethought him to ask if
Martin Pickersgill's father was a West Indian
by birth, and what connection, if any, he
had with Yorkshire. And he appeared to
await the answer with some interest.

The first question was answered briefly

VOL. II. H

in the negative, the other was put off to
some other day on account of haste ;" and
Mr. Thorpe was left, little wiser, to ponder
his own problem at leisure — or to forget it.

From Ivy Fold to Well Bank. There,
where unwonted stillness reigned, he was
received by Miss Vaseyy alone. Miss Craggg
was at Morecambe visiting a rich uncle, and
Mrs. Craggg dozing by the " house " fire.

He did not beat about the bush there.
His grandson's black eyes furnished an
ostensible motive for inquiry ; and inquire
he did, pretty closely, albeit in the most
pleasant and chatty manner, over a glass of
damson wine and a plate of cake, both of
which Ann had manufactured.

Ann was easily sifted. He gleaned that
the quarrel in Apple-tree Hall was supposed,
from the remarks of Burton, to have
been provoked by Jasper, though opinions
were not unanimous ; thence she was led
backwards, step by step, from the breaking
of Martin's guitar, " which he took very
much to heart, poor lad," to that remote
and forgotten ghost ; though Mr. Proctor

said nothing; of a clue from Solomon
Bracken.

Did sou miss either sheet or tablecloth
on that occasion, Miss Vaseyy ?"

Very reluctantly she admitted that the
upper sheet of Martin's bed was certainly
found to be soiled with mud, and torn, as
if with a nail ; but," she went on, eager to
exonerate her favourite, " John Danson,
who slept with Martin, told me that the
sheet was gone when they went to bed,
and they had only blankets over them."

Went to bed ! Did Martin stay there ?"

Yes. Danson said before the whole
school that Martin had lain awake repeating
the next day's collect aloud until he could
remember it also."

Then, if sheet and magic-lantern went
together to make a spectre, Martin himself
would have no hand in the business."

"I am sure he had not, he would not
have dared, his negro nurse had so frightened
him with ghost stories."

Then you think the lantern had been
abstracted surreptitiously ?"

h2

I am convinced of it. John Danson
afterwards overheard Martin say something
to the others about a warning he had given,
and the little lad got his ears boxed for listening."


'' Who boxed them ?"

I would rather not say," replied Ann,
suddenly drawing back, "and, oh, Mr.
Proctor, I beg you will not repeat a syllable
of what I have told you to my cousin or
aunt, or I shall be reproached for making
mischief and damaging; the school."

Do not be afraid, Miss Yasey," was the
catechist's assurance. " I was about to suggest
silence to you as a matter of policy. It
can do no good to stir up the ghost of a
ghost. And now let me see Mrs. Crafts. I
have had a letter from Jamaica, and I am
now about to remove ray grandson from
your care."

Ann looked scared. What if she had
made mischief? Oh, how she wished she
had been silent ! Yet she could not recall
a single word she had said against Jasper.

No, she had declined to say, and Josiah

Proctor had made his own deductions.
He saw Mrs. Craggg, delivered her
nephew's messages, and announced his intention
to remove Jasper from school, and,
consequently, from under her care. It was
time he was put to a profession, as he would
have to make his own way in the world.

Mrs. Craggg looked blank, but there was
no help for it. What Elizabeth would say
when she returned home became a topic for
Wondering conversation long after Josiah
Proctor, thoughtfully rubbing his hands
together as he went, had taken his way
back through the village, past the south
gable of Ivy Fold, and up Tarn Lane,
dreary in the nakedness of winter, to the
house of the Rev. Rowland Ingram, on
Craven Bank.

He was received with all dignity and
urbanity. Mr. Ingram regretted that so
promising a pupil as Master Ellis should be
removed so early, and suggested that he
might obtain an exhibition for Cambridge if
he remained another year ; but Mr. Proctor
assured him that would not be possible, had

never been in his plan. His ward would
be sent to college, but the means, position,
and prospects of the two lads were totally
different. His grandson would have ta
plod on as he had done. He could only
clive him the start.

He will not require more, Mr. Proctor, "^
said the head-master. " Ellis is industrious,
quick-witted, obliging, careful, and calculating;
the very one to plod and make his
way. He is a general favourite."

This was gratifying, and Josiah said so,
adding,

I hope my ward is in no less esteem."
Mr. Ingram's face lit up.
Ah, he is of quite another temperament
and calibre. A frank, generous, high-spirited
youth, to whom punishment would
be a degradation. There is no need to urge
him forward. I suppose you are aware he
has voluntarily added botany and geology
to his general studies, and Langhorne says
he will be a first-class mathematician. He
is somewhat fiery, and does not make many

friends, but those few say he is incorruptible,
and true as steel."

Opposite natures these," thought the
lawyer, as he hurried away to reach Settle
before dusk; "no wonder they will not
assimilate. I was pleased to hear that
Jasper was a favourite ; it quite disposes of
any fear that he was mean and crafty. I
think I need have no scruples about placing
him with Hartley, and yet I cannot quite
see to the bottom of that ghost affair."

Looking at his watch, on the step of his
office, stood Lawyer Hartley.

How d'ye do ? A merry Christmas !"
was the simultaneous greeting, as the slender
fingers of the one man-of-law met the broad
palm of the other in a hearty clasp.

Have you half an hour to spare ?" was
Mr. Proctor's interrogation.

"An hour, if you wish," came as readily
and heartily as the hand to the clasp, and.
the stalwart man, replacing the massive
watch in its fob, led the way into his office,
pointed to a chair, stirred the fire into a

blaze, and, bringing his gold-rimmed spectacles
to bear on the other's face, bent his
head forward ready for business.

It is not needful to follow their conversation,
it is enough to say that Mr. Proctor
proposed to article his grandson to Mr.
Hartley ; that his reasons for desiring to
place him in the office of a stranger rather
than in his own were held to be cogent and
sufficient ; the amount of premium was discussed
and settled ; and then the two shook
hands again over the bargain, and a bottle
or two of good old port.

Josiah Proctor slept soundly that night ina
carefully-warmed bed at the " Golden
Lion;" and, when he rode out of Settle the
next morning;, he was much better satisfied
than when he rode into the town the day
before. Then hoary Castleberg seemed to
frown upon him. He had suspicions of his
grandson, and dreaded their confirmation.
Now, if" his suspicions were not wholly done
away with, they were lightened. He had
heard no evil of him ; had confirmed his
veracity with respect to Martin's oil-can.

He had no positive proof that he took part
in the ghost affair, and, if he had, it was
but a boy's frolic, into which he had been
led by his elders. Nor was there any absolute
proof the guitar had been destroyed
Avilfull}^, or that his hand had been near
it.

On the other side, the Rev. Rowland
Ingram had given positive testimony in his
favour, which Mr. Hartley, who knew him
well, had confirmed by readiness to receive
him. It was, therefore, clear that
the antagonism between hiui and Martin
(Martin so thoroughly exonerated) was a
mere question of different temperaments.
It would die out when they were separated.
By the time they had both cut their wisdom
teeth, and amity was of importance, they
would be wiser, and doubtless on better
terms.

And so the morning sun, glinting on
wintry Castleberg, had auguries of hope and
promise for the future. Not that doubt
was utterly eradicated ; but he trampled it
down with right good will as a noxious

weed. Rowland Ingram had done Jasper
some service.

Quite as well satisfied were the two young
fellows. Martin was devoutly thankful.
By intuition he dreaded Jasper.

As for the latter, he was eager to throw
off schoolboy shackles, to enter upon the
business of life, to be fixed definitely in a
profession so congenial, and yet escape the
dread surveillance of his precise grandfather
and musty Simon Postlethwaite, to say
nothing of the scope for his money-lending,
or his proximity to Edith Earnshaw. Martin
would be off to college, and then wouldn't
he cut him out? He felt himself a man all
at once.

Altogether his satisfaction was palpable
and exuberant.

Mrs. Statham, who had signified her dislike
to him pretty plainly, openly thanked
her stars that he was not going into his
grandfather's office to poke and pry into her
affairs.

Even Mrs. Ripley could remark to Mr.
Postlethwaite that it was well for Kitty he

was not likely to remain there, he talked
such nonsense to the lass.

Altogether satisfactory So it seemed.

CHAPTER VII.

A POSTSCRIPT.

WHAT had come to Edith Earnshaw ?
The holidays were over both for
the Grammar School and Miss Craggg. Edith
was no longer a pupil, but Dora's dread of
Thomas Clapham compelled her, morning
and afternoon, to take the exacting little
one by the hand to Well Bank, and watch
her safely in at the gate. Coming home,
the companionship of other and elder girls
could always be depended on.

But there were rainy days, on which an
umbrella and little patterns had to be superadded
to the warm fur tippet and black
beaver bonnet of Miss Dora, and then
Edith's journeyings to and fro were doubled.

The distance was short, shawl and bonnet
were kept at hand, her dress and hair were
never in disarray, but these frequent expeditions
encroached on her time, and broke
in upon her own occupations in a way to
try her patience extremely.

To say that she put down her pen, her
book, or her needle, her paste-pin, or box-iron,
the instant the clock "gave warning,"
with uniform cheerfulness, would be to
picture a paragon, and Edith was not a
paragon. A burden had been laid upon
her, and there is no question that at times
she felt it a burden ; but she never thought
of laying it down, or relinquishing that which
she had undertaken.

It was no light thing for a young lady of
sixteen, whose neatness was inherent, to
rush oiF, hastily attired, across the village
where half the people watched the business
of the other half, and that, too, at the very
hours the Grammar School young gentlemen
thronged the highways and byways.

Many a weary sigh, many a hasty, "Oh,
dear, I wish I had not to go out," escaped

her as she made her brief preparations, but
it never occurred to her to delegate her
duty to Janet. The child had to be taken
care of, and it was she who had to do it.
Indeed, it is doubtful whether Janet would
have accepted her trust ; Janet who grumbled
so loudly at what she called " an
unnecessary piece o' work." " Bless the
bairn, school's other sugar nor saut, school
non melt !" she was wont to exclaim, as an
unexpected shower sent off Edith through
the rain, lest " Dora might get wet."

Over Betty D3'son's counter her conduct
was canvassed and criticised as freely and
charitably as that of a Prime Minister by
the comic journals of to-day. Betty's pins
and pepper were not sharper than some of
the tongues.

"Their gangs that Earnshaw lass aegean.
School's alius agit an' abaght. It's non ta
mich work school turn agit o' hand,"
would say one.

Why, why, if their be na Edith
Earnshaw aegean wiv her mam's shawl about

her shoulders. Ah cannot care to be melting
in other folk's matters, or ah'd sun lett'
lass know 't wur not peaceful t' run after
t' lads i' such a fashion," would observe
another, and perhaps Betty's excuse would
be met with —

Dunno tell me ! T'lile bairn's nought
but a mak-believe. Lasses are non sa fond
o' their half-sisters. School's ester t' lads,
for a' school lurks sa meally-feaced. Why
disant school send Janet, if that be a' ?"

Luckily these surmises never reached the
ears of Edith, or they would have given
pain without releasing her from her bondage ;
and just as luckily Solomon Bracken did
overhear and take up the cudgels in her
defence, more than once.

"Soon soak wad foul towing on an
angel," he affirmed, as he flouted the
gossips, "I sees her gang past t' lads, wiv
nivvor sa mich as a blink ov th' even."

He might well say so. The most unpleasant
part of her daily duty was the
certainty of meeting one or other of the

schoolboy tribe, notably the one with whom
she had been on the most friendly and
familiar footing.

Martin's first visit after the vacation had
been to Ivy Fold. Edith's reception chilled
and astounded him. What matter that
Dora rushed to greet him with open arms,
that Mr. Thorpe welcomed him heartily and
began at once to plan excursions to Cordage
and Malaria ; that Janet, in her brusque
way, seemed glad of his return ; that even
Tip crept to his shoulder and purred satisfaction
close to his ear ; if Edith, to whom
all the rest were but as motes in the sunbeam,
held aloof, and accorded the most
frigid of common-place salutations, without
the semblance of a smile to light up her
pale, grave face?

They were sitting in the large room, into
which ]martin's arrival had drawn Mr.
Thorpe, or rather, into which Dora had
creased her father from his sanctum, after
opening the door for the young man whose
coming she had espied from her especial observatory
in the recess.

It was Saturday afternoon, and Martin,
on his unexpected entrance, discovered
Edith ensconced in one corner of the opposite
window-seat, with the week's stockings
in a work-basket beside her. She had a
grey woollen stocking on her hand at the
time, and he attributed the embarrassment
of her first address to that ; but when she
resumed her seat and occupation in silence,
bending her head over her Avork, as if the
dim rays straggling through the watery
sky scarcely afforded sufficient light, leaving
Mr. Thorpe and Dora to entertain him,
taking no part in the conversation unless
addressed, he became perplexed, and in his
turn embarrassed. He had seen Grace Metcalfee
and John Danson's cousins pettish and
huffed for no apparent reason, many a time
and oft ; but Edith was of a more steadfast
nature, and for every " why " had a
"because."

Thinking it would wear off he sat down,
and, among other things, said a letter had
arrived from his godfather just before he
got to Skipton, giving an unfavourable

VOL. II. I

account of the indigo crops, whereupon Mr.
Thorpe asked if he had remembered this
promise about the botanical specimens from
Jamaica?

Oh, certainly ; I was not likely to forget.
My old nurse Dinah had a marvellous
knowledge of plants and their properties ;
was said to concoct poisons and charms, and
I can remember well the other slaves stood
in awe of her. If she is living, she will
hunt up specimens enough for the sake of
'Massa Marty,' I know. I have asked Mr.
Vaseyy to set her about it. And, Miss
Earnshaw" — he rose and came towards her,
■ — "I did not lose sight of the 'slave.' With
the influence of your recitation upon me,
I requested Mr. Vaseyy to do away with
whipping ' on our plantation, not to make
any more purchases of human flesh, and not
to join the other planters in opposing the
emancipation of the negro."

Edith lifted her head with a sudden flush
of feeling, but as suddenly dropped it again,
as if with a twinge of pain.

He went on, "I suppose you are aware

Mr. Wilberforce and his party are still
hoping and working to obtain freedom for
our slaves."

Yes ; so I heard from John Tatham,
He said he should wish me to sign a petition
on their behalf some day," she answered,
coldly.

Did he tell you that Mr, Stanley was
expected to bring the measure before
Parliament, when their parts was strong
enough?" asked Mr. Thorpe.

She shook her head, Martin went back
to his chair to talk the matter over with Mr.
Thorpe ; turning to address Edith from time
to time, the while he stroked the glossy back
of beautiful Tippie, who purred and showed
the pink tip of his tongue in gratitude for the
favour and distinction ; and Dora exhibited
a new doll, jointed in all its limbs, which
Edith had just dressed.

But Edie herself was voiceless as the doll.

"What has come over her?" he asked
himself aorain and ao-ain. " No sister could
have been more kind or friendly when I
bade her ' Good-bye ' at the gate three

i2

weeks ago. Did she not even say they
should miss me ? And yet, now she has
neither a word nor a smile for me. Has
anything happened? Can she be ill ? Yes,
that must be it; she looks paler than usual,"
and he put the question to her.

''111? no," her stepfather answered for
her, " she was lively enough an hour ago.
She "sets dull sometimes, sittiuoj alone. Has
fits of the mopes,' as Janet calls them.
You see, Martin, I am not much company
for a young; lass. But we shall be having
you and Jasper here again to brisk us all
up, and keep the piano-strings from rusting."

And I'll let you play on my harp,"
graciously volunteered Dora.

Suppose, Edith, you put your darning
down ; it is quite bondman's holiday,"
suggested Mr. Thorpe, " and give us a song
now in the twilight — apathetic ballad suited
to the hour."

The darning was put down, the basket
removed, but Edith declined to play or sing,
on the plea that she " had a headache," and
then she abruptly quitted the room.

"A headache, eh?" quoth Archibald.
"^'That's with darning stockings in the dusk.
I wondered what ailed the lass ; she was
cheerful enough over dinner. But she has
not been quite herself since Allan's last
letter. I fancy her friend Grace Metcalfe
has done something to displease her ; or,
perhaps Allan himself; but she has said
nothing about it to me."

Have you not inquired ? It might be
something requiring your attention," said
Martin, promptly, with a sort of feeling that
Mr. Thorpe was somewhat lukewarm.

Archibald Thorpe's answer showed the
man in another aspect.

"Hardly that, or Edith would not have
kept it from me. But, you see, they are
not my own children ; it is rather a delicate
thing for a stepfather to interfere between
the brother and sister where his advice and
intervention are neither required nor solicited.
And perhaps, after all, there may not
be anything much the matter. If Edith
were a little more communicative, I should
be clad for her own sake."

"Have you ever invited her confidence,
Mr. Thorpe ?" asked Martin, as he rose to
tal'^e leave, finding that Edith did not return.
Miss Earnshaw is of a retiring nature, but,
I think, has a heart as open to genial sympathy
as a rose to the sunshine."

He had left a hard nut for Archibald
Thorpe to crack. He had not sought the
girl's confidence : not because he lacked the
inclination ; but he did not know how to
set about it. He was sensitive lest he should
appear a harsh and inquisitorial stepfather,
and ran to the opposite extreme. Edith
was left to her own thoughts and imaginings,
to feel herself alone, uncared for ; to
consume with internal fires which night
have been easily blown out if but a friendly
hand had opened the furnace door.

In the present instance Mr. Thorpe's
fancy " was correct. Edith had not been
the same since the receipt of Allan's letter,
which she had had a couple of days ; the
mischief, however, lay in the postscript.

There was nothing in the letter unpleasant
— just the reverse. Allan had been

invited both to Mr. Polloc's and to Mr.
Metcalfe's, and he believed that the favour
shown to him had made Basil Buttermere
jealous. He said he met John Wilson at
Mr. Polloc's, just as carelessly dressed as
ever, dropping scraps of wisdom and counsel
culled from all sorts of books, but all
ending in recommending good books as the
best company, and denouncing a careless
choice of friends. Of course, there was
much to be said of Grace Metcalfe — how
lie looked and spoke, how much she was
admired, and the affectionate messages she
sent.

But the postscript answered a casual
remark made by Edith in writing to her
brother, made in the dearth of news, small
matters rise to so much importance in a
sleepy village. It ran thus : —

Pes. — If Martin said some of the boys
had thrown his oil-box away, Martin ought
to be ashamed of himself. It was lying at
the back of an old gravestone by the wall,
with the "pass and weeds all "rowing; over
it, when I hooked it out with my stick.

You raa}'' see for yourself where it has lain,
and 'both Jasper and I think that he
dropped it when he played the ghost the
night our poor mother died, and he could
not himself tell where it had fallen. That
was why he was so lukewarm over it when
the lantern was found empty. The sheet
ois his bed was all dirty and torn, and you
know Ingram and Howson suspected him.
You know he could get down the pear-tree
from his bed-room window. But I promised
Jasper not to tell you, so don't say a
word to anyone. I had thought better of
Pickersgill, and I should not care to rake
the affair up now to do him harm. I daresay
he is sorry enough. But it is a mean
trick to success that some one stole the
publishing thing, and then threw it away."

Mean ! It was dishonourable. It reversed
all her ideas and estimate of Martin Pickers-gill.
He had been to her the impersonation
of truth and honour, of bravery and
gentleness. Yet here she w^^s told he had
been the one to play a wantonly cruel trick
on an ignorant old man — had made the

man a cripple for life, and hurried her
mother to the grave without a word of
farewell to any of them. Well might he
express concern and sympathy for her in
her loneliness. Well mi<]i;lit he be so liberal
with his money to old Solomon. She saw
it all now. And to think of the falsehoods
he must have uttered from time to time to
screen himself! How could he come to
their house with so pleasant a smile, so easy
a manner, with such a load on his conscience
? It was scarcely credible, it was
not to be believed ! Yet Allan himself had
brought the things to light, and Allan was
to be trusted, that she did know.

She carried her letter into her dead mother's
room, the only one in which she was
secure from Dora's intrusion, and locked it
up in her desk, and then she sat down to
think it all out ; and the more she thought
the more she was perplexed and troubled.
But she never doubted Allan, never imagined
that he had put, unwittingly, into definite
shape the subtle insinuations of another.
She only thought that Jasper had shown

more consideration for her feelings than she
had expected. She should never be able
to look on Martin without a shudder — could
never forgive him. His duplicity heightened
his first offence. And 3'et it was hard that
the only friend who had seemed to understand
her, the one whose tastes and sentiments
were most in accord with her own,
should be the one to do this great wrong,
the one of all others she should most despise.
Was it possible for trust to be more rudely
shaken ? Could Allan have been mistaken ?
But no, Allan would never have condemned
his friend without sufficient proof She did
not think she could ever forgive him, she
said to herself, as she stood at the foot of
the white bed, and recalled her mother's
last efforts to speak.

Yet she could not bring herself to disturb
Mr. Thorpe's faith in his favourite. She
felt as if she ought to warn him that Martin
was unworthy his regard ; yet she could not
do Martin an active injury.

It would be such a shock to father,"

she murmured. " And Allan bids me to be
silent besides."

As she turned from the bed-foot to leave
the room, her eye rested on the old inscription
above the fireplace, and, with a heavy
sigh, she murmured,

"Ah, I shall be more alone than ever
now, and there is no knowing whom to trust.
It is all very sad. Yes," — she checked herself
— " there is One sure trust that never
fails," and the upward glance of her steadfastly
radiant eye told that, whether she
knew it or not, she was not all alone.

CHAPTER VIII.

SUNSHINE AND SHADE.

SPRING returns to the heart as to the
earth. Winter thawed his frozen
beard, wrung the raindrops out, and shook
his tresses dr}'^ in wind and sun as he slowly
retreated before the advancing army of
spring took possession of moor and mountain,
moss and gill. The army of blossoms
heralded by the pale snowdrop, and headed
by the sanguine matron, which, putting
forth its ruddy blooms ere its green leaflets
dared the biting blasts, seemed to bid the
hardy thrift show its round pink face
above its troop of spears, while the ringing
peal of the blue hyacinth woke the daisy
and the speedwell from their sleep, to lookup

and say that spring had beaten winter
back.

Just so, as the weeks and months went
by, the sudden and unnatural iciness of
Edith's manner towards Martin thawed
somewhat. It was impossible it should be
otherwise, he was himself so frank, open,
and generous ; rendered little services to Mr.
Thorpe or Dora so unobtrusively, and
appeared so much troubled and perplexed
when she declined for herself all but the
very commonest courtesies of life.

Yet the tone of their former familiar
intercourse was never restored, although
there were times when, listening to discussions
between the young geologist and the
elder, she was led away by his earnestness
and enthusiasm, just as he was led away by
the infinitude of their theme, the marvels
and the mysteries of creation, the revelations
of Deity in every rock and fossil ; and as her
eye and ear were caught by the glowing
fervour of face and language, the deep
devotion underlying all his scientific speculations,
all his descriptions of the wild and

sublimely picturesque scenery through which
their rambles led, she forgot her self-imposed
restraint, and for a brief space would be
once more natural and cordial. And this
never more so than when Dr. Burrow
chanced to be of the party and drew the
young man out. Indeed distrust and Dr.
Burrow could scarcely sit down together.

They had, however, another visitor, who,
after office hours, was free to trim himself
up and find his way from Settle to Ivy
Fold. Mr. Proctor had placed Jasper with
a quiet respectable couple in Settle as a
boarder ; on the understandings that family
rule rust be maintained, and some supervision
exercised as a safeguard against late
hours and evil associates. So slight and
impalpable was the bond that Jasper felt
himself a man in his new liberty, and his very
step along the footpath, the air with which
he removed his cap with the one hand,
whilst he extended the other to be shaken,
proclaimed it. But to Edith he always came
as a reminder of the discovery made by him
and Allan : and something of the shadow

which hung over Martin Pickersgill seemed
to hover also over him.

It may be she was scarcely so grateful as
she might have been for the unpalatable
pippins furnished by the tree of knowledge,
at all events her coolness extended
to him.

What matter ?" communed observant
Jasper with himself. "I happen to hold
the clue to the maze. Grandfather has
done me one 2:ood turn in fixing me with
Mr. Hartley; I shall outstay Pickersgill.
I'm young enough to wait, and, if Edith's
indignation only holds out till he's off to
college, we'll see who's the winner in the
long run."

If he did not make his wav into favour,
and keep Martin out of it long before then,
it was no fault of his ; but there was an
old lady of considerable influence who had
been overlooked, and she had a few words
to say on the subject. I do not refer to
Mrs. Statham (she still kept aloof, contenting
herself with sending; Deborah for Dora
at the midsummer holidays), but to Mrs.

Grundy, who was greatly concerned for the
well-being of the orphans at Ivy Fold, and
grievously exercised in spirit at the imprudence
of the widower in suffering two
attractive young gentlemen to come and goat
will where there Alas neither governess
nor housekeeper to play propriety. At
whist-parties Mrs. Grundy shook her turbaned
head and whispered her censures between
the deals ; at tea-parties, where only
the mild excitement of conversation-cards
could be permitted, the hyson or gunpowder
was flavoured with strictures on Mr. Thorpe,
and regrets (which were little better than
strictures) that so nice and lady-like a girl
as Miss Earnshaw should encourage young
men to walk home with her from church, if
it was but a few yards, or to visit at the
Fold at all seasons, when it was well
known Archibald Thorpe had neither ears
nor eyes for anything but weeds and stones.
She " only hoped no evil would come
of it."

Filtering through diverse strata, the whispers
at length trickled into the open ears of

Janet, and Avere poured forth in anything
but a whisper to those whom they most
concerned, as she burst in upon them fresh
from Betty Dyson's, adding, as a finale,

"I wish folk wad mell wi' there own
matters an' leave other folks allan. But
it's aw that snanty-makkin lass o' Betty's, an'
I tell her so."

When excited Janet entered, Edith sat in
her favourite window-seat, back stitching a
shirt collar, at the same time crooning to herself,
and fitting rhythmic words to her tune
as her fancy shaped them.

With Mr. Thorpe, in his retreat, were
closeted Dr. Burrow and Mr. John Sahara.
The Quaker draper and botanist had brought,
for Archibald's inspection and classification,
some specimens of hawkweed, a plant of
crocatum, which he had discovered by Matters
Cave, a corymhosum found on Attermire
Scar, and an umhellatum picked up on the
bridge between Settle and Giggleswick
during his walk thither. They were turning
over Withering's " Botany," and Smith's
English Flora," and comparing notes on

VOL. II. K

Others of the Herbarium, when Janet's loud-voiced
indignation broke in alike on Edith's
rhvminaj and their scientific reasoning;.

Mr. Thorpe opened the door to bespeak
quiet. At once Janet turned the full tide
of her eloquence on him, and he listened to
the end ; whilst Edith's busy hands dropped
into her lap, and her cheeks burned under
the cruel aspersions.

Do you hear this ?" cried Mr. Thorpe
to his friends. " I call it monstrous. Here
are two lads who do me a kindness ; I ask
them here, take an interest in them, one
especially. I find my own youth renewed
in the association, and, in my own way, I
try to open the gates of science for him — •
or at least to oil the hinges — and here half
the tea-tables in Settle and Giggleswick
make it their business, and, not content with
that, fling stones at Edith, One of the best
of sisters, daughters, housekeepers ever lone
widower had under his roof, and the most
sedate. And as for those lads, T would
have been glad sometimes to have seen her
more cordial to them. Yes, Edie," and he

turned to her, " I would. I have thought
of late you were unreasonably reserved."

Unreasonably !" was her mental exclamation.
"How little he is aware!" Her
spoken thought was,

Yet it appears, father, my reserve has
not been sufficient to protect me from misrepresentation.
I shall have to be still
more guarded in the future, for Dora's sake
as well as my own."

Tush, child ! Don't freeze into an icicle,
or let these idle shafts poison your life. Are
we to hang a placard on the church gates
to ask whom we shall invite, or how we
shall entertain them ?" replied Mr. Thorpe,
warmly.

John Tatham here struck in.

"Methinks, friend Thorpe, thy stepdaughter
is right. Young maidens cannot
be too discreet, and she must keep her light
shining for the sake of thy own little child."

Alius encourage], Edith bean to take
Dora by the hand whenever either Martin
or Jasper walked in at the front door, and
there was sunshine to justify a ramble,

k2

•

making her escape by the back across the
fields and into the woods to gather health
and flowers, and steer clear alike of gossip
and its exciting cause. She was 2;lad to
avoid Martin, and did not trouble herself
about Jasper. Mrs. Grundy had so far
checkmated him.

These sunny rambles could only be taken
after tea, or on Dora's holidays, for Miss
Craggg had laid before Mr. Thorpe such a
statement of the enormity of too much play
and of interrupted studies that there was
no longer an appeal against Edith's efforts
at discipline, and she would never infringe
on school hours. Of course, wet or fine,
she had various errands to Settle, whether
the purchase of drapery from John Sahara,
or marketing in the shambles, or a sudden
requirement of her stepfather's from Wild-man
the stationer ; and in these walks she
was mostly alone with her own thoughts,
otherwise she was rarely seen without Dora,
the child skipping along by her side, chattering
like a magpie, or running on in advance,
in chase of moths and butterflies,

dropping one by one the blossoms with
which her little hands mij^ht be filled.

It not unfrequently happened that Edith
carried a book in her hand, and, reading as
they went along, would lose the real in the
ideal, until a pluck at her sleeve would call
her back to earth, and to the importunate
demands of her companion. She might
have been seen absorbed in thought, sitting
in some ferny nook or on a 
boulder, some lichen-covered block of
limestone or of millstone-grit, under shadow
of the lofty scars, beneath waving birch or
ash-tree, or on the forsworn flag of a field-path
stile, pencil in hand, jotting down her
own "thick-coming fancies," and mayhap
turning into verse the feelings and emotions
•of her inmost soul, with a sort of cabalistic
fingering, to time the tripping or the marching
feet.

All unknown to himself, had Thomas
Lister, the Barnsley rhymer, striving to
amuse a restless child, in that staofe-coach
journey a year before, unsealed a secret
fountain in the sister's brain, and set the

waters of poesy to bubble up and trickle
forth unmanned, unsought, a safety-valve to
a solitary soul.

It may be her first efforts were crude — •
all such early outpourings are. The river
is not a river all at once ; it has its rise
somewhere in a mountain spring a child's
hand might cover or intercept ; but in these
first throbbing of poetry the pent-up
feelings of years, the wild imaginings of
romance found utterance ; and Edith began
to realise that power grew with cultivation.
Moreover, there was a rare delight in this
expression of herself, this revelation of that
which lay within, a delight none the less for
been" a self contained one. The written
verse went into the safe keeping of her
desk ; the unwritten lay as secret in its cell j
the undeveloped embryo of something better
to be born in the far-off future.

It was well she had this outlet for emotion
and expanding thought ; the morbid
sense of loneliness and isolation which had
weighed so heavily upon her after her
mother's death, and which Mrs. Statham's

vagaries had tended to deepen, poured out
on paper was innocuous ; left to eat into her
heart like a canker, the evil might have
spread, and marred a lovely life.

It did not blunt the edge of feeling, but
it turned the sharp steel outwards, and
stepped in to solace in the dearth of girlish
friends and companions. Many little playfellows
had Dora — Edith was too much a
woman to associate with mrs of her own
age, too much a child to assimilate wholly
with elders such as Miss Graeca or Mrs. John
Hartley. Miss Yasey, in her warmth of
heart and girlishness, might have come
nearer but for the solidity of Edith's character,
a depth of thought which Ann could
never fathom.

It was indeed well she could throw off
her anxieties upon paper, for they seemed
to grow. In the active, bustling household
work, Janet was invaluable, and was apt to
repudiate help, but Edith had the care of
the household purse, irregularly supplied,
and from undefined sources; catering for
indiscriminate hospitality, and keeping an

account of expenditure for a man who,
knowing nothing of the value of money,
would " wonder where it had gone," yet
never satisfy himself by calculation, or even
an examination of those carefully neat and
correct books of hers.

That year she had, besides the cares
domestic and the chill of a stifled friendship,
a perpetually recurring fear for Allan.
Asiatic cholera had invaded the land, and
set his blue foot resolutely down in Leeds.
Families were decimated or swept away
From the homes of the working population,
where sanitation was unknown, and filth
reeked and steamed in the burning sun, the
pestilence spread right and left, sparing
neither the tender babe nor the stalwart
man. Whole households were stricken
down at once, incapable of helping one
another ; nurses and doctors succumbed ;
the living were half afraid to bury the dead,
and fright killed where the disease would
have spared. When a cholera-hospital was
erected at St. Peter's Square, the owners
and tenants of adjacent property smashed in

the windows as a protest against bringing
the blue-death into their midst. Churches
and other places of public assembly were
almost deserted, the needles of tailor and
seamstress were busy with black robes ; the
spade of the sexton and the hammer of the
undertaker had no rest, unless the implement
fell from the worker's hand, and rest
came unsought.

It was from Allan's letters that she learned
all this ; learned that Yeadon, his fellow-clerk,
had come to the office well, had
passed a funeral on the road, been seized in
less than half an hour, and was dead before
night ; that Basil Buttermere's wife and
children had been attacked, and only the
wife had recovered.

Mr. Metcalfe had narrowly escaped with
life, whilst Grace and her mother had been
hurried off to Harrowgate for fear of contagion.


And Allan was in the very midst of it !
Allan, the brother who was all in all to her !

To quiet her fears, he said that Wood-house,
where he still lived with Mr. Sheepshank,

was high and open, she need be
under no apprehension for him. But she
had heard her stepfather say how near the
wool-broker's office was to the river, and
even Allan admitted that the polluted
stream of the Aire paid its debt to the
community with interest.

It was an anxious, feverish time for Edith.
How tardy was the post, how long the
intervals between letter and letter, although
Allan never let a week slip by without a
line to calm her fears ! What if he were
taken ill ?

He might be dead before they knew it !
Oh, for a quicker means of transit ! Oh,
for the wings of Ariel ! Nay, even for one
of those flying railway-trains of which she
had heard so much !

What was it to her that Leeds was awake
to its own condition, that science and benevolence
were astir, that a Board of Health
had been appointed ? She hardly comprehended
the meaning of the term. She only
knew that her one dear brother was there.

and that if Leeds was in danger he was in
dancer too.

Besides all this, she began to think that
Basil Buttermere's name cropped up too
frequently in Allan's letters, as though the
former exercised some imperceptible influence
over the latter ; and somehow she had
always coupled Honest John's vague warnings
af^-ainst evil associates with this one
upper clerk, and could not shake off her
dread of his name, although Allan did make
merry over what he called her "absurd
fancies."

How his sister prayed for his health of
body and health of soul at this time Allan
would never know, as he would never
understand her uneasiness on his account.

CHAPTER IX.

EBB AND FLOW.

IT was the last Saturday in August. The
day was close and oppressive ; every
window was thrown open to invite a breath
of air.

Dora resolutely refused to learn lessons
or to nurse Tippie, it was " so hot," and for
the self-same reason she insisted on being
taken for a walk to gather posies.

For once Edith was unwilling to comply.
She had some sewing in hand she desired
to complete, and was likewise waiting very
anxiously for Allan's weekly communications.


"My dear, I cannot go until the postman

comes. Do not you wish to hear how your-brother
is?"

Yes, but I want some flowers, and I
want a rush-basket, and a parasol ; Willie
Hartley made some for his sisters yesterday.
He got the rushes at the Tarn."

You shall have both, Dora, some other
day, I cannot spare the time. This set of
shirts must be finished against your father
comes home."

(Mr. Thorpe had been for a week or
more in Weardale.)

Then I shall go and get some by myself,"
and up started the little damsel from
her stool. She had reached the door when
Edith, throwing down her work, dashed
forward and caught her by the shoulder.

"Dora love," she said, gently, drawing
her back, "you know your father has forbidden
you to go near the Tarn by yourself
If you were to fall in, there would be no
one to save you, it is so lonely. And, if you
were to be drowned and die, you would
break all our hearts."

And would you cry like you did when

iiiainma died ? " asked Dora, wistfully.

Cry, child ?" echoed Edith, the tears
starting at the question.

"Dora won't go near the Tarn, Edie,"
and she stole a soft arm round her sister's
waist, putting up a rosebud mouth to be
kissed, " I won't make you cry ;" then, in
another tone, " But I do want the rush-basket.
Do come, Edie, father has plenty

of Oh ! here he comes, here he

comes," she cried, in delight, as the postman's
horn was heard in the distance, and
away she flew, threatening her pretty lilac
and white muslin frock with disaster against
posts and palings as she went. Back she
came, letter in hand, flourishing it before
Edith ere she reached the gate. " I've got
it, I've got it ! He wants sentence ! You
can go now," she cried, giving up the letter
to be opened eagerly, whilst she ran in, and
without more ado reached from the peg in
the kitchen her nankeen cape and bonnet,
the latter corded but soft, like a modern
sun-bonnet, with a deep curtain to protect
the neck.

Allan's letter was longer than usual.
Edith brightened at the first glance. Calling
to Janet " Allan is quite well as jet,
thank God !" she yielded to Dora, threw a
liojht scarf about her shoulders, a broad-brimmed
leghorn hat, with azure ribbons,
on her head, and kept her letter to read as
she went.

Dora, skipping and jumping before her,
in spite of the heat, led the ways past the
school-yard under the shady trees of Love
Lane, across the beck, as it ran fresh from
the waterfall, and into Tarn Lane, past the
Cateral Hall gate and the Rev. John How-son's
dwelling and croft, still under shade
of the Park foliage, though on the left
Craven Bank rose rumored and stony, and
farther on the still waters of the crystal
Tarn lay gleaming in the sun, clear, and
cool, and beautiful, a mountain gem erelong
to be stolen away from the picture by
the agriculturist for the sake of its rich setting;.
No ruthless hand had then been laid
on it. There it rested, on its green cushion,
translucent as when the ancient Briton

paddled his canoe across the lakelet, and
left it there to tell the story to after-time.

What the romantic Tarn had been in the
past, or what it would become in the future,
was nothing to Dora. It was a joy to her
in the present ; wild flowers grew around
it, reeds and rushes on its margin, gauzy-winged
gnats and dragon-flies hovered in
the air ; there were fins beneath, and flashing
wings above, for the swallow skimmed
its surface, the lons]j-le2^ed heron and the
blue-winged kingfisher haunted it, the coot
and moor-hen plashed in the bright waters,
dreading no intruders.

That afternoon it was to " life Dora "
only a bed of rushes, and Edith saw it but
through Dora's sparkling eyes. Her own
had been so long fastened on Allan's letter,
they seemed lost in a dreamy mist, and
though her hands did make havoc among;
the tall green spikes of the plentiful rush,
it was done mechanically; she saw nothing,
not even how dangerously near the slippery
margin Dora capered and clapped her
hands.

Though the mortality in Leeds was then
at its highest, little said Allan of the fearful
pestilence, beyond his fears that Grace
Metcalfe's absence from the town, and from
himself, would be prolonged indefinitely.
His complaints were uttered in the very
rhapsody of a lover's despair, in the prospect
of a life-long separation. In one sentence,
he dreaded lest the shafts of fell
disease should strike his darlings, even in
Harrogate ; that the very letters he sent to
her should convey the contagion. In the
next, he murmured at the danger of their
billets falling into wrong hands, and so betraying
their secret prematurely, and that
both Grace and Buttermere had assured
him would be fatal. He feared he had a
dangerous rival, a new admirer Grace had
met at the Pump-room in Harrowgate, towards
whom Mrs. Metcalfe was wonderfully
gracious, and that drove him to distraction,
though Grace, he knew, was his own devotedly,
and had been since they were
children together. He appealed to Edith
for comfort. What could he do ? His mind

VOL. TI. L

was a perfect chaos. He could scarcely
preserve his composure before Mr. Metcalfe,
had lade mistakes in business correspondence
which but for Basil, who was one of
the best of good fellows, must have brought
down a reprimand. Then, as if suddenly
reminded that his extreme confidence in his
fellow-clerk needed some explanation, he
told how a few months previously, referring
to his watch in the office, he discovered that
it had stopped. In taking off the outer
case to wind it up, a watch-paper, embroidered
for him by Grace, and marked with
both their initials, fell upon the floor,
Buttermere, who had eyes for everything,
picked it up, and returned it with the observation
that it bore a striking resemblance
to a watch-paper Mr. Metcalfe carried about
with him, and which, if he remembered
rightly, he had seen exhibited to Mr. Polloc
as a pretty little token of his daughter's
affection, sent in a letter from school, of
which their junior clerk had been the
bearer.

Allan went on to say that he was extremely
annoyed at the time, and not being
able to conceal his embarrassment, Basil got
his secret out of him, and for some months
he was afraid he would betray it. But he
had turned out the best of good friends,
allowing Grace's letters to be addressed to
his house. Allan had himself even met
Grace there on one occasion before she
went away. There was no doubt that Basil
was a true friend, and, being older .and a
married man, his advice must be worth
taking.

What a startling revelation was this
missive to Edith ! Hitherto, she' had only
fancied she had her brother's confidence.
Here was a light thrown upon the past, a
clue to Allan's attention to her bosom
friend. A thousand little messages she
had innocently delivered had new significance.
It was an awakening to a triple
fact, that she was not first and foremost in her
brother's heart, not even in his confidence,
that her brother, so honoured, was acting

L 2

clandestinely towards the man he served,
and that it was possible for friendship to be
only another name for love !

Thrice had she read the letter over on
her way to the Tarn. It troubled her
beyond measure. With all a girl's sympathy
for his romantic attachment, all a sister's
sorrow for a brother's pain, she could not
pin her faith to his, or consent to think he
was in the right. With respect to Mr,
Buttermere, she knew well how a troubled
heart needed an outlet, longed for a friend ;
and she did not blame her brother, but she
deprecated his choice of a confidant. She
certainly knew nothing of Mr. Metcalfe
beyond what she had gathered from Grace,
but she saw no reasonable objection he
could have to her brother, or what motive,
unknown to her, there could be for concealment.
Still she felt assured Basil Buttermere's
advice was not that of an upright
man. She wondered once more what Mr.
Wilson knew of him.

In the midst of such meditations was
Dora's bundle of rushes gathered, and

carried out of Tarn Lane into the turnpike
road, on the opposite side of which, close to
the liine-kihis, Kelcowe Wood waved its
green plumes, backed and overtopped by
the rugged grey line of lofty limestone scars.
Even the little one's chatter fell on deaf
ears, or was answered at random.

In such mood, too, she crossed the dusty
highway to the soft green velvet border
lying close under the steep wood (whence
now and again came the sound of boyish
voices hailing one another), and walked on
until the "Ebb-and-Flow" offered rest and
shade. There, shaped by the hand of
Nature, the limestone forms a succession of
irregular steps above, and on either side
the upright ledge of the deep trough into
which the water rises even at times to
overflowing. Above and on either side
these bold steps ferns have clustered, trees
and interlacing brambles formed a natural
canopy.

In that sylvan bower, upon the topmost
step, Edith laid down her rushes and her
hat, and, seating herself beside then], asked

absently which she should make first : a
basket or a parasol?

Why, a basket to be sure, and I can
fill it with pretty posies whilst you are
making the parasol," sagely answered Dora,
with her lovely head aside. Then with a
sudden thought she asked, "Edie, could you
make a fan ; not a big fan like Aunt Statim's,
but one for a life bairn like me ?"

*' Perhaps I might, darling, if I had some
broad-leaved grass or reeds to intertwine
with the rushes. I will gather some by the
Tarn as we o;o home, and then see what I
can do."

But I want a fan now ; I am so hot."

"Dora must have patience. People
cannot have all they want, and it would not
always be good for them if they did. You
had better come and sit here until you are
cool, and watch me make the basket?"

And will you make a bia; one if I

r-,)1

come f

With a nod and a smile of assent,
Edith helped the little maid to a place
beside her, and began to select and arrange

the foundation rushes, weaving others in and
out, answering Dora's innumerable inquiries
why she did this or that, with a cheerfulness
she was far from feeling. Only a close
observer noting the involuntary sighs which
escaped her now and then, or the shade of
saddened weariness in her drooping eyelids,
could have told how far her thoughts were
from her lissom fingers."

The basket neared completion. A few
more wraps of the handle and it would be
finished, when a very close observer, with
dusty shoes and heated face, who carried
something like roots or plants tied in a
pocket-handkerchief, came down the road
and stopped at the well side, with a frond
of hart's-tongue fern curled cup-like in one
hand ready to dip into the clear water should
it chance to be at " flow."

The leaf dropped and uncurled on the
brink of the well as the hand was extended
in friendly greeting.

Miss Earnshaw ! and Dora ! how do you
do ? This is an unexpected pleasure. When
I extemporized a goblet on my way to the

well, I little thought of finding the fair
nymph of the fountain presiding over its
fickle waters."

"Stay," he corrected himself, "I must
apologise. I should have said a wood-nymph
in her sylvan haunt ; your rustic pastime
bears it out. This water is fickle ; mocks
the thirsty traveller; I should be loth to
connect Miss Earnshaw with aua;ht so inconstant
and delusive," and the liirht voice toned
to earnestness.

Two little danfTlino; feet had scrambled
from their perch, two little dimpled hands
clasped the proffered palm, a glib little
tongue anticipated salutation with, "Why,
here's Martin ! Oh ! Martin, I'm so glad !
Come and look at my rush-basket." But
the wood-nymph's pastime seemingly'' engrossed
both eyes and hands, and the last
inch of handle apparently demanded extra
care.

A cold "There are many things delusive
besides this fickle well, Mr. Pickersgill," fell
like the very sprinklings from a naiad's
fingers upon the warmth of the new comer.

Literal Dora came to bis relief, and
warded off embarrassment with "Nymph of
the Fountain ! Was that the fairy that took
care of the nice lady's babies when the
wicked nurse threw them in ; and gave the
lady a rusk-ball to screw round and round
and round when she wanted her ? Edith
knows a tale about her. Do you know it?"

Martin smiled, but shook his head in
token of ignorance, and, while he re-curled
the fern-leaf, and dipped it into the slowly-rising
water for the cooling draught, began
to tell how, once upon a time, when there
were no houses and no men and women in
Craven, and no roads anywhere, but only
mountains and thick forests through which
the river ran, it was mid, though no one could
remember when, there were beautiful beings
called nymphs in the woods, and there were
also some wicked ugly beasts called satyrs,
like men with goats' legs, and it chanced
that one of these satyrs fell in love with a
beautiful nymph, who was afraid, and ran
away from him many a mile through the
dales, over the crags and scars, and through

the woods, till she fell down just there, with
her heart panting and beating, and so died.
And, as the last panting breath left her pure
lips, the nymph was turned into a gushing
spring, always cold, and good, and pure as
she, its waters flowing and ebbing as her
panting breath had come and gone.

Dora listened with eves and ears intent.
She nodded her head at the close, and. with
an air of superior information, said,

I shall tell Dr. Burrow that. I am sure
he does not know about the nymph of the
fountain, or father either. Oh ! that's beautiful
! Thank you !"

Whether the thanks and the admiration
were rendered to Martin's legend or Edith's
basket was not very clear, but the latter
was taken immediate possession of, and, with
the reminder, "Now be sure you make mea
nice parasol," in a tone half-coaxing, half-commanding,
the more than half-spoiled
little lady was down and picking daisies and
harebells b}^ the roadside before Edith could
determine whether it would be best to beat
a retreat, and run the risk of having a second

companion on the walk home, or to remain
where she was until Martin should himself
retire. His presence was oppressive and
unwelcome ; just now it came as a corollary
to Allan's letter. From all the world she-would
have suckled those two out as examples
of chivalrous honour, and now — the
reaction was too painful for contemplation.
The very effort to retain composure made
her seem frigid and unyielding.

As though Dora's absence had been the
one think; desired, Martin Pickers^ill rose
from the stone edge of the well, where he
had seated himself to repeat the old legend
to the child ; and, planting one foot on the
step immediately in front of Edith, he rested
his left arm upon his knee whilst he looked
up into her face with a somewhat troubled
and searching expression in his lustrous
black eyes.

"Miss Earnshaw," he said, "it is not
many months since I was privileged, by the
right of long friendship and usage, to call
you ' Edith ;' you did not hesitate to address
me as ' Martin'. I had dared to think there

was a mutual bond of sympathy between
us ; that, misunderstood by those around,
we two understood each other, and — a — in
short, I had begun to centre all my hopes
and aspirations in you. 1 did not dare so
much as to whisper how long I had worshipped
you in secret. We were both so
young, I was content to sun myself in your
smiles, and trust the future, hardly analysing
my own hopes, but, like an idiot, feeling
myself safe in that same bond of tastes and
sympathies. I carried away with me to Skipton
the touch of a warm hand, the memory
of a gentle voice, a pleasant smile, an assurance
that you would ' miss me.' I returned
to be chilled with icy coldness which has
only thawed into cool reserve — ' Martin ' to
Dora and Mr. Thorpe, but not to you.
How my warm southern blood has borne it
heaven only knows ! This is the first
opportunity I have had to seek an explanation,
and none could be more fitting. Here,
Edith, dearest Edith, beside this fickle spring,
I beg and implore you, who are not fickle,
by all that you hold dear or sacred, to give

nie some clue to a chance that was sudden
as a hurricane, and as desohitincr."

There was a pause. Someone with a stick
was walking smartly down the road, and

CD •/ J

Edith, whose face had flushed and paled
alternately, had a glimpse of Thomas Clapham's
long, thin limbs, but Martin did not
turn round or shift his eloquent eyes from
hers, which drooped, and shrank, and wavered,
to settle down into incomprehensibility.
Once or twice her lips parted, but
never a word passed their portals.

"Pardon me, Edith," he went on, "if I
recall your remark that 'there are more
things delusive and inconstant than this
well.' You are neither frivolous nor sarcastic
; there was sadness in your tone.
Edith," and his voice softened and trembled,
"what have you found delusive ? Will you
not tell me ? Have I in any way forfeited
the right of a friend to your confidence?"

She rose to her feet, the rushes dropped
from her lap, she caught up her hat by the
string. She had been taken by surprise,
felt faint, and sick, and dizzy ; this outburst

of wounded affection bad startled and overwhelmed
her, already disturbed. She had
been building up a barrier of reserve against
the friendship of one who had proved unworthy,
and here again she found that friendship
had only been a cloak for love. How she
might have received such a declaration but
for the dark period of distrust was not to be
known even to herself. All the past had
been inverted ; of her own feelings she was
ignorant beyond the present pang of inflicting
pain in answering according to truth and
duty, as she saw them. And the words
seemed wrung from her by a force beyond
herself.

I know nothing more delusive than mr.
Pickersgill. He appeared all truth and honour.
It still gives me pain to say I found
him otherwise. I can have no friends who
stoop to meanness and duplicity to conceal
their own wrong-doing, and affix the stigma
upon others. I would have spared you this,
but you have forced it from me. You will
please let me pass, sir. I must join my
sister and return home."

He moved aside involuntarily, in a sort of
dazed stupefaction. Whence arose this
impeachment of his integrity ? It was all a
mystery. He knew her too well to suppose
she could wound him wantonly.

As she was stepping into the road he
caught her hand, exclaiming,

For heaven's sake, Edith, tell me what
you mean ! I do not' understand you !"

There was a ring; of truth in his voice.
For a moment she hesitated. Could Allan
have been deceived ? No, she had pieced
the dissected puzzle bit by bit over and over
ao;ain. Still she would "ive him a chance
to justify himself In her effort to speak
calmly her accents fell with frigid distinctness.


Will not your old magic-lantern enlighten
you ?"

She was in the open road glancing up
and down. There was no Dora in siizht.
Had the child strayed into the wayside
wood for flowers ? She called her name ;
she hastened on callings " Dora !"

Martin followed closely.

Miss Earnshaw, you speak enigmas.
There must be some misconception."

There may be shortness of memory ;
perhaps the matter was not worth remembering
; but I, sir, saw my mother's death-agony,
and that has kept niy memory alive.
I see you remember now. Had you honestly
avowed the share you had in that night's
work, I might have forgiven it, and this
distressing interview would have been spared
us both."

He had recoiled. He remembered not
that night's work," but the after-scene in
the Grammar School, the false suspicion,
the cowardice of those who might have
cleared him, the blows from Howson's cane,
all set aside and done with. But there was
no blow like that dealt on his heart by
Edith — she whom he loved with all the
passionate fervour of eighteen. She to
suspect and scorn him ! If she could so
suspect and pre-judge, lie was unworthy
his love. He would tear her from his
heart if it killed him !

In his bitterness and indignation he stood

Still, with his bands clenched and his teeth
set, his nostrils panting and his fiery eyes
following her tall, lithe figure down the
white road, hearing that sweet voice calling,
Dora, Dora !" with increased anxiety, as
she peered into the wood, passed the lime-kilns
under Buchan-brow, glanced hastily''
down Tarn Lane as she left it on her right,
and still went on, as he in his passionate
frenzy thought, regardless of his anguish —
Dora everything, he nothing !

She saw nothing of his torture, did not
see him dash back up the road, back to the
Ebb-and-Flow, throw himself down on the
seat she had occupied, press to his lips the
half-formed rush parasol, then thrust it in
his breast, and with his face bowed to the
stone, sob out his grief with a force that
convulsed his whole frame.

No, she saw nothing of this. She had
almost lost sight of his emotion in her concern
for Dora, and hearing, as she fancied,
an answering cry from Kelcovve wood, she
turned to enter in pursuit of the runaway,
when two lads, with their caps oil their

VOL. II. M

jackets torn and flying loose, care dashing
helter-skelter down the precipitous ,
shouting, " A lion ! a lion !
There's a lion in the cave !" and almost
overturned her in their terrified flight across
the road, over the rough stone wall, andover
the meadows, as the crow flies, to
Cateral Hall.

But where all this time was Dora ?

CHAPTER X.

WOOD AND WATER.

THE playbill which announces together
for the entertainment of the same
audience broad farce and deep tragedy, is
but a stray leaf from the record of the
world. Life is full of sudden transitions,
of startling contrasts ; the globe itself presents
them, the mountain pre-supposes the
valley, the sea impinges on the beetling
crag, so the ludicrous and the pathetic ofttimes
meet and cross, even as the woof of
wool is thrown across a silk or cotton warp,
or black intersects the scarlet of the tartan.
Such was the headlong flight of the two

O CD

schoolboys across the path of Edith Earn

2

shaw, at the very moment a vanjue fear for
Dora was beginning to creep alongside her
other doubts and perplexities. All things
around her just then seemed in a state of
unreality, and their wild cry, " A lion ! a
lion in the cave !" was accepted as in dreams
we accept for natural the wildest improbabilities.
Not that its literality impressed
her. She only felt that some new danger
threatened Dora, and, ever prone to self-reproach,
she began to ask how she had
kept her dying mother's charge in allowing
the child to stray.

Lion or no lion, into the wood she went,
calling, " Dora, Dora !" her broad-brimmed
hat catching in the boughs, her feet slipping
and stumbling on the stony and broken
ground, her muslin dress tearing on the
briers and brambles, but no Dora could be
seen or heard — nor any lion.

The lonnj line of greenwood below the
precipitous Scars of Giggleswick, bearing
various designations in their length, was nota
well-believed plantation on level ground,
or a gently undulating slope, with trees

cropped and docked to regulation by sapient
Commissioners." The undergrowth had
not been swept and garnished away to leave
the bare soil neat and trim as a garden. It
flourished in nature's own lovely luxuriance
where bird and wind had sowed the first
seeds of yew and mountain ash in the
sheltering fissures of the limestone, and the
grateful trees clomb and clothed the steep
and ru^2;ed scar, flinsjini]!" an annual tribute
to mother earth, until lower down there
Alas a hold for 'dire birch and spreading
plane, tasselled larch and smooth-bolted
beech, to strike their roots, and stretch out
umbrageous arms above the wayside wanderer.
And, under all, hazel and dog-rose,
sweet-brier and bramble, betony and ferns,
made a glorious tangle, and hid the dangerous
inequalities of that woodland territory.
It was not all a tangle ; there were openings
here and there, and pathways trod by
human feet when nuts and berries were in
season (paths since defined and cleared),
and, chief of all, the pathways to the caves,
such paths as few but adventurous schoolboys,

or still more adventurous scientific
explorers, would care to tread.

For of the curious caverns which make
the district famous, Gi»2;leswick Scars hold

/ CO

no less than four. Cave Hole some distance
beyond the well ; and on the limestone
pavement, above the summit of the
scar, a deep perpendicular hole known as
Dangerous Cave. Then, high up above the
level of the tallest tree in Kelcowe Wood,
the Celtic owner of the canoe found in the
Tarn may have had a retreat or a home in
another cave on the very face of the precipice
where later some Roman, a little more
civilized, must also have lodged, for lie left
a fibula and some few coins behind in payment
for the accommodation.

But midway between Cave Hole and
Kelcowe is a deep fissure or cleft in the
scar which, like the well, has a legend of
its own. It is told how a reckless highway
robber, rejoicing in the name of Nelson,
which he made a terror to Yorkshire, being
familiar with the spot, on one occasion,
Avhen hotly pursued, rode his horse boldly

up the steep and perilous face of the
scar, into the stony gap on the summit,
which presented a dangerously rough footway
for the reckless rider, and so right upto
scare the sheep pasturing on the grassy
heights above, and was off and away beyond
reach of his pursuers, who had not, like him,
a gallows as an alternative. It is from that
memorable exploit the fissure has gained
the distinction of Nevison's Nick.

And it is close beside this very Nevison's
Nick that we find the fourth, or Staircase
Cave, so named, not from any connection
with the bold highwayman's impromptu
staircase, but from the fact that the well-nigh
inaccessible entrance, small though it
is, opens out into a long and tunnel-like
passage, which also rises in a succession of
distinct steps until it has its outlet in the
greensward above the scars.

It so happened that there were spots
in Kelcowe Wood where the trees did not
elbow each other too closely, and there
were bits of soft, green carpet open to the
sun and air; and to John Danson and

«»

William Hartley it was well known there
were delicious earth-nuts to be found therefor
the digging. And though they were no
botanists, and the umbels of the huniuni had
died down, they knew the delicate leaves
close as they sat to the ground, and needed
no learned pig to scent the little black roots
out.

Diesincf them out was another matter,
they lay so deep, and the Expose stems
bent so far under the surface.

But on that particular holiday afternoon
John had secured one of Miss Craggg's
strongest table-knives, and the digging went
on merrily. Having filled a pictorial pocket-handkerchief,
on which "Poor Richard's"
wise sayings were illustrated in red on a
white ground, the two lads betook themselves
to Staircase Cave to feast in luxurious
ease.

Who has not heard of the skeleton at
Egyptian festivals ? Of the banquets spread
by Dionysius for Damocles, where a sword
dangled by a single hair above the luxurious
reveller's head ? The Epicurean lifting

the veil of "bones," Damocles, spying the
gleaming scimitar, never started with more
genuine affright than did these two youngsters
when some scarcely perceptible sound
caused both simultaneously to turn their
heads towards the back of the cave.

There, gleaming in the dark, two fiery
eyeballs glared upon them.

"A lion!" cried one or both in dismay
Knife, nuts, pocket-handkerchief, were forgotten.
They were on their feet, out of the
cave, and in the open air scurrying down the
scar, past the lime-kilns, and through the
wood as recklessly as ever Nevison rode
up ; spurred by the same motive. They
ran for their simple young lives as he raced
for his bold bad one. The tumbled over
rocks, tore through the brambles, scrambled
over the wall (though the stile was close at
hand), darted past Edith, across the road
and opposite wall, and never slackened
speed until the picturesque, rough-cast
gables of Cateral Hall promised a welcome
refuge, and the panting, footsore, ragged
young rascals burst in upon quiet Mrs. John

Hartley with the same startling cry, " A
lion ! There's a lion in the cave !" and
dropped in a couple of chairs spent and
exhausted as much with terror as with their
neck-or-nothino; race.

Mrs. Hartley's ball of knitting cotton
rolled to the floor as she jumped up in
alarm. She was not alone, William's uncle,
Lawyer Hartley, was there, and he, pushing
his gold spectacles up on his forehead, put
his hands on his knees, and bent forward to
stare at them with wide-open eyes, and the
one expressively astonished, long-drawn
word, " W-h-a-t ?"

The same breathless formula was repeated.
An explanation followed, and then
how the lawyer's humorous eyes twinkled
with merriment, as he swayed backwards
and forwards upon his chair, laughing until
his sides ached.

William's father, a fine stalwart specimen
of the Yorkshire yeoman, entered the room,
and looked from one to the other as if he
would fain know the reason for the mirth.

*' Hark ye ! John," said the old gentleman,

between the bursts of laughter.
Those two brave lads have run away' like
skittish colts from a pair of eyes in Staircase
Cave, and vow there lurks a lion /"

"A lion !" It was the new-comer's turn
to laugh, which he did right heartily. " Did
you hear the wild beast roar ?"

The boYS besjan to wax indians.
Veracity and courage were both at stake.
They protested it was true.
"The ufreat eves glared like fire !"
We don't question the eyes, my lad, we
only doubt the lions'' laughed out the elder
gentleman.

"Do you think it was a fox?" suggested
Mrs, Hartley, quietly.

A fox ! Of course ! What else could
it be?" Then, turning to the boys, who sat
twirling their caps and looking somewhat
sheepish, " Only wait till the hounds are
out, and we'll unearth your lion for you ^
ay, and let you have the tail for a trophy."

A fox it was, sure enough, and in due
season it was unearthed ; but the tail was
not to be had for a trophy, for Reynard,

after a hard chase over hill and dale,
doubled and disappeared somewhere between
LangclifFe and Attermire, leaving
hounds and huntsmen alike at fault.

But "the lion" was a long-standing joke
against the lads, and no one bantered them
more unmercifully than Mr. Thomas Clapham,
who had the story in return for one
of his own when Lawyer Hartley met him
under the parish-umbrella some fifteen
minutes later, in most unusual pickle, even
for that eccentric individual. He was striding
along at a great pace, his shoes, stockings,
breeches, and even his coat, bedaubed
with mud and green slime, as if he had been
dragged through a weedy pool.

Coming from Clapham that afternoon,
between two and three o'clock, he said he
had noticed a child with a rush-basket on
her arm picking ox-eyed daisies by the
road-side a little way from the ,
and, having a notion the nankeen
bonnet and tippet were familiar, he thought
he should be doing her friends a good turn
if he slackened his pace and kept an eye on

the life lass. He was not satisfied to leave
her there by herself, as he felt sure she had
slipped away unawares when her sister was
otherwise engaged.

Was the "otherwise engaged" a sly
allusion to what he had seen ?

He went on to say that he kept at a
distance lest he should give the little one a
fright — and he grinned as lie said it —
following, until, opposite to the end of Tarn
Lane, she clapped her hands as if suddenly
inspired by a bright idea, and ran off down
the lane in hide "lee.

The walls hid her from sight until he
himself turned the corner, by which time
she was close upon the Tarn, having dropped
her freshly-gathered flowers one by one as
she went.

At the edge of the Tarn she peered about
amons^ the sedge and rushes, as if making a
selection, and then bent forward to crop
something.

He thought she must have heard his
coming footsteps, for she turned to look,
and, whether it was with the action, or

affright at the coming " bosrie," she lost her
balance, and went crash through the reeds
into the water with a half-stifled cry upon
her lips, scaring a pair of kingfishers from
their nest.

It did but seem a minute before he had
waded into the water after her, but with
floundering about she had got into deeper
water a yard or two away.

However, thanks to his long legs and his
stick, he contrived to fish her out in spite of
the entangling; weeds, and then he had a
race down the lane to Ivy Fold, with her
in his arms, white and dripping, when he
could have wished his legs twice the length,
she lay so still and death-like.

What made the matter worse there was
no one at home but Janet Carr. He
praised Janet, said she was a sensible
woman, with no nonsense about her, she
had the child in hot blankets before any
other woman lie had come across would
have done squealing.

As he had helped to do the mischief, he
could do no other than go for Dr. Burrow,

for the looks of the life bairn had flayed
him, and he was then off home to change
his clothes, though they were pretty well
dry by that time.

Poor Edith, what a fright she had, when,
in the silence of the answering wood, she
suddenly bethought her of the wished-for
fan, and her own suL);2estion of shattering;
reeds bv the Tarn.

How she dashed through the wood and
tore up the road, and into Tarn Lane, she
could never remember, or how the sio-ht of
the dropped flowers seemed to lend her
wings.

At the Tarn she stood aghast and wrung
her hands. The weedy margin had been
trampled, the lucent water had been muddled,
the reeds and sedge beaten down and
torn, and there, floating on the surface, was
the rush-basket, with a few draggled wildflowers
floating within it.

Where was Dora? Her darling Dora?

"Oh! that the water had been clear as
usual ! Was she lying drowned beneath
these tangled reeds ?"

There was a momentary impulse to plunge
in after her. Then a wild cry for " help !"
and she was asjain dashing; on with frantic
speed, hoping to get help at Howson's or
Ingram's, if only to recover the dead. But
only the rumble of distant thunder answered
her cry.

Relief came sooner than expected. Her
cry was answered from a distance. Before
she had reached a human habitation, she
was hailed and met by Jasper Ellis, the
bearer of good tidings. Dora was safe, and
doing well.

He had called at Ivy Fold, he said, and
been sent by Janet in quest of her. He
had taken that direction quite by chance.
Mr. Claphara, who had saved the child, had
gone for Dr. Burrow.

Edith's nerves had that afternoon been
strained to the highest pitch. The sudden
reaction overpowered her.

"Thank God!" was all she said. Her
head dropped into her hands. She burst
into tears, and staggered forward blindly.

But for the ready arm of Jasper, she

would have fallen. He led her to a large
wayside stone to rest and recover her composure,
doing his best to allay her excitement,
which he, ignorant of foregone causes,
inclined to think excessive.

Her faintness and lier tears were alike
momentary. She was speedily on her feet,
and hastening homewards ; self-accusation
of negligence mingling with her thankful
prayers, and vows to be more careful of her
precious charge in the future.

She found Dr, Burrow with Dora, who,
he said, would be " all right in a day or
two," but, looking at Edith, as she sank
exhausted into a chair by the bed-side, with
dilapidated hat and dress, he added, "I
shall have another patient on my hands
before long, if you do not take more care
of yourself."

Edith smiled, as she held the hand of
Dora, who had dropped into a doze, and
answered, though with a weary sigh,

"Oh, I am only fatigued with running; I
shall get over the shock very soon. You
need have no apprehensions for me."

VOL. II. N

I only advised care for your own
health," replied the doctor; " both you and
Allan have capital constitutions — I wish
that child had as stood — but shocks such as
these are, to say the least, trying. And it
is well you have good nerves with such a
wilful young puss on your hands."

Well, indeed ! for another shock impended
which would put both nerves and constitution
to the test.

CHAPTER XI.

STRICKEN.

XT would have been contrary to the hospitable
creed of Ivy Fold had either
Dr. Burrow or Jasper Ellis been allowed
to depart without their tea that afternoon,
notwithstanding the commotion Miss Dora
had contrived to create. An emergency of
any kind only seemed to draw out Janet's
latent energy, and she was rarely found
unequal to the occasion. It cannot be said
that she did her spiriting gently, but she
did it effectually.

Immediate danger over, and Dora warm
in bed, the same untiring activity set the
arrested household wheels again in motion,
and when Dr. Burrow came down the stairs

N 2

with Editli, whose pale face and dark-rammed
eyes told the soul's sharp agony
the plentiful board was spread, and Jasper
was still there. He had been detained by
the ra^incT thunderstorm which had burst
before he and Edith reached the gate, and,
having been thoroughly shocked by her
aspect when he met her in the lane, was
anxious to ascertain how she bore up,
though lie only said he had " waited to
hear the medical report" concerning the
actual patient.

When, an hour later, the storm had spent
itself, and Jasper left the house with Dr.
Burrow, he carried with him Edith's grateful
thanks. He had come in her remorseful
hour of agony as a bearer of good tidings, a
very angel of light, henceforth to be remembered
as such, the unconsciously tender tones
of his sympathy with her distress having left
their impress on a memory most retentive,
a heart ever susceptible to kindness.

Between the distraction of the storm
(through which Dora slumbered peacefully)
and the need to play the attentive hostess,

Edith had little leisure for thought. The
door once closed upon her involuntary-guests,
she retreated to her own chamber,
where Dora lav, and threw herself across
the bed in the abandonment of utter weariness
of body and brain. At first she tried
to solve the problem her brother had set
before her ; then her thoughts wandered to
Martin Pickersgill, with regret that appearances
were so deceptive, that so winning an
exterior should be so dark within. And a
compassionate hope that he was at Well
Bank, under shelter during the tempest,
flitted across her mind, with misgivings lest
she had been too harsh and bitter in her
reply to him, and then Allan, Martin, Dora,
John Danson, Will Hartley, and Thomas
clapham mingled in a sort of phantasmagoric
dance, and she sank into a lethargy
which watchful Janet mistook for balmy
sleep.

It would not have been possible for
Edith to wish evil, even to an enemy. If
she did not, like George III., close her
Prayer-book during the reading of the

Athanasian Creed, she certainly closed the
portals of her lips during the reading of the
denunciatory psalms. She was apt to shudder
at much which others read out glibly.
Curses were not for human lips, she said
and thought.

Allan's unfortunate postscript, taken in
conjunction with Martin's own equivocal
behaviour in respect to his lost lantern, had
sent him many degrees farther down below
the level of her esteem than he had ever
been above it ; still it would have grieved
and affected her could she have seen him
braving the furious tempest all recklessly,
the very while she was pouring out tea and
handing bread and butter to Jasper and the
doctor, comfortably housed, and starting as
the lightning flashes glanced across the
room.

Not caring to be the butt of drunken
drovers returning from Skipton market,
whose rough salutes had broken on his first
despairing outburst, Martin had quitted the
well-side and climbed the steep scar, heedless
of the dark cloud-masses gathering

overhead, for there were dark passions
gathering in his own breast, only to be
grappled with in solitude. " Some enemy
hath done this," was the tenor of his
thought, and, treading the limestone pavement
high up above the scars, he felt as if
his hurried footsteps trampled down his
unseen foe. And, as he higher climbed
from Buchan-brow to Ox Scar, and saw
the cloudy cap of Penyghent lit up with
living fire, he strode alone; over the raised
hills to Ribblesdale, nor paused till, by the
gate which barred his path to Little Stain-forth,
he leaned and asked himself how the
dead warriors, left underneath the huge
cairn close by, would have borne wrongs
such as his ? Would it not with them have
been fierce war and deadly animosity? His
was a fiery nature ; his was the very age for
passionate love and strong resentment ; his
was the sensitive soul to feel a slight or an
injustice like a stab. It is not always manhood
reasons calmly. He was at the age
which feels, but rarely reasons.

What to him, at such a time, were the

pelting raindrops, the fiery flashes, the
rattling and reverberating thunder ? He
seemed to revel in there. An early boyhood
in the tropics had made such elemental
strife familiar, and now how strangely it
blent with the tumult in his soul !

As the clouds enshrouded the mountain
tops, so a mystery he could not penetrate
seemed to overhang his own path. Editli
Earnshaw's chilling words had made clear*
the purpose to which his lantern had been
put, only dimly shadowed forth in his own
suspicions hitherto. As clear was it that
lier ear had been poisoned against him ;
that the mischief planned and executed by
others had been laid upon his shoulders to
alienate her, and to warp the kindliest
nature under the sun. Oh, that he could
but discover his maligned ! Oh, that he
were only free to clear himself! Was he
bound to keep to his own dishonour the
oath taken in such blind faith in Apple-tree
Hall ? Was he bound to preserve the
secrets of those who had only made a tool
and a butt of him ? He was a mere boy

when he took that foolish oath of allegiance
and secrecy. Would nothing absolve him
from his vow?

The rolling thunder seemed to say "Forsworn,
forsworn !" He shook the raindrops
from his face, and set his teeth as he"
answered his own query. " What I vowed
before God must be kept sacred before
God ! He will make all things clear in His
own izood time."

But who had traduced him to Edith ?

Could it be Jasper Ellis ? If it were

He held his breath and knit his brows,
whilst his hands gripped together with
strong impressiveness.

He was drenched to the skin long before
the last peal of thunder lost itself among
the scars and crags, and the vaporous veil
was lifted from Penyghent. Ere then he
had argued himself into a calmer frame of
mind. He had at the same time decided
that if the cloud, which seemed to wrap
him round, did not clear away and let the
sunshine of Edith Earushaw's smile brighten
his life again, Giggleswick was no place for

him. He could not sue to one who deemed
him cruel and deceptive. If the matter
did not right itself speedily, and Edith thaw
towards him, he would insist on his guardian
sending him to Cambridge at once. He
would leave the spot and do his best to
forget all he had suffered there. Edith he
should never force ! And so wore out the
storm upon the hills and in his breast.

Dora's system had sustained a shock.
Croup gripped her tender throat again, and
inflammation laid a shai-p hand upon her
lungs. It was a time of trial for Edith and
Janet as well as for the child, for she was
anything but a patient patient, and rebelled
against blisters and leeches as Ions;; as she
had strength to rebel. Yet between whiles
she was so loving and affectionate that even
Janet was willing to credit her with a good
little heart, and to lay the chief onus of
pettishness on the broad back of indisposition.


It was Edith, however, on whom the
weight of responsibility rested ; Edith who
watched night and day in that sick-chamber,

only released at times by kind Mrs. John
Hartley, or Ann Vaseyy, who insisted on her
taking rest lest she should be worn out ;
Edith on whom fell the painful duty to
acquaint the absent father and Mrs. Stathaiu
With Dora's disaster, feeling the while as if
her own ne<2;li(zence had brought it about ;
Edith from whom the child would alone
take medicine or food.

In some respects the active present and
pressing duty prevented other cares from
becoming obtrusive.

Allan's letter was answered at intervals
by Dora's bedside, answered as one keenly
alive to duty and honour was sure to think
and write. Lie bade him beware of Basil
Buttermere, and assured him that one who
could counsel and abet clandestine intercourse
between a junior clerk and their
master's daughter, was in no case to be
trusted. Treachery towards his employer
boded treachery to him. She bade him
either relinquish Grace or declare to Mr.
Metcalfe his pretensions like a man. And
then she told with sufficient self-reproach

the story of Dora's immersion in the Turn,
though she made no feature of her repulse
of Martin Pickers2[ilL

Xo response had come to any of her
epistles when she went to church the second
Sunday after Dora's accident, to render
thanks for the ijreat mercy of her rescue
and recovery. And, as she sat alone in the
high-backed oaken pew, her thanks had a
strange leaven of undefined fear. Not for
mr. Thorpe; he might have gone from
Weardale into Cumberland, and so have
missed her letter. Not for Mrs. Stathain,
she was old and eccentric ; but for Allan,
who breathed the contaminated air of a
plague-stricken town.

Round the church porch were many to
greet her, many inquirers. She smiled as
she shook hands with Jasper, met Martin
with a formal inclination of the head ; but
to Ann Vaseyy's surprise and gratification she
made way through the dispersing congregation
to a raised flat gravestone, where Mr.
clapham stretched his long, gaunt limbs, basking
in the sun ; and, clasping his bony hand,

unsought, poured out her gratitude \vitli an
earnest eloquence which quite abashed the
great, ungainly man. The jest which
came so naturally to his lips was unspoken,
and he put up one thin lank hand as if to
slide his eyes from the sun. There was
a moisture in them of which he felt
ashamed.

Monday's post (which came about noon)
brought line neither from mr. Thorpe nor
Allan, but bv the evenings coach a so-called
"parcel," a cover to a note from Mr.
Polloc, which, carefully and kindly as it
was worded, sent every particle of blood
from Edith's face, and left her white as the
paper on which it was written.

Youth, strength, and constitution had
been no bulwarks against cholera. Allan,
he regretted to sav, " had been attacked
the previous Thursday by the prevailing
epidemic, had shaken off the premonitory
symptoms on Friday, and seemed better.
On Sunday night had been again attacked,
and it was thought advisable, considering the
character of the disease, to communicate

with his friends without deh^y ; at the same
time he desired they would rest assured
that nothing; skill or attention could do for
him would be neglected."

The paper rattled in Edith's hand, her
lips parted, she caught at a chair-back to
steady herself as she read.

"Oh, Allan, Allan ! My dear brother!"
she ejaculated, in bitter anguish, " I feared
as much."

The startled, wondering cry of Dora from
her pillows on the big sofa, " What is the
matter, Edie ?" had a swift and strange
effect. It seemed to call her flying senses
back, and to steady her nerves. " It will
never do to frighten Dora," flashed across
her mind. With forced composure she answered,
"Brother Allan is not very well,
my love. I think I must go and nurse
him."

"And leave me?" was said in pettish
alarm.

You are better, my dear, or I should
not leave you. Allan needs me most now.
Dora must not be selfish," and, rising from

her knees beside the sofa, where she had
cast herself to soothe the petulant child, she
left a kiss on the clearing brow, and hastened
to acquaint Janet.

The woman flung up her arras and would
have cried aloud, but Edith's finger was on
her lips to enjoin silence. Then she wrung
her hands and rocked herself to and fro.
Allan was a favourite, the grief of her young
mistress was her grief too, and she had not
Edith's self-command. But she strongly
opposed Edith's intention to start for Leeds
by the morning coach, urging that if he were
so ill she could do no good, and that it was
fair flinging' lessen until fire ta be brunt''
adding, " If maister wur bud here, he'd non
lat 3'e goal

wish he was here," echoed Edith,
oppressed by a sense of responsibility.
"He should have been back nearly a
fortnight a2;o."

And now a new perplexity dawned upon
her. She could not travel without money ;
Dora's illness had made extra demands upon
her purse, supplied as it had been for a

period which had expired. Archibald
Thorpe had been away longer than anticipated.
Her funds were running low,
"Oh, dear! oh, dear!" said she to herself,
drawing her hand across her brow, as she
stood in deep cogitation. "I wish father
would think sometimes, and calculate
expenses. He has forgotten all about
money. What shall I do ? Allan may be
dead even before I can reach him. If I
were but rich I could hire a posthaste at
once. I must go. How can I manage it?'^
Staying away was not to be dreamed of.
Like a flash came the suggestion that their

CO

guardians were the proper persons to
help her.

Bidding Janet " Attend to Dora," and
promising she would not be long away, she
started off to Settle with impatient feet.

At first Dr. Burrow shook his head.
When he gave way it was more to the depth
of her suffering than to importunity. " Well,
Edith, it is a risky thing you purpose; still
Allan is your only brother, and — well, I am
afraid you would yourself be ill, if you were

denied the satisfaction of seeing him, alive
or dead." (How the word smote on her
heart.) " Til step over to Hartley, and see
what he thinks of it."

There was a serious consultation in the
lawyer's office, another in the doctor's
parlour, in both of which Mr. Hartley
took part. The word " cholera " was
ringing like a knell in the ears of England ;
and the girl's two faithful guardians hesitated
and debated, wavering between the claims
of natural affection and the risk their one
ward would encounter in seeking the
other.

Mr. Thorpe's absence was another stumbling
block.

However, tears and entreaties prevailed.
Dr. Burrow was loath to let her depart
alone, but he had patients he could not
leave.

Amply provided with funds for any
emergency, she wrote another hasty letter
to Mr. Thorpe, commended Dora to the
care of Janet and Miss Vaseyy, and not Dora
only, but Allan and herself, to that Higher

VOL. II. o

Power she had learned to rely on in her
loneliness, and, kissing the little convalescent
with infinite love and tenderness, promising
a speedy return, she was off by the morning
coach, her heart beating like a muffled
drum.

Let those who, going on like errands of
life and death, have counted the swiftest
express-train slow, imagine, if they can,
what that tedious journey must have been
to her; imagine with what feelings she
exchanged the stage in Leeds for the
rumbling hackney coach, and still further
imagine what her emotion must have been
when the vehicle stopped in Workhouse
Lane before a house which had every blind
drawn closely down !

"My brother? Mr. Earnshaw ?" she
gasped, as the door was opened.

An elderly lady, with white hair, came
swiftly down the passage to intercept the
servant. She was too late, the incautious
maid had pronounced the awful word —
^' Dead !"

CHAPTER XII.

AMOR Vinci.

YES, Allan Earnshaw lay in his coffin.
The undertaker's men were with him,
screwing it down.

Edith had fainted. Reviving, she had
asked to see her brother, and had been told
it was impossible.

"My dear young lady, it would not be
safe," argued Mr. Sheepshank.

If it is safe for the undertakers it is
safe for me," answered Edith, faintly,
through her sobs and tears.

"It is their business," urged the old lady.

It is my duty" answered Edith. " It is
the last demand affection can make from me.
What these men can do for a stranger — cano

2

be permitted to do with their lives at stake
surely I, his beloved sister, need not
shrink from, need not be debarred. I must
see him."

Do, Miss Earnshaw, listen to reason,"
pleaded the other. " Not all the 
we have about the house will secure
you from infection, if you are so rash. The
danger is greatest after death, and you,
coming fresh from pure country air, are
peculiarly liable."

Mrs. Sheepshank," answered Edith,
mournfully, " you mean well, and I am not
ungrateful for your good intentions, but
think, for one moment, if you were a girl
without father or mother to love or care for
you, and your only brother, who had been
your hope and trust, should be snatched
away, would you be deterred from seeing
his dead slice by any paltry fear for yourself?
I know you would not. I implore
you to let me look upon him, if but for an
instant."

The men's heavy feet were on the stairs.
Edith started up, half choking.

I will see him. I cannot believe he is
dead. I must look upon his face, and
satisfy myself."

She was in the hall to intercept the men,
who, however, stood there waiting for the
customary glass of spirits. Mrs. Sheepshank,
herself greatly moved, no longer
opposed.

I — want — the coffin opened," sobbed
Edith.

Opened 1" exclaimed both men, simultaneously,

as if she had asked an 

I

possibility.

Yes, I am — his sister. I must see

hit
nn.

The men looked at one another, then at
Mrs. Sheepshank, who nodded at once an
assent and a protest.

"Yes, you had better open it. The poor
young thing does not understand her own
danger. I believe she thinks me cruel and
hard for objecting." And, truly, the poor
creature did.

Goodness ! what a blue pinched face was
that which Edith looked down upon ! How

unlike the Allan she had last seen, and
loved so dearly !

Her tears fell fast. She sobbed convulsively,
and clutched the edge of the
coffin for support. The warm rain fell on
the cold brow, as, despite Mrs. Sheepshank's
warning, she would stoop down to kiss it ;
pouring her cry of "Allan, Allan, my darlings
brother !" into deaf ears.

What was that which riveted her gaze
upon the face, which checked her sobs, and
made her hold her breath ? Did her fancy
play her false, or had the muscles of his
mouth relaxed ?

"I — I — think he — he moved. I do not
believe he is dead," she gasped out, breathlessly.


Mrs. Sheepshank, timidly standing at a
safe distance, said, compassionately,

Ah ! my dear, it is always so. I have
looked on my dead children and fancied
that they stirred. We are all of us so unwilling
to accept the dreadful truth. Our
own tearful eves deceive us."

I am not deceived," came in quick pro->

test. " I am cert There was a clean

wine-glass on a stand close beside her.
Edith snatched the glass, and, without
another syllable, inverted it over the blue
lips.

It was a moment of breathless suspense.
Mrs. Sheepshank, dubious and pitiful, drew
nearer. It was so very lamentable to witness
the poor thing's incredulity.

"Hush-sh !" There was an anxious pause.
Then the girl panted — " Come hither !
Look !"

There surely was the faintest filmy cloud
upon the glass, which every moment made
more palpable.

"Thanks to Almighty God ! He breathes,
he lives ! He may yet be spared to us !"
murmured Edith, almost overpowered with
joy and thankfulness.

"My God!" ejaculated Mrs. Sheepshank
in dismay, " and but for her persistence we
might have buried him !"

She was active enough then. The undertaker's
men were recalled. The living
skeleton was lifted to a wider bed ; the

ghastly uniform of death stripped off; the
hideous box smues^led out of siojht : one man,
amazed, rushed with all speed for a doctor ;
whilst brandy and hot applications to the
body made that apparent which at first
was half conjecture.

Allan Earnshaw was not dead. He was
but in that state of collapse in which, it
is greatly to be feared, at that time of
panic, many sufferers were prematurely entombed.


The process of resuscitation was slow, the
progress of recovery was slower, though
never was sick man more carefully watched
and tended. At first Edith kept her place
beside him night and days He had been
snatched from the very jaws of death, but
the bony monster was loth to let his victim
slip, and seemed to hold his arms out ready
to clasp and keep his prey. The vital spark
had been so nearly extinguished, had been
fanned into flame with so much difficulty, it
flickered and fell, and rose again so faintly
and inconstantly, that only the most loving
and prayerful and hopeful of nurses could

have kept the flame alight until it could at
last burn steadily.

And, oh, with what heartfelt gratitude did
Edith thank God for bringing her so providentially
to his rescue, even at the last moment:
for vino; her strength to resist the
opposition of others. Had she not-been
there, or had she come an hour later, she
would have been too late.

Mrs. Sheepshank, pricked by remorse,
conscious that in her timorous desire to save
the sister, she had almost consigned the
brother to a living grave, was indefatigable
and unwearying in her attention to the
comfort alike of patient and nurse; though it
was not until many days had elapsed that
Edith would allow the kind old lady to take
her place by Allan's bedside whilst she threw
herself on a bed for much required rest and
sleep.

Mr. Sheepshank was just as earnest and
untiring in singing the praises of Allan's
good sister in the ears of Mr. Polloc (who
never failed to call each day on his way to
and from the town), and to Mr. Thorpe,

when he made his appearance, full of regret
and self-reproach.

He had not gone from Weardale to Cumberland,
he said, but had been in the
neighbourhood of Barnsley, on business
connected with the title to some coal-mines
there, and her letters had missed him. The
business had not been pleasant ; he had put
off writing until he could tell them when to
expect him and he really was very sorry — it
never occurred to him that money would be
wanted at home, until Janet had asked with
her own sharpness if he " thowt t' hanse
could be kept for nowt." It was " quite an
oversight," he assured her, at which Edith
smiled, a feeble, wan kind of smile. She
knew well his absence of mind, but she also
felt v/hat might have been the grave consequences,
had there been no kind executors,
or no friends at hand to supply her need
promptly, in the present instance.

He relieved her mind about Dora. " She
was well and hearty, riding on Fido's hard
back round her aunt's garden when I came
through Skipton this morning," he said.

In Skipton," echoed Edith.

Yes. When I "ot home, two days after
you left, I found Mrs. Statham fanning herself
upon the sofa. Poll's cage upon your
piano ; Dora thumping on the keys to teach
the screeching parrot music; the old dame
listening with much complacence to the
double noise, and Deborah prim and starched,,
driving Janet to distraction with her interference
and dictation in the house."

"" Poor Janet !" interjected Edith. " Fire
and water could not be more antagonistic
than those two; neither appreciates the good
qualities of the other."

Fire and water, with all their antagonism,,
are working wonders now," observed Mr.
Thorpe, following a fresh idea. " Steam is
likely to create a greater revolution in this-kingdom
— nay, over the world — than any
steel and gunpowder could bring about."

Edith, anxious to return to her patient,
brought the wandering thoughts of her stepfather
back.

"How long did aunt remain?"

"Not two hours after I put my face in at

the door. She had received your letter
about Dora, and had come, so she said, to
carry her pretty namesake where she would
be better taken care of. I think that was
what set Janet's temper up."

Very likely," was Edith's comment.
Janet has saved Dora's life, not once, nor
twice only,"

Well, be that as it may, Mrs. Statham,
whose post-chaise must have passed the
coach you travelled in, would have carried
off Dora at once vi et arniis when she found
that you were away ; but Janet would not
hear of it, they ' would bide till maister
cam loam.' But I found she had put the
little darling's apparel together in readiness,
notwithstanding. Of course I acquiesced.
I had no mind to cross the old lady. It
might be prejudicial to Dora. Besides, I
felt anxious about Allan — and you, too —
and so let the darling go at once. It left
me free to come here."

Edith smiled over the anxiety which
allowed three days to pass before he followed,
but she made no remark.

On the spot, and in the house, where
every sound was hushed, and every footfall
<]fuarded ; where the strangers, amoncj whom
Alan had been cast, wore an aspect of
wakeful incertitude ; and the one room
upstairs influenced all below, Archibald
Thorpe became alive to the gravity of the
case, and in the very kindest manner volunteered
to relieve Edith in her nii]!;ht-watches.

A sweet smile — not devoid of humour —
played around her mouth as she answered,

Nay, father, that would never do.
Your mind would be lost among the stalactites
and stalagmites of our caverns, or
wandering over the moors, and by the
backs, and down the gills, in search of
something rare and fresh for your collection,
when Allan might want his pillow
eased, or his shoulders covered, or his
physic administered."

"Nay, nay, Edith, not quite so bad as
that, when the poor lad lay ill before me.
And you really must have rest. Mrs.
Sheepshank tells me how devotedly 3'ou
have sacrificed yourself to your brother, but

there are limits to physical endurance, you
must really allow me to take your place
to-night; — or — let me hire a nurse."

Sacrifice to her brother! Did he not
know she had previously watched as
anxiously and unremittingly beside Dora,
his child ?

Edith shook her head.

No hired nurse could take my place, if
sou could obtain one, which, I am told, is
not likely. Mrs, Sheepshank tried before I
came. All the hospital nurses were worn
out, or engaged. There was not a nurse to
be had for love or money. The very word
cholera 'was enough to frighten the poor
women." Then she added, " You can sit
up with me to-night; if I should chance to
doze 3'ou would be at hand."

And so it was settled. But Archibald
Thorpe was very much out of place in a
sick-clamber. His sympathy with the
suffering he saw was too acute. He became
flurried and confused. But that one night
served to show how much tact and tenderness
combined in Edith's ministrations, and

how love strengthened and upheld this girl
who had not yet reached her seventeenth
year. And his mind went back to those
lontjj and wearisome months when, beside a
different couch, the mere child had been
initiated into the mysteries of the sick-room ;
and, pausing at intermediate stations, he
remembered Dora's ailments, and how they
had been dealt with, and something smote
him that he had been little less ungracious
than Mrs. Statham when he repeated her
expression " better cared for." He was
sorry he had not kept it to himself. It
might give the good girl pain.

For the instant it did, but only for the
instant, minor and selfish considerations
melted before her absorbing duties and lier
cares for others. Mr. Metcalfe had written
to his wife, still in Harrowgate, that " the
young man Earnshaw, for whom he had
considerable respect, had been attacked
with the fearful epidemic, had apparently
succumbed, and was only saved from premature
interment by the pertinacity of his
sister, who insisted on the opening of the

corn. He was still alive, but continued ina
precarious state from exhaustion. His
sister was nursing him with exemplary
affection."

The intelligence had " driven Grace to
distraction," so she wrote to Edith, and she
longed for wings that she might fly and
join in the watch beside the dear one."
Then she begged, almost incoherently, to
be informed day by day how he progressed,
giving an address at the post-office, High
Harrowgate, under a fictitious name. Here
was another perplexity for Edith. This
was her answer : —

My dear Grace,

"Allan is alive — and that is all.
He is little but skin and bone. I could not
have conceived it possible for a few days'
illness to have produced so marked a change.
That he lives — and does not retrograde, is
hopeful. I will acquaint you with any
change, but you must interpret silence
favourably, as my brother requires all ni}^
time and attention, and I cannot leave him

whilst I ' post my own letter,' as you propose.


Allan had, prior to his illness, disclosed
to me the attachment subsisting between
you, and, loving him dearly as I do, I can
imagine what your feelings must be to know
that he lies in so distressing a condition, and
yet be separated by distance, and, what is
worse, secrecy. You must console yourself
by knowing that he has every care and
attention that medical skill and loving
friends can supply. Mrs. Sheepshank is
kindness itself.

If I am to keep you informed of his
progress, you will have to send me your
proper address. There can be nothing
strange in my correspondence with you as
of old, and I cannot lend myself to anything
clandestine. It can only lead to future
unhappiness. If you are so much distressed,
pray confide in your good mother ; she will
give you both comfort and counsel. And
take heart ; we are all in the hands of the
Divine Being who has shown His merciful
providence so marvellously to us.

A^OL. II. P

"Take comfort, dear Grace, and believe
me, ever,

Your affectionate friend,

"Edith Earnshaw.

Pes. — I could not give your message to
Allan ; he is very feeble, and must not be
excited."

Before this letter could have reached its
destination there came another from Grace,
but through the twopenny post, and it bore
the Leeds stamp. It had been sent to Basil
Buttermere under cover, to be re-posted ; a
letter which distressed Edith very much,
not merely in the intense suffering heightened
by suspense it disclosed, but the
channel through which it had been transmitted,
and which she herself was invited
to make the medium of communication.

With a deep sigh she set the surreptitious
epistle aside, leaving the letter she had herself
despatched to answer both.

Then came an incoherent tear-blotted
scrawl, reproaching Edith with cruel hardheartedness,
with want of feelings, and of

sisterly affection ; saying that it was clear
she had never loved, never been separated
from her heart's idol, never known the fear
of a stern father, or she would have had
compassion on their misery, and not set up
a puritanical barrier against communication
at such a time when her friend's heart was
breaking with its pain.

It was a long letter, all in the same exaggerated,
high-flown strain. Edith had
known the writer too long and intimately
to take it for more than it was worth. She
answered it kindly though firmly, sent a
report of her brother's condition — he had
lain in a state of coma, was just beginning
to observe the people and things around
him ; had recognised her that morning — but
she took no notice whatever of Grace's
accusations, and positively refused to answer
any more letters sent clandestinely.

They came, nevertheless, until even Mrs.
Sheepshank expressed her surprise, remarking
to Edith that she was not aware she had
friends in Leeds.

Then Edith thought it quite necessary to

p2

remonstrate. At the same time she communicated
the intelligence that almost the
first use her brother had made of his recovered
consciousness and utterance was to
question her respecting Grace,

Letters did not fly on the wings of the
wind, and the postal System was open to
vast improvement. The third day and the
fourth passed without any reply, at which
Edith would have been well pleased had
not Allan, from time to time, put the question
— "Any news of Grace?" with large,
staring eyes asking more earnestly than the
faint voice, which as yet was but a whisper,
though fully three weeks had sped since
the "dead" had been brought back to the
breathing; world.

On the evening of the fourth day Mrs.
Sheepshank, bearing some cales-foot jelly,
came upstairs to relieve Edith, and whispered
that Mr. Buttermere, one of the clerks
from the office, was below, and was desirous
to see Miss Earnshaw.

CHAPTER XIII.

BASIL BUTTERMERE.

M'

■R. SHEEPSHANK had bought his
furniture when this century was
young. It was consequently sohcl, serviceable,
but dark ; black hair-seating covered
sofa and chairs ; the window-curtains were
brown moreen, edged with float-lace, which
had once been amber, and on the chocolate-coloured
walls were suspended a family
portrait or two in deep gold frames. The
table-cloth was dark as the curtains; indeed,
the only bright articles in the room were
the perforated brass fender and fittings, and
the narrow looking-glass on the chimney-piece,
in which were reflected not only the
family portraits, but a china shepherd and

shepherdess, over which a modern connoisseur's
mouth might water ; and the couple
of mould candles in low brass candlesticks
on the table, with their necessary appendages,
snuffers and tray.

It reflected also that night the head and
shoulders of a man in deep mourning, about
three and thirty years of age, who, running
his fingers through his leather-coloured hair,
and adjusting the points of his upright collar,
appeared to be surveying his own charms
very much at ease, whereas he was watching
for another reflection in the glass when the
door should open.

He saw, before he turned round, a tall,
slender form, a gracefully poised head,
braided hair that might pass for black, and
a pale, composed face, like unto Allan's,
and yet unlike, in that the hazel eyes were
more steadfast, the lips more firm and
patient.

Less malleable metal than her brothers
concluded Mr. Buttermere, even before a
word had been spoken. "She steps intO'

the room as if she were mistress of the
situation."

She was simply mistress of herself, and
distrustful of him. The face she had seen
in the glass on entering the room had not
re-assured her.

As the "sister of his dear young friend "
he saluted her with an easy, condescending
familiarity, peculiarly distasteful, expressing
the greatest concern for that dear friend's
serious condition, and the very highest
admiration of the spirit and discernment to
which even his chance of survival was owing.

She had remained standing : had merely
inclined her head in acknowledgment. She
did not think the ring of his voice genuine.
Now she said,

My brother's present state, sir, is not
such as to leave me leisure or inclination to
listen to my own praises. I must beg leave
to withdraw, if your visit has no other
object. I will convey to Allan your expressions
of interest."

Stay," said he, interposing between her

and the door — " I have been entrusted with
a delicate commission," and he dived into
his coat-pocket for a pocket-book, which he
opened with an air of impressive mystery,
as, in lowered tones, he proceeded — " You
are perhaps unaware that I am Mr. Earn-shaw's
most confidential friend; that even
Miss Metcalfe does me the honour to confide
her letters to my care ; and my errand
here this morning is to assure myself that
this billet for my friend does not pass into
uncongenial hands."

His voice had sunk to a whisper as he
handed across the table one of Grace's gilt-edged,
perfumed letters, with a sentimental
device on the true-blue waxen seal.

Edith hesitated and drew back. This
seemed to her an unbecoming attempt to
secure her connivance in a secret which she
had already objected to. Dissatisfaction
was apparent on her countenance. Basil
Buttermere was quick to observe.

"Can it be possible," he resumed, in a
deprecatory tone, " that Miss Earnshaw,
notwithstanding her own devotion to her

brother, feels so little sympathy with an
attachment which has awakened the interest
of an old married man like myself?"

I have no sympathy with secrecy and
concealment, sir. In the present case I consider
they are unnecessary, and " — she was
about to add, " dishonourable," but she
checked herself. It was no word to connect
with her brother, in conversation with
a stranger.

Have you any personal acquaintance
with Mr. Metcalfe ?" x\nd he stroked his
chin as he put the question alike with lips
and eyes.

''No."

You would think differently if you had,"
was said decidedly, with the air of one who
knew. " Nothing would have induced me
to risk my situation with our firm, in lending
my countenance to this correspondence, had
I, Miss Earnshaw, not felt assured that a
premature disclosure of the attachment existing
between these young people would
awaken the wrath of our principal, and
eventuate in misery to both." And his

manner seemed to say, " Believe me, I am
brimming over with kindliness and goodwill ;
I would do anvthinoj to serve so dear a
friend."

The suggestion of personal risk was
adroitly thrown in as a voucher for sincerity,
but it was lost upon Edith, who replied
unhesitatingly,

"I should think, sir, in that case, your
wiser and safer course, to say nothing of
your duty to your employer, would have
been to discourage an attachment so unpropitious
in its aspect. But this is not a subject
for a girl of my years to discuss with a
stranger. I have already expressed my
opinion to Miss Metcalfe. She is aware that
I do not approve of this clandestine correspondence,
and object to be made party toit.
With respect to this letter, addressed
to ray poor brother, I am not sure how far
I am justified in declining its charge. It
must, however, be clearly understood that
I shall exercise my own discretion in withholding
anything so likely to cause excitement
until he is better able to bear it. And

now, sir, you really must permit me to say
good evening.' It is time my brother had
his draught."

On the doorsteps Mr. Buttermere encountered
Mr. Thorpe and Mr. Polloc.

Ah, Buttermere ! Been to inquire after
your friend ?" heartily interrogated the
latter.

The clerk bowed a respectful assent, and
passed on into the road, stroking his smooth
clin, and cogitating as he went along.

"A sharp fellow that, with a capital head
for business. Has always an eye to the
main chance. He seems to have taken an
unaccountable fancy to your step-son," observed
Mr. Polloc, entering the house with
a slight stoop, as if afraid to bring his tall
hat in contact with the lintel of the door.

What name did you say ?" queried Mr.
Thorpe.

Buttermere, Basil Buttermere, the clerk
under Mr. Sheepshank."

Buttermere ! Buttermere !" pondered
Archibald, rolling the word round on his
tongue as if it had been a marble and he

Diogenes. " Surely I have heard that name
before ! Oh — ah — I recollect ! Our friend,
John Wilson, once spoke of him to me."

Indeed ! I hope it was nothing in our
clerk's disfavour ? Honest John, with all
his universal kindness and benevolence,
sometimes shows a prejudice against that
individual. Not that he says anything, but
he has an uncomfortable way of looking at
Buttermere, as if he had the young fellow's
soul under a microscope."

Then you think it is prejudice?" asked
Mr. Thorpe, who had been in too much
trouble at the time of his first interview
with Mr. wilson to retain more than an
impression of their conversation.

Assuredly. Mr. Sheepshank thinks very
highly of his junior. Says he has a positive
genius for business, and has an uncommon
amount of tact. Might be entrusted to
manage the most delicate negotiation, and
is one of the most marvellous penmen he
ever saw. He quite congratulates us on
having a worthy successor ready should he
chance to drop off. As for John Wilson, I

have been given to understand that Buttermere
fascinated and married a young girl
connected in some way with the old gentleman,
and has never been forgiven the crime.
These runaway marriages create terrible
breaches," concluded Mr. Polloc, with a
smile.

Oh, ah, that's it, is it ! I am glad you
have told me''

Archibald Thorpe had been haunted with
a suspicion that it was something more serious,
and the two sat down to await Mr,
Sheepshank and a bulletin from the chamber
above, equally at ease respecting Mr.
Buttermere.

Slowly, very slowly, Allan Earnshaw's
strength came back to him, and then almost
his first inquiry was for Grace. Edith told
him that to her best belief she was well,
that the town was in a more healthy condition,
and Grace was expected home shortly
that she had been very anxious on his
account. Edith also added that she had
obtained Grace's address in Harrowgate from
Mr. Polloc, and had acquainted her with

his progress towards recovery. Whereat
he raised to his lips the hand that lay upon
his — almost worn as thin — and kissed it
with reverent gratitude. But when, a week
later, she judged him strong enough to be
entrusted with Grace's own letter, saying
how long she had kept it back, what little
blood there was left in his body seemed to
flush into his face, as much in displeasure as
delight. Gratitude was not proof against
the lover's impatience or the rodomontade
of Grace. He did not scruple to call that
patient, loving sister " hard," and " cruel,"
and "unkind."

She sighed, " You will think differently
some day, Allan. I am afraid I have given
you the letter too soon even now. Agitation
is, of all things, to be avoided."

In proof thereof, the doctor shook his
head at his next visit, and desired to know
what had disturbed his patient ; there was
much fever and restlessness.

The relapse was but temporary'. In another
fortnight he was downstairs in the
particular high-backed arm-chair of Mr.

o

Sheepskins, made still more cosy and comfortable
with pillows and a cheerful fire,
for October was far advanced ; and Mrs.
Sheepshank, who had shared Edith's long
watching with almost motherly anxiety",
went about with smiles of satisfaction.

But he was not suffered to know how
close he had been to the grave. Once or
twice he recurred to a fearful dream he had
had of hearing some one say that he was
*gone;" of being laid out, and afterwards
lifted into a colon, of hearing the lid screwed
down, and feeling as if he were stifling
from want of air, yet being unable to move
a limb or utter a syllable, and then he had
found himself in bed, with Edith bending
over him, and knew it was only a frightful
nightmare.

By this time Grace and Mrs. Metcalfe
were back in Leeds. Of course Grace
could do no less than call upon her dear
schoolfellow; and was shown into the parlour,
where the emaciated invalid held his
receptions.

Edith was under some apprehension when

she saw Grace fling herself at his footstool
and bathe his shadowy hands with tears, but
lie bore the excitement better than she had
anticipated ; indeed, his pulse seemed to
quicken under the new stimulant, his eyes
to beam with a clearer light. After this,
Grace be sure did not neglect to visit her
friend Edith repeatedly, and recovery was
thenceforth rapid.

He had other visitors. Basil Buttermere
dropped in occasionally after office hours ;
Mr. Metcalfe, on one occasion, condescended
to take a seat in his cashier's snug parlour,
to congratulate the convalescent alike
on his narrow escape and his good fortune
in possessing such a sister. His condescension
even went so far as to invite Miss
Earnshaw to Park Square before she
quitted the town.

Mr. Thorpe had very early exchanged
an ill-ventilated inn for more comfortable
quarters and congenial companionship at
Mr. PoUoc's, where several advocates of
Mechanics' Institutions were wont to assemble
and discuss their favourite projects

after business was over. And the daily call
continued after Mr. Thorpe had gone back
to Settle.

Mr. Polloc brought books for the entertainment
of the invalid, and was not slow to
discover that they had a far greater charm
for the nurse than for her patient. He was
given to repeat passages from his favourite
authors — sometimes verses of his own composition
— and, as he saw the pale face glow
and kindle with warmth and light, a new
interest in the young girl was aroused.
Quiet, subdued, grave, and womanly ; her
enthusiasm seemed a spark struck out of
flint, and took him by surprise. Volume
after volume found its way to her hands, and
when, to crown all, Robert Polloc brought
Wordsworth," to whose mild philosophic
verse he was a devotee, he was still more
surprised to find that Southey, Coleridge,
and Walter Scott woke echoes in her soul
that his favourite could not touch.

It was clear that Edith Earnshaw could
feel and form opinions of her own. She
was evidently less tame than her placid ex-vol.

II. Q

terror might suggest, and it was a pleasure to
the poetic wool broker to draw out the latent
fire.

When the time came for Edith to return
home, she carried with her a parcel of books
some given, others lent; the latter the donor
informing her he should himself claim from
her at Ivy Fold some day, when he should
expect to find her wooing the muses on her
own account ; whereat a tell-tale blush
mounted to the very braids of her dark
hair.

Before that time Allan was able to go
abroad.

Again, before that time, came Archibald
Thorpe back to Leeds, and Edith, who had
made some few friends, was one of a party
at the hall of the Philosophical Society,
where Mr. Thorpe delivered a newly prepared
lecture on the " Sensitiveness of
Plants" to the members of the Mechanics'
Institute, who at that time had not compassed
a suitable hall of their own.

She had gone with ill-concealed reluctance,
having a sort of painful impression

that her stepfather would become embarrassed,
lose the thread of his subject, and
perhaps forget his audience altogether,
whilst his mind went wandering away into
fields of speculative thought, as not infrequently
happened at home.

She was afraid at first to raise her head to
look at him, but after the first few sentences
she made the discovery that the man who
came home tired and miry, laden with
spoils from moss and moorland, mount and
dale, and sat down to smoke his pipe in silence,
or the frowsy student in his dusty
little room, who forgot even meal times, was
another Archibald Thorpe to the square-shouldered
man with the triangular face,
expounding in rugged eloquence his theories
and views with regard to vegetable life,
arguing the possibility that plants possess a
certain sense of feeling, akin to the human,
ifofa lower type ; and receiving the applause
of the audience, and the after-congratulations
of the Committee so modestly.

From that lecture Edith went home with
a higher appreciation of her stepfather.

q2

There was something in him, as in herself,
undeveloped, of which she had previously
no notion. He would be nearer to her in
future. There would be something to
venerate in spite of his isolation and absent
mind.

She considered it her duty, before she
quitted Leeds, to impress on both Allan and
Grace the desirability of fair and open dealing,
insisting that it would be better that
Mr. Metcalfe should learn Allan's pretensions
from himself than through some side
channel. They listened. Allan appeared
impressed — promised to think of it. But
he thought in the ear of Basil Buttermere,
and his advice was not that of Edith.

At Skipton, Mr. Thorpe and Edith
stopped for the night. Mrs. Statham had
to be visited. Dora was to accompany them
home.

There might have been some embarrassment
in Edith's meeting with her great-aunt,
but Dora came to meet her at the
door with such an impetuous rush, such a
loving embrace, it annihilated ceremony,

and, as Mrs. Statham was most gracious,
the first salutations were got over without
the disagreeable sensation previously anticipated.


Poll was noisily demonstrative as usual.
Fido had betaken himself to his winter
quarters, and was no doubt fast asleep, but
Mrs. Statham was awake and conversational.
She tapped Edith on the shoulder with her
fan, and, contrary to her ordinary reticent
habits, revealed that, so satisfied had she
been with her affectionate attention both to
Dora and Allan, she had just made a new
will in which Edith would find she was not
forgotten.

With the tea-urn came Lawyer Proctor,
beaming and chatty as ever. He built
card-houses for Dora, talked to Mr. Thorpe
of coal-pits and politics ; and, before he
went away at nine o'clock, asked Edith
(very unsuspiciously) if she had any idea
why his ward, Martin Pickersgill, was so
persistently desirous to quit Giggleswick for
Cambridge, without even waiting for the
customary Fig Day examination. The Rev.

Rowland Ingram had professed his ignorance,
and spoken highly of his ward's attainments
and chances of an exhibition. It
was a puzzle to him, he said. And it was
likely to remain a puzzle for any solution
Edith was prepared to offer.

CHAPTER Xii.

ALONE, AND IN CROWDS.

EDITH needed rest. There could be no
two opinions about that. Janet uplifted
her hands in dismay at the pale thin
face and sunken eyes she had brought
home.

"Why, them Leeds folk mought hae
hemmed you ! Bud I's fettle yo op afore
lance." And, as cjood wholesome fare,
regular hours, pure air, repose for weary
limbs, were among Janet's curative agents,
the "fettling" process went on with success
; scarcely, however, to the good woman's
entire satisfaction. " T' lass lewis es if
school wanted sum mat t' brisken op her
life."

Very likely she did. Country towns and
villages at that time had all the elements of
dulness. Their life was little better than
stagnation. At least we, looking back from
the standpoint of the present, think so.
There was little communication with the
outer world beyond what came with the
coachman and guard of the "Tally," or
the " Highflyer," with the cattle or wares of
chapman to the markets, or with the pedlar
to the doors. The double tax on newspapers
made them scarce and dear ; outside
the hall or the rectory their news was only
accessible at the village inn, or through a
process of filtration to uneducated intelligences,
and these uneducated intelligences
were a heavy per-centage. Then the roads
and streets were utterly unlighted after
dark ; gas was only making its way into the
large towns — was a marvel wherewith to
cram the ears of country-folk. Shopkeepers
sold their goods by the light of tallow
candles. But other limit was cominG;
rapidly. Men like Archibald Thorpe were
going about from place to place to teach

the people viva voce, and plant the tree of
knowledge in their midst ; and iron roads
were gradually creeping across the land,
and bringing people, their needs and news,
nearer to each other. It was coming — not
come.

Settle, though a market-town, was sleepy,
notwithstanding its Mechanics' Institution,
Could Giggleswick be lively — even with its
Grammar School, its quota of bottom
being under the hundred ? And if the
village was dull, what must Ivy Fold have
been to a girl of Edith's years and temperament,
" alone," to all intents and purposes.

Archibald Thorpe, having put his hand to
the plough and joined Edward Baines's
band of gratuitous workers in the field of
education, was less at home than ever ; and
when at home more secluded. A famous
pedestrian, he would set off in the morning
to travel across country to lecture in the
evening in some village otherwise inaccessible,
or to meet John Wilson, Robert Polloc,
James Norman of Ripon, and others, at a
given place, to stir up the inhabitants to

form a Mechanics' Institute in their midst.
He seemed inspired with a lofty zeal ; the
active life and social intercourse tend in 2; to
endow him with fresh vigour and vitality.
But he quite lost sight of the young
creature at home, left without society or fit
companionship ; a girl who had had no girlhood.


Neither Janet nor Dora could fill the unsuspected
void in Edith's life. The attrition
of intelligences was lacking the communion
of soul with soul,

Dora went to school. Being no longer
afraid of Thomas Clapham or his grimaces,
she needed no protective escort. Since he
had pulled her out of the Tarn they had
become better friends ; she would even cross
the road and put her hand in his, without
fear of being run away with.

This relieved Edith of the embarrassment
of meeting Martin Pickersgill, and she felt
it a relief, the conflict between old memories
and new impressions made such meetings, to
say the least, unpleasant. His avowal of
a stronger feeling than friendship had not

made it easier for her to pass him with a
mere recognition. The stiff bow, the flushed
forehead, the set lips, the dilated nostril
alone told how his proud spirit chafed, and
contradicted his appealing eyes.

It went hard with both when Archibald
invited him within doors, where he had
once been so much at home, and where
even Tip took his presence as a thing of
course.

"If it were not false, he would surely
defend himself," she argued within herself.


Oh, that I were only free to explain !"
thought he.

But Dora strummed exercises on her
harp for his delectation, and Mr, Thorpe
plied him with questions about his early
recollections ; and so much concerned was
he at the young man's ignorance of his own
father's history that the constraint between
the handsome West Indian and his stepdaughter
escaped observation.

At Christmas it was all over. Martin
Pickersgill was gone. John Danson was inconsolable

Miss Vaseyy told Edith afterwards,
with the addendum, " and I declare
I was not much better. How Elizabeth
preserved her composure I cannot tell, for I
saw aunt wipe her spectacles, while both
Nancy and Sally were fairly blubbering in
the kitchen."

Edith was glad, and yet she was ill at
ease and sorry. Something, not to be
defined, had gone with him, something
which left a gap not to be filled up.

Jasper Ellis, whose chin had by this time
a harvest for a razor, and who certainly
estimated his personal attractions at their
full value, setting them off with an air of
speckless dandyism surely inherited from
his grandfather, would fain have made himself
agreeable, but Edith, mindful of former
gossip, kept him aloof, unless Mr. Thorpe
was there to receive him. Yet she had always
a pleasant smile for the kind friend
who had twice eased her burden of fear and
agony when she deemed her little sister lost
through her own negligence.

That meeting in Tarn Lane, her terror

and his good news, his tender solicitude
when emotion overpowered her, were not
to be effaced. Still, it was not for a young
lady to receive him as a visitor, when the
head of the house was away.

Dora had no such scruples. He plagued
her, and she retorted. At times he saluted
her as " Felina," and she resented the
sobriquet — after Will Hartley's translation
but they were good friends, nevertheless,
and she would pull him in at the little gate,
regardless of Edith's deterrent nods or
frowns.

It has been said before that Edith was too
much a woman to consort with girls ; too
much a girl to associate with matrons and
confirmed spinsters on their own level. Ann
Vaseyy was the one exception, the little
old-maid had a genuine child's heart.
Hard times and Ann Vaseyy had found an
outlet for Edith's benevolent instincts in
humble homes, and Solomon Bracken,
muffled and listened with scarlet wool,
could testify she did not work for herself
alone. Yet, for all that, Edith Marshalled

a somewhat solitary life. Her household
tasks were light enough, Janet took
care of that ; and, though Dora's white or
nankeen tippets, frocks, and trousers were
all embroidered by her deft fingers, she
could not Q-jve all her mind and time to
needlework. Well it was she had piano,
books, and pen to fill her lonely hours.
She had no great store of music, — it was
dear, inaccessible, and unknown, like
current news and literature, and now she
brought out of its secret place the dingy,
calf-bound book of senses Deb had consigned
to her safe custody, and whilst Dora was at
school made herself mistress of words and
melodies. So when the book was set
carefully aside, in the twilight, or after
Dora's lessons were conned and she tucked
up in bed, the rare old ballads would steal
from the tips of tongue and fingers, and
Edith's soul float with them into space,
and melodies of the old times fit themselves
with fresh up-springing words ; or, sitting in
her favourite window-seat, the work or
book she held would drop into her lap, her

eyes wander away beyond the green pasture
and its belt of foliage, beyond the distant
hill, unto a land of dreams, until perchance
some meditative cow, chewing the cud inclose
proximity, would lift its sleek head
upon the iron rail and bring its mild eyes to
bear upon hers. And then would her
dreams take flight, unless a pencil close at
hand confided them to paper.

The romance to which she gave this
unsuspected portion of her life was her
safeguard and solace. Something of melancholy
stole into her verse, into the legends
and love-stories that shaped themselves in her
imagination, but her dark-eyed heroes and
heroines were always of the highest order of
chivalry and nobility, and it did her no harm
to keep such types before her. And if,
perchance, there was a shadowing forth of
Martin Pickersgill in these ideal portraits,
she was all unconscious of her model.

The only pebbles that broke the monotony
of her life were flung; into the stream bv
Allan or by Grace, though Allan had ceased
to write either as frequently or as satisfactorily

as of old. Their views respecting
clandestine courtship continued to clash.

Soon after she returned home she
discovered that he had caught the political
fever (scarcely less contagious than cholera)
then raging in newly-enfranchised Leeds,
consequent on its first parliamentary election.
He was as strong a partisan as
if he had been an experienced politician,
and fully understood the party cries of
"Whig" and "Tory." The firm was divided
on the important issue. Mr. Metcalfe was
a Tory of the deepest dye, and, therefore,
T. M. Sadler, the true-blue candidate, was
Allan's idol, if he was not the popular one.
Mr. Polloc, with Mr. Sheepshank to back
him, worked con amove for the Whigs, John
Marshall, the thread manufacturer, and for
Thomas Barrington Macaulay, the future
historian. The counting-house became a
mere political arena, canvassers, leaving blue
and yellow cards soliciting "the favour of
vote and interest," met and squabbled on the
threshold, partizans and disputants penetrated
the glass-cased sanctum, and their voices

penetrated into the outer office, where
Basil Buttermere, who declared for neither
party, tilted his high stool back, tapped his
lips with the feather of his pen, shrugged
his shoulders, and said he had " no head for
politics." But he had always an eye for
John Wilson, who shuffled in and out,
reporting progress to Robert Polloc, and
declaring with emphasis that "No good
effort was wholly lost."

In the midst of this came the nomination
day, on the 12th of December, when the
candidates and their supporters, after breakfasting
at their separate committee rooms,
made their appearance on hustings erected
in the wide area of the Mixed-Cloth Hall,
and the Mayor opened the proceedings.
Those rouse wooden hustings accommodated
five hundred persons only. In the front,
with flags and banners waving in the air,
stood twenty thousand. Not quiet, decorous,
well-conducted, educated people, but an
excited medley of all classes, all shades of
political and religious belief — and no belief;
and from the very outset there was shouting,

VOL. I]. K

howling, and rancorous contention in their
midst, until the uproar almost drowned the
voices of the speakers.

And no sooner did Mr. John Marshall,
senior, step forward on the hustings to present
Mr. Macaulay, than, as if by preconceived
signal, a large banner was displayed
in front of them, on which was roughly
portrayed Marshall's thread mill on a dismal
winter morning, with a number of
ill-fed, half-starved, stunted, shivering children,
plodding through the snow to their
work. And, lest the picture should lack
interpretation, it was inscribed " A scene in
Water Lane at five o'clock in the morning."

Scenes such as were there depicted, common
enough then in all our Great factory
centres, called forth Mrs. Browning's pathetic
"Cry of the Children." There, before
those hustings, it roused party spirit,
and was as fire to flax. There was a deafening
cry "Down with the flag!" A rush of
the yellows on the blues ; a fierce hand-to-hand
fight, in which sticks, bludgeons,
and fists, as hard as hammers, rained blows

on their opponents. The flag was clown ;
the poles of lighter banners were broken in
twain and converted into weapons of offence.
The conflict spread amid yells and cries ;
inoffensive people were thrown down and
trampled under foot ; heads were cut open,
faces were gashed, limbs bruised and broken,
and, overpowered by the riotous hubbub,
the proceedings were stopped.

At the very outset Honest John, too
unassuming and unobtrusive to join the
notables, and would-be notables, upon the
platform, took up a position immediately
beneath it, and, almost as the first blow vas
struck, the peace-loving man elbowed his
way towards the combatants, hoping to
part them, and throw oil on the troubled
waters.

In vain ; he was hustled right and left,
his hat was battered in, was knocked off,
his coat was torn, he was down on his knees
and up again, struggling to free himself;
Avhen Allan Earnshaw, who had come with
Basil Buttermere as a spectator, beheld a
haggard, dissipated fellow (who had been

R 2

watching John Wilson furtively) clutch the
loose ends of his black silk necktie, and aima
deadly blow at his bare head. Allan was
on him, caught the staff in its descent, and
wrested it away, and then the man, turning,
dealt a blow with his clenched fist at Allan,
and strove to regain his Weapon. In doing
so, their eyes met.

"Damnation!" hissed the man, between
set teeth, and, ducking his head between his
shoulders, shrunk backwards into the surging
crowd.

Allan had small time to marvel, John
Wilson was still in peril, and he had a
liken" for the eccentric gentleman. Putting
his curved hand to his mouth, he shouted,
Basil !" then fought his way to extricate
the other, who had been nearly underfoot
more than once. "Basil!" went forth,
louder than before, followed by the inaudible
murmur, " Where can he have got
to, he was at mv elbow a while ago ?" But
Allan kept side by side with his old friend,
and, aided by the staff, cleared the way for
both. Bv the time Basil Buttermere made

say towards them, they were almost out of
the press and tumult.

With much show of zeal he then would
have helped Allan to uphold the exhausted
man, but Honest John would have hone of
his help.

When Ellis knocks me down, I don't
care for Buttermere to pick me up," said he,
significantly.

Somehow just then the swaying crowd
gave Allan a lurch, which partly swung him
round ; and surely there was that same
dissipated owner of the staff making signs
to Basil, or Allan's vision was much at fault.

He was, however, too much concerned in
getting Mr. Wilson out of the yard, along
with other quiet, well-meaning people, to
give the occurrence more than a passing
thought, nor did he recall it until too late.
At the time being he had to think of finding
.an apothecary to plaister up the cuts and
scratches both of them carried off as mementoes.


The nomination could not proceed until
31r. Tenant, the mayor, had organised an

efficient band of special constables to keep
the peace, and form a dividing line across
the spacious 3'ard midway from the hustings,
to separate the rival blues and yellows. A
precaution which enabled him to call a show
of hands, and to take the result with some
degree of accuracy. The result being in
favour of the yellows, the Tory friends of
Sadler demanded a poll.

Two days later, on the Wednesday, the
polling commenced. It lasted three days —
three days, during which the borough was
in a ferment of ill-feeling, drink, and disorder.
Ale and other liquors were to be
had for the asking. The end of the poll
on the fourteenth confirmed the show of
hands ; Messrs. Macaulay and Marshall were
declared duly elected.

Leeds in that disorderly election sent its
two first representatives to Parliament. It
likewise sent about a dozen seriously injured
persons to the infirmary', many more in like
plight to private doctors ; and it had, moreover,
sown discord among friends and families.


The firm of Metcalfe and Polloc was a
case in point. A breach had been made in
the cordiality of the partners. It was just
the first flaw in the porcelain cup, hardly
perceptible, but destined to extend under
the application of hot water, division being
only a question of time.

CHAPTER XV.

AN IMPORTANT PERSONAGE.

FROM Allan Edith had an excited account
of the Leeds Election, told withall
the fervour and bias of an enthusiastic
young partisan, making light of all the
scratches " he had received, or the damage
to his garments ; treating the attack on Mr.
Wilson as a natural result of the fray, and
congratulating himself on the lucky chance
which brought him near at hand to be of
service. " I could scarcely help laughing,
when we were clear of the crowd, at the
pretty figures we cut," he wrote, " with our
clothes torn and our faces bleeding ; but
what amused me most was the serious way
in which the old fellow thanked me, as if I

had done something out of the common."
This was Allan's version.

Early in the spring, John Wilson, travelling
through Settle on his ordinary business,
spent an evening at Ivy Fold, and gave
another account of the affair.

It was a disreputable proceeding altogether''
said he, earnestly. " The Cloth
Hall yard might have been an arena for wild
beasts instead of thinking men, fit to be
represented in Parliament, and capable of
choosing their representatives. It all comes
of the want of education, sir." (This to
Mr. Thorpe.) "We must educate the
people we endow with rights and liberties,
or we shall have put weapons into the
hands of the blind and the lunatic. We
must educate them, sir. As Dr. Channing
says, 'A bookshelf in a working man's house
is the best security for his keeping the
peace.' And some other method must be
devised for conducting our elections, if such
scenes of riot are to be avoided. Evil men
will seize such opportunity to wreak private
malice under the pretence of political hostility,

and thus give their party a bad

name."

Do you think so ?" quoth Mr. Thorpe,
handing his cup to Edith.

'' Think so ?" answered Honest John,
dropping his bright barcelona handkerchief
over his left knee — " I'm sure so." Then,
turning to Edith, " No doubt, Miss Earn-shaw,
your brother considered that I was
attacked as a politician only. Nothing of
the sort. I was singled out, not as a Whig,
but as a person who might be dangerous at
some future day to certain individuals, and
so be best out of the way. The opportunity
was not one to be lost. AYho would
suspect anything more than hot-blooded
chance-medley if an old, ill-conditioned
fellow happened to be stunned and trampled
under foot in a political riot ? And but for
the bravery of your brother, such would
have been my end. Ah ! little Miss," — to
Dora — " you may stare at me with open
eyes, but you would never have seen me
again, had not your brother been as brave
as a young lion, and as ready. He wrested

the cudgel from the knave, and used it
afterwards to good purpose. He proved
the axiom that ' no good effort's wholly
lost,' even if my hat was gone and his battered
doAvn, and a pair of tatterdemalions
almost too disreputable to sit down in a
decent surgery went to be doctored."

Later in the evening, when Mr, Thorpe
had gone to his own room in quest of a
memorandum lie could not lay his hands
on, John Wilson took advantage of the
occasion to say, with peculiar impressiveness,
to Edith, as if taking up the thread of
a thought in his own mind,

My life is not worth much to myself,

Miss Earnshaw, and so far it was not worth

saving. But, as your brother certainly did

save it, we will see if we cannot make the

life worth something to him. And now,

do not despise my words, for, as the poet

Campbell says,

'Tis the evening of life gives me mystical lore,
And coming events cast their shadows before.'

I think I see trouble looming in the distance
for Mr. Allan. It may be fear off, but I see

it. So, my dear, remember, if he should
ever be in any serious difficulty from which
he cannot extricate himself — mind I say
serious — let me know without delay, and
we will see what the old fellow can do to
serve the young one who was so prompt
and ready to help him."

Edith looked alarmed. At once he did
his best to allay the apprehensions he had
aroused.

"Now, my good lass, don't look so scared.
You know Cromwell's advice to his army
was, 'Trust in God and keep your powder
dry.' Mr. Allan may never stand in need
of the pinch of powder I have given to you,
but there can be no harm in keeping it
close, and diy, and ready for use, supposing
there should be no real occasion. And if
he never does want my help, and — God is
good — he may not, so much the better for
everybody. But mind, don't waste powder
on dummies. It is only in serious trouble
that I could serve him. Now, cheer up.
A man does not keep a loaded blunderbuss
in his house because he expects robbers, butin

case they should come. So don't let
your own blunderbuss make you fanciful
and expect evils which may never be. As
Shakspeare says, 'The readiness is all'"

Months went by, Allan continued in
favour with Mr. Metcalfe, had been invited
to Park Square on more than one occasion,
his true-blue proclivities having commended
him to the aui^^ust head of the firm. And a,
very important personage Mr. Metcalfe was
becoming. Since that 15th of September,
1830, on which, after incredible engineering
difficulties had been surmounted, the Manchester
and Liverpool Railway had been
opened to the public; when one of the
M.p's for the seaport, Mr. Huskisson, being
unfortunately struck down by the passing
train, the Northumbrian engine (driven by
George Stephenson himself) had absolutely
run fifteen miles in twenty-five minutes to
convey the mortally wounded man from
Parasite to Eccles ; from that day, so significantly
signalised in a double sense, a
fresh desire and demand for railways had
sprung up, especially in the industrial

counties of England. Those who had
jeered at the engineer and his supporters,
who had seen the "impracticable" a practical
fact ; men who had commodities to
buy or sell, became impressed with a desire
for speedier modes of transit. So long as
all England was constrained to travel or
convey by turnpike-road, river, or canal, so
long the people were content, but when the
Stockton and Darlington Railway gave
undreamed-of facilities to the iron and
coal-owners of the North, the coal-masters
of the ]midland took the alarm. Sunday's
Sunday a group of homely, practical
men met round the parlour table of a
Nottinghamshire village inn, coal-masters
with long heads and long pockets ; men
who were not disposed to be left behind in
the competitive race. They laid their heads
and their coin together, and something that
was more than a mere railway scheme was
the result, vet a soraethin2r that was not the
Great Midland," even in their dreams, and
not the " Midland " at all in thirty-three.
The woollen centres could not look on

inactive. Leeds, which so far back as 1812
had had a locomotive with racked wheel
and cogs, going four miles an hour over a
tram-road from Hunslet Moor to Middleton
collieries, was not now to be distanced by
Cottonopolis. Its manufacturers were astir.
The dingy town had no less than two railway
projects afoot, and though Parliament
had not vet warmed to the work, and the
"Leeds and Manchester" still hung in
abeyance, ground had been broken, and
engineers and navvies were at work on the
shorter and less important 'leeds and ."
Among the most active promoters
and supporters of both projects was Absalom
Metcalfe, Esq., who took no small credit to
himself for the rapidity with which he and
his brother directors had managed to get
their one bill passed, and the shares taken
up. He was hand and glove with the
Riddles, the Insurance agents, and flattered
himself that they had introduced the
transfer of shares into their business solely
on his inspiriting.

Mr. Polloc began to complain that he

gave more time to his railway business than
to his wool-bring, and that the clrawintr-
room at Park Square was given over to
railway directors and engineers.

Something of the same nature crept as an
excuse into Allan's few brief letters to his
sister. Mr. Metcalfe had found Allan
willing to do him suit and service, in the
office or out, and, from using him as a sort
of gentleman-messenger, had begun to find
occupation for his leisure in private secretarial
business. And, inasmuch as it was
honorary, done to oblige Mr. Metcalfe, and
brought Mr. Earnshaw into the society of
his beloved under her father's roof, he did
not feel the loss of personal respect, and
was the richer in moments of indescribable
felicity. They were but moments, the
electric thrill when hands clasped on entrance
and departure, or touched by chance as cup
or plate was handed ; the loving word or
two exchanged under cover of commonplace
greeting; the occasional opportunities
for love-making, when the young gentleman
happened to arrive half an hour too

soon, or when by inadvertent chance the
pair were left by themselves for awhile,
all the dearer for being so rare and uncertain.


Every blessing has its drawbacks. The
drawback to Allan's felicity took the form
of a civil engineer connected with the railway
line in progress, whose abilities had
been endorsed by George Stephenson himself,
and who added to a somewhat gentlemanlike
exterior more education and capital
than the generality of the early railway
engineers could boast.

On the first introduction of Mr, Henrys
Arraistead to Allan in the Park Square
drawing-room (a spacious and pretentiously
furnished apartment) there was a momentary
expression of hesitating doubt on both
faces, and then mutual and not too agreeable
recognition.

It was not pleasant for Allan to confront
the individual who had resigned his
seat in the stage-coach at Giggleswick
for his accommodation eighteen months
before, and discover that he was the Mr.

VOL. II. S

Aruiistead who had cano-led after Grace ina



Harrogate.

And it was not more pleasurable for the
engineer to remember that the tall, manly
vounf); fellow before him was the whilom
stripling to whom Miss Metcalfe had been
consigned for protection so far back, or to
recall his impressions of their mutual relations
at that distant period ; and to find him
under that roof, whether as confidential
secretary or private friend.

He had quite made up his mind respecting
Miss Metcalfe, and wanted no interlopers,
especially interlopers younger and
handsomer than himself.

If Allan knew him for a rival, favoured
by the parents, he intuitively regarded
Allan as one favoured by Grace herself.

There was very little cordiality in the
clasp of their hands, and very little heartiness
in their salutation, and when Mr. Metcalfee
carried Allan off to a small room,
which, by a stretch of imagination, he called
his library', to dictate confidential and important

correspondence, leaving Mr. Arnii-
stead to the temporary care of his wife and
daughter, the demon of jealousy took possession
of the young secretary's heart and
was not to be dislodged.

The feeling was intensified when, on
returning; to the drawing-room, Mr. Armis
stood by the piano, turning over the
music for Grace, and she was singing — singing
to him.

When he left, the engineer showed no
signs of departure, but, being a man of
varied experience and rich in anecdote, was
in the full flow of animated conversation, to
which Allan considered that Grace paid far
too much attention. In his irritation he
contrived at parting to drop a word or two
of jealous sarcasm, which wounded all the
more that they were wholly undeserved.

Grace went to bed to spend half the
night in tears, and the other half in writing
a letter full of reproaches.

A quarrel was the result, the signs of
which were not lost upon the older lover,

s2

who thereupon redoubled his attentions
attentions alternately accepted or rejected
as Grace was swayed by pique or pity.

In the Metcalfe establishment was an
alio-ail who combined the functions of
parlour-maid, seamstress, and superintendent
of the ladies' toilettes. This domestic,
much o;iveu to the '" Fatherless Fanny " and
Children of the Abbey " kind of literature,
was sentimentally deep in the confidence of
her young mistress, and the chief medium
of communication between the separated
lovers.

Betwixt this maid and Basil Buttermere
reconciliation was effected. Grace and
Allan met again at his house in Hunslet, Mrs.
Buttermere, a sad little woman, being passive
in the matter, although she shook her
head and intimated lier disapproval to Patty
in the privacy of the kitchen.

Stolen waters may be sweet, but stolen
interviews of this kind must have as much of
pain as pleasure in their too brief moments.
Vows of authorised love and fidelity are tame
beside those breathed by warm lips in loving

ears, when heart is beating close to heart,
and every beat, like that of a pendulum,
proclaims that time is fleeting.

Allan, standing in that small parlour with
Grace folded in his arms, kissed away her
tears, with all the ecstasy of passionate love ;
but all the while conscience was whispering
that such meetings were not creditable or
honourable, and that Edith's advice was
better than Basil Buttermere's.

Grace dearest, I think I had better
speak to your father. It is killing one only
to meet in this way at long intervals, and I
am afraid it would tell against me if discovered.
And, if that Arraistead only gets
the start, our hope is gone, I know. Say
yes, Grace, darling."

No, no, Allan dear," and she clung
closer to him. "Mr. Armistead goes away
to another part of the works next week, we
shall be rid of him then. But do not attempt
to speak to papa just 3'et. I am afraid
to think of it."

"Why, Gracie ? He is not harsh or unkind
to you, is he ? And he has been remarkably

affable to me, latterly. Almost
as kind as Mr. Polloc."

Ah, but he is not like Mr. Polloc. He

is very kind, but but— — he is very

proud and— — "

"Well!"

"You are only a clerk in his office."

Only ! I am not a common clerk ;
there was a good premium paid down with
me ; and I shall have seven thousand pounds
to start business for myself — not to mention
Aunt Statham's money ; and, as for

frail " Allan suddenly recollected

that Basil had said Mr. Metcalfe had risen
from nothing — and he stopped short, filling
up the blank as lovers do.

Grace's timid and romantic advice prevailed.
She rather liked the mystery, the
surreptitious correspondence, the stolen interviews,
few and brief as they were ; and
she loss afraid of her father. She knew how
he spoke at home of those beneath hiiu ;
and that he mi<2;ht not have been so condescending
to Allan had he not found him
useful and reliable as an salaried private

secretary, whose education and bearing were
alike creditable to IMr. Metcalfe's own
position.

CHAPTER XVr.

ROMANCE.

GRACE had told Allan that Mr. Armis
would be gone in another week.
Before another day was over Mr. Metcalfe
had laid before Grace Mr. Arraistead's proposal
for his daughter's hand, coupled with
his own acceptance of the proposal for herat
the same time intimating, with lordly condescension,
" It is not altogether such an alliance
as I had contemplated for you, Grace,
but Mr. Armistead is a rapidly rising man,
has first-rate abilities, has money and influence,
and bids fair to make an enormous
fortune. T may congratulate you on your
prospects."

That Grace should be surprised, overwhelmed,

unbounded, by the important
announcement, was nothing more than he
expected, but that she should decline that
which he thought proper for her to accept
was beyond his conception.

Her "Oh, papa, I cannot! I do not love
liiu]," was met with neither bluster nor
anojer.

Pish ! nonsense ! not a fine man like
Armistead ! Preposterous ! I cannot listen
to childish absurdities. When Mr. Armis
comes here tomorrow evening; for
your decision, you will please to say ' yes.' "
And that, spoken as though it had been the
fiat of the Lord Chancellor, was all the
notice he condescended to take of her disclaimer.


Mrs. Metcalfe was not much more impressionable
; she had surrendered her will,
her little property, and herself, twenty-three
sears before ; and had never been much
more than an echo ever since. Her lord
and master was a demi-god to be worshiped
and honoured. She had never come
into collision with him ; was not likely to do

266 WOOERS AND WINNERS.

SO now. That Grace should dream of opposing
her father's wishes on such a subject,
was not to be contemplated. She counselled
submission. " Surely, Grace, there
can be no hardship in marrying a gentleman
of Mr. Armistead's merit and attractions.
Most girls would be proud of such an offer.
As your papa says, he is a man to rise, can
make himself agreeable, yet plants his foot
on the "round as if he were born to command,
and to succeed."

Yes," said Grace, " and leave his wife
without a will of her own. Let him command
his navvies. It would not suit me.
What I might do if I loved my husband as
you love papa is another thing. But I have
no such feeling for Mr. Armistead, and I
have quite sufficient of papa's own nature to
prefer having my own way. And I would
rather marry — yes, even one of his navvies,
if I loved him, than the gentleman, his
master, who is so very deeply in love that
he goes to papa to bargain for me as if I
were a sack of wool, before he says a word
to me."

Her mother had been sentimental and
submissive. Grace was sentimental, but not
submissive. She was delightfully in love
already ; and with one of her own choice.
Had it been otherwise, she would have required
wooing in more romantic fashion. I
am not prepared to say that she had not
been a trifle coquettish with her admirer in
Harrowgate ; but he now seemed another
manner of man, whose pocket was always
full of plans and calculations, and who appeared
to relish a railway dialogue with
lier papa as much as a duet with herself,
and made his proposals for her hand ashe
would make a tender for a cutting or a
viaduct.

She simpered and looked down when Mr.
Armistead addressed her, and played with
the tassel of the sofa-cushion, but she "could
not marry a man she did not love devotedly,"
and she made it sufficiently plain that Mr.
Armistead was not that favoured mortal.
Her father had accepted — she declined.

Thereupon the young lady was banished
to her own room to reconsider the question,

and she, instead of spending her hours in
penitent tears, occupied then in the composition
of tear-stained billets, breathing only
fidelity and unalterable affection — in spite
of her parents — to her first lover, which
through sentimental Patty found their way
to the enamoured young man.

Mr. Armistead, backed by Mr. Metcalfe,
had not taken Grace's answer as final. He
had been accustomed to cut his way through
greater obstacles than a girl's will ; and he
left Leeds for Selby with an intention to win
in the end. Before leaving, however, he
dropped a hint or a suspicion that there was
a "prior attachment" to be overcome, a
secret rival."

Miss Metcalfe was released from durance
the evening he spent with them before his
departure, when Allan was also there to
draft out propositions to be hid before
the Directors' next Board meetings. There
were no signs of the rejected lover about
Mr. Armistead ; he was a little more attentive
than usual, and a little more observant,
that was all.

The "course of true love " went its natural
way.

Mr. Ariiiistead, coming into Leeds on
matters connected with the "line," found his
way into Park Square several times in the
lapse of months, but he made no further
progress, whilst Allan and Grace became
only the more infatuated.

One cold evening towards the end of
March, Mr. Metcalfe chanced to go to his
overcoat, which hung in the hall, for a
bundle of papers he had left in the pocket.

It so happened that Allan's top-coat hung
there also, and being of the same colour,
undistinguishable by the light of the oil-lamp
overhead, he dipped his hand into the wrong
pocket, and brought forth — not his own
papers, but a perfumed, rose-tinted, three-cornered
billet, addressed to jMr. Allan
Earnshaw, in the unmistakable handwriting
of his own daughter.

He turned it round and round, looked it
over, examined it by the light of the oil-lamp,
but he did not break the seal. He
simply held it by one corner at arm's lengthy

as if it were infected, and strode into the
parlour, where the ladies were seated by the
fire, and Allan at a side-table playing with
a paper knife and talking of the weather in
the temporary absence of his principal, little
wetting the storm that came with him.

His very step had meaning isn't."

The three looked up involuntarily ; and
two faces changed colour. Absalom Metcalfee
observed the change, and demanded,
in his most peremptory tones, to have the
letter opened for his perusal.

Allan saw there was no retreat. He
opened the note, and would have glanced
over it, but it was snatched from him, and
read aloud in tones of bitter irony. Grace
covered her face with her hands, and made
a movement towards Allan, who was at her
side in an instant, with an arm around her.
There was assertion of a right even in the
action.

"And pray, sir," demanded Mr. Metcalfe,
imperiously, '' how long has this honourable
correspondence been carried on? How

honos has Mr, Buttermere connived with you
in this plot to rob me of my daughter's
affection and duty ?" (The note appointed
to meet Alan at Buttermere's.) " Release
my daughter instantly," he demanded, without
waiting for reply, "or I shall summon a
servant to turn you out."

Grace did but cling the closer, and Allan
answered, stoutly,

"Not until you have heard me, sir. My
love for Miss Metcalfe becran when I was a
schoolboy, and has grown with my growth.
I have nothing to regret, nothing dishonourable
but secrecy."

And, oh ! papa," interposed Grace,
anxious to shield Allan, "that was my fault.
I — I was afraid."

"A modest admission, truly. Take your
daughter to her room, Mrs. Metcalfe, and
leave me to deal with this honourable clerk
of mine."

A closer pressure, a whispered word, and
Grace left the room with her mother, weeping
bitterly as she went. She feared that
her romance was at an end.

A painful interview succeeded. Allan
was too honourable to throw the on as of
secrecy on Grace, but he never regretted it
more than now. He only said he was
waiting until he was older to lay his pretensions
and his prospects before Mr. Metcalfe;
and, in a passionate appeal to that personage,
who listened in haughty silence, mentioned
the sum inherited from his father, and his
larger prospects from his Aunt Statham, on
which he laid some stress.

Sir, had you laid this statement before
me when Miss ]\Ietcalfe returned home, as
an honourable man would have done, I
might have been disposed to listen to you.
Now. I have wider views. I have pledged
my word to a gentleman who has not entered
my house on false pretences, or tampered
with my servants, and his wife she is certain
to be before the year is out."

Remonstrance was worse than useless.
What were thousands to a man who was
counting his golden chickens by the million ?
The same autocratic voice which dismissed
the daughter to her room, as coldly emphatic

bade Allan quit the house, and assured
him that precautions would be taken
to put a stop to clandestine meetings and
intercourse for the future.

I wonder if this comes of being born on
Midsummer Day, as they say in Craven.
I seem to have cut myself pretty deeply,"
murmured Allan, as he descended the steps.
"Poor dear Gracie! How shall I comfort
her!"

There was a still more stormy scene at
the office the next morning, when Mr. Metcalfee
called Mr. Buttermere into the inner
glass case, and, after an oration on the atrocity
of his conduct; of him, a married man,
in conniving at the clandestine meetings of
a junior clerk with the daughter of his
employer, bade Mr. Sheepshank pay him
his salary due and in advance, and dismissed
him summarily, in spite of protest from Mr.
Polloc, who arrived at this juncture.

Allan wrunsf the hand of Buttermere.

I am truly sorry, Basil," he began.

Not a word of excuse, my dear fellow,"
interrupted the other. " We must make

VOL. II. T

the best of it ; and, who knows, we may be
even with imperial Caesar set ! Hark !
You are called. I'll wait for you outside."


Allan found Mr. Polloc and Mr. Metcalfe
loud in debate. The latter maintained his
right, as head of the firm, to dismiss a clerk
for misconduct. Mr. Polloc was as tenacious
of his right to be consulted ; and argued
with some warmth that his partner's authority
did not extend to personal offences
beyond the pale of business, and that he had
no right to discharge a capable servant for
private pique, to the damage of that business
and their mutual interest, and, with
respect to Mr. Metcalfe's desire to cancel
the indentures of Mr. Earnshaw, he should
oppose it. Mr. Metcalfe might be the head
of the firm, but he wasn't exclusively the
firm, and for all the attention he had given
to wool-broken; since he had ozone into the
railway line, the firm might as well have
been without him. " And, Metcalfe," Mr.
Polloc was saying as Allan entered — " I

should think a man who ran away with his
master's daughter, without a shilling of" his
own, might have been more lenient to a
young gentleman of education and means,
who was only taking a leaf out of the same
book. There are worse crimes than falling
in love with a pretty girl, or even courting
You can go back to your desk,

Mr. Earnshaw. Perhaps, with Mr. Sheepshank's
assistance, you may be able to supply
Mr. Buttermere's place — for the presents'' he
added, observing the lowering brow of his
irate partner.

Allan Earnshaw had evidently heard more
than was intended for his ear.

The altercation continued, and did not
end there. ^ For some time there had been
disagreements between the partners. Mr.
Polloc's interest in the education of the
working classes had been distasteful to Mr.
Metcalfee, and Mr. Metcalfee's assumption
had Ions been a thorn in the side of Mr.
Polloc. He had complained, and not without
cause, that the railway director neglected

T 2

his business proper ; and this last act, indicative
of contempt for his partner, and disregard
for their joint commercial interests,
was more than he could brook. In proportion
as he differed from his matter-of-fact
senior, were his sympathies with the
unfortunate young people, treated, as he
considered, with undue harshness, and he
raised his voice in their behalf.

The upshot was that, before the week
was out, each partner had applied to a
solicitor, and, though the absence of Basil
Buttermere occasioned some delays in the
overhauling of books, the old partnership
of ]\[etcalfe and Polloc was speedily dissolved.


Mr. Metcalfe loftily announced his intention
to retire, and Mr. Polloc resolved to
reio^n alone. He would have reinstated
Basil Buttermere, but already " B. Buttermere,
Share Broker," figured on a brass
plate in close proximity to Basiughall
Street.

Bless my heart ! " quoth Mr. Sheepshank
in surprise to Allan, "I wonder

■r

where Buttermere found the capital to start
with ?"

Allan could have told where his capital
came from. His only wonder was how so
small a sum sufficed. He had also another
wonder, where he could possibly have seen
Basil's clerk, Ellison, before.

In the perfumed pink billet which had
done so much mischief, no mention was
made of Patty, and though her want of
vigilance was blamed, her share in the
miserable discovery of that stormy March
evening was never suspected by the ruling
powers, or lier diplomatic career would
have been cut short.

Miss Metcalfe's liberty was restricted. If
she took the air, it was in a carriage, and
her mother bore her company. Mr. Metcalfee's
portly person and bottle-green coat
interposed between Grace and her adorer,
when he hoped to obtain sight or speech on
Sundays at St. Paul's, but the maid went
and came unsuspected, and so did love-letters.
There is little doubt that the
mystery and danger attached to this secret

correspondence enhanced the value of Allan's
missives to Grace, and that he lost his
compunctious visiting after that Sunday in
August when Mr. Armistead made his
appearance in Mr. Metcalfe's pew; and a
brief note, left behind in Grace's Prayer-book
for Allan's perusal, informed him that
it was settled she should become Mrs. Armis
the very day after the Leeds and
Selby railway opened — the line was very
near completion.

Grace was distracted, and Allan was not
much better. Of course, he sought counsel
of his friend Basil, whose long head was
ever fruitful in expedients, and who was
now a very busy man indeed.

Mr. PoUoc, noting Mr. Earnshaw's unwonted
bewilderment, called him apart,
and, I fear, evinced more sympathy for
youthful affection than for the paternal
arrangements of his late partner. Indeed,
if he did not say with Basil Buttermere that
he " should like to give the old bear a
tickler," he looked it.

September came, and Monday, the twenty-second.

The house in Park Square was all
in a bustle from early dawn. People were
coming and going incessantly. Railway
directors and shareholders intent on the
business of the day ; confectioners and milliners
concerned in the business of the
morrow. The gilt buttons on Mr. Metcalfe's
short-waisted blue coat and vest were resplendent,
and seemed indicative of the gold
he was about to coin. No bridesfroora ever
was more radiant than he. Mr. Armistead
was quite tame beside him, and did appear
somewhat anxious, though the ceremony of
the day was only preliminary to the ceremony
of the morrow.

Mrs. Metcalfe's purple satin shone in the
sunshine like the smile upon her face ; and
Grace herself might have been arrayed fora
bridal instead of the mere opening of a
railway.

But her father was an important personage,
and was desirous that everything should
go off with eclat. Besides, there was no
knowing to which of the nobility present he
mi£i;ht not find occasion to introduce his

lovely daughter. He almost began to
regret that he had not looked higher than
]Mr. Armistead for her.

On the platform of the new railway-station,
gay with banners and thronged with
spectators almost as gay, he held himself
erect, inspected the puffing engine ready for
its first trip, gracious and patronising. He
could even condescend to smile on Mr.
Polloc for the first time since their separation,
and was shaking hands with reporters
and a number of other people he never met
before.

Mr. Armistead touched him on the arm.

A gentleman from York, a Mr. George
Hudson, wishes to be introduced to you."

Absalom Metcalfe turned, entered into
conversation with the stranger — younger
than himself, and not quite so burly — and,
becoming; interested, forgot wife and daughter
for the moment.

A signal was given for those who proposed
to make the trial journey to enter the
train. There was a general movement on
the platform ; the carriages were filling.

Mrs. Metcalfe had been taken possession of
by another white-waistcoated director, and
was already seated.

Where is Grace ?" asked Mr. Armistead,
hurriedly.

"Grace? Oh, with Mrs. Metcalfe and
Mr. PoUoc," answered Mr. Metcalfe, as
hurriedly ; then, turning to his new
acquaintance, "We had better take seats
in this carriage, Mr. Hudson, or we shall be
left behind. Here, Armistead, join us.
Grace is all right somewhere. Mr. Polloc
will take care of them."

Some one had taken care of Grace. Whilst
the train whirled railway magnates and
officials to Selby, a hackney-coach in waiting
bore Mr. Sheepshank and Grace withall
speed along Marsh Lane to St. Peter's
Parish Church, where he gave her away to
Allan Earnshaw with much beneficence.
Patty, weeping like a water-cart, and Basil
Buttermere, looking well satisfied, were the
whole of the bridal train.

Before the new railway-engine steamed
into Selby, bride and bridegroom were

seated in a post-chaise on their way to
Skipton ; a box of the bride's paraphernalia,
smuggled out of the house by Patty, being
strapped up behind.

CHAPTER XVII.

REALITY.

FIFTEEN-TWO, fifteen-four, a pair,
and a sequence — I only peg "

A rat-tat on the brass knocker, which
responded to the hand with a less timid,
uncertain, don't-let-me-disturb-you sound
than usual, interrupted Mr. Proctor, and
caused Mrs. Statham to grasp the arms of
her chair with a start, and to bend forward
with a rising motion.

Mr. and Mrs. Earnshaw," announced
Deborah, grim and stiff as of old, with
scarcely the disturbance of a muscle.

Mr. and Mrs. ?" The perplexed

echo died on Mrs. Statham's lips as her
grand-nephew entered the room, labelled a

bridegroom, in the glossiness of bis blue
coat, the brightness of his gilt buttons, the
unwashed recklessness of his white waistcoat,
and his dove-coloured kerseymere
continuations. And not Allan only, but a
superb beauty, under the open brim of
whose white satin bonnet a knot of orange-blossoms
had evidently found their way as
an afterthought, and over whose shoulders
reposed a pelerine of lace, costly as the soft
lilac silk robe, with its voluminous bishop-sleeves
and skirt. The same costliness was
visible in the massive gold chain coiled
round her neck, and drooping below her
waistband, where a jewelled watch hung
for reference or ornament.

It was evident no expense had been
spared to adorn the young lady for the
ceremony of the day, and the old lady, in
her sombre 2;arb of ancient fashion, who
eyed the blushing bride down from the brim
of her bonnet to the tip of her sandalled
slippers, and up again, before she uttered
another syllable, was fully impressed with
the fact, though the slight difference between

the intentional and actual ceremony was
not so apparent.

Did — you — say — Mrs. — Earnshaw V
she asked, with frigid deliberation, of
Deborah, who still stood in the doorway.

Yes, aunt, my dear wife," interposed Allan,
advancing towards her with Grace, and
not altogether satisfied with their reception.
We were only married this morning ; I
have brought Grace first of all to you."

This intimation, coupled with the apparent
trepidation of the young bride, somewhat
mollified the old dame, her stern
Wherefore was I not apprised ?" toned
down into "Take off your bonnet, Grace
Earnshaw, and let me look at you."

Deborah stalked forward to assist the
trembling; finders to untie the strings, and
contrived to whisper the one word " Courage
!" in the girl's rosy ears, as she relieved
her of the elaborate head-dress.

The lovely, wistful face, with clustering
auburn curls at either temple, seemed to
satisfy the keen scrutiny of the grey eyes,
so deeply set amongst wrinkles ; the aquiline

nose and prominent chin relaxed, as
did the indrawn lips. "With the tips of her
fingers she handed her new grand-niece to
a seat close beside her ; desired Deborah to
bring wine and cake ; presented her own
comfit-box as a preliminary, and then began
to ask a series of questions.

Mr. Proctor, who had some recollection
of the young lady as a pupil of Miss Craggg,
and who had cleared away the cards and
cribbage-board in somewhat dubious silence,
now rubbed his hands together in
glee, and tendered his congratulations, all
seemed going so well ; but when it came
about that this was a runaway match, the
climax to a clandestine courtship, a look of
gravity that was akin to pain settled on his
countenance, and he became lost in thought.

He suddenly caught the words, "A post-chaise
: Mr. Buttermere," in answer to some
inaudible queries, and, looking up sharply,
saw the wrinkled face pinching into its
hardest outlines, as another question grated
on the ears of all, and the answer sent a
chill into the heart of Grace.

Borrowed money ! No home ! A
chaise that runs away with a fortnight's
salary ! A nice beginning ! Eugh ! And
pray, how do you mean to live ?"

1 shall be twenty-one in nine months,
and then "

Yes, I know," and the fan was in violent
motion, "but what is to become of the love-birds
in nine months ? Eugh ! Perhaps
you thought Aunt Statham might be won
over by a pretty face to set her seal on disobedience
and extravagance, and send the
wheels of your post-chaise rolling on right
merrily to fortune ! Eugh !" and the lady's
lappets shook, as did her fan.

I thought my wife would at least have
had a kindly welcome from my aunt. Come,
Gracie darling, put on your bonnet, and dry
your eyes" (she was weeping bitterly).
We shall find a welcome at the inn tonight,
and a warmer one amongst old
Giggleswick friends tomorrow. Kind words
are worth more than guineas ; there is no
hearing how a heart beats under a golden
crust." And, as he led her away, Allan

looked and felt as though the regis of his
protection was all that was needed to defend
his wife from relatives, or from the world.

An old heart beat under its crust, and a
folded fan beat on a withered left hand,
and either snuff-taking or unwonted emotion
puckered up a wrinkled face in unusual
lines when they had gone, but there was no
effort made to detain there, and a sharp
voice asked, with some asperity, why Mr.
Proctor had put the cards and cribbage-box
away.

>;j * * * * *

"Edith, have you heard from Allan lately
?" inquired Mr. Thorpe, as he sat smoking
a meditative pipe by the fire after tea,
on Tuesday the twenty-third. Dora was
alternately preparing her slate for a grammatical
exercise, and dabbing the spotted
nose of Tip with the wet sponge, laughing as
the cat shook his head and pawed at the
sponge.

No, I have not," and Edith sighed.
"He dropped writing when he was so much
engaged with Mr. Metcalfe in an evening ;

he writes very seldom now. I cannot tell
how he occupies his spare time. I am
afraid he spends too much of it with that
Mr. Buttermere."

Why afraid ? Mr. Polloc spoke very
highly of him."

"Yes, as a clerk. But Mr. Wilson did
not apparently hold him in much esteem,
and I myself formed a very unfavourable
opinion of him. I think he is neither a
good man nor a true friend. Allan will not
benefit by his association."

Dora's pencil squeaked, Edith shivered.

Do slope your pencil, Dora dear ; it
will not make such a screech."

"But I like it," cried perverse Dora, as
the upright pencil sang out again.

I think I will go to Leeds on Saturday,
and ascertain what your brother really is
doing, and whether he is still a member of
the Mechanics' Institution. If he spends his
evenings there he is doing no harm. The
letter I had to-day is from the secretary.
It seems that two learned professors of
geology, whose names you may have heard

VOL. II. U

me mention, Dr. Auckland and Monsieur
Agassiz, of Neuchatel, and Sir George Head,
a South American traveller, are expected to
visit the museum of the Philosophical Society
on Monday next, to inspect the collection of
fossils from the local coal formations. I
have a specimen or two from Barnsley I
should like them to see, and so I think I
may as well go, and make the one journey
serve two purposes."

Before the last words left his lips, the
gate was heard to open, and swing back
with a clash.

That's Jasper," said Dora, '' / howland
she looked wondrous wise.

But it was not Jasper. The heavy drop-handle
of the outer door was turned, then
that of the parlour, and in walked, unannounced
— " Allan ! and yes, Grace !"

The form which had rushed forward
precipitately to fling herself into a brother's
arms, was checked midway. There was
something in the bonnet and manner of
Grace which conveyed the painful truth to
Edith's mind.

Mr. Thorpe's pipe dropped to the ground.
Dora alone, oversetting her slate with a
crash, darted with a shout to greet them.
Edith stood dismayed.

Another chilling reception for the bride !
She began to think that romance has a disagreeable
aspect in the shade.

Edith, father, have 3'OU not a word of
welcome for us ? Grace is my wife now ;
we were married yesterday."

The room appeared to swim round with
Edith. Married ! and no intimation, no
suiTo;estion of its likelihood !

CO

M-m-married !" stammered out Mr.
Thorpe. " Do your guardians know?"

No one knows but Aunt Statham, and
she was about as civil last night as you
appear to be this evening. However, she
sent us a hundred pounds this morning towards
furnishing a house." He did not add
the accompanying message that, unless he
used that well, he would never see another
penny of her money, and might thank his
wife's pretty, frightened face for what he
had got.

u2

Edith had sunk into a seat, overpowered.
Grace flung herself at her feet. " Oh,
Edith, Edith, will not you receive me as a
sister ? Will not you forgive me ?"

Edith's arms were round her. " Forgive
Dice Grace ! I might have welcomed you
differently had I been better prepared. —
What ? Ran away ! — Deceived your father
and mother! Oh, Gracie, how could you?
But Allan is more to blame than you !" and
Editli's tears fell fast, mingling with those
of her new sister.

She had caught the words of Allan, as he
tendered an explanation to Mr. Thorpe, to
whom the proceedings gave no more satisfaction
than to herself: hence her exclamations
and her tears.

Dora had rushed to Janet with the
strange news, and in came the woman with
her hearty, outspoken words, and at once
created a diversion. " Why, why, Maister
Allan," and she returned the grip of his
hand with one as firm, " awd nivver ha'
thowt it on ye ! But it's no manner o' use
crying over shed milk ; an' you mought ha'

done worse. School pretty, and school wur
broad op among us, like. Aw's goo an'
git ye summit t' ate ; ye maun be fair
hemmed."

Nothing acted on Archibald Thorpe
sooner than the claims of hospitality.
Janet's reminder was not lost. He endeavoured
to forget the slight thrown on
him in his semi-paternal character, in the
remembrance that he had two crests under
his roof who ought not to lack for anything;
because they had happened to incur his displeasure.


He adopted Janet's theory, that they
must make the best of it ; and, by the time
Edith had brought Grace back from a
private conference in her own room to partake
the good things Janet and Dora had
set out for them, was listening quietly to
Allan's reiterated reasons and excuses for
carrying off Grace from people who would
have bought and sold her like a slave,
although Archibald's own opinion of their
rashness and imprudence did not wear
away.

Allan's guardians were not much more
cordial than Mrs. Statham. " If you had
time to have the banns proclaimed, you
lead time to consult us," said Mr. Hartley,
drily.

There was nothing to be done with the
executors. When he came of acre he would
have his money, not before. The quarter's
allowance due at Michaelmas he could take
with him, he must make that and his salary
suffice, if he found Mr. Metcalfe obdurate.
To the inquiry, " Could you not advance
five hundred on good interest !" Mr. Hartley's
spectacles went up.

Young gentleman, your money will go
quite fast enough, I can see, without anticipating
or curtailing it with interest. And
pray who put that idea into your head ?"

Allan might have said Basil Buttermere,
and that he had put more than an " idea "
into his head, but he kept his friend's counsel
and his own.

Nevertheless, with Grace for his wife, and
a hundred pounds in possession, Allan was
not disposed to be miserable. They made

a merry week of it, so many friends there
were to invite and to be visited ; but wherever
they went some one was sure to slake
a head, or say something unpalatable. Mrs.
Cras and Miss Cn\n:^ were shocked. The
"could not have believed it," and even Miss
Vaseyy could say in private to the bride,

Ah ! Mrs. Earnshaw, if I had run away
and got married, when I was sorely tempted,
I might be a miserable woman now."

Altogether, though Edith was uniformly
kind, and Dora exuberant, and Jasper Ellis
(very much at home at Ivy Fold) rubbed his
hands in glee, said it was " a capital joke,"
and laughed " to think how they had outwitted
the old folk " — altogether Grace was
not sorry when Saturday came, and they
took their places in the stage coach, with
Mr. Thorpe beside them.

That he was their companion was partly
owing to Edith. She had not allowed his
intention to meet the celebrated Professors
of Geology to slumber, since she found it
was only as a secondary consideration he
could be induced to mediate between the

runaways and the deceived parents, and
Edith was niost anxious that reconciliation
should be effected without delay.

It was an ungracious office, and plain
Archibald Thorpe was scarcely fitted to
meet the imposing and dogmatic Mr. Metcalfee
with such a proposal. He could sooner
have chipped into the heart of a mountain
than have moved Absalom Metcalfe, His
first fury had expended itself. He was cold,
stern, implacable.

My daughter, sir ?" he said, frigidly. " I
have no daughter. I thought I had one ten
days ago. I was mistaken. All that belonged
to the young lady who had the
honour to bear my name at that date shall
be forwarded to any address you may appoint.
We are desirous to clear the house
of all mementoes of her presence." (Mr.
Thorpe observed a blank upon the wall as
if a picture had been removed.) " And,
sir, let it be distinctly understood that my
door is closed to her henceforth. Were she
dying on the doorstep for lack of a crust,
she should not have it."

Mr. Thorpe rose. His bile was rising too.
He had more sympathy for the young couple
than when he entered Park Square.

Sir," he said, with pointed emphasis, " I
happen to be a student of geology, and
yesterday was present at the museum when
Professors Auckland and Agassiz examined
the fossils there collected, and the latter
gentleman decided that one large fossil,
hitherto regarded as a saurian, was a fish.
If that fossil, your heart, could have been
submitted for inspection, I wonder what
verdict would have been pronounced on
that! And, Mr. Metcalfe, before I shake
the dust of this inhospitable mansion from
my feet, let me remind you that yoic have
not eaten your last crust yet''

Grace was inconsolable. Her penitent
letter to her father had been returned
amongst her goods and chattels. She had
never dreamed of such a close to her romance
; such a stern beginning of reality.

At her urgent desire, Mr. PoUoc undertook
a second embassy, with no better result.


Mr. and Mrs. Sheepshank, unwilling to
lose Allan, to whom they had become attached,
proposed, as their house was larger
than their needs, that the young couple
should remain with them.

But this did not suit Grace. She said the
house was fusty, dingy ; it would make her
miserable to have old people and old furniture
about her for ever ; one week had
been sufficient. She would like everything
to be bright and fresh about them, so that
their very dwelling; should smile a welcome
to her husband when he came home from
business.

In pursuance of this theory, which sounded
very delightful to Allan, a house was found
about a mile away across the fields, towards
Little Workhouse, in a newly-built terrace
which stood back to back with another
terrace, as if to prop each other up. It
was, consequently, all front ; tall and pretentious
outside ; within, it might have been
a turret of some ancient castle, the separate
rooms were so piled one above another,
with just a narrow stairway to connect them.

It was a mere doll's house to that in Park
Square, but it was fresh and bright-looking,
and what were stairs to Grace, who had
been waited on all her life ? What Patty
might think of them had not been considered,
when Grace decided that the maid,
summarily dismissed without a character
for fidelity to them, should remain in their
service.

The house was taken and furnished prettily,
if neither wisely nor well. The ornamental
had precedence of the necessary and
useful ; and the hundred pounds had melted
in the process long before a culinary utensil
had found its way into the kitchen.

Allan looked blank, and contemplated an
application to Basil Buttermere in this
emergency, but Mrs. Sheepshank, who had
foreseen and suggested such a probability
to Mr. Thorpe, came forward at the right
moment, authorised by him to supply needful
deficiencies at his cost. He was not
such a bad stepfather after all. And so Mr.
and Mrs. Earnshaw decided, as they looked
around their nest, where they intended to

be as happy as two turtle-doves in spite of
hard-hearted parents, and the minor mischances
of early housekeeping on insufficient
means.

Experience has to be bought, as well as
groceries or butcher's meat, and here we
must leave them to make their purchases in
both markets.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON J PRINTED BT DUNCAN Macdonald), BLENHEIM Hock.

/

K-:,\NSX:K;»>y.^i!^\\-^

■.J«is.-X<-JB»ivV!aB!>K^Xy^>^.VJ'ji5.<>>y/^^,^!^^

WOOEltS AND WINNERS;

OE,

UNDER THE SCARS,

VOL. III.

OB,

UNDER THE SCARS.

% g0rhsbi,a SforiJ.

BY

MRS. G. Linnaeus BANKS

Author OF

"THE MANCHESTER MAN,"
"GOD'S PROVIDENCE HOUSE,"

&c., &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1880.

All rights reserved.

WOOERS AND WINNERS.

CHAPTER I.

jasper's success.

THE coach which carried off the young
couple had rolled away in a cloud of
dust. Dora, loitering, school-bag in hand,
to say a last saucy "word to Allan, had
skipped off to join another schoolfellow on
her way to Well Bank, leaving Edith behind
looking after the vanishing vehicle. The
cheerful look faded from the face of the
latter. She turned instinctively up the
road, instead of through the village home ;
she had an intuitive perception that Janet
would be bustling about noisily "t' put t'

VOL. III. B

hanse ta rests," as she would have phrased
it, now their visitors were gone, and Edith
was not in a frame of mind to endure
bustle.

She had put the best face she could on
her brother's marriage, not to sadden him
or his wife at the very outset, but she was
far from sanguine over their future ; and she
walked on slowly, and, it must be added,
sorrowfully, pondering and calculating their
chances of happiness if Mr. Metcalfe refused
to receive them, and they were left to
themselves. " Grace knows nothings whatever
of housekeeping, or the value of
money ; and Allan, even with ]airs. Sheepshank,
has always had a comfortable home,"
she murmured to herself. " Poor things, I
fear they have made a mistake, but we will
hope for the best. Allan is brave and
generous ; they love each other dearly, and
love works wonders !" Then her thoughts
took another turn. " Ah, me, when Grace
found a husband, I lost my brother. Never
as-ain will he be the old Allan !"

A gust of wind shook a wayside tree as

lie turned into Tarn Lane, and sent a leaf
or two gyrating in the air to settle at her
feet. " Yes," said she, thinking aloud,
like these leaves our friends drop from us,
or are torn away, until nothing is left us but
memory."

Nothing ? Miss Earnshaw !" said a
familiar voice behind her. "Is not hope
left, as memory's companion ? Will not the
tree be green again in the spring ?"

She gave a slight start. Jasper Ellis,
treading on the ribbon of soft turf by the
roadside, had come upon her unawares.

The same leaves never return to the
tree, Mr. Ellis," she answered, with a faint
sigh, as she extended her hand to meet his.

Not the same, but others more fresh
and verdant," and he looked into her eyes
without releasing her hand.

"To fall away in their turn," she replied,
sadly, lifting her eyes to let them drop
again before the light she saw in his, a light
which brought a flush into her cheek.

Not so, my dear Miss Earnshaw ; may
there not be a friend closer than a brother ?

B 2

A friend whose affection only needs the sun
of your smile to be what the lost brother
never could have been, a lifelong support
and comfort to you !" He spoke earnestly
and eagerly, but never came a word of
reply to her hips. Was she thinking of
that other passionate declaration on which
she had thrown an icy chill, or of her terror
by that Tarn side, and the messenger of
good tidings who had been so kind and gentle
with her ? Both, perhaps, for thought
is swift. She walked on wondering what
her utter loneliness would be if she sent this
friend adrift — walked on blindly, stumbling
at the slightest impediment.

He drew her arm within his own ; he did
not dare to cast it round her. Yet he held
her close and bent lower that no expression
of her mobile countenance should escape
him.

Edith," he whispered, in a voice flexible
at all times, tremulous now with genuine
emotion, " Is this avowal altogether unexpected?
Have you not seen how for
months and years I have hung upon your

words, haunted your footsteps, lived on
your smiles ?"

No. I — I — thought you came to "

"See Mr. Thorpe? Ah, Edith, young
men rarely consort with old ones, unless
some unsuspected magnet draws them.
You have been the attraction to Ivy Fold.
You will not shut the door against me now,
will you''

Her heart throbbed, she panted, hesitated,
could she shut out her brother's friend,
her own friend, who had stood between
herself and utter loneliness so long ? A
faint, hesitation "No," was her answer.

Nor the doors of your heart, dear
Edith ?"

The hesitation was longer, more palpable.

How many years she had lacked and
longed for a heart to beat in sympathetic
unison with hers ! Could this be the
response ? Allan's love had failed her ;
Dora, too, would seek another nest in time.
She had hardly known what it was to beloved.
Could she reject the cup that was
placed to her lips? Had not Jasper become

a part of their daily life? Yet was he her
ideal? Did she feel towards him as the
heroines of her own romances were supposed
to feel ? She hesitated, lost her self-possession,
wavered. The incertitude was very
unlike Edith.

He repeated his question with still more
tremulous eagerness.

This time there was a " No !" fainter
than before ; but he took the hand he held
and pressed it gratefully to his lips.

Her fluttering colour came and went, she
somehow felt as if a seal was set upon her
life, and, as once before in that same spot,
she grew faint and tottered as though she
would fall.

Almost thankful for the chance, he threw
his arm around her, and led her to the
self-same stone where she had rested that
memorable August afternoon. But he did
not loose his clasp. There was something
won he had been afraid to lose. And now
the dark head drooped upon his shoulder ^
he thrilled at the surrender : laid his hot

lips on hers — they were cold as ice. She
had fainted in reality.

Jasper's early errand to Cateral Hall had
served him in good stead. Whatever excuse
he invented for his late appearance at the
office, it is certain he went baclv triumphant.
In his eyes the world did not hold such a
peerless gem as Edith Earnshaw ; and
henceforth he should wear the jewel on his
own breast. He was not altogether satisfied
with her tardy, hesitating acceptance ; it
lacked warmth ; but that would come in time.
All his fears of a rival were at an end. He
was quite certain there was no pre-occupation
of her heart. Edith could never have
accepted him had she loved another. It
was not in her nature. Yet how deep had
been her devotion to her kin ! There must bea
more vital love lying dormant in her
breast ; it was for him to fan the latent spark
into a flame. And surely unchangeable,
ardent love like his must ensure return.
She had only to discover that his heart and
soul were hers, and hers only, and her breast

would glow with fervour like his own !

Ah ! But was his heart and soul all
hers ? Was there not in his secret soul,
unsuspected by himself, a passion stronger
and more absorbing than the love of
woman ? Else why did a certain will in
Lawyer Hartley's custody interest him so
deeply? Wherefore did visions of Edith
Earnshaw's few thousand pounds enter so
largely into his calculations for the future?
Let us not throw discredit on his love ; that
was sincere and genuine, no doubt. If it
gained in intensity from the contemplation
of Edith's guineas, its source had at least
been pure, as boy-loves mostly are.

Edith did not doubt him for one instant ;
she only doubted herself. She shrank at
first so coyly from his encircling arm, and
from the kisses he dropped upon her brow
or lips when he came and went, and retreated
with such a bashful crimson on her
cheeks to the solitude of her mother's white
chamber when he was gone, to take herself
to task and ask if the sisterly love she gave
was sufficient to satisfy the cravings of such

a man — nay more, if the love he rendered,
the love that seemed to hold and bind her
fast, satisfied the yearning of her own soul.
She never answered the question to her
entire satisfaction, but she felt she was no
longer alone, and as she knelt beside the
bed in which no one had slept since the
night her mother died, and prayed that her
mother's last blessing might hallow her
engagement, or sat by the window looking
out at the stars, a sense of peace crept into
her soul, and the motto on the chimney-piece
had a new significance.

By-and-by the ineffable bliss of being
loved, the new feeling of having some one
to care for her, whose lot had hitherto
been only to care for others, the reposeful
sense of security and protection which the
strong arm of a man affords to the woman
who leans on it in faith and trust, all had
their influence, and she ceased to question
and analyse her own emotions.

A brighter light shone in her serene dark
eye, a delicate tinge of rose settled on
cheeks erst so pale, her voice might be

heard attuned to soncr as she went about
her household ways ; her thought and care
for Dora never relaxed, but she no longer
felt the exactions and caprices of the little
damsel burdensome, and into her own
verses crept a blither and a happier spirit.

Why, why, Janet lass, whatever chez
coom ta yer young mistress ? Shoo's ez
leetsome as a laverock,* shoo's snapped
her lilies for roses, an's gotten fair pretty,
syne Maister Allan gat wed. Hearken to
her op their."

Op their," was the diamond-paned
landing window above Dora's recess, and
the speaker, who pointed with a shaking
finger, was Solomon Bracken. He had
been taking his customary morning airing
in the church yard, and, leaning on the wall
low within, yet high above the lane —
had been watching the face of Edith as she
alternately bent to a clothes-basket on the
window seat, or turned to the large press
at right angles to replace linen fresh from
the wash, singing blithely over her task.
Skylark. f Exchanged.

Janet was beating a door-mat asiaiust the
Avail, almost under his nose, but the mat
was not very dusty, or he had dealt with
dust so long it did not seem to affect him
otherwise than to suggest a gossip. Something
in his speech grated on Janet's understanding.


Pretty ! shoo's alius been pretty, to folkes
les eye in their years. Talk o' lilies'
roses an' sike amusement, shoo's a prettiness
es wunnot fade, noa moore nor that
lily o' Sharon as a wiser Solomon nor yo'
tells us abaght. An' sino; over t' wedding' !"
The tone and the toss of Janet's head
were sufficient commentary.

I's thinking sa pretty a lass 'ud be getting
wed lessen afooar lang," insinuated Solomon,
in his least wheezy croak. " I's seen
moore nor one likely young chap luikin'
an' keekin' ester her."

Han yo', owt wiseacre ? Then let mea
tell yo' their bennet a chap in a' this parish
az ba fit to wipe her shoon, let alone wed
her, be tother wheel he will!" and with that
expression of her opinion, Janet gathered

up her mats and retreated, muttering to
herself as she went, " Not bud t' lad's
masterly weel, an' shoo mought goo farmer
an' fare worse — but shoo mought ha' done
better, or I'm mich mistaken." But not a
word said the rough woman indoors that
should damp the new-born joy of the young
mistress of whom she was so proud.

Janet's outdoor disclaimer did not 2;o for
much. Jasper was too jubilant to keep his
success a secret : his was the Glee of one
who has run a race and won it. He rubbed
his hands together more frequently, ceased
to bite his nails, dressed with redoubled
nicety, walked with head erect and springy
step, and had not his long head suggested
the policy of taking Edith's guardians into
his confidence, his whole manner would
have made proclamation for him, in Giggles-wick,
at least.

Dear me !" exclaimed Dr. Burrow,
you cannot mean it ! Why, I thought — "
but his under-lip closed over the upper, and
what he thought he wisely kept to himself.
In his very next visit to the village he left

his horse at the gate, and called, as he said
to feel how the young lady's pulse beat,"
and, being satisfied, offered his congratulations.
Lawyer Hartley also strayed to Ivy
Fold, and his congratulations took the form
of commendation of her choice, with a side
fling at Allan. " So well conducted, so
deferential to his elders, so painstaking, so
careful ; he would not rush into extravagance,
and marry before he had the means to keep
a wife. She would have a sensible husband
and a smart lawyer, with an eye to the main
chance."

There were feminine felicitations also before
the engagement was three weeks' old,
and none more sincere than those from Well
Bank, though little Ann Yasey did burst into
tears over the business, and very imprudently
say that she was "afraid some one
else, who should be nameless, would have a
very sad heart when he heard of it," and
was then sorry she had said it, so sudden
and grave a change came over Edith's face
and manner.

Allan and Grace were profuse in their

expressions of satisfaction, were " so delighted
that their example was likely to be
followed," and in the midst of all Edith felt
alternately abashed and gratified. . Dora
had Q;one to Mother Welling-ton's one afternoon
on a double errand for slate-pencil
and parkin, and came tearing back with a
very high colour and a much higher temper.
Jasper had just preceded her, and had not
released Edith from his embrace when
Dora burst in at the parlour door, panting
and breathless.

Why, why, she says — she says

Is it true, Jasper ? Is it true, Edie ?" and
the child turned from one to the other impatiently


Who says ? Is what true ?" asked the
pair.

Betty Dyson. She says," and the eves
of the nine-year-old child flamed with excitement
— " she says that Jasper is sea-going
to marry you, Edie, and take you away from
me for ever ! And he shan't ! He shan't !"
And she stamped her little feet on the
carpet in a passion of rage.

Edith crossed the floor, took her by the
shoulder caressingly, and, in a quiet tone,
that carried conviction with it, said,

Dora darling, our mother left you in
my care the very night she died. No one,
not even Jasper, shall take me from you, or
separate us, until you yourself grow up and
want to leave me."

"Sure? quite sure ?" queried Dora, glancing
defiantly across the room at Jasper, then
lolling against the piano.

Quite sure, darling. Jasper would not
wish it." And Edith set a seal of assurance
in a kiss on the child's flushed brow.

Wouldn't I, though? The little termagant
!" said Jasper as if to himself. This
audible reply, though it took the tone of
playful banter, sent Miss Dora off into a
fresh fume straightway.

Don't be alarmed, Felina, I am not
going to run away with Edith yet awhile ;
and you know I shall have to cut pretty
Felina's claws before anyone will carry her
off."

She would fain have tried her claws upon

Jasper then, but Edith interposed, and, with
a beseeching look towards her offending:
lover, endeavoured to soothe the irritated
little maiden.

Before this could be effected the heavy
drop-latch was again lifted, and Mr. Thorpe,
carpet-bag in hand, entered the room, followed
by a large dog ; and Tip, arching his
back, stood, with stiff and bushy tail, at bass

Unobservant of the strange quadruped,
Dora flung herself into her father's arms, as
if in desperation, for refuge. Signs of tears
and passion were unmistakably defacing the
lovely little countenance.

The fond father questioned her. Explanation
followed ; explanation which took Mr.
Thorpe considerably by surprise.

Dear me ! I never expected this. Why,
why, I had hoped "

What he had hoped was never known.
Edith laid her hand upon his square
shoulder.

Are you not content, dear father ?" she
whispered.

Oh ! dear, yes, child ; content, oh ! yes "

jasper's success. 17

(he did not appear particularly content),
Jasper will make you a good husband, no
doubt ; but — yes, Edie love, I am content
it is only natural. You have been a good
girl, and, as long as you are happy, I have
no right to be otherwise. One can't have
all one wishes in this world. But — but I
am hungry. What have you got for a
traveller to eat ?" It was clear he wished
to dismiss the subject.

Janet answered that question, and soon
they were all seated round an early supper
in a bright, warm house, Mr. Thorpe insisting
he must take the edge off his appetite
before he said another word.

Presently Janet fell foul of the doss, and
Mr. Thorpe, who had quite forgotten the
animal, somewhat disconcerted, asked, " Ah,
yes, where shall we bestow poor Keeper to
be out of Janet's way ? He was given tome
by your Quaker friend in Barnsley,
Edith."

What ! Mr. Lister ?" and Edith's eyes
brightened.

"Yes, and that reminds me, I have a

VOL. III. c

volume of his poems for you in m}'' bag.
Here it is, — ' The Rustic Wreath.' He has
only' pubhshecl it this year. It has attracted
a good deal of notice already in Yorkshire ;
especially a long descriptive piece on the

t TT* • ' "

Hangs.

Edith took the book with delight. There
was a presentation inscription on the fly-leaf,
which brought a glow of pleasure to
her face. She turned to the rustic verses
mentioned.

Jasper felt himself neglected. With a
curl of his upper lip he remarked, " Poetry !
I thought nothing came from Barley but
linen and coal. My grandfather has something
to do with some coal-pits there."

"Yes, I know, I went there to meet him
yester "

Dora, with a watchful eye on Jasper's
face, here interrupted in wondering
tones.

Poetry ! Don't you like poetry ?
Edith makes poetry !"

Does she?" responded Jasper, languidly
surprised — he was more interested in

knowing his strand father's business in Barnsley
— "And Edith makes pies and puddings,
and I like them better, don't you ?"

Dora shook her fair curls, and looked
doubtful. "I don't know. / like both.
And Janet can make pies and puddings, but
she can't make poetry," and the nod of her
head was conclusive.

Mr. Thorpe laughed heartily.

Edith smiled — but faintly. She had an
unpleasant feeling that there would be a
broken link between her and Jasper.

Jasper, put on his defence, argued, "Yes,
Dora ; pies and puddings will feed you.
We can't live on poetry."

Don't be too sure of that," chuckled
Mr. Thorpe, proud to see his " life bairn "
get the best of it. " Poetry got Thomas
Lister into a linen warehouse, and it would
have got him the post-mastership, but his
Quaker conscience stood in the way, and he
could not take the Government oath. So
you see poetry has found him a living."

Oh, indeed ! Yet I don't suppose
grandfather bought the cockpit for a mere

c 2

sojigj^ persisted Jasper, anxious to turn the
conversation to account.

He has not bought the colliery — he
only leases it for a client of his," and no
more did reticent Mr. Thorpe say on the
subject.

But Jasper, coupling the word "client"
with the letter found in the card-rack,
built up hypotheses of his own.

CHAPTER ir.

martin's majority.

Jasper's contempt for poetry, so openly
expressed, was not without its effect.
Whether Mr. Thorpe had given him an idea
of a commercial value attaching to such a
commodity, or he was seized with a sudden
compunction for his unloverlike reception of
Dora's communication, he was fluent in
apologising on his next visit ; but neither
apology nor persuasion could induce Edith
to submit her verses for his perusal.

She was not so vain as to suppose her
fugitive lyrics rose to the dignity of poems,
was timidly doubtful of her own powers,
conscious of inability to interpret fully her
own conceptions and emotions, but she was

also conscious of a something within the
fountain of her brain too sacred for ridicule
or contempt.

Many a time and oft, she had been
tempted to throw all her effusions into the
fire in utter dissatisfaction. But she seldom
acted upon first impulse, and a small
matter served to restrain her.

Mr. Thorpe had one day remarked, when
she was singing to herself over her work,
That is a pretty song ; I don't think I ever
heard it before," and if he forgot it five
minutes afterwards, the honest, gratuitous
criticism had been expressed, and in entire
ignorance of her authorship. It stood her
in good stead now, in the face of Jasper's
sweeping dictum, which might have touched
her more deeply and influenced her
differently had her love been of a more
absorbing character.

As it was, it caused her, when she wrote
a grateful line of thanks to Thomas Lister
for his " Rustic Wreath," to enclose a sample
or two of her own versification, and to ask,
modestly enough, for an .opinion on their

merits, at the same time explaining how his
recitations, during their journey together
from Skipton to Settle, had roused the spirit
of poesy' within herself.

A week — a fortnight — passed without
any acknowledgment. She felt not a little
daunted and discouraged.

Three weeks went by, and then the postman's
horn heralded a gratifying communication.
It appeared that the " Barnsley
Poet," finding her verse quite of another
character to his own, did not feel satisfied
to sit in judgment on it, and had transmitted
her rhymes to his stout friend
Ebenezer Elliott, then rising into popularity,
and they had been returned with the brief
criticism, "Poems with the right v'uv^f in
them. They have a spark of true Promethean
fire." Edith's face glowed as she
read. She could scarcely realise that this
was written of her immature verse. Still
more was she surprised at a suggestion that
she should send a contribution to an editor,
whose address was enclosed.

But her lips parted in amazement when,

on opening a newspaper which accompanied
the letter, she saw, where a corner was turned
down, some lines headed, "The Kingfisher's
Nest," and knew them for her own.

Without comment she handed the newspaper
to her stepfather, who conned it over
as he smoked his evening pipe by the fire.
Then Jasper took it up, scanned it carefully,
and discussed its contents with Mr. Thorpe,
but nothing was said of the " Kingfisher's
Nest."

Had the unsi^jned verses attracted the
attention of either, she might possibly have
avowed them. As it was, she carried away
the paper with a sense of disappointment ;
confirmed in her reticence.

Yet Edith took the hint of her Quaker
friend. The poems were accepted, others
followed at intervals, and, after a time, not
only poems, but tales by "Alkald"' had
passed beyond the narrow limit of local
publication.

Between courtship and authorship two
new elements had entered into Edith's life,
breaking up its barren monotony, and,

although naturally less demonstrative and
exuberant than Dora, it seemed as if she
had quenched her thirst at some vivifying
spring, so light was her step, so clear her
smiling countenance.

And what of Martin Pickersmll? Miss
Vaseyy heard from hai once or twice, and
so did John Danson, but he seemed to have
drifted out of the current of Gii^deswick
life, and his name was rarely mentioned.
Strange to say, Mr. Thorpe, with all his
studies and pre-occupation, appeared to miss
him the most. He, too, received an occasional
letter, but letters could not supply
the place of the agile and intelligent companion
on the hillside, or by the ingle, and
there were times at which the very presence
of Jasper appeared to irritate him, as a
reminder of one who should have been
there and was not.

Winter wore itself out ; the cuckoo came
and sang its song, and made itself ready for
flight. Midsummer passed and July came,
and with it arrived a request from Josiah
Proctor that Mr. Hartley would spare his

grandson for a few days, as Mr. Pickersgill,
]his ward, came of age on the fifteenth, and
he wished the young men to renew their
acquaintance.

It was not a very gratifying meeting.
Either could have dispensed with the
presence of the other. Jasper had an uncomfortable
feeling that the tall, well-developed,
handsome West Indian would bea
dangerous rival if his wonderful black
eves and musical voice were brought to
bear on a susceptible heart, if that heart
should happen not to be securely his own ;
and if a certain little ruse of his should
chance to come to light. And the distance
between Giggleswick and Skipton struck
him as unpleasantly short. He had fears
lest the collegian might think so, and be
eager to visit old friends and places. And
mingled with his fears was a sort of impression
that Martin looked down upon him
with supercilious scorn.

If he did not, it was simply due to a
larger element in his nature. The injury
done by the boy years before was beneath the

contempt of the man. But with him came
the remembrance of sharp agony not yet
overcome or forgotten ; and Jasper took
good care it should not be forgotten.

He supposed they might exchange " congratulations."


'' How so?" inquired Martin.

The honours you have gained at college ;.
and your majority ! You slip the leading
strings tomorrow ?"

"And you?"

Oh, I have been engaged for the last
eight months to the dearest and best girl in
all Giggleswick."

An icy bolt might have shot through
Martin's heart. An almost imperceptible
tremor ran through his frame, and set in
motion the heads of the Chinese mandarins
on the chimney-piece against which he
leaned ; and Jasper saw it.

Do I know her ?" It was a needless
question. He felt that he knew her tOQ
well.

Edith Earnshaw."

There was an upheaval of the chest, the

old dilation of the nostrils, a feeling as if he
would like to strangle the smiling, self-complacent
animal so coolly adjusting the
corners of his stiff, high collar, in front of
the glass, a strong effort at self-command,
and then Martin said, coldly,

If that be true, you may indeed be
congratulated. I wish the same could be
said for the lady." And without another
word he left Jasper to digest his wish at
leisure, and snatching his hat from a stand
in the hall, the pegs whereof were polished
oxen horns, strode off at a stifle pace up the
town and round the Castle mount, saying,
as he went, "Had it been anyone but Foxes
I could have borne it ! The dear, sweet
girl will be sacrificed — thrown away utterly
! How has she been inveigled ? Was
there was no one to warn her?" From all
of which it was clear that either he was
prejudiced by jealousy, or had a more
intimate knowledge of Jasper than had
their common friends, or even Jasper himself.
Indeed, Jasper stood rather well with
number one, and, with the exception of his

sometime freckles, had not a blemish he did
not regard as a virtue, or a beauty to be
cultivated.

On his way back Martin encountered
Deborah, returning from church, with her
arms folded firmly before her, and carrying
a Prayer-book wrapped in a pocket-handkerchief
" Mr. Pickersgill," said she, stifEy,
"I have been told" (she did not say by
Simon Postlethwaite) " that Miss Earnshavv
has promised to marry Mr. Jasper Ellis?
Do you know if it is true ?"

Jasper Ellis says it," was all Martin's
answer.

"Then, if she has, she has made a
mistake, and will find it out to her cost
some day," and Deborah contrived to give
her stiff form an extra pull up.

I am afraid she will," assented Martin,
with a sigh. And so they parted, having
built their hypotheses on different premises.

On the morrow, the auspicious loth of
July, Josiah Proctor was jubilant, and
expected all his small household to be the
same. Huge nose^^avs of flowers filled the

fireless grates, and stood in quaint vases on
the side-tables, polished (like everything
else that would take a polish) until the
flowers had fainter duplicates beneath.
Mrs. Ripley and Kitty had new dresses and
caps for the occasion, Simon Postlethwaite
rejoiced over a new suit of clothes ; and so
did Jasper. Mr. Proctor, no whit behind,
had mounted diamond buckles on his knee-breeches,
and fastened down his shirt frill
with a brooch to correspond. When he
was not shaking hands with somebody he
was rubbing them together — talking of the
proudest day of his life," and wishing
Martin all the good things the future could
possibly have in store for mortal man, with
the most beaming of faces. Martin, inwardly
convinced that the worst the future
could do had been anticipated, jet did his
best to keep the lively old gentleman in
countenance with his cheerful demeanour.
He smiled and chatted as pleasantly as if he
had never an ache, the new sore smarting
terribly nevertheless.

I should be a fool to let that insufferable
coxcomb see that he triumphed over me,"
he thought, and, having learned his lesson of
endurance before his college career commenced,
he was no novice at showing a brave
front to the enem3^

Archibald Thorpe was expected. Restless
Mr. Proctor despatched Mr. Apostles
to the " Devonshire Arms " to meet
him, twice before the coach was really due ;
and then Martin, for the first time cognisant
of the agreeable surprise in store for him,
saved the clerk a third journey.

It was a pity Mr. Proctor did not witness
the meeting of the two friends when Mr.
Thorpe stepped down from the top of the
coach. He would have been delighted to
see how eagerly and heartily they grasped
each other's hands, how naturally the
younger man relieved the elder of his carpetbag,
and offered his arm for the other to
take ; how many questions they mutually
had to ask and answer all at once. But a
question rose to Mr. Thorpe's lips which
suddenly sobered both.

"I suppose you have heard about
Edith ?"

Yes."

*' I'm very sorry. I once thought — mj
lad " — and he looked into Martin's face.

"And so did I," interrupted Martin.
But it cannot be helped now."

"I suppose not," assented Mr. Thorpe,
dubiously, adding, after a pause, " Women
are kittle cattle. However, the lad's well

enough — only Well, I fancied Edith

would have chosen differently," and then
they changed the subject.

A hospitable luncheon awaited the traveller,
when the health of Martin was drunk
in the lawyer's best wine ; and when all was
cleared away by Kitty, in a troubled flutter
with some news she had heard, Mr. Proctor
rang a bell communicating with the office,
and Simon Postlethwaite brought up, and,
with some solemnity, placed on the table
before the lawyer a curiously inlaid sandalwood
box, not unlike a lady's desk or workbox,
and then gravely retired.

And now to business," said Mr. Proctor,

with that peculiar brisk friction of his palms
which was his pleasant preliminary, ere he
took from his pocket a small bunch of keys,
and, making a selection, unlocked the
box,

Have you any idea, Mr. Thorpe, why
you were invited hither on this auspicious
occasion ?" inquired Josiah, with his hand
on the closed lid.

"Why-a, why-a, surely because of the
good-will I bear the young man whose
launch in life we celebrate to-day."

And also because, sir, I desired to make
you acquainted with the client on whose
behalf I sought to lease the Osmanthorpe
colliery. He is here," and Josiah's hand
was laid on Martin's shoulder,

"You don't say so ! Martin, I congratulate
you ! The colliery is in good working
order, and, when the contemplated railway
is laid down, its value will be almost doubled.
We shall have you in our midst now. No
setting sail for Jamaica, I hope. Let us
shake hands upon it."

Mr. Thorpe extended his large brown

VOL. III. D

palm across the table to clasp the dark-skinned
but more delicately shaped hand of
his young friend, whilst Jasper leaned
forward and pricked up his ears for the
answer.

I cannot say, sir, until I am master of
my own actions. Then I certainly shall
return to Jamaica."

Thank God for that !" said Jasper to
himself.

I explained to my ward and client this
morning all that was needful for his
information respecting the colliery Mr.
Thorpe. Perhaps anything further on that
subject had better be deferred until he
becomes acquainted with the provisions of
his father's will." So saying, Mr. Proctor
raised the lid of the box, and, taking out the
will, closed it again on a number of papers
neatly folded and tied together.

To Martin that will was a sacred document
; it irritated him to have Jasper privy
to its contents. But for unwillingness to
annoy Mr. Proctor, he would have protested
against it.

The will of Laurence Pickersgill, of
Yorkshire, England, and Spanish Town,
Jamaica, planter, was long and intricate,
but Jasper listened with eager interest in
all its technicalities, whilst Archibald Thorpe
grew strangely nervous and excited as it
proceeded.

The provision made for the two executors,
and for his son Martin's maintenance,
until he came of age, out of the indigo
plantation, claimed little more than a passing
thought as being; liberal ; but when
Ehhu Vaseyy was enjoined to convey the
boy to England, and to obtain his admission
into GisfSileswick Grammar School, where
he, Laurence Pickersgill, had been educated,
Mr. Thorpe's attention was aroused and
riveted. He heard the reader characterised
as an honest, upright man, well acquainted
with the Pickersgill family and affairs, who
would surely watch over the interests of
the said son, Martin ; but when he came to
the injunction that Josiah Proctor should
assert the boy's rights when he attained
the age of twenty-three," Archibald started

D 2

from his seat as if he had been shot ; then,
catching the inquisitive look of Jasper, he
sat down again, whilst Josiah read on that
those rights were not to be revealed to
Martin until he was twenty-three, unless
both executors should agree that it was advisable.
Duplicates of all papers necessary
to establish the will, their rights, and of
the will itself, would be lodged with Elihu
Vaseyy, the originals going to Mr. Proctor."

"They are Were," said the beaming lawyer,
laying his hand upon the box, " and I wish
I was only at liberty to set them in force
tomorrow, and to let Martin know what
his rights are."

I presume my father had good reasons
for keeping me in the dark so long ?"

Sentimental reasons, nothing more,
Martin. He would think differently now,
were he living."

"Mr. Proctor," inquired Archibald Thorpe,
drawing the other aside, and speaking in a
low, agitated tone, " have 1 any knowledge
of that young man's rights ?"

Possibly."

Then you have known this all along ?"

"All alonfif. I was Laurence Pickerssjill's
classmate. But my lips are closed for the
present, I can say no more in any way or
shape — except that dinner waits," and the
lawyer made a move.

I understand," said the other. " You
will encounter no opposition from me."

So I am aware, or you would not be
here to-day. You will, no doubt, also
understand why we were anxious to get
possession of the cockpit ?"

"Yes"'

I wish I did," thought Jasper, whose
ears Avere as thin as John Danson's. " But
I'll find it out before long."

CHAPTER III.

OSMANTHORFE.

A LL our 3^oung people are growing out
Jr. of hand, friend Thorpe," observed
Mr. Proctor over their afternoon wine.
Here is Martin of age to-day — long life
and prosperity to him ! — though he is not
altogether out of hand yet — pass the decanter,
Martin. And there's that long-nosed,
red-headed grandson of mine " (Jasper
frowned ; had he said long-headed he would
have considered it a compliment), " he will
be of age in less than eighteen months, and
wanting a partnership with me, and then a
partnership with a wife."

Bravo, grandfather !" cried Jasper, exultingly

clapping his hands, as if to applaud.
Suppose we drink success to the two partnerships
!"

Wait till the' are partnerships, Jasper,"
responded the old gentleman, drily (his
keen, twinkling eves had detected the impatient
drumming of Martin's finger-tips on
the mahogany, and the hard biting of his
nether lip). "I don't like young people to
go too fast in any way or shape, and that
reminds me, Mr. Thorpe, your step-son
came of age on Midsummer day — so Mrs.
Statham said. She was disappointed he
did not call and pay his respects to her on
the occasion. I know he lost something by
the omission."

"Ah, yes, sure to cut himself whichever
way he turned, you know, like Jasper here.
He was only with us a day, and that was
devoted to business with his executors. He
was all impatience to get back to his wife,
who was rather in a critical condition ;
good-natured Mrs. Sheepshank was with
her, or he could not have left."

How was Allan when you saw him,

sir?" asked Martin. "I hope he is likely
to do well."

"Why," Mr. Thorpe deliberated, "I
am afraid he is not dormer so well as he outfit
to have done. He looked anxious and
harassed, but I thought much of that might
be owing to anxiety for poor Grace."

Do you know how he means to invest
the money he would carry away with him ?
It would be a pity if he made ducks and
drakes of it for lack of an adviser," quoth
the lawyer.

The heat, the dinner, and the wine, had
made Jasper somewhat drowsy, the word
"money" chinking in his ear seemed to
rouse him.

He carried very little money away with
him ; it was thought wiser to transfer it to
his account in the Settle Bank, where his
rents will in future be paid in ; and I hear
he has been drawing upon it pretty freely
is afraid he has already an adviser
who is no good to him ; and that much of
the cash he has drawn out has gone to
repay loans he has had from a Mr. But-terrace,"

replied Mr. Thorpe. " Simpleminded
Grace has let it out in her letters."

Buttermere — Buttermere ? Hah, I think
Mr. Earnshaw mentioned to Mrs. Statham
that he had borrowed money from a Mr. Buttermere.
By-the-by, did you ever see this
Mr. Buttermere ? Can you tell me what
he is like?"

Why, yes," and Mr. Thorpe proceeded
to describe him, adding as a rider, " Mr,
Polloc thinks very highly of him, and so
does Mr. Sheepshank ; yet there is a good-natured,
eccentric old gentleman, one of the
advocates of popular education, named John
Wilson, who has a singular prejudice against
him."

Josiah Proctor elevated his eyebrows,
rested his clasped hands on the polished
table, head forward, and, looking his interlocutor
full in the face, said emphatically,
'^ Honest John ! In that case, Mr. Thorpe,
you had better counsel your stepson to have
nothing to do with Basil Buttermere in anyway
or shape, or he will be sure to rue it.
And that is a lawyers advice, gratis."

Mr. Thorpe, who had heard just sufficient
to make him uneasy, yet nothing tangible
as a basis for his " counsel," would have
questioned further, but Mr. Proctor gave a
significant nod towards their younger companions
and remained silent.

The immediate arrival of visitors, eager to
congratulate Mr. Pickersgill, and spend a
merry night, precluded any renewal of the
topic.

In the morning, Mr. Proctor proposed that
a post-chaise should be hired to carry the four
to Osmanthorpe, in order that Martin might
inspect the colliery, and be made acquainted
with the manager and his subordinates
before his return to college.

There were two demurrers put in. The
first from Mr. Thorpe, "Why-a, why-a, I
hardly care for another meeting with my
bro — "

I know, I know," interrupted Mr. Proctor,
hurriedly. "Yet I think your presence
may be desirable, and I can see that Martin
here has no wish to part company with you
so soon."

Martin's assent was so complete that
Archibald was won over, especially when
josiah suggested that Mr. Thorpe might return
via Leeds, and give his stepson a hint
anent his bosom friend, Mr. Buttermere.

Martin's objection was of another kind.
He drew his guardian aside. "Is it absolutely
necessary that your grandson should
accompany us ?"

The old gentleman drew his brows together,
fidgeted nervously with his fingers,,
licked a fly off the cufF of his coat before he
replied, " Why, not absolutely; but you see,
Martin, life is uncertain ; I might be called
av/ay before your rights were established —
and — and I should like my successor to be
fully "

"I think, sir," interposed Martin, respectfully,
"you are too hale and hearty to be
contemplating a successor, and, with all
respect, I must say I object to have Mr. Ellis"
(he did not say Jasper) "mixed up with
\\\y affairs until there be a real necessity, —
at least," he added, observing a cast of pain
on the other's face, " not whilst he remains-under

articles in another solicitor's office."

Hah ! well, that is certainly a reason,
though it had not occurred to me," assented
Josiah, not at all too briskly.

Nevertheless, that was the only reason he
assigned to Jasper for a change in their
programme, and the intimation that he had
better spend the remainder of his holiday
in Skipton.

Had the kindly lawyer known how bitter
he was against Martin, or how he would
occupy his leisure, he might have spared
both Mrs. Ripley and Simon Postlethwaite
some uneasiness, and terminated the holiday.
Jasper spent too much time with Kitty to
please Mrs. Ripley, and too many hours in
his grandfather's private office to satisfy
Simon Postlethwaite.

The turnpike road between Wakefield
and Barnsley did not approach Osmanthorpe
within two or three miles, and the bye-lane
was not in the best condition. Fragments
of coal scattered here and there showed
that it had " been cut up by coal-waggons,
and left to chance for repair," as Mr. Proctor

remarked to his companions, after the
grumbling postilion had been dismissed, to
await them at the " Kind's Head " in
Barnsley.

From that lane the pedestrians turned
into another equally rutty and dusty, and
once or twice had to keep well aside whilst
a string of loaded carts rumbled on their
way, each leaving its tribute of slack for the
behoof of the black road. Then they passed
through the village ; an irregular collection
of colliers' huts — they were nothing more —
which, although built of stone, and originally
solid, had lapsed into dilapidation from neglect,
comfort and decency having been alike
disregarded. A clear spring bubbled up
by the wayside, and ran away from the
village westward, making music as it went.
That it was appreciated was shown by the
clean floors and well-washed bits of window-blinds
in the bulk of the huts. But the
cesspools and garbage reeking in the
summer sun, almost before the doors where
little children played, and women gossiped
made the more dainty visitors turn their

heads, and fall back upon their handkerchiefs
in disgust.

There were not many people about ;
women and young children were alike down
in the pit, or in bed, resting from the dark
labour of the nio;ht. A few ducks waddled
in the miry pools, a hen or two scratched up
the soil for their chicks, and here and there
strutted a magnificent gamecock full in view
-of his admiring harem, or shrilled a defiance
to the surly bull-dogs and terriers
lurking; about.

There was an apology for an inn at the end
•of the village, within sight of the black
wooden skeleton framework and engine-house
which marked the pit shaft. About
two hundred yards away stood a more respectable
house, where lived the viewer.
The abode of the manager was on the turnpike
road, nearer to Barnsley.

From that road the descent had been
gradual, Osraanthorpe lying in a wooded
hollow amonsj low hills, with a stream wind-inch
in and out, to be lost in a lakelet within

the grounds, and find an outlet on the other

verge.

There were men loitering about the
engine-house, who touched their caps to
Mr. Proctor, and looked curiously at Mr.
Thorpe, and one old fellow, bent double,
and leaning on a stick, peered as curiously''
into the face of Martin, and plucked an aged
companion by the sleeve, with nods and
backs and whisperings.

Manager and viewer were speedily on the
spot. Martin was introduced, there was an
adjournment for business and refreshment
to the house of the viewer, and then it was
proposed that Mr. Pickersgill should descend
into the pit.

At the engine-louse flannel suits were
provided for Mr. Thorpe and Martin ; Mr.
Proctor remained above ground, and then,
accompanied by manager and viewer, they
entered the basket, and were gradually
lowered into the bowels of the earth, or, as
Martin observed, " into the very depths of
the bottomless pit."

It did not change his opinion much to see
brawny men cowered on their hams, working
stark naked, with young girls and little
children also at work in attendance on them,
to witness the brutality of the strong towards
the helpless, and hear the coarse
language of all, too common to be restrained
by the presence of visitors, even though the
visitor was named as the new owner.
Decorum seemed of less import than the
customary gratuities for drink. Long before
he had come to the surface, Martin
Pickersgill had registered a vow that he
would endeavour to do away with this state
of things as soon as he was fully his own
master.

Manager and viewer shrucj^ed their shoulders
when, on coming to bank, he expressed
his views.

These things always had been, always
would be, ■ they said. If he attempted an
innovation, the colliers themselves would bethe
first to resent it. The earning of every
child were reckoned on by the parents —
ay, from three years of age. The pitman's

dos was better fed and cared for than his
child.

Infamous ! infamous !" cried Martin.
The slaves on our West Indian plantation
are better off than these free-born Britons !"
and his lip curled with indignation. " There
the little children, at least, can rolling about
in the sun, or dabble in the streams, before
they come under the lash of the taskmaster.
/ can remember playing with the children
of my black nurse."

"Whereupon Mr. Thorpe began to descant
on the need of education for the people.

And legislation," put in Martin.

Yes, but, as Honest John says, * education
and legislation must go together, or we
shall do more harm than good,' " replied
Mr. Thorpe.

Mr. Proctor having, meanwhile, ascertained
that the Squire and his hopeful
son had left Osmanthorpe early in the
morning to attend a prize-fight at some distance,
Mr. Thorpe raised no objection to the
proposal that Martin should walk through
the grounds and have a view of the old hall,

VOL. III. E

as he certainly would have done had his
brother Robert, the so-called " Squire,"
been at home.

Osmanthorpe was a fine demesne, undulating,
well wooded and watered, although
there were signs of the ruthless axe among
the trees, and no fresh planting to repair
the ravage. The lake was overgrown with
weeds, and, but for the running stream
which coursed through it, would have become
a stagnant pond. Fences were broken,
grass was rank, and overspread the paths ;
the drives were rutty and uneven. The
like neglect was visible as they neared the
hall. Cattle were browsing on what had
once been a trim lawn, and the fine Tudor
mansion was fast falling to decay. It was
certainly not in ruins, but in that stage of
neglect to which dilapidation must inevitably
succeed if not speedily arrested.

From a dark yew-tree walk they emerged
upon the lawn in front of the house.

No sooner did Martin run his eye over the
building than he ejaculated, as one waking
from a dream,

Why, there was a picture of this place
hung up in my father's room ! He said he
had painted it when he was a boy, and that
it was his English home !"

Mr. Thorpe and Mr. Proctor exchanged
glances.

But he did not call it ' Osmanthorpe ;'
he called it, if I remember rightly, ' Pickers-gill
Hope.' "

"Ah, no doubt," assented Josiah, lightly.
^' There is a general likeness in Tudor
architecture, and Pickersgill Hope did resemble
this place very closely. I see where
the difference is — if you, with your memory
of a picture, do not. By-the-by," he added,
jauntily and indifferently, "do you know
what became of the picture ?"

Really, I do not, unless Mr. Vaseyy has
preserved it," answered Martin, whilst Mr.
Thorpe walked on thoughtfully by his side.

It was a stiff walk from Osmanthorpe
to Barnsley. Nothing to Martin or Mr.
Thorpe, but much to the elder man, and
long before they reached Barnsley and the
'* King's Head," Josiah was inclined to grume

2

UNircRSlTY Of ILLlNQlifc

able because the post-chaise had been dismissed.


He was not ordinarily a grumbler, and
either he must have been unaccountably fatigued,
or have had some object in checking
Martin's frequent recurrence to the resemblance
of Osmanthorpe Hall to the picture
of " Pickersgill Hope."

After a night's repose, Martin and Mr.
Proctor took leave of Mr. Thorpe, the post-chaise
being in waiting to carry them back
to Skipton, prior to Martin's return to Cambridge.


There was something peculiar in the parting
of the latter and Archibald Thorpe. They
wrung each other's hands, and seemed at a
loss for words. " God bless you, Martin,
and keep your heart and soul uncontaminated
! I hope we shall have many a botanising
ramble together before my limbs grow
too stiff to climb the hills."

"I hope so, too; God bless you sir!
You will not forget to give my — my — kind
regards to my friends at Ivy Fold."

Mr. Thorpe did not return to Ivy Fold

immediately. He spent a day or two in
Barnsley, and called to see Thomas Lister.
Though he cared little for poetry, he admired
the sturdy character of the poetical naturalist,
and was interested in his collection of
birds, birds' egers, and other matters.

When at length, he did reach Leeds, he
wished he had not loitered. Mr. Proctor's
advice could then be of little service.
Allan had signed a deed of partnership with
Basil Buttermere only the previous day ;
and, notwithstanding the obvious delicacy of
Mrs. Earnshaw, preparations were going on
busily in their showy home for the christening
of the three-weeks-old baby, to which
Mr. Buttermere was to stand sponsor and
nominee,

A baby born and a partnership completed,
and no intimation of either to relatives !

CHAPTER IV.

MISCHIEF - MAKERS.

N

OT a line to Edith or myself!" He
was not a naturally choleric man,
but it was a slight Mr. Thorpe was not
disposed to overlook ; and he left the house
never to enter it again.

It was in vain Allan had said that he had
written a few days after his boy was born,
and should have asked Edith to be godmother
but for her prejudice against his
partner.

Had he thought of adding that Mr. Buttermere
had taken his letter to post, Mr.
Thorpe might not have replied as be did.

If you had written, sir, we should have
had the letter ; and, let me tell you, Editli

is not the only person prejudiced against
your new partner. I came to Leeds expressly
to caution you to be wary in your
transactions with him."

Yes, there are always busybodies topick
holes in a man's coat," answered Allan,
sharply. "Even Mr. Wilson must have a
fling at Basil, and I'm sure a better fellow
does not exist. 1 should have got on very
badly without him. Ay, Mr. Wilson absolutely
came to set Grace against him, and
disturb the dear girl. I hate mischief-makers
!"

Perhaps, had Allan known what a 
he had himself inadvertently
been, he would have spoken his mind less
emphatically.

As it was, his stepfather applied the
phrase "mischief-maker" to himself, and,
taking up his hat, was gone without a
second look at the wonderful baby, or
further parley with the wondering share-broker
of a day.

As years before he had turned his back
indignantly on Osmanthorpe and his own

brother, so now he turned his back on
Allan. He had overlooked the clandestine
marriage, had submitted to rudeness and
insult from ]mr. Metcalfe in his intercession
for the young couple, but this crowning
indignity he would not brook.

A child born, a partnership arranged, a
baptism coming off, and not a line to kith
or kin, and he dubbed a mischief-maker fora
word of advice which all he had seen
convinced him was not out of place ! Allan
had taken the reins in his own hand — if he
drove to destruction, it would be his own
fault.

As he surmised, intelligence of the childbirth
had been immediately communicated
to Mrs. Statham, but no intimation of a projected
partnership, or the name to be conferred
on the boy. She had herself suggested
that he should be called Theodore,
and had accompanied the request with a
substantial present for the purchasing of a
christening robe, a silver coral and bells, and
a drinking-cup, both later to be engraved
with the appointed name. Her indignation,

on learning that her request had been disregarded,
was only to be estimated by the
old lady's affection for her own penmen,
and the slight with which her condescension
had been met.

She was not much better pleased when,
at a later date, she learned that the child
had been christened Basil Theodore. It
was quite as great an offence to give the
Basil precedence, even had it been the name
of a food man — which she doubted. She
had not forgotten or forgiven his connivance
at Allan's wedding.

No letter from Allan, long delayed, had
been received at Ivy Fold, and Edith,
unwilling to admit the possibility of intentional
indignity, yet felt the neglect very
keenly. That he should wantonly insult
Mr. Thorpe by calling him a busybody and
a mischief-maker, was almost beyond credibility.
Allan must be woefully changed.
She wrote to him for an explanation. No
answer came to her letter. She wrote
again with the same result, and then Allan,
the chivalrous brother, who was to have

been all-in-all to her, was wept over as one
of the lost.

Edith's letters had been answered, but at
the office, the answers taken with business
letters to the post by Ellison the clerk and
abstracted.

Something had, however, reached the Fold
in Mr. Thorpe's absence — a box, of good size,
of foreii]i;n wood and construction, which,
being opened, was found to contain the
long-promised West Indian plants, properly
labelled with their local designations. It
was a perfect treasure to Archibald, and
brought Edith an influx of visitors to entertain,
every botanist in the neighbourhood
being invited to inspect and debate thereon.

There was also, neatly folded up and
addressed to Miss Earnshaw, a separate
parcel, which some instinct prompted her to
open in her own room. It contained an
elegantly-bound copy of Moore's Irish
Melodies, with Sir John Stevenson's musica
work but newly published. On the fly-leaf
was written, " Miss Earnshaw, with a
true friend's best wishes." There was no

signature, and none was needed. But a red
rose-bud, crushed though it was, opened the
volume where it had been placed as a mark.
"Farewell, but if ever you welcome the
hour," is well known. She read it through,
but a mist seemed to come over her eyes as
she followed the last stanza.

Let Fate do her worst ; there are relics of joy.
Bright dreams of the past which she cannot destroy,
Which come in the night-time of sorrow and care,
And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
Long, long be my heart with sweet memories filled ;
Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled :
You may break, you may shatter, the vase if you will.
But the scent of the roses will hang round it still."

The crushed rosebud had inefFaceably
stained the concluding; lines, and made
them doubly significant. And, as if to
point the whole, a loose scrap of paper was-enclosed.
It had been cut from a magazine,
and contained a poem entitled "The
Voice of the Wayside Well," signed "Alkald."


Waves of memory and emotion came
sweeping in full tide over Edith. She
stood, as it were, spell-bound, with the

book before her. A voice from below recalled
her to herself. " I must not think
of it," she said ; "it would be treason
against Jasper." She folded and tied the
volume up again, rose-bud and all, carried
it to her mother's room, and locked it up
out of her own sight and that of others.

Jasper," said she, the following evening,
to her attentive lover, who seemed restless
when away from her, " are you sure it was
Martin Pickersgill who played the ghost
the night my dear mother died ?"

The abrupt question startled him. He
knew at once that Allan had told her.

"We-ll," he debated, ''I only know I
found his missing oil-box behind the gravestone,
where it must have been dropped
and have lain since that nis^ht. It was all
rust, and the grass had grown round it. It
must have been put into a skull to light it up,
and been dropped in alarm when Solomon
yelled out, and forgotten until it was past
finding. 1 daresay the lads — for I don't
suppose he was alone — fancied they had
pitched it over into the bone-house with the

skull, and he kept quiet and said nothing
until the lantern was wanted. And then
you may remember how loth he was to
have it searched for ; how ready he was to
go and buy a new one, as if it cost nothing,
and how little fuss he made about the damage
to the old thing."

(Had Jasper forgotten his own black
eyes ?)

"Yes, I remember, but 1 thought he was
annoyed and angry,"

Oh, it was all sham, unless he was
annoyed at my finding the thing hidden
away."

Then you really think it was Martin ?
One would hardly have suspected A//?i."

Why, who else could it have been ?
And it's just your whining, sentimental fellows
that never do get suspected. It was
Pickersgill, take my word for it !" '

She did take his word for it, and that
word extinguished the faint lio;ht of truth
dawning in her soul.

Father," said she to Mr. Thorpe the next
day, " Mr. Pickersgill has sent me a book.

I suppose sou would not like me to return
it?"

Certainly not."

And — a — I would rather not accept
it."

"And pray why not?"

"Well, I do not think Jasper "

"Jasper be !" It was not a polite

word which followed,

"Then would 5^ou, please," said Edith,
timidly, "acknowledge the volume, and say
just a civil word of thanks for me ?"

Mr.Thorpe nodded, fully resolved to thank
the giver heartily, but, when his own letter
of thanks was written, he had so much to
say of the plants received, and their scientific
classification, and of Osmanthorpe colliery,
that Edith's message was clean forgotten,
and so the wound in Martin's breast was
unintentionally deepened.

There were changes at Well Bank about
this time, which should be chronicled.

As the elder boarders dropped off no
effort was made to replace them. Mrs.

Craggg grew more infirm, and there was
another helpless mortal on the hands of
Miss Craggggg and Miss Vaseyy. Mrs. Craggggg's
brother, the father of Ann Vase, had come
to spend his last days with them. He had
travelled much, was a profound linguist, but
of the fourteen language-es once so fluent on
his lips he had not the free use of one.
Paralysis had been a greater foe to him
than to Solomon Bracken.

He was a very old man, had been long
in France, had been there during the Reign
of Terror, and held many opinions untenable
in orthodox and monarchical England.

At his request Mrs. Craggg's doors were
opened to one against whom they had been
persistently closed. Long-limbed Thomas
Clapham, who had also been in Paris when
himself and the century were young, was
now a frequent visitor, for so the old man
willed — Miss Craggg was too politic to remonstrating
somehow the pair got on
wonderfully together, though James Vaseyy
was scarcely intelligible to others.

He must have known of Mr. Clapham's
early pretensions to his daughter. Perhaps
he considered that wisdom had come with
years, and that the two were beyond the
matrimonial pale; but Thomas Clapham had
not thought so, and Ann, who had listened
to him readily enough when she was young,
had some difficulty to evade him now.

For many years James Vaseyy had been
tyrannised over by a despotic and designing
housekeeper, who had refused his kith
and kin admittance, and persuaded the
helpless invalid that he was forsaken and
neglected. A friend had so found him, had
broken the bonds he could not break himself,
and borne him to his sister.

It was only to die. Many months had
not elapsed before Ann Vaseyy went into
the garden to put the customary crape on
the bee-hives, and to Avaro the little inmates
that her father was sleeping ready
for Hornby churchyard.

But here, before he died, when, in the
last stao;e of imbecility, he revoked a will
made in his full senses, moved thereto, no

doubt, by the kindness and attention of
those around him. He divided the remnant
of a once considerable property between
his daughter, Ann Vaseyy, and his
niece, Elizabeth Craggg — leaving an only
son out in the cold, an only son who spoke
of undue influence on a feeble mind.

It was no great matter in the way of
fortune, but it made Esther Crash easy

CO ./

about her daughter's future, and it certainly
served to lift Ann Vaseyy out of the state of
dependence — if that could be dependence
which kept the little lady at work with head
or hands from early morning until night —
with scarcely a Sabbath on Sunday.

Mrs. Cras; did not long survive her
brother, and when Jasper Ellis came of age
in December, 1836, and, quitting Lawyer
Hartley's office, was summoned to Skipton
by his grandfather, he had one friend the
less to say farewell to, and the bee-hives
were again in mourning.

John Danson left Giggleswick the same
day, but he did not count. There had
never been much love lost between the

VOL. III. F

twain. It had never been to Jasper's
interest to cultivate John's friendship ; and
he more than suspected him of correspondence
with Martin Pickersgill. John Danson
had cared little for anyone but William
Hartley after Martin was gone, and their
leave-taking in Apple-tree Hall was a very
serious affair indeed, only relieved by the
promise to write frequently, and never to
forget their old school-days together.

Quite as serious was Jasper's parting with
Edith. He had called in all his outstanding
loans with the interest thereon (loans
which had become heavier as the borrowers
and lender advanced in age), and he had
the satisfaction of taking a pretty well lined
purse away with him, including a handsome
present from the liberal lawyer as a parting
testimony to his clerkly qualities and legal
service. But lie could not take Edith away
with him ; and she had grown day by day
so very dear, so essential to his existence, that
the pain of parting was more than he could
endure.

Something of this he was saying as lie
held her in a close embrace the night before
his departure, when Dora, coming on the
pair unawares, cried, saucily as ever,

"Why, you might be going away to the
end of the world instead of fifteen miles !
I shall be glad to get rid of such a plague,
and sing ' Oh, be joyful,' when you are
gone, I know ; and Tippie will purr with
delight. Won't you, Tippie ?" and the girl's
bright face was held close to that of
pussy, coiled in her arms, and purring in
response.

To Edith also the coming parting seemed
formidable. Jasper couldbewonderfully winning
when he liked, and, though it cannot be
said he had won his way into her affections
with love-gifts (as many a girl is won), he
had insensibly taken a place in her heart he
had scarcely hoped to occupy. She contemplated
the long, dreary evenings to come,
when there would be neither Jasper nor
Mr. Thorpe by the fireside (the latter so
often an absentee) ; and, as the great tall

f2

clock buried out its note of warning ere it
struck the hour of eight, in advance of the
church clock and bell, she felt a strange
foreboding of some evil, some sharp pang to
follow his departure, but was ashamed to
give voice to her fears.

Dora's saucy speech called forth a like
reply from Jasper, and, though the badinage
grated on the ear and heart of sentiment, it
served a good purpose.

With many a whispered hope that Edith
would consent to leave Dora and be his
dear wife ere long, many an oath of constancy,
and an avowed intention to try old
Dapple's mettle in many a gallop to Giggles-wick,
Jasper yet clung to her he loved.
But Edith, summoning duty to her aid,
freed herself from his straining clasp, bade
him good-bye with a composure she was far
from feeling ; and he tore himself away
with a last hearty kiss, forgetting Janet and
Dora altogether.

Edith, with her brief knowledge of Leeds,
dreaded for Jasper the temptations of
London, when he should go up to be examined

and entered on the Rolls. There
were temptations nearer at hand which had
come neither into his dreams nor hers.

CHAPTER V.

CALCULATIONS.

I AM afraid Edith had accepted Jasper
very much upon credit. He stood well
ill general opinion, and in Miss Craggg's;
Allan and he had been good friends, and it
followed that he must be estimable.

But had she known how much calculation
had to do with his habits of neatness and
economy, whence they came, and whither
they were tending, she would have had
fewer apprehensions of danger to him from
the unknown allurements of the metropolis.

Wherever he went, or whatever he did,
was with the intention of getting as much
advantage as he could at as little cost. Thus,
even his devotion to her was balanced by his-assiduity

and determination to learn all
Lawyer Hartley had to teach.

When the London mail-coach landed him
at the '' Bull and Mouth," his first business
was to find a cheap lodging in a retired
nook out of Lowborn, for which he made a
close bargain, his next to present himself
with not a thread awry, to his honoured
grandfather's legal agents, Messrs. Ferret,
of Gray's Inn, who had instructions to facilitate
his progress in all ways. He thus
obtained admission to the Law Library, and
gave to dry and musty tomes the hours
other candidates gave to pleasure. It costless,
and was likely to be more profitable in
the Iouq; run. Not that he denied himself
recreation, but his tastes were inexpensive
and characteristic. Messrs. Ferret, disposed
to be courteous to Josiah Proctor's grandson
and future partner, invited him to their
bachelor home, and, at his wish, obtained
orders for him to go over the Mint, the Bank
of England, and the Tower, but otherwise
he said he had not come to London to waste
much time in sight-seeing.

And when, his examination over, and
himself duly enrolled among the solicitors
of the realm, he kept himself warm during
the loncf, cold, outside ride from London
back to Leeds by calculating how much he
had contrived to save out of the sum his less
niggardly grandfather had allowed for his
expenses ; and by the addition of the sum
to another hoard lying perdue in his box at
Skipton, and finding that he had scraped
together pretty nearly two hundred pounds,
he began to take into consideration the best
and safest investment for this nest-eizsc ; of
which Mr. Proctor had no inkling.

In the days of dear postage it was considered
an insult to repay a friendly letter,
and Jasper had not encouraged correspondence
even from Edith, having regard to his
fourteen-pence ; still letters had passed,
and he had promised to call on Allan,
whilst in Leeds, to ascertain if all was well
with him and his, and, if possible, get at the
secret of his isolation from relatives.

It was a saving maxim of Jasper's never
to take a meal at his own expense, so long

as he had hospitable friends glad to receive
him. He knew Allan belonged to the
liberal and lavish class. Be sure he lost no
time in seeking him out.

On the ground floor of a building so close
to Basinghall Street as to be almost of it,
were situated the offices of Buttermere and
Earnshaw, Sharebrokers, as a brass-plate on
the door, and a smaller one on the door-post,
intimated. There was nothing flashy about
it, nothing showy or pretentious, the age
for that sort of thing had not quite arrived.
From the wire-<2;auze blind in the outer
office, to the bill-files and the almanac in its
black frame against the wall, and the high-railed
desk of the clerk, all was sober and
respectable, with none of the freshness one
would expect about new beginners. The
same impression of age and stability was
conveyed by the solid writing-table of the
partners, the good but somewhat worn,
carpet on the floor, the ponderous metal
inkstands, and the business-like chairs.

"Is Mr. Earnshaw within?"

The clerk, apparently busy with some

abstruse calculation, went on for a minute
or more before he looked up, and answered,
in a voice strong-ely resembling; that of his
interrogator,

Mr. Buttermere is not in, sir !"

I said Mr. Earnshaw."

"What name shall 1 say, sir?" said the
clerk, whilst collecting? and shufEins; together
a number of loose scrip-like papers, as if
they had been a pack of cards.

What was there in the action, or in the
face or attitude of the man to arrest the
attention of Jasper, as he replied, " Mr.
Ellis!"

Mr. ? Beg pardon, sir," apologised

the clerk, with his ej^e full on the stranger,
and a rapid motion of his hand to the back
of his ear, " but I did not exactly catch the
name."

"Ellis, Mr. Jasper Ellis."

The clerk, a man who mis^ht be anv aoje
between forty-five and fifty-five, with
cunning, restless, green-grey eyes, darted a
quick, keen, penetrating glance at the
speaker, slowly quitted his stool, moved

towards the inner door, and, opening it,
announced with some emphasis, "Mr. Jasper
Ellis, to see Mr. Earnshaw."

In a very unbusiness-like manner, Allan
darted out of his office, both hands extended,
to grasp and shake those of his visitor,

*' Why, Jasper lad ! It is like a breath
of fresh mountain air to see anyone from
Settle ! How are they all, and how are
you? Come in! — • — But stay," said he, as
if with a second thought, "you would like
to see Grace, and if we make haste we

shall be in time for dinner-ellison,"

turning to the watchful clerk, "when Mr.
Buttermere comes in, say I have gone home.
If I am not back this afternoon, say we shall
be glad if he will come and spend the
evening with us."

Can you spare the afternoon from your
business, Allan ?" put in Jasper, when they
were out in the street. " Do not neglect
that on my account ; you need not stand on
ceremony with me."

"Oh, business will not be neglected, my
partner will take care of that. I put my

money into the concern, but I really shall
have very little to do, at least with important
transactions, until I have more experience.
Buttermere and Ellison are old hands."

Oh, are they? In that case, if I were
you, and had brought capital into a business,
I should try my best to become an old
hand too, lest my cash should stick to the
old hands, and never come back into
mine."

Allan laughed heartily at this. " Ah,
Foxes," said he, " that's just like you, you've
not altered much."

Foxes, however, did not apparently
relish the sobriquet ; he gave the conversation
another turn. " By-the-by, what did
you say was the name of your clerk ?"

Ellison."

Do you know his Christian name ?"

"James, I think, he signs Jas. Why do
you ask ?"

Oh, he reminds me of some one I knew
when a child, that was all."

Then they talked of other matters. Allan,
60 it appeared, was indignant that he never

heard from Ivy Fold except through this
wife, and would not credit the story that
no letters had been received from him for
more than six months. " I wrote at
Christmas, I know, thinking animosity
should die out then," insisted Allan. " But I
never got an answer. And, if they can do
without me, I can do without them !"

Mrs. Earnshaw would have been better
pleased to see Allan had she been better
prepared. Influenza was then fatally
epidemic in the town ; and her darling baby
was only just recovering. This was her
apology for the cold dinner on the table,
for her own curl-papers, and printed morning
wrapper, and some disorder in the
showily-furnished apartment. There was a
hurried exit, a hasty improvising of something
savoury in the kitchen below, and as
hasty a toilette overhead ; and then along
with the dinner came in Grace in a dress as
little fitted for nursing a sick child as her
soiled morning wrapper had been to receive
a visitor.

The baby claimed much of the mother's

attention in the afternoon. In the evening,
Basil Buttermere arrived, along with his
wife, a timid, retiring; sort of woman, who
busied herself about the baby, whilst her
husband began to talk business with Allan,
and descant on the respective values of
different railway shares in the market, the
great advantages of railway scrip over every
other form of investment, and the certainty
of the investor who came to their office turning
over his money more quickly and more
profitably than anywhere else. They apparently
possessed facilities for obtaining
the earliest information from London, and
all headquarters, such as no other office had ;
and the railroad was the only certain and

ft/

swift road to fortune.

Jasper listened, chimed in now and again,
put a number of questions, remarked that
when he was Mr. Proctor's partner he might
be in a position to introduce clients ; but,
although Basil Buttermere had dazzled his
eyes with the auriferous prospect of railway
dividends, he said not one word of the

money he had to invest. The face of their
clerk, Ellison, had scared him. It had
revived a host of old and not too pleasant
memories.

Yet he quitted Leeds so favourably impressed
with Basil Buttermere as a straightforward,
shrewd, business man, one not
likely to be taken in, that he quite hesitated
and debated whether he could do better
than invest his small savings in scrip, to
be again sold at a premium under the
auspices of Buttermere and Earnshaw.
Only the face of the clerk deterred him ;
and that haunted him like an unpleasant
dream.

"I think I baited my hook well," quoth
Basil to himself as he walked home, not to
Hunslet, but to another and larger house inclose
proximity to Allan's. " I shall land
the gudgeon and a shoal with him."

Humph !" muttered the clerk to himself,
he seems in pretty good feather, though
not much to pluck at yet, I reckon."

Very proud was Josiah Proctor of the

report Messrs. Ferret had made concerning
this grandson, and very well pleased that he
had not exceeded his allowed expenses — of
any saving out of that allowance he was
unaware. He lost little time in drawing up
a deed of partnership, so favourable to the
young man in all respects that, when it was
duly signed and sealed, Jasper began to
calculate on his marriage with Edith as a
natural and almost immediate conclusion.

Mounted on Dapple he rode over to
Settle, scarcely grudging the turnpike tolls
in his elation, and in a rapture of delight
laid his prospects and his hopes before Edith
as they sat together in the recess window-seat,
Dora being at school.

'grandfather is quite willing that I
should marry before the year is out, and
settle down in the old house with him,
unless we should prefer a new one of our
own. But I think he must be growing
lonely, and that we young people would
help to renew his youth ; and, besides,
there is a house ready furnished to our
hands. What say you, Edie dear ?"

He had made his suggestion adroitly.
Edie had lived amongst old-fashioned furniture
all her days, she did not see any
objection to his plan, but, what was more to
the point, she said,

Jasper, this is idle talking. You
promised you would wait for me ; and
you know I cannot desert Dora until she
is old enough to take my place, and steady
enough to take care of herself. I should
break my word to my dead mother otherwise."


Why, you were very little older than
she is when you had to nurse your mother
and take care of her too ! My darling, you
do not surely mean to sacrifice my happiness
and your own to that child. It is
absurd. Let Mr. Thorpe get a housekeeper.
He cannot expect you to remain single all
your life for him."

Edith shook her head.

He does not expect it, but duty binds
me all the more. He is as unfit to be left
to the mercy of strangers as is Dora. And
dear Dora — a harsh word would almost

VOL. III. G

kill her. No. I cannot leave my sister
this year — or next."

"Then it is very certain you think more
of Dora than of me !" he replied, with some
warmth, and, rising from her side, began
to pace the room, throwing out similar interjections
which wounded deeply, none the
less that she was conscious she had not met
his raptures with like ecstasy.

"I shall speak to Mr. Thorpe," said he,
moving towards the study door.

"You will do nothing of the kind,
Jasper," and the words fell from her lips
with quiet decision, as she threw herself
before him. " Duty is more imperative
than self If I forswore myself and forgot
mv duty here, how could I dare to look for
happiness with you? How could you expect
me to be more dutiful as a wife?
No, Jasper dear, we must be content to
wait. And besides, you will have business
enough on your hands for a while, without
a wife."

He went back in anything but an amiable
frame of mind. Her decision not only

withheld from lira a wife, but the three

thousand five hundred pounds of which
Editli was now mistress.

G 2

CHAPTER VI.

IN PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.

BEFORE the partnership was a month
old, Mr. Proctor made the discovery
that his new partner was not altogther an.
acquisition. As a conveyancer of longstanding,
he had a good and extensive
practice, but old clients did not care to
entrust their business to so young a man ;
they preferred sober Simon Postlethwaite,
although Josiah missed no opportunity to
introduce his grandson, and laud his legal
attainments. His shrewdness and ability',
joined to natural powers of fascination,
made themselves felt in course of time, and
he brought in new clients of his own ; but
before the ink was well dry upon the parchment,

and whilst Jasper was galloping to
meet disappointment in Giggleswick, Josiah's
friend and neighbour, Mrs. Statham, had
despatched Deborah to summon her solicitor
to disappointment of another kind.

Fido, having wakened up for the summer
season, had made his first appearance in the
parlour, and Mr. Proctor almost stumbled
over him on the very threshold. His
Good day, Mrs. Statham," was drowned
by the shrill voice of Poll, triumphantly
discordant over a new acquirement. "The
grinning imp ! the grinning imp ! Not a
penny ! Not a penny ! Not a penny of
my money shall pass through his hands !
Pass through his hands ! The grinning
imp ! Not a penny !" to the great satisfaction
of Mrs. Statham and the discomposure
of the genial lawyer, who wondered what it
all meant.

It meant that Poll had blurted out at
second-hand that which Poll's irate mistress
had been iteration half the morning, in
jerky fits and starts. And Mr. Proctor
arrived at some such conclusion when, the

noisy parrot and his cage being removed that
Mrs. Statham might hear her own voice, he
was informed, with little more courtesy or
ceremony, that, unless he could transact her
business without the intervention of his
grandson, and keep her papers and affairs
as private as they had hitherto been kept,
she should withdraw them from his clame.
And, lest he should be under any misapprehension,
she intimated that she knew Simon
Postlethwaite had been duly articled ia his
youth, if only on a £60 stamp, and was-qualified
to act as her attorney, and that, if
money was wanting to pay the fine for the
full stamp, and to place him on the Rolls,
she would not hesitate to find it if necessary.


I can trust you, Josiah Proctor, to the
last gasp, but I'll not trust that long-headed
grandson of yours, who makes love to my
grandsire and my guineas in one. . . . So'
I warn you, keep my affairs out of his
hands, or I take them out of yours, Eugh !
The grinning imp !" she ejaculated, in conclusion.


It was no use attempting to turn Mrs.
Theodora Statham when she had resolved.
No use suggesting that Jasper was a mere
boy when he laughed at her bald head.

Tsha ! Don't tell me. Do men gather
grapes off thorns, or figs off thistles ?"

Another intimation of a like nature came
from Josiah's ward, and if couched in more
polite and delicate language, in the form of
suggestion rather than command, Mr. Proctor
felt himself in honour equally bound.

It was an unpleasant task to lay these
intimations before the young partner, but,
as Josiah did not propose any reduction of
Jasper's share of the profits, the latter
affected to make light of the want of confidence
in himself, although in his first irritation
he could not help exclaiming,

"It's just Pickersgill's jealousy, and nothing
else. He wanted Edith, you see,
and I've won her. And this is his mean
revenue."

a

"Wanted Edith, did he? Hah!" and
Mr. Proctor's hands went slowly over one
another as he thought the matter out.

It became necessary to provide Mr. Ellis
with a separate office instead of the contemplated
seat in his own, and, there being a
door of communication between the front
and back office (in which Simon Apostles
had spent the best years of his life
amongst an accumulation of old papers and
legal forms), it was decided to transfer the
clerk to a front room on the opposite side
of the hall, hitherto set apart for waiting
clients, and to fit up the back office for
Jasper's accommodation.

To say that Mr. Ellis was content with
this arrangement is insufficient. Nothings
could have pleased him better. He had
some notions strongly at variance with his
grandfather's mode of progression, and if he
was to make money as he had learned that
it was to be made, he should require a private
room where his letters were open neither
to question nor inspection, and — well,
his inherent curiosity had received a fillip,
and the door between the two rooms was
suggestive.

Imperturbable Mr. Postlethvvaite regarded

the change with no favour ; it was a disturbance
of old ideas and associations, as
well as of unsuspected dust ; nevertheless,
it was his master's will, and he submitted
with tolerably good grace. Whatever objection
he made was in the ear of Deborah
Gill, and that was as the cave of silence.

The change was not effected as rapidly as
Jasper could have wished. Simon lingered
so long and affectionately over the papers
on every shelf and in every pigeon-hole
before he effected a fresh arrangement to
his satisfaction, and was so persistent in the
performance of his daily duties also, that
Jasper voluntarily, and, as Simon thought,
officiously — came to his assistance, notwithstanding
the peril to his garments from
dust.

Simon's quiet demurrer was unnoticed or
unheeded. Mr. Proctor was pleased to see
Jasper so energetic and business-like, and
the junior flicked the loose dust off bundles
of papers, and ran his eye over their endorsements
with a rapidity disconcerting to
the jog-trot clerk.

In the midst of their work, a paper fell
from a bundle. Simon was leaving the
room with a basket full of such, and did
not observe — Jasper did little more than
glance at it, but into his pocket went the
paper, and not back into the bundle.

In the privacy of his own chamber, when
the household was at rest, did Jasper go
over and ponder that paper. It was the
draught of a will made by Theodora Stat-ham,
formerly of Whitby, and now of
Skipton, spinster, by which all her former
wills were revoked, and the whole of her
property, barring a legacy of £500 to her
faithful maid, Deborah Gill, was devised to
her grand-niece and namesake, Theodora
Thorpe. There was no mention of Edith,
no mention of Allan. Dora and Deborali
were the only persons named — yes, there
was a mourning ring for his grandfather,
that was all ; and the property, roughly
estimated, was worth upwards of £30,000.

Edith's few thousands sank into paltry
insignificance !

Over and over the will he went. There
was not a flaw in it. The date, as well ashe
could recall, was the day on which Edith
and Dora were packed off home in disgrace,
and Edith had not been taken into favour
since. Yes, that must be Mrs. Statham's
last will !

How the freckles stood out on his whiteface,
like so many money-spots, as he repeated
to himself, " Thirty thousand pounds
at the very least, and 1 have been more
than eleven years saving and scraping together
two hundred !" and he got up and
walked about his bed-room, regardless how
wasteful the snuffed candle was guttering
and flaring away.

And all to go to that chit, that wax
doll, that little tigress, the spoiled child to
whom Edith is sacrificing her own life — and
mine. But I won't stand it. Edith must
either give up her fantastic sentiment, and

let us get married before long, or "

He broke off. " I shall hate that Dora — I
know I shall," and he stripped off his coat

and waistcoat savagely, flinging them down
in utter contravention of his own nice and
methodical law of order.

"And there's that sentimental Signer
Pickersgill, got a plantation and a colliery,
and no one knows what besides, whilst I've
been pinching to save pence and shillings.
But he's not got Edith, that's one good
thing," he muttered, as he tumbled into bed,
and tossed his pillows about in discontent.
Neither have I, for that matter," he went
on. " But I shall have before long, and
I'll know what the wonderful 'rights' of
Mr. Pickersgill are before long, too, or my
name's not Jasper Ellis. Why should either
Dora or he be rich, and Edith and I poor, I
should like to know ?"

The question was not to be answered, but,
along with the thirty thousand pounds,
haunted him like so many goblins through
the long, wearisome night. Ay, and for
many a day and night, warping still further
a mind which had already an unhealthy
bias.

In his feverish eagerness to accumulate

coin he let no opportunity slip. His diligent
application to business excited the
admiration not only of Mr. Proctor, but of
Simon Postlethwaite, and his approbation,
being unusual, travelled far.

He got a good name for himself in another
direction. More than one poor debtor,
pressed by a ruthless creditor, found a
friend where least expected, and was enabled
to keep a house together, or himself
out of gaol by a temporary loan from the
young lawyer, always unknown to his senior
partner, and always on heavy interest ; thus
his two hundred pounds went through the
multiplication table rapidly and secretly.
But even this was too slow a process for
Jasper. He heard from Allan, as well as
from clients in the office, horse-dealers and
cattle-buyers in the market-place, and
around the inn doors, and he read in the
Leeds Mercury to which Josiah pinned his
faith, how railroads were on the increase,
and what a demand there was for shares in
this or that new line ; but though, like
Cassius, he had an itching palm, and he

envied the men who were said to be making
money like coining, his own gold stuck to
his fingers, and he hesitated to make the
first plunge.

Yet he did not hesitate to plunge into
other and unknown waters, dark and
troubled, and with never a landing-place
that was not peopled with threatening
shadows.

From the day that Lawrence Pickersgill's
will had been read, and re-placed in the
sandal-wood box in his presence, Jasper's
innate curiosity had been at work to penetrate
the mystery it held. But, although his
long nose and keen eye went poking and
prying into all the nooks and corners of his
grandfather's office, he found not even a
letter relative to Martin or his 'rights."

There were iron boxes filled with deeds
and documents, duly labelled ; presses crammed
with papers neatly folded and docketed ;
pigeon-holes gorged with packets of correspondence
; shelves on which law-books and
ledgers disputed precedence with newer Acts
of Parliament; and there was the great,

unwieldy desk at which his grandfather
usually sat, but the iron boxes were locked,
and the big ugly desk.

Amongst the heterogeneous litter he had
accumulated through his habit of picking
up and preserving neglected waifs and strays,
he had quite an assortment of keys ; bent,
broken, useless, save as old metal — still he
had a tolerable bunch with no defect beyond
rust.

Evil suggests evil, else why did the locked
desk prompt him to wish he had those old
keys at hand ?

They were not at hand, however, and he
went back to Settle no wiser, and it is possible
he might have forgotten the box and
its secret, had he continued with Mr.
Hartley.

He had been reminded, not too pleasantly,
when he was told that Mr. Pickersgill's
affairs could not pass through his hands, or
Mrs. Statham's either ; and from that hour
an unconquerable curiosity took possession
of him.

It so chanced that an important meeting

of West Riding colliery proprietors was to
be held at Barnsley on the 14th December,
which a few local geologists had been invited
to attend.

On the previous Saturday, notwithstanding
a dense fog which prevailed, Mr. Thorpe
presented himself in Mr. Proctor's office by
arrangement, in order that they might bear
each other company. There must have
been some little hesitation on the part of
the lawyer to take the journey in weather
so unfavourable, for Jasper, called in to
shake hands with Mr. Thorpe, and to receive
a packet sent by Edith, caught the words
Martin will be disappointed," from which
he concluded that they were expecting to
meet Mr. Pickerso;ill,

Mr. Proctor had been sitting at his desk,
and the fog necessitating the use of a candle
to search for some papers he required, Jasper
standing on one side caught the gleam
of keys in the lock, and a glimpse of the
sandal-wood box within.

Between fog, candle, papers, heavy lid,

and a sudden remark from Mr. Thorpe, Mr.
Proctor's attention was withdrawn from the
keys.

There was an adjournment upstairs for
luncheon, a spencer put on in the hall, and
the two were gone.

Jasper was alone in his own room with
temptation, and like Blue Beard's wife he
let curiosity get. the better of honour.

Ere long he was in the front office, and
had the coveted box in his hand, when
there was a sudden hubbub in the entrance
hall, a trampling and shouting as if the
market had lost its way. Down went the
heavy lid of the desk with a crash and a
snap. In less than a minute his own office
door at the back of the hall was opened
and his head thrust out to inquire the
cause of the uproar. An ox, over-driven
or misguided in the foa, had rushed in at
the lawyer's open hall door, and a posse of
men had followed to belabour the beast
with sticks under the pretence of driving it
forth.

VOL. III. H

Mrs. Ripley and Kitty, with the kitchen
door (at the back of the stairs) half shut
for fear, half open for curiosity, were
screaming their loudest, and Simon Apostles
his equanimity for once disturbed,
vainly endeavoured to make himself heard.

Jasper was not deficient in courage ; the
animal's head was close to his face. He
literally took it by the horns, and, there
being no room to turn, bore it backwards,
aided by the drovers, who had the tail of
the beast in tow.

Warm work," said he, as he wiped his
forehead, when the hall was cleared, and
the clerk, to satisfy some doubt in his own
mind, crossed to his master's office, opened
the door, which stood ajar, and looked
around.

"I thought 1 heard some one in this
office," muttered he. " I must have been
mistaken."

The fog had partially dispersed with the
crowd; the dangling keys arrested his attention.
In a moment the desk was locked, and

the keys were in Simon Postletliwaite's safekeeping.


Jasper Ellis had cumbered himself with a
white elephant.

h2

CHAPTER Il

PUT TO THE PROOF.

W

warm work," indeed ! Beaded
drops stood on Jasper's forehead.
He had taken an intrusive ox by
the horns successfully, but now he had to
take an obtrusive question by the horns, and
found it unmanageable. The box lay upon
his oflBce table still closed. He had ceased
to think of Martin's secret, his own pressed
so heavily.

With the disappearance of the keys had
gone alike his chance of replacing the box or
of opening its dumb lips without violence.

To abstract the container for the mere
purpose of examining its contents was one
thing; the retention for any purpose was

something different, and bore an ugly name.

When he opened his grandfather's desk
he had not calculated on this mischance !

What should he do? Go boldly to
Simon Postlethwaite and demand the
keys ! No, he dared not do that, Simon
might question him, or withhold them. He
must endeavour to obtain them by stratagem
before his grandfather's return.

There was an approaching step in the hall,
a tap at his door, he had barely time to
conceal the box beneath an open newspaper
when a client came in and kept him
nearly an hour explaining a case of trespass.
Others followed, and all the while he was
on the rack.

All he had to think of now was to restore
the box or to hide it ; the secret it held was
secondary, quite.

With some difficulty lie fitted it into a
drawer in his table emptied for the purpose,
but the drawer had no fastening.

He was thankful when the time came to
close the office and dismiss the clerk. Even
then he was afraid to leave his secret behind,

lest another mischance should bring it
to Ivjht.

Still more thankful was he when, Mrs.
Ripley and Kitty having gone to bed, he
felt himself safe to carry the box upstairs
unobserved. But the office was below, the
stairs creaked, and by the time he had gained
the hall a light glimmered on the upper floor;
a comely head, set in the deep frills of a
nightcap, was thrust over the oak balustrade,
and Mrs. Ripley's voice called out,
Who's there ?" She had kept a rushlight
burning as her master was from home.

"It is I, Mrs. Ripley, Mr. Thorpe brought
me a letter to-day, which I left downstairs !"

Oh, I thought it was thieves !" and,
with quite an audible sigh of relief, the
housekeeper carried back her comfortable
face and nightcap to their equally comfortable
pillows. " Thieves !" How the word
siiiote him ! What was he but a thief carrying
off the property of another? But he
meant to restore it. Yes, he meant to
restore it.

With that tangible piece of woodwork in

Lis hand, he felt the danger and disgrace of
his act. It never occurred to him that it
was equally a theft to invade the privacy of
his grandfather's desk and possess himself
surreptitiously of another's secrets.

There was little sleep for him that night.
Kitty was up and lighting the fires before
the restless head lay still ; then, as though
conscience had taken an opiate, he slumbered
heavily until the church bells awoke
him to the consciousness that it was Sunday,
and that his shaving-water was lying on the
mat outside, cold and raw as the morning
itself.

Ten o'clock ! Who ever slept until ten
o'clock in that orderly house, even on
Sunday morning?

Mrs. Ripley was quite concerned, thought
he must be ill, and accredited his tussle with
the beast in the passage with the feverish
symptoms of a restless night and a disturbed
conscience.

It was too late for church, when a second
breakfast was put upon the table, to go
back almost untasted.

Mrs. Ripley's anxious inquiries almost
suggested the plea of indisposition, and
countenanced his stay indoors whilst she and
Kitty went together to afternoon service at
the parish church, and, falling in with
Deborali Gill on the way home, had a long,
confidential gossip, in which no detail was
spared of the great horned beast's intrusion
into the hall, and the vouno; master's
bravery ; or the kind-hearted housekeeper's
fears lest he had sustained some injury in
the encounter, he looked so badly in the
morning, or the great fright she had herself
in the night, lest robbers were in the house.

Between the service and the gossip Jasper
Ellis had a long afternoon to himself. A
Sabbath afternoon, not given to pious books
or pious contemplation, but to the oiling and
filing of keys to fit the lock of a desk that
was not to be fitted or opened by the
amateur.

He first Q-rew hot and red with excitement,
then cold with desperation. And so
Mrs. Ripley found him lying on the upstairs
sofa, when she, with a sort of motherly care

for Kitty, carried candles into the room
herself.

He was certainly ill, she was convinced ;
but he would have none of her possets or
decoctions, he only wanted quiet, and to be
left to himself.

And so he was left. But self just then
was neither a pleasant nor a profitable companion.
He was in a dilemma, had two
paths before him, was not bad enough to
take the one willini2;lv, nor good enough to
take the other and risk his future prospects.


Unable to decide, he drew a shilling from
his pocket, sent it spinning into the air, and
watched with eagerness its descent upon the
table-cloth. Again and again he repeated
the conjuration, and then, as if the Fates
had decided for him, replaced the coin, and,
leaving the candles snuffed and the fire
stirred, sat biting his nails and cogitating
until shadows began to deepen in the room
and gather round his moveless form.

Fog is not a safe or pleasant companion
on a journey by rail. It was not much

safer or more pleasant to stage-coach passengers.


The vehicle had one or two narrow
escapes during the first few miles ; once of
collision with a wao-sjon, more than once of
upset through running against a bank, or
over a wayside stone ; but presently' they
left the fog behind, or the fog politely-lifted
its cap as a parting salutation, for they
saw no more of it. That which they took
for fog as they drove through Pleadingly
into Leeds was but the contribution of congregated
chimneys to the shades of early
twilight, cloth-mills and dye-works then
belching forti their fumes unreservedly.

Fog and smoke were alike forgotten as
the friends shook hands with Martin 
in the wide lobby of . the " White
Hart," and were led by him into a private
room he had secured upstairs. And it is a
moot point whose eyes rested with the
greater pride and admiration on the fine
young fellow before them, in whom the
black-eyed loveliness of the southern mother
and the stalwart manliness of the northern

father so blent as to give the feminine softness
and beauty of the one, with the bold
outlines and proportions of the other.
Strength as well as tenderness was there.
The pensive melancholy and languor of the
boy had given place to a purposeful nobility
of face and bearing;, with sensitive lines and
a shadowy something over all which told of
a battle fought and a victory won, but also
of ineffaceable scars covered up and out of
sight, with which the work-day world had
no concern.

Until dinner was over and waiters dismissed,
conversation was, of course, desultory,
but the elder gentlemen had elicited
to their satisfaction that Martin's career at
Cambridge had been distinguished. He did
not say to them that he had worked like a
galley-slave, less for the honours to be
gained than to shut out thoughts that would
have unmanned him. He had stuck hard
to mathematics, gone in studiously for
geology and mineralogy, taken to botany
and boating for recreation, and had generally
a good account to give of himself

though there was nothing; boastful in the
manner of the teller.

I thought," said he, " that I had better
qualify myself for my position as the owner
of a colliery, with human lives in my charge,
than foster the romance in my nature with
too close application to classical literature."

Quite right, Martin, in every way and
shape," acquiesced Mr. Proctor, " but, whilst
you were about it, sou might have tried
your hand at practical surveying ; you will
find it useful some day."

Surveying ?"

Yes, I've had a man down at Osman-thorpe
surveying for me, and I have
brought with me his plans of the colliery
above ground and below, and I think they
might be better. If you will reach me my
valise I will show them to you," and into
his breeches pocket went Josiah's slender
fingers for his keys.

Consternation ! No keys were there.
No keys anywhere within his reach or ken !

Josiah rubbed his hands slowly one over
the other in a perplexed effort to remember

when he had them last. He was afraid lest
he had lost them in the coach. No ! He
recollected he had left them in his desk,
and the recollection disturbed him.

What does it matter?" exclaimed, rather
than asked, Archibald Thorpe, between the
whiffs of his long pipe. " I suppose you
have honest people about you, and they
don't let strangers into your office in your
absence ?"

Of course, of course," assented the
other, but his customary cheerfulness was
gone, and, although Boots — with some difficulty,
being Saturday night — found a locksmith
to provide the valise with a fresh key,
the conscientious lawyer felt that he had
been guilty of carelessness amounting to a
breach of trust, and laid the plans before his
ward with a mind evidently astray. He at
once penned a hasty letter to Mr. Apostles
(not to his partner), and fidgeted in
and out to find an earlier conveyance than
the post, remaining in a state of restlessness
the whole of the night, the keys rattling and
dancing before him even in his dreams.

It was a relief to all three when Mr.
Proctor opened a letter from Simon Apostles
at the "King's Head," Barnsley, on
Monday afternoon.

Hah !" he exclaimed, "Simon found the
keys close upon our departure, so that's all
right ! And now, Martin," he rubbed his
open hands gleefully together once more ashe
spoke, " come along, I want to introduce
you to some of your colliery neighbours
before the meeting opens, and Mr. Thorpe
here has a Geological Quaker friend to call
upon, a man who makes verses and sells
linen, and goes rambling over the mountains
and moorlands filling his pockets with
the rubbish you both set such store by.
He was in Settle this summer, on his way to
the Cumberland and Westmoreland lakes,
talking poetry to Miss Earnshaw, and
science to Mr. Thorpe, and now our friend
means to lug this Mr. Lister into the meeting
by head and shoulders, if the Quaker's
modesty keeps him back ; and if it comes to
a tussle your help may be useful, for the
Barnsley poet is bigger and stronger than

either of you, and, though a uiaii of peace,
would be a bad subject to tackle in a fray."

So lightsome was Josiah now his keys
were safe and all risjht that the swift shadow
crossing; Martin's face at the mention of
Edith, to whom even this unknown Mr.
Lister was privileged to talk poetry, passed
unobserved.

That meeting of West Riding coal proprietors,
presided over by a Mr. Thomas
Wilson, of Barnsley, had been convened for
the discussion of subjects affecting the
collieries of the district, which were supposed
to be labouring under disadvantages
consequent on the enjoyment of certain monopolies
by Northumberland and Durham,
and of railway facilities for the conveyance
of the precious mineral when
brought to bank, a strong opinion prevailing
that, until the West Riding had its
railway too, half the pits would soon have
to be closed. This was to be obviated by
the North Midland, the bill for wliicli had
already passed. The want of scientific
combination and information was also discussed,

and the formation of a Geological
and Polytechnic Society for the West Riding
so warmly advocated that it was soon after
an accomplished fact, with Earl Fitzwilliani
at its head ; and numbered not only Mr.
Thorpe and Mr. Lister among its members,
but Martin Pickers^ill.

Among the topics introduced the low
moral status of the colliers was brought on
the carpet as a grievance by which the
masters suffered. Many were the arguments
advanced and remedies suggested, but none,
to Martin's mind, seemed to reach the root
of the matter. At length he could stand it
no longer. He rose to his feet in all his
fine proportions, and, though prefacing his
speech with a modest apology for his interference
amongst older men, before he sat
down he had entered such an eloquent protest
against the employment of women and
children in mines as took the unprepared
auditory by storm ; and not only did he
protest against the evil, but declared his
intention to abolish the practice at Osman-thorpe
without loss of time, or waiting for

legislation on the subject, although he hoped
that would not be wanting, and that his
hearers would themselves combine to bring
about such a result.

Had a bombshell burst in their midst more
confusion could not have resulted.

"Introduce him!" quoth Mr. Proctor to
Mr. Lister. " The lad's introduced himself
with a vengeance ; and I'll warrant has
made more enemies than friends ! You can't
interfere with vested interests and common
usage in that wholesale way."

I shall be happy to number thee among
my friends, Martin Pickersgill, if thou be
willing, and there's my hand on it; and
thou mayst count on me to help thy
righteous undertaking with either my voice
or my pen," and a hand like a vice closed on
that of Martin.

In the discussion which followed our
young friend was prevented taking part, inconsequence
of an unexpected interruption,
though the angr}'- debate which followed his
speech proved he had not thrown his
thoughts to the wind.

VOL. HI. I

No sooner had he ceased speaking than a
bloated, red-faced man, who had bounced
to his feet, and been called to order for
interrupting the speech more than once
during its progress, made his way to our
friends, and, tapping Martin rudely on the
shoulder, demanded, offensively,

And pray, sir, who may you be, who
prate of Osmanthorpe as if it belonged to

Martin turned round, looked the speaker
full in the face, and, with some hauteur,
answered,

The owner of Osmanthorpe colliery, sir.
My name is Pickersgill."

I'll be d d if you are !" jerked out

the other, coarsely. " You'll be for saying
you're the owner of all Osmanthorpe next."

Quite right, Mr. Robert," put in Lawyer
Proctor, with a beaming face, "that is just
what he will be saying, and what I am prepared
to maintain. Your elder brother will
bear me out."

Martin looked from one to another in
amazement.

Yes, Robert, this is Laurence Pickers-gill's
son and heir," supplemented Archibald
Thorpe, with his hand on Martin's shoulder.
^' You may as well give up possession
quietly."

"I'll be d d if I do!" crowded the

brother of Archibald, with angry emphasis.
though you have leagued with this rascally
lawyer to defraud me, possession is nine-tenths
of the law, and you've got to prove
your case."

Why, yes," assented Mr. Proctor, with
incisive deliberation ; " and being already
in possession of the colliery, it only remains
to put in our proofs to obtain legal possession
of the whole."

Put them in and be d d to you!"

roared the infuriated man, as he stalked off,
purple with rage, and the expectation of
defeat.

"Is this true?" whispered astonished
Martin to Archibald Thorpe, as the crowd
gathered round, with eager curiosity on all
faces.

Quite true, my lad, and it is about time

I 2

the wrong was righted ; but I could have
wished the disclosure had been less public,
for ray brother's sake."

Why, yes ; it is somewhat premature,
but one cannot always choose time or place.
Man proposes and God disposes. Your
brother brought it on himself. I should
have failed in my duty to Laurence had I
not substantiated his son's rights then and
there. Gentlemen," — Josiah turned to the
lingering crowd — " permit me to introduce
Martin Pickersgill, the son of Laurence
Pickersgill, of Jamaica, Squire of Osman-thorpe,
otherwise Pickersgill Hope."

Ay, that's the old name," cried a redheaded
man from their midst ; " 'twas old
Thorpe changed it when Laurence was
driven out. Give me your hand, young sir
I knew your grandmother."

And then there was a cheer for the rightful
heir. The Thorpes, barring Archibald,
were not in good odour.

CHAPTER VIII.

jasper's conscience.

"1\/rAN proposes and God dispossess
XtX Josiah Proctor had good reason,
ere long, to remember his own words for
the remainder of his life. He had spoken
prematurely in the confidence of abundant
documentary evidence safe under lock and
key.

The scene at the recent meeting rendered
it necessary to acquaint Martin with the
story' of his " rights " and his father's
wrongs, without waiting; for the arrival of
Mr. Vaseyy's assent, which had been written
for.

That very evening, in their private room
at the " Kinsj's Head," in the dow of a fire

made up of Osmanthorpe coal, whilst Mi
Thorpe smoked his long pipe and threw in
an occasional word, Josiah Proctor told the
story to his ward, whose sensitive lips and
nostrils quivered at the relation.

He then learned for the first time how
his grandfather, the owner of Pickersgili
Hope, and the father of Laurence Pickers-gill,
had married a young beauty from
Weardale, and, dying three years after their
marriage, had committed his young wife
and infant son to the care of his wife's own
brother, Oswald Thorpe, to whom also he
committed the management of the Pickers-gill
estate for the use and benefit of his wife
and son, until the infant Laurence came of
age, when his guardianship was to cease ;
how, also, from the hour Oswald Thorpe
entered upon his trust, he spoke and acted
as if he were sole and absolute master of
Pickersgili Hope ; how he sent the boy Laurence
off to Giggleswick Grammar School
as soon as he was old enough to be admitted,
boarding him cheaply as he could in
the village. He would not hear of homecoming

for the boy, or of journeys by the
mother to visit her son. And Martin heard
with infinite pain how the mother broke
her heart pining for her boy, and the boy
well-nigh broke his over the mother he was
not allowed to see, alive or dead, and how
the recall of Laurence from school was the
opportunity for insult and ill-usage both at
the hands of Squire Thorpe, as he pretentiously
styled himself, and Squire Thorpe's
youngest son Robert, a chip of the old
block ; the eldest, Archibald, being, strange
to say, little better dealt With than his
cousin and companion, Laurence. That
suddenly Laurence disappeared, and it was
reported that he had run off to sea and
died. Nothing was heard of him until,
years after, he wrote to his old class-mate,
Josiah Proctor, and detailed how he had
been shipped to the West Indies against his
will, and, falling in with Elihu Vaseyy, the'
had cast their lots together. He had been
kept almost in ignorance of his own birthright,
but Josiah, in the office where he was
articled, had acquired the knowledge and

transmitted it to Laurence, promising to
help him to his own should he ever come
back to England. By that time Laurence
was the husband of a wealthy Spanish girl,
with no care to return to a land which had
used him so unkindly. It was not until
sons were born to him that he advised his
friend Josiah to keep an eye on the estate,
which had been already re-baptised. Knowledge
of his uncle's death, and of Archibald's
advertisement for his heir, must have influenced
Laurence Pickersgill's will, for Archibald
and he had loved one another, and he
was loth to dispossess him.

Could he have seen the riot, the waste,
and the destruction on the old place, or
have known that his cousin Archibald repudiated
possession, I should have been empowered
to claim it for you from the first,
I know," was the kindly lawyer's conclusion.
But we will soon put you in possession,
Martin. Mr. Thorpe here holds the title-deeds
; "eve have already gained a foothold
on the estate, and I have all the needful
registers of birth and parentage — ay, and

the captain's affidavit of your father's compulsory
shipment on board the West Indian
trader. They are all safe under lock and
key in my office."

The keys were safe, we know, but the
sandal-wood box, where was that ?

What a look of blank dismay seemed
petrified on Mr. Proctor's face as he raised
the heavy lid of his desk, some days later,
and discovered his loss ! With the lid held
open by one hand, he gazed vacantly within
for two or three minutes, then down went
the lid with a crash, and he with it, the one
word " Robbed /" coming in a gurgle from
his lips, as his face fell forward on his hands,
and a slight crimson stain dabbled his white
shirt frills.

Word and action had been sufficiently
expressive.

Martin and Mr. Thorpe darted forward
simultaneously to catch him. Jasper and
Postlethwaite hurried in at the cry for help.

Reverently and cautiously did the two
young men carry the helpless form upstairs
to a sofa, Martin comprehending less, it maybe,

than Jasper, whose extreme agitation
passed for natural emotion.

One moment Simon Postlethwaite lingered
to lock the desk and secure the keys,
and then he was scouring through the
Market-place for a surgeon, at a very unwonted
pace.

In a couple of days the doctor decided
that no immediate danger was to be apprehended,
provided always that the patient
was kept perfectly quiet and silent until the
ruptured blood-vessel had time to heal.

For once in his active life Lawyer Proctor
evinced no tendency to speak or stir ; recovery
was therefore the more hopeful.

He lacked neither care nor attention.
Deborah was sent to relieve Mrs. Ripley in
the night season, and Martin seldom quitted
him night or day. Mr. Thorpe, feeling
himself perfectly useless, wandered about
aimlessly, or conferred with Postlethwaite
in the clerk's office on the possible nature of
the robbery his master had sustained.

But no one was more watchful or anxious
than his grandson. As yet Martin had no

real idea that his estate was in jeopardy,
but Jasper had conscience alive within him,
telling him that if his grandsire died he
would be a murderer as well as a thief.
Yet it never stirred him to restore the-sandals
wood box. It could only be done
by a confession of his untrustworthiness,
which would bring obloquy and ruin upon
himself, and probably injure his grandfather's
practice also. No, he must stand
to his deed, and find some way to account
for the disappearance. His only safety lay
in silence and concealment : none would bethe
loser but Martin ; and surely his share
in the indigo plantation might suffice for
him. He could not do better than return
to Jamaica, and settle there.

Feeling: somehow as if Martin's interest,
and that of truth and justice, depended on
Mr. Proctor's recovery, Mr. Thorpe grew
restless and uneasy. He walked across
country, over hill and dale, to Settle, with
the sad news, and Jasper's letter of apology
for non-appearance at Ivy Fold ; and then
back afraid, with letters and messages both

from Edith and Dora. Next, finding the
patient progressing favourably, he betook
himself to Leeds, to make one at a meeting;
of delegates from different Yorkshire
Mechanics' Institutions. Here he was in
his element. Like John Wilson, he was all
alert to do good, and in this meeting, which
eventuated in the union of such institutions
for the mutual interchange of lectures,
books, reports, and other matters through
the medium of the central head in Leeds,
where a peripatetic library was to be
founded, he took more than a casual interest.
This Yorkshire Union of Mechanics'
Institutes, with Edward Baines at its head,
brought him so prominently forward, introduced
him to so many fresh acquaintances,
and renewed so many old associations, that
he forgot the flight of time, and remained
in Leeds after all the delegates had dispersed,
John Wilson, staunch to his favourite
motto, being gone with them.

When he did go back, on the 21st, it was
in most depressing weather. Floods were
general throughout Yorkshire, and some

portions of Leeds were three feet deep in
water. By that time his public excitement
had somewhat faded under the influence of
bad news concerning Allan and his wife,
who were said by Mrs. Sheepshank not to
be flourishing as she could wish, or rather
so flourishing that Allan's money threatened
to come quickly to an end, unless, Which
she much doubted, he was making a fortune
by sharebroking. She said that Grace was
jealous of Buttermere's influence, and much
troubled at the continued isolation from her
parents, having been passed in the street
with a stony stare by Mr. Metcalfe, who
grew grander and loftier every day.

It was, therefore, not in the best of spirits
Mr. Thorpe hung up his dripping beaver
and top-coat on the oxen horns in Lawyer
Proctor's passage and went upstairs to find
assembled round the bright fire, not only
Mr. Proctor himself in dressing-gown and
easy-chair, but Martin, Jasper (whose birthday
it chanced to be), and Simon Apostles
all deep in discussion of the robbery',
the nature of which had transpired, and was

speedily explained to the new-confer by
Martin, who carried Mr. Thorpe off to the
privacy of his own room for the purpose.

*' I thought something disastrous was in
the wind," exclaimed the latter, "I never
took a journey in worse spirits in my life.
Not even when I turned my back on .
It was a false step was that ;
I feel it now. Had I been in possession I
could have turned the estate over to the
rightful owner without a word, and in good
condition. I do not wonder at Mr. Proctor's
dismay. For more than twenty years
he has calculated on turning out the usurpers
from his schoolmate's seat. It is a blow to
both of us. For my part I feel that my
father's wicked deed dishonours me."

"Nay, nays, my good sir," cried Martin,
that can never be. No son is answerable
for his sire's misdeeds. Nor is my good
guardian to be held responsible for this
mischance."

Why — no," asserted Mr. Thorpe in
bewilderment. " But how did it happen ?
Who is suspected ?"

It is all perplexity," replied Martin.
^' It appears that, shortly after we left the
house on the Saturday, an overdriven beast
rushed from the market into the passage,
followed by drovers and whooping lads.
Postlethwaite, opening his office door to
ascertain the cause of the disturbance, fancied
he heard a noise in his master's office,
though, between the fog and the crowd, he
could not discover whether anyone passed
in or out. Almost immediately Mr. Ellis
appeared at his own door, at the other end
of the passage, and, taking the beast by the
horns, literally backed it out into the street
aojain. No sooner was the coast clear than
Postlethwaite crossed the hall, found Mr.
Proctor's office door ajar, and his keys
hanging from the lock of his desk. He says
he locked the desk without looking within,
took charge of the keys, and they never
passed out of his custody until he handed
them to his master on our return. It is
therefore conjectured that either the beast
was driven in to cover the entrance of someone
who had observed our departure, or

that some common thief had stolen in unrler
cover of the confusion, and carried off the
box in the supposition that it contained
money or other valuables. And now, Mr.
Thorpe, let us return to the other room, and
pray treat the matter lightly. The loss is, I
understand, not irreparable, and I should
not like to grieve the good old man who has
been like a father to me."

I suppose Martin has acquainted you with
the result of my carelessness," said Mr.
Proctor, on their entrance, rubbing his hands
one over the other with a slow, dreamy,
melancholy movement.

"Why, yes," responded Mr. Thorpe,
meditatively; " and the question is now, what
is to be done?"

I should advertise freely for the stolen
box, and offer a reward without giving a
clue to the contents," suggested Martin.

Advertising costs so much," objected
Jasper, " and so few of the lower orders can
read. I should send the bellman round,
next market day, and then you can offer a
reward."

If I might be allowed to speak," put in
Postlethwaite, quietly, " I should do both,
cost is nothing where great interests are at
stake;" then, in an aside to Jasper, "I think
the premises should be well searched in case
the box should have been removed for better
security, and forgotten."

Was it only Jasper's conscience that took
alarm at the clerk's tone, or was there any
hidden meaning in it, that Jasper should
retort so pointedly, "Perhaps Mr. Apostles
would not object to have his own
office and house searched, since he was the
only person in possession of the keys."

The tone, professedly low, was yet audible
to all. Mr. Proctor was alarmingly disturbed,
and called Jasper to order, reminding
him how old and faithful a servant
Postlethwaite had been ; and, though the
clerk insisted on the hint being acted on, his
master would not hear of it.

You have been craving to visit Jamaica,
Martin," said his guardian after a while.
You had perhaps better prepare to set sail
as soon as the expected mail has brought

Aro. III. K

Mr. Vaseyy's despatches, and obtain the
duplicate papers from his hands ; and you
had better bring the picture you mentioned,
and your nurse, if alive. But this is all incase
the box is not restored beforehand ;"
and the old man sank back in his chair exhausted,
as he added : " You are not left
without means, Martin ; and, if you were, I
would spend my last shilling to see you
righted."

What was there to hinder Jasper's restoration
of the box and its contents in answer
to the bellman or the advertisements ? He
surely might have managed it without exciting
suspicion. Ah ! but he could not
have claimed the reward without discovery,
and no common thief would forego that.
And the declaration of his grandfather that
he would " spend his last shilling on Martin,"
would have put a stopper on his conscience,
had he not been desirous to have the ocean
between Martin and Edith. And conscience,
like the fabled bottle-imp, proving uncomfortably
alive, however closely stoppered
down, he endeavoured to stifle it with arguments

to prove that no real injury was done
by withholding the deeds, so long as duplicates
were obtainable. At the most delay
was all that could be complained of, and, if
the lawyers went in for " mesne profits,"
even delay would be no real loss. As for
the voyage to Jamaica, Martin had always
contemplated that. The only harm done
had been to his grandfather, and men of his
age were liable to such attacks ; and what
was done could not be undone.

K 2

CHAPTER IX.

A DISCOVERY.

"VTO despatches of any kind from Mr.
J ^ Casey'. The West Indian mails were
due and overdue; and, as the year J 837
wept itself out, and January followed sternly
to bind up the rivers of England with frosty
fetters, it began to be feared that the good
ship which bore them had gone to pieces in
that same terrific tempest which had deluged
Yorkshire so disastrously on and about St.
Thomas's day. And time, which drifted
figure-head and floating spars ashore on the
Welsh coast, only confirmed suspicion that
the J /6a^?U95 would skim the wave no more.
Martin, who had all along expressed his
desire to revisit Jamaica, before the final

emancipation of the slaves, was impatient to
be sone. But Mr. Proctor, less brisk and
buoyant than of yore, seemed unaccountably
loth to let him depart.

Squire Thorpe was prickly as a hedgehog;
determined not to surrender the estate save
on compulsion, he threatened to turn the
waters of the mere into the colliery, and so
swamp the workings. Then, and not till
then, did Josiah Proctor consent to Martin's
taking of a berth in a steam-vessel announced
to sail for Kingston on the 2nd of July,
when it would carry With it the news of
Queen Victoria's coronation.

And scarcely then would Archibald
Thorpe consent to part with his newly-acknowledged
relative. He insisted on
Martin giving him at least a week at Ivy
Fold, and among the hills, before they
started.

You must come and say good-bye to
the old places and old people," he said ;
^' there is no knowing what changes may
take place before you come back."

I'm afraid there will be one change I

shall not care to see," thought Martin, but
though he put in a demurrer against intruding;
on Miss Earnshaw, his father's favourite
cousin Archibald carried the day.

It was brilliant weather for Craven, not a
cloud to be seen, and much of the time was
spent in geological and botanising rambles,
or Martin would have carried few memories
of pleasure away with him.

The affectionate warmth of his host, the

friendliness of dimpled Dora, now in her

teens, who played her harp and sang for

him as Edith once had done, scrupling not

to ask for a load of rarities from his tropic

home ; the hearty good will of Janet, the

grateful recognition of Tippie, who rubbed

his head against his trousers, and mounted

to his knee with purring satisfaction as of

old, were all insufficient to overpower the

torturing pain of constrained courtesy on the

part of Edith. No item was omitted in the

way of hospitality and comfort, and now

and then the old Edith gleamed on her

cheeks and in her eyes, but only for an

instant, she was again reserved and indifferent.


He was glad to escape with Mr. Thorpe
to the healthful and consoling haunts of
nature, where he could shake off the morbid
fancies and longings which overpowered him
in her presence. He had no mind to make
a fool of himself a second time, and lay his
heart open to scorn and rejection, and something
within him whispered that his only
safety was in flight.

Of the strufiGfle in the youncj man's breast
Archibald Thorpe happily knew nothing.
Well pleased he carried him off in the
early morning, only to return late at night
well laden ; Keeper, their four-footed companion,
more weary than themselves. Once
more did Martin ramble through varied
Ribblesdale, look upwards at the stupendous
amphitheatre of Malham Cove, take an oar
on Malham Tarn, shudder under the overhanging
rock at Cordage, and watch the
rushing torrent leap and turn and leap
again with threatening violence in every fall.

Once again did he traverse the familiar scars
of Giggleswick, mount 'to the top of lofty
Ingleborough, — the Hill of Fire, — and hold
discourse with his friend on the survival of
Baal-worship in the annual beacons kindled
on its flattened top ; or, descending into the
wild and gloomy valley between the bleak
and rugged steeps of Ingleborough and
Whernside, seek the subterraneous home of
the Greta, and linger among the terrific
chasms and marvels of Weathercock Cave.

They dug up plants, picked up quartz
crystals, or chipped out fossils as they went,
but it was not until the last day of Martin's
visit that anything memorable occurred.

It was the day that half the country —
the urban half, at least — was alive with
processions and rejoicing, for a young
queen was being crowned — that these two
dissimilar lovers of nature turned from
crowds into deepest and wildest solitudes,
and held reverential converse on the secrets
of the rocks. They had wound among the
stony folds of Attermire, and, turning at an
angle, took their lonely way like mites over

the green turf beneath the rutx^ed scars of
Langcliffe, where the limestone, hoar with
age, was mottled, so to speak, with patches
of emerald verdure, rivalling the boulder-strewn
pastures beneath.

Keeper, as usual, ran hither and thither,
now before, now behind, breaking into the
conversation with a desultory bark by way
of chorus. Suddenly, from a solitary" clump
of trees some distance from the scar, darted
a tawny animal, and, crossing their path a
few paces ahead with the celerity of fear,
made direct for the cliff, bounded wildly
up the ascent, and disappeared among a
luxuriant growth of nettles.

"A hare ! a hare !" cried Martin.

Nay, lad, it's a fox, and Keeper's after
it! That's Will Hartley's lion for a sovereign
! The hunters lost it somewhere
hereabouts. Butcher's Keeper? Keeper!
Keeper !" called Mr. Thorpe, resuming, to
Martin, " You've heard of the lion John
Danson and Will Hartley saw in Staircase
Cave, have j^ou not?" and he began to tell
the anecdote, with sundry interruptions in

the way of calls and whistles for Keeper ;
and then, there being; no nimis of the dog,
proceeded to ascend the irregular scar over
a sloping bank, where stones gave way at
every other step, and tearing away, with
resolute hand, a screen of nettles, disclosed
a hole, through which both fox and dog
must have vanished.

Almost on the instant Keeper emerged
from a similar group of nettles a few yards
away, and came up shaking his rough brown
sides and his bushy tail.

I should think there was a cave of some
kind there, Mr. Thorpe," suggested j\Iartin.

Why, yes, my lad, and I mean to have
a peep what it's like. If there's an inlet
and an outlet, the air must circulate, and
there will be no mephitic vapours. So here
goes, though the hole is somewhat of the
smallest."

"You had better let me make the first
attempt, sir. You are wider in the shoulders
than I. But, first, it may be advisable
to remove a few of the loose stones at the
bottom."

This was done, and Martin crept in on
hands and knees for a considerable distance,
until the narrow passage seemed to expand
into wide chambers, the extent of which he
could not realise in the imperfect light — a
gloom but one remove from dark.

All at once his name echoed and reverberated
through the hollow cavern. The
light was blocked in the long tunnel by
which he had entered, and he could not
find the passage save by groping against the
sides, where he struck his hands against
what experience told were stalactites and
crystals.

When the passage was found, to his
horror he discovered that he was a prisoner,
and not he only'. Mr. Thorpe's scientific
zeal had overcome discretion, and his broad
angular shoulders had stuck fast where his
younger and more symmetrical companion
had slipped through.

It was an appalling discovery. Beaded
drops stood on the clammy brows of both.
Death in its most horrid form seemed at
hand to clutch them. True, Keeper had

found another outlet, but what of that ?
Martin could not leave Mr. Thorpe to
perish, even if the other aperture were
found, and wide enough for hint to pass.

In this direful extremity he remembered
the new friction-matches he carried to light
his cigars, and by their aid made himself
and Mr. Thorpe acquainted with their exact
position and mutual peril.

Then Martin laid his hands upon the imprisoned
shoulders, and strove to force them
back. In vain. They were wedged fast,
as in a vice. They were both brave and
fearless men, accustomed to face danger,
and not easily daunted. Each strove to
hide the fears in his own breast, and discuss
their chances calmly. Mr. Thorpe would
have had Martin seek the other outlet, and
leave him to his fate, if relief were not at
hand.

"Nay," said Martin. "That cannot be;
your body blocks the air passage ; you would
die of suffocation before I could bring help
from Lan2;clifFe. Let me see," and he
struck a match. "The ground beneath us

is soft and crumbly. I might cast the
loose stones behind ; but that would prevent
retreat, and not release your shoulders !"

And now Martin's geology served student
and teacher in good stead, for it had caused
him to carry a hammer, and instructed him
how to split the limestone best.

But it did not provide a current of fresh
air, or find him eyes to see in the dark,
Archibald's shoulders received many a blow
intended for the rock ; and they were both
faint and well-nigh stifled before chip by
chip the gap was widened sufficiently to release
the square frame and enable the
owner of the cramped limbs to crawl backwards
into the daylight, thankful for
deliverance — and for the discovery though
it had cost a torn coat, some sore bruises,
and placed two lives in imminent peril.

Daylight lingers long in June, but twilight
was creeping down the valley, and the air
was laden with evening's condensed aroma
of roses and new-mown hay, when Keeper
announced two late arrivals in most disreputable
and inappropriate costume at Ivy

Fold ; where a party, called together in
honour of Martin, had been compelled to
drink their tea and keep conversation alive
without either their host or his chief guest.

Slighted dignity was rapidly giving place
to apprehension, in spite of Editli's assurance
that Mr. Thorpe commonly forgot the
flight of time when away on such expeditions
; and there were whispers of leave-taking.


Their coming; chanf]jed all. What a
flutter there was of silks and muslins !
What an uprising of broadcloth ! What
ejaculations and clasping of hands, as the
besmeared and hungry adventurers tendered
their apologies, and of course narrated their
perilous discovery of a new cave !

What an excitement it caused ! There
was Dr. Burrow, and the Rev. John How-son,
and plain John Tatham, all eager
geologists, on the qui vive for information.
There was Lawyer Hartley — spectacles on
forehead — shaking hands with Martin, calling
on his quiet niece, Mrs. John Hartley,
and Miss Crash to remember his first

prognostications anent the youth, and to
honour the bravery and magnanimity and
the presence of mind he had shown on this
occasion ; and there was also Mr. Thorpe,
clenching what Martin disclaimed. Dora,
be sure, was the most excited of all ; she
clung to her father, then to Martin, threw
her white arms round Keeper's neck and
hugged him, and finally rushed with her
rare news to Janet in the kitchen.

After her first hurried questioning, Edith
stood mute, her hands clasped together, her
lips compressed, her eyes expanded, her
cheeks pale and flushed by turns. What
if those two had died in that dark cave ?
Died of hunger and exhaustion, and never
been discovered ? She shuddered as the
thought struck her with an icy chill. Was
not this the noble unselfish Martin in whom
she had believed before — ah, yes, before
that. And once more she wondered if he
had been wronged.

But now in burst Janet, and the huns^rv
men cried out for a wash and supper, and
Edith's dreaming was put to flight.

There had been one visitor — only one —
as Miss Vaseyy afterwards remarked, who,
somewhat lukewarm in his congratulations,
kept himself apart, and, lounging against the
heavy book-case, seemed to listen with cool
indifference, yet never moved his green grey
eyes from Edith's face.

It was Jasper, there unexpectedly with a
last massacre from his grandfather to Martin.
He was not so indifferent as he appeared.
His old jealousy of Martin was quickened
into fresh and stinging life by Mr. Thorpe's
exaltation of him into a hero ; none the less
that Edith's countenance and manner were
perplexing. Was she simply grateful for
her stepfather's preservation, or did some
deeper feeling underlie her silent emotion?
How thankful he should be when Pickers-gill
was fairly out of England ! He should
not be sorry if the ship went to the bottom
with him in it !

It was not a very benevolent wish ; but
jealousy is not benevolent ; and he certainly
emphasised the wish as Martin took leave
the next morning, when Edith, after a few

words of grateful thanks for his preservation
of her stepfather, finally wished the traveller
a successful V037 age," in tones which even
Martin himself thought once more natural
and kindly, and touched with something of
sad pathos. And what though Jasper stood
beside her, as if to assert possessive right, he
would carry that last sweetly toned wish
away with him as a talisman, as he carried
a few withered rushes her finders had
bound together bv the Ebb-and-Flow, six
summers agone ; summers which had been
as winters to him.

It was not the only good wish that
followed him. Janet, who had a wholesome
dread of the sea, blubbered out hers
behind her apron. Solomon Bracken, who
dragged himself up the hill to see the coach
start, spat on the crown-piece he found in
his palsied hand, and, with many a blessing
on the liberal donor, vowed he would keep
the coin until he came back ; as though life
were in his keeping, too.

And stretching; over the heads and
shoulders of the gaping crowd the long,

VOL. III. L

bony arm of Thomas Claphara was extended
to him for a parting grip, and he was
told to " keep out of the mermaids' clutches ;
or he might discover a cave he could not
chip his way out of."

archibald Thorpe, unwilling to say "goodbye,"
accompanied his kinsman as far as
Lancaster, and sent hiui on with prayers
ind blessings.

In Manchester he was met by John Dan-son,
who, full of sympathy for his friend,
asked point-blank, "Do you think Foxes
had anything to do with the disappearance
of your papers ?"

The very suggestion gave upright Martin
a shock. He scouted the idea, said he knew
Ellis owed him no goodwill, but it was impossible
he could so wrong and deceive his
excellent grandfather, Mr. Proctor.

At that time it was only (!) an hour's
journey from Liverpool to Manchester by
train. John, like a faithful esquire, bore
him company thither, with the chivalry of
old schoolboy days, not quitting his knight-errant
until the ship was getting up its

steam ; and, when they parted, not one whit
better satisfied that " Foxes was not at the
bottom of it all"

L 2

CHAPTER X.

DISASTER.

JASPER was now pretty much master of
his own time, but, his opinion being that
"time is money," he was not disposed to
loiter where nothing was to be earned, and
he found Edith so little disposed to yield to
his pressing entreaties for an early marriage
that he mounted Dapple and departed
before the day or his temper had time
to cool, as the quadruped discovered to his
cost.

You see he vented on the poor animal the
ill-humour and dissatisfaction he had not
dared to display before Edith. His jealousy
lead suggested the possibility of her throwing
him over for the wealthy West Indian,

who had Osiiianthcrpe in perspective, and
was " the sort of hero to catch a foolish
woman. As far as good looks are concerned,
I think we are about equal," he
argued with himself, complacently, as he
walked down Bell Hill after the coach had
gone, " but a poor lawyer, with his way to
make in the world, and not three hundred
pounds to make it with, is no match for
the planter's plethoric purse. And now
that he is exalted into a sort of demi-god
for a mere common-sense instinct of self-preservation
— " he paused, " well, I must
carry mj^ own cap evenly if I would bring
the draught to my lips."

In judging Edith by his own standard he
Wronged her grievously, but his early training
had disqualified him from considering
it a wrong. If Edith had accepted him
without a mercenary motive, be sure no
such motive would influence her to change.
Only the opening of her eyes could do that;
and, unless the fillet he had bound across
them slipped aside, her constancy might be
relied on. She had accepted the deep

homage of his love as one who renders in
return all she can, but still insufficient; and
she ever felt herself a debtor to his heart,
and proud to be the chosen of a man so
fond, so universally esteemed.

And so it was with infinite pain she set
aside his impassioned pleadings and urged
the higher claims of a sacred trust and her
duty.

Oh, Jasper," she entreated, " you know
Dora is still too young to be left."
She is as old as you were."
"Ah, yes, but I had had a mother's careful
training ; had never been indulged ; indeed,
I had been too healthy to require it.
Now poor, dear Dora has been delicate and
fragile from her birth ; her very faults maybe
traced to it. I am afraid we have spoiled
her a good deal, but then what could
we do other, with a poor, motherless bairn
who cried herself ill whenever she was
thwarted ? And father and I have always
hoped that her affections would correct her
temper as she grew older and wiser."

False philosophy, Edith, you should
have whipped the wisdom into her when she
was a life bairn. I know Janet thought so !
And, talking of Janet, surely she can
manage the house, and, between her and
Mr. Thorpe, Dora will be well enough cared
for. Is my happiness nothing, that you
sacrifice it to an imaginary duty ?"

It is not imaginary. A promise to the
dead is sacred. And, Jasper, you are mistaken
about Janet. The faithful creature
in some way seems to cling in allegiance tome.
But, when I marry and quit this house,
Janet will marry and quit it also. Her
sweetheart has waited more years than you.
She and Tim were about to be married
when mother died. So you see Dora would
really be left alone if I went ; and, Jasper
dear, you would not have me less faithful
to my trust than a servant woman?" and
Edith's dark eyes looked up into Jasper's
with the clear light of conscious truth in
their depths.

Then how long do you expect me to

Avait before I can call you my Edith in
reality If I did not love you with my
whole soul I might be more patient."

We are both quite young enough," she
answered, resting one hand upon his shoulder;
"it will do us no harm to wait until
Dora has turned sixteen."

"Whew, Edie!" he almost whistled,
shaking off her hand to pace the floor in
disgust, "/ shall not wait Miss Dora's
maturity."

Then," replied Edith, with enforced
calmness, " perhaps our engagement lead
better terminate at once. I mud wait.
There is no alternative."

He had overstepped his mark. In an
instant he was by her side with an arm
around her, protesting against her coldness
and cruelty in suggesting such an issue,
declaring that he could only resign her
with this life, and that he could not give her
up if she kept him waiting until his hair was

gi'ey.

Allowing for lover-like exaggeration, he
meant it. But it did not improve his temper

to feel that such a declaration should have
been wrung from him ; and he made " business
" a plea for an early exit. It, however,
was not until he was mounted on the broad
grey back of Dapple, and lead left his good
angel behind, that his other anirel took
possession of his ear, and whispered that his
chance of nnfTerinc; Edith's few thousands
was farther off than he had anticipated. His
irritation communicated itself to whip and
spur, for he had meant to build a pyramid
of wealth on that foundation. He should
have to fall back on his own savings and
tr}^ if he could not multiply them a little
faster. If he were only living in Leeds or
Bradford, he could find a Indeed ways of
turning over his money rapidly and quietly.
In a wretched little place like Skipton everyone
knew his neighbour's business, and it
was next to impossible. How he wished
they had a case in hand which would take
him to either town occasionally, and pay for
time and expenses !

As it' to gratify his desires, he was called
to Leeds before another week went bv.

The clouds huns thick and black over the
town when Lawyer Proctor's letters were
delivered by the postman on Wednesday,
the fourth of July ; and, as the lawyer
opened a missive in Martin's well-known
hand, posted in Liverpool by John Danson
as an assurance that the writer had sailed,
he involuntarily glanced upwards at the
lowering clouds whence heavy drops were
beginning to fall, and gave utterance to a
hope that Martin Pickersgill was already
beyond range of the storm, the hope being
accompanied by an anathema against the
thief who had made the voyage necessary.
And as blue lightning flashed, and thunder
rolled overhead, and rain mingled with hail
came pelting down, ploughing the ill-paved
street into mire, the restless old gentleman
fidgeted about uneasily from one office to
the other, repeating his hopes for Martin's
safety, and his maledictions on the thief,
until Jasper (who regarded his possession
of the box as the result of an unfortunate
mischances in his heart of hearts once more

wished PIckersgill and his box of papers at
the bottom of the sea.

The following!; afternoon a horseman,
spattered from head to heel with mire, hot
and reeking like his steed, drew rein at the
lawyer's door, and, flinij;ino; himself from the
saddle, Married in with the intelligence that
nearly all Osmanthorpe lay under water,
swamping even the coal-mine ; that the
flood had reached an old entrance, low on
the hillside, and poured in on the men,
women, and children at wMjrk, before more
than half had time to escape.

Josiah Proctor clasped his hands together.

"My God 1" he cried, ^' I had a prescience
some calamity impended, but I never
dreamed of aught so appalling as this. Yet
it is always so. The evil we anticipate does
not come, or shapes itself into a blessing.
It is the evil we do not expect that comes
down on us with a crash. We must bestir
ourselves, and let us thank God that Mr.
Pickerso;ill had sailed before this fresh
disaster came to overwhelm and daunt his
brave spirit !"

In less than an hour and half, Mr. Proctor
and Jasper were speeding on two stout nags,
hired for the occasion, towards the scene of
the disaster.

Delude and devastation became more
decided as they advanced. The roads were
broken up and obstructed b}^ stones, timber,
and dead animals. Crops were beaten down,
trees and bushes were uprooted, walls
washed away, cottages unroofed and bared
to the sky, windows shattered by the hail,
which had cut and torn foliage where roots
were firm and fast ; foot-bridges were
wrecked, barns and piggeries had been
invaded, poultry had taken refuge on trees
or housetops, clothes and furniture were
cast adrift, and the very subsidence of the
water showed what the rava£!;e had been
miles upon miles. At Osmanthorpe all was
wailing; and desolation ; the village on the
hill side had escaped little better than the
hall, which stood on its raised terrace, 
down with shattered windows as from
an island on a turbid lake, which had left
its mark in green slime along the lower

courses of stone, and blotted out lawn and
weedy walks and garden ground together.

At the colliery the inflowing water had
put out fires. But the engine was again at
work, throbbing like a human heart in its
superhuman efforts to overcome the enemy,
and give the anxious pitman on the bank a
chance to recover their dead.

Hour by hour went by, and another
raorniuoj broke, and still the throbbing]:
engine beat in echo to sobbinijj women and
the groans of men : and the sun rose holland
waned, and rose again, and yet the
blackened waters held their own. A week
or more was Ejone before one bv one the
bodies of wee children, and young girls, and
strong-limbed men were brought to bank,
nine in all, and yet the pit held more and
refused to yield them up.

On the third or fourth day Archibald
Thorpe, fresh from excavating and exploring
the newly-discovered Victoria Cave, was
amongst them, stimulating the weary colliers
by his own example to descend and renew
the search, bringing up two of the dead

little ones himself, whilst Jasper passed
about distributing his ixrand father's houiitv
with a 2;rudCTino; hand, and the lawyer, full
■of trouble for himself and the absent owner,
lamented his inability to do more than offer
Qiioney to comfort alike the sorrowing and
the needy ; the mother who mourned for
her dead child, and the woman who had
lost her washing-trough. Jasper thought
gold a sovereign heal-all." Josiah said,
^' Ah, Jasper, it's a sorry plaister for a sore
heart."

But now many were the consultations
round the engine-house with manager and
viewer and engineer, for there began to be
fears lest the water could not be mastered.
The final abandonment of the pit was not
improbable ; and on one of these consultations
Squire Thorpe intruded, chuckling over
the " cold water thrown upon the jackanapes
pretender to Osmanthorpe," and
hoping he had a long purse to dip in the
pit and bale the water out, as he was not
likely to collect the rents on the estate, or
to sell many tons of coal yet awhile. And

then there was a quarrel between the
brothers, and, but that they were parted,
blows would have followed words.

The last of the recovered dead were
buried. The survivors were assisted. All
that could be done now was to persevere in
pumping, and to acquaint i\Ir. Proctor with
the result from time to time.

Before they started homewards, Mr.
Proctor, from the summit of the hill above
the colliery', pointed out to Jasper the wide
extent and range of Osmanthorpe, with its
distant woods and outlying farms, desolate
though it lay beneath the refuse of the flood.

Think you not, Jasper," said he, " the
legal business of that estate would be worth
something? I had hoped to leave it in
your hands, for Martin would never, surely,
think of transferring it to a stranger ; but
you do not get on very cordially together,
and I am sorry for it. Remember, I told
you years ago to cultivate his friendship."

"I wish you had told meivJiy," said Jasper.
I might have been more careful ; but there
seldom is much cordiality between two men

who love the same woman !" Yet he kept to
liiraself the cry of his conscience, that he had
evidently robbed himself of a lucrative
appointment when he laid his inquisitive
fingers on a box which did not belong to
him.

The' took Leeds on their way home,
stopping at a commercial inn, and dining
(per favour) at the commercial table. To
Jasper's surprise the conversation, when it
did not concern the viands before them, or
the pretty barmaid and waiters at the inns
along the roads, turned less on the state of
trade than the revolution railways were
likely to bring about, and were bringing
about, in the commercial world; for the
railway'' mania was spreading far and wide,
and none were more alive to the fact than
the men amongst whom he was thrown so
casually, men who threw themselves into
the discussion with warmth and animation
as if it concerned them vitally, as it did.
More than one speaker maintained that it
was a matter seriously affecting the interests
of commercial travellers, as it overthrew old

traditions, and was likely to affect their
allowance for travelling expenses, and might
throw many of their number off the
road.

Presently the discourse drifted to railway
speculation, and the fabulous fortunes made
by speculators ; and a traveller for a Coventry
firm, who had just come from York, spoke
to a friend in the Manchester trade across
the table, and said ; " I say. Heap, you remember
George Hudson, the draper, of
York, and the little shop he had in College
Street, by the old archway?"

"Ay, sure; one could touch the ceiling
with one's upstretched hand !" assented the
other.

"Ah! And now he's Lord Mayor of York,
and Chairman of the North Midland Railway,
too grand to know a body. He gave
me a blank stare when I nodded to hiiu
yesterday, as if he had never looked at a
sample of ribbon in his life, or given a fellow
an order over his own counter. I hear he
gave a grand dinner last December at the
Mansion House to more than a hundred

VOL. HI. M

gentlemen. Railways have made a great
man of Idmr

"Nay," said the other, called Heap, "I
heard he had a thousand pounds left him asa
legacy, and that set him going."

Left to his wife, you mean. But that
does not matter. ' What's niv wife's is mine,
and what's mine's my own,' you know. The
man was always uncommonly sharp and
shrewd; he made a venture in railway shares
that turned up trumps ; then he got mixed
up with the directors of the North Midland,
and was introduced to a Mr. Metcalfe, and
now the pair are making money by steam,
and George Hudson is my Lord Major and
talks of pointer into Parliament. So much for
railway speculations?"

The talk diverged right and left, and
Jasper listened as he heard what scrip was
at a premium, which at a discount, discussed
with all the volubility, confidence, and (inaccuracy
of the commercial room.

He was glad when Mr. Proctor retired on
the plea of over-fatigue, and abandoned him
to his own resources for the rest of the day.

In less than ten minutes he had left the
reek of tobacco behind, and was on his way
to Basinghall Street and the office of Buttermere
and Earnshaw.

Ellison, the clerk, eyed him askance, but
carried in his name to his principals, and
ushered him into their joint office, as though
he had never seen or heard of Jasper Ellis
before.

Very friendly and chatty were both
Buttermere and Earnshaw ; family and
friendly matters were alone discussed for
some time ; Allan shook hands with him
afresh as his future brother-in-law ; and then,
after he had contrived, by a casual question
or two, to elicit from Buttermere that Ellison
could not possibly be the same individual
he had known in his childhood, he opened
out the real object of his visit and arranged
for the investment of some £150 in railway
scrip under their auspices.

It was by no means a large sum, but,
eager as was his craving for gain, every coin
that passed out of his own safe-keeping, for
any purpose, was like a drop of the vital

M 2

fluid from his own heart ; yet, had he not
heard how fortunes had already been
realised with less sums in railway shares, and
were not the share brokers themselves
primed with anecdotes to illustrate the
seductive fact?

Buttermere and Allan appeared prosperous
and jolly ; had wine at hand, of which
they were liberal ; and, before they parted,
the former intimated to Mr. Ellis, in the
strictest confidence, that they had a railway
scheme of their own in contemplation, which
was likely to be a good thing for all concerned
; that it was premature to say more
at present, but he should be one of the
very first admitted to their confidence.

He went back to Skipton " spittle," as the
Craven people say, having taken the infection
naturally and readily. A wink from
the inoculator conveyed the intelligence to
the green-eyed clerk, as the office door
closed behind the new investor and the
clerk's employer, Basil Buttermere, who,
leaving his unbusinesslike partner behind,
accompanied Jasper to the inn door, on the

pretence of "business in the neighbourhood."


If the " business " was a fiction, how was
Jasper to know ? If Basil Buttermere had
plans, and schemes, and secrets unsuspected
by ]his own partner, how was Jasper to suspect?
And if the said oily Basil Buttermere
had a far-seeing eye on Edith's thousands,
or Mrs. Stathani's tens of thousands,
how was Jasper to suspect that ? Allan
Earnshaw did not.

CHAPTER XL

BROUGHT TO AN ISSUE.

VERY discouraging were the reports
from the manager and viewer at
Osnianthorpe Colliery. The engine was
kept at work pumping, but, so long as only
the upper seams could be worked, the output
of coal was scarcely sufficient to cover the
cost. Josiah Proctor became unusually
fidgety and anxious; old Mrs. Statham,
who had an insurmountable horror of the
sea, keeping this uneasiness alive with her
frequent inquiries for " news of that well-behaved
young gentleman, Mr. Pickersgill."
When in due time a letter did arrive, it
contained a hasty assurance of Martin's safe
arrival at Kingston, whence it was dated

and regret that he had not reached the
island in time to participate in the rejoicing
of the negroes on the 1st of August, when
their emancipation became a complete fact.
He promised to write more fully from
Spanish Town. For that promised communication
both Mr. Proctor and Mr. Thorpe
waited, at first with ease expectation, then
with growing anxiety. Anxiety gave place
to fear, and then came — Martin himself, in
deep mourning.

He was the bearer of disastrous tidings.

From what I could gather," said he,
from the present owner of our old plantation,
Mr. Vaseyy had sold the estate, in utter
disgust at the prospect of cultivating crops
with hired labour, intending to settle ultimately
in New Orleans as a cotton-planter.
He had stated openly that his young partner
meaning myself — had squeamish notions
about slavery, and he thought he should
visit Old England once again, if only to
ascertain whether the cotton-planting must
be on his own account, or for both. And I
ascertained, before I came away, that Mr.

Vaseyy himself sailed in the ill-fated Albatross,
and, to the best of belief, had on board
with him, either in specie or securities, the
whole of our possessions."

What !" exclaimed Mr. Proctor, uplifting
his hands in dismay

Yes, everything — the purchase money
of the estate, and the Government indemnity
for the freedom of our shines. And, when
the Albatross went down, I lost not only my
father's slave-bought fortune, but my father's
friend and — mine."

Martin's voice faltered and his eye suffused
as he concluded, but Mr. Proctor, who had
listened in a sort of blank stupor, started to
his feet, crying out,

Au papers and all ! Was the man mad
to entrust all to one set of planks and cordage
? There must be some mistake. He
could never be so crazy. Money, papers,

air

Yes, papers and all !" answered Martin,
sadly (for in his inmost heart he had
cherished a hope of owning and restoring
the home of his ancestors, since he had

known it as such). " But you must remember,
Mr. Vaseyy also entrusted his life in the
ship."

His life was his own, to risk if he chose,
his property was his own ; but he had no
right to dispose of your share in the plantation
without my consent during your minority,
or sours afterwards. And to risk
all in one vessel was sheer lunacy," exclaimed
the old gentleman, in angry distress.
"It is ruin, absolute ruin ! Osmanthorpe
is clean gone now P^

Perhaps not, sir ; I have with me certificates
of my birth, my parents' marriage and
death, and I found the picture of Pickersgill
Hope hanging on the wall of my old nurse
Dinah's cabin. The old woman herself I
have left with a friend in Manchester, to
rest after the long voyage."

You might just as well have left her
behind, lad ; certificates and picture are but
waste paper without the will. And it seems
Mr. Thorpe now cannot lay his hands on
the title-deeds. That bustling woman Janet
cleaned up his study some years back, and

he has never been able to find anything she
meddled with since. He intends to have a
fresh search. But what's the use without
the will or the sinews of war ? I have
almost exhausted our available funds in
efforts to drain the coal-pit, which was,
unfortunately, ' drowned out ' only two days
after you sailed. It is just ruin, ruin !"

Drowned out ! Were any lives lost ?"
questioned Martin. The reply seemed to
affect him more than any loss of property
That human lives — the lives of women and
little children — should have been sacrificed
for his gain, was, he said, more to be
deplored than the loss of fortune. That
might be replaced.

"How so?"

"Well, I called on my friend John Dan-son
— he is in his father's office — as I passed
through Manchester, and there chanced to
be with him at the time a railway engineer
or contractor, named Armistead, complaining
of the difficulty to find a competent
surveyor for a north-country line, the competition
for really good surveyors was so

great. Without preface, John pointed tome,
saying, ' Here would be the very individual
for you, Mr. Armistead, if he were
not a man of fortune,' and then there was
some lively chat on the subject. We became
very friendly, for almost at the first sound
of D]v voice Mr. Armistead looked me full
in the face and asked me if I remembered
resigning my seat on the Lancaster and
Skipton coach to a traveller who had himself
resigned his inside place to a Mr. Allan
Earnshaw, with a Miss Metcalfe in his
charge. It was at Giggleswick one christian.
— He had little need to remind me of
time or place. I had reasons of my own
for remembering — " And something like a
sigh followed the parenthesis. " But the
mention of names so familiar, not only' to
myself but John, led to conversation, and,
finally, we three spent the evening together
at the Star Hotel. And now that it turns
out I am a poor man after all, I think the
sooner I write and close with the offer Mr.
Armistead made — half in jest and half in
earnest — the better. If that vacancy be

filled another may occur, and I do not
mean to waste time or energies in bewailing
the inevitable. Who knows — my habits are
not expensive— I may pick up by the way
sufficient to set the colliery right and keep
it in hand ? And " — Martin put his hands
on his guardian's shoulders, and looked him
steadfastly in the face through his eloquent
eyes, — "believe me, Mr. Proctor, if there
be one thing more necessary to me than
another, at this time, it is work, real, downright,
hard work, that shall leave me no
time to brood over troubles or disappointments."


And so it came to pass that Martin ,
having lost all that he had, and all
that he had hoped to have, and not having
lost sisiht of Mr. Proctor's sometime hint
with respect to surveying, albeit lie had
entered on the new study with a very
different motive, turned his geological and
mathematical training to account, and went
forth to earn his own living in the sweat of
his brow, proving, as John Danson had
predicted, a valuable coadjutor to Mr.

Arinistead, who did not seem to suffer much
from his disappointment in love, or, if he
did, worked it off as Martin was disposed
to do. And whether either had an indigo;
of the other's case or not, one thins; is
certain, the two became fast friends.

I will not say that Jasper was glad of
Martin's misfortunes, but he certainly was
not sorry. He knew that Mr. Thorpe and
his grandfather turned over the certificates
Martin had brought, and scanned the sketch
of Pickersgill Hope, laying their heads
together to restore the rightful heir, and,
though he knew nothing of the missing title-deeds,
he was only too well aware that they
lacked the old sea-captain's affidavit and
the father's will, and that, so long as the
sandal-wood box held them safe under the
floor of his bed-room, there was little
chance of ousting the present owner. Thi;^
hiding-place happened to be also the private
receptacle for Mr. Jasper's spare cash, of
which, seeing that he never paid for aught
that could be had for nothing, never lent
except on good interest, never encouraged

befTfjars, and avoided church on collection
Sundays, he must have had a pretty fair
quota.

Of his miserly habits, his avaricious tendencies,
Edith knew nothing ; that he was
careful she did know ; his small economies
had been so often placed to his credit as
contrasted With the spendthrift habits of
others, and she saw so much of Mr. Thorpe's
thoughtlessness in money matters — which
often caused her serious embarrassment —
that she, like Miss Craggg, set Jasper's carefulness
down as prudence, and a virtue.
Then did not his blunt candour in speaking
of Dora prove him frank and straightforward
? his unwilling-ness to accuse Martin
in that old matter of the ghost, was not that
generous and noble ? and his love for herself
— his patient love — was it not something
of which a woman might be proud ?

And she was proud of him, looking forward
to his visits and back upon them as
oases in her existence ; excusing; their infrequency
on the ground, as he did, of distance,
and his grandfather's growing infirmities,

which threw the weight of business much
on his shoulders ; for there is no question
that the intervals between his appearance at
Ivy Fold were longer than they had been
wont to be ; so, stifling any doubt she might
have, she turned to her household duties,
to her superintendence of Dora, when the
young lady had been removed from school,
endeavouring to qualify her to bear rule
over her father's house when she herself
should leave it as Jasper's wife, and she
busied herself with knitting-pins and ,
in the gradual preparation of
an ample outfit for herself, her equally busy
and now remunerative pen providing material
for the growing store laid b}'' in lavender
against that happy time when she would
be able to repay Jasper with the devotion
of a life for his patient constancy.

Though she hardly recognised the fact,
Dora's exacting caprices, and Mr. Thorpe's
unthinking hospitality, tried her strength
and patience exceedingly. But he, since
the discovery of the cave in Langcliffe Scar,
had been so engrossed with excavations and

explorations that he was rarely at home,
and Dora paid long and frequent visits to
her Aunt Statham, and in those intervals
Edith regained her spirits and elasticity.
She had ceased to find solitude burdensome,
and was no longer " alone when alone."
There were occasions when hand and brain
grew weary from overwork, but at such
times she brought down her aunt's old book
of ballads, and sang them, with no audience
save Janet and Tippie (who sat at one end
of the piano when she played), and now
and then a stray cow in the pasture, which
came to the window to listen.

On one of these occasions, Avhen she was
warbling " Mary's Dream " with unusual
pathos, Dora and her Aunt Statham came
upon her without warning. It was lier
aunt's first appearance at Ivy Fold since
she and Dora had been ignominiously dismissed
from Skipton on account of that
very song. And now there was a repetition
of the painful scene so well remembered.
Dora's scream was the first
intimation of their presence to Edith — her

back being to the door. Janet was quickly
on the spot ; the old lady was laid on
the sofa, and restored with vinegar and
burnt feathers, and then, the fit over, not
one minute longer would she remain under
that roof, not one word more would she
say to Edith, but, taking Dora by the arm,
with her queer bag-bonnet all crushed and
awry, she was toiling up Bell Hill to the
White Hart," where her chaise had been
left, and in another hour was on her way
to Skipton, her first attempt at conciliation
having ended in deepened displeasure.

At the same time it must be told these
frequent visits of Dora to her aunt were not
altogether sources of satisfaction to Edith.
Mrs. Statham was herself so capricious, and
indulged or rebuked the girl so irrationally,
that the slightest opposition at home was
certain to provoke either a flood of hysterical
tears or petulant threats to go back to
her aunt. Sometimes, after those vagaries,
she would throw her symmetrical arms
around Edith's neck and entreat forgiveness,
vowing that Edith was a saint to bear

VOL. III. N

her ill-humours, but it generally happened
that she contrived to carry her threat into
execution. Once she rushed out of the
house, up the village, through Settle, and
was met and brought back by Dr. Burrow,
when three or four miles on her wav to
Skipton. After that, when offended, and
she insisted on soin to her aunt, Mr.
Thorpe would reluctantly quit his study to
take her thither by coach ; or Edith would
request Jasper to be her protector going or
returning if these freaks occurred during
his periodic visits, as, somehow, they very
strangely appeared to do.

She was far too lovely and impulsive to
be allowed to travel alone ; and was sure of
a welcome from Mrs. Statham, whose head
and hands were tremulous with delight at
these tokens of the darling's affection, and
even Poll began to cry, " Back again, Dora !
Couldn't live away from old aunt !"

The old aunt discovered her mistake
before long, as Deborah and Janet both
prognosticated she would.

The fair one with golden locks," as Aunt

Stathatri called the light fragile girl, had
passed her sixteenth birthday, and, Jasper
having made no secret of Edith's absurd
objection to marry before that chit Dora was
sixteen, it followed that outsiders began to
evince a new interest in the denizens of Ivy
Fold, and to pester Janet or Mr. Thorpe,
or even Edith herself, with the question,
When's the wedding to be ?"

The question was easier asked than
answered, for, singularly enough, Jasper,
who had been all eagerness hitherto, ceased
to press his betrothed for the fulfilment of
her promise. Not that he loved her one
tittle the less, but that there was a strife
within his breast unknown to mortal save
himself. A feverish restlessness took possession
of him, destroyed his sleep and his
appetite, and, when Edith expressed alarm
lest illness was impending, he met her
solicitude with snappish impatience that
brought tears to her eyes, and the next
moment he was all contrition and tenderness.
Not Dora was more incomprehensible, and
yet she was sufficiently trying.

N 2

Old Mr. Proctor, however, brought matters
to an issue. He demanded of Jasper
point-blank, in the presence of Mr. Thorpe,
"sis it you, sir, who are shill3^shallying, or is
it Miss Edith ? I insist on your bringing a
wife home and settling down respectably,
instead of jerking like a puppet between
Skipton and Settle. I don't like it, sir, and
old Dapple does not like it either."

And as it turned out that Mr. Thorpe
considered that Edith had sacrificed herself
to his own irregular habits, and to Dora's
petty finches, longer than should have been
expected, he and Mr. Proctor arranged that
the wedding should take place the first
week in October — September having just
put in an appearance — always pre-supposing
Miss Edith's willing-ness.

To Edith a promise was a sacred thing :
there was no drawing back, had she so
desired. But, indeed, she had no such
desire. She rested her blushing cheek
against the beating heart of Jasper in perfect
content. She would not have owned it
even to herself, but she had been a bond-slave

to that promise made long years ago,
and now the bond would lapse, and she
could go free unto another and a closer
bondage.

And you will love me ever, Jasper, ever
dearly as you love me now," she murmured,
knowing well what the reply would be.

Ever, Edie, ever ! Whatsoever comes
or goes I shall love you to the last hour of
my existence." And his lips, burning as
with internal fever, set a solemn seal upon
her forehead and the delusive vow.

The rain-clouds of the day had gone,
and the stars were out, when Edith sought
the privacy of the white chamber, and knelt
by that bed-side so long unused, and now
only occupied by herself, as a recent
concession to a whim of Miss Dora, who
thought a young lady approaching seventeen
had a right to have a room to herself."
The concession had cost Edith more than
others suspected. Years had not weakened
the impression of the last uses of that
white bed, and for many nights she lay
hours awake, feeling as if the cold and rigid

corpse of her dear, dead mother lay-stretched
beside her. She knew it was all
imagination, and overcame it in time by
sheer strength of will, but the effort was a
trial. Yet now she lay there, even in more
tranquillity than elsewhere ; had a visible
angel hovered over her beneath its snowy
canopy, she could not have felt more assured
that her mother's angelic presence brought
repose.

And so she knelt there the night her
wedding-day had been fixed, and prayed
earnestly for a blessing and an assurance
that she was not deserting her trust too
soon.

She rose to her feet with a deep sense of
calm, and a lon^incr to kiss Dora and bid hera
second good night before she slept. Not
to disturb others, she crossed the landing
quietly to her old room. As she entered
Dora, standing by the table, gave a start,
and so did she. The window, which came
low, almost to the floor, had apparently been
left partially open on account of the heat
and the blind had not been drawn down.

Why, Dora ! That was a man's face
against the window !"

Oh, dear, yes. It has given me such a
fright!" cried Dora. "I was taken by
surprise!"

I should think so. He surely could not
be a robber. Suppose I call father and
Jasper."

Robber ? Oh, no. I fancy it must
have been one of Wildman's herdsmen,
attracted by the lisjht," said Dora, still in a
tremble. " He must have mounted the
iron guard at the window below to frighten
us. I oui]fht to have had the blind down''

"I cannot tell what should bring herdsmen
or anyone else into the pasture at this
hour, unless there was a sick beast to be
tended," replied Edith, as she closed the
window and lowered the blind, not very
well satisfied. " Do not tremble, Dora
dear. I'll not leave you again to-night ;
but lie down in my clothes and keep my
ears on the alert ; so that, if there be thieves,
I can give the alarm."

She might have spared ears and nerves

the strain. Whosoever owned the face,
Edith had no second alarm, although she
kept awake.

At the breakfast-table in the morning she
mentioned the man's face and their dread
of thieves. Mr. Thorpe insisted it was all
fancy'. Edith was as certain that it was
fact.

Janet, listening with her eyes and mouth
as open as her ears, thought she saw a swift
glance of intelligence shot across the table
from Mr. Ellis to the young miss trifling;
with her tea-spoon. Without a word she
went out at the back door, crossed to the
kitchen garden, and was over the low wall
and in the pasture in no time. She came
back triumphant.

High, bud sumboddv's bin their suer ez
water's weet ! I's bin back o' beyond an'
their's t' clary marks on's feet on t' railing'
round maister's study winder, whosumdiver
it ma' be."

She had never intruded into the study since
the day she had done so much damage therewith
brush and duster ; but Mr. Thorpe soon

satisfied himself by personal inspection, and,
scouting the idea of thieves, came back with
a notion of his own.

Why, yes, there is mud and grass on
the rail. Some one has been there, certainly
; and I'd not be surprised if it turned
out to be Thomas Clapham. It's just like
one of his tricks. I heard he gave little
Miss Vaseyy a great fright one night,
climbing up the pear-tree and putting his
head in at her window. That was more
than two years ago, soon after Parson Clapham
died."

I daresay you're right," assented Jasper,
conclusively.

*' Near, it wur non Monkey Tommy, I's
sure," thought Janet, but she kept her own
counsel, and resolved also to keep a sharp
look-out on Miss Dora. ^

CHAPTER XII.

A WEDDING DAY.

A BUSY month was September, 1841,
both at Ivy Fold and Lawyer Proctor's
; and at each place preparations were
no little impeded by the unaccountable
conduct of a silly girl.

It would be hard to say whether Dora or
Kitty was the more perverse or incomprehensible
at this time.

Janet and Edith, on housewifely and
hospitable cares intent, were busy as bees.
Martha Dyson's needle was set flying
through silk and muslin, lace and ribbons,
but Miss Dora would only lend a helping
hands by fits and starts. One hour she was
all mirth and laughter, the next, "like

Niobe, all tears." Lie would clasp her
sister in a sudden embrace, and cry out that
"" she wished they had never seen Jasper !
He was coming to part them ! She wished
there was no marrying !" or else that Edith
was " cruel and selfish to think of leaving
her ;" and then, when she saw the look of
pain on Edith's face, she would kiss her
passionately, rush to her own room and
bolt herself in.

She was to be her sister's bridesmaid, but
the measuring and making of her simple
white dress gave Martha Dyson more
trouble than all Edith's put together. As
Martha afterwards remarked, " I thought
she would have torn the muslin to races."

Yet she ran all their errands to Settle
with alacrity and pleasure, coming back
sometimes with dancing feet and sparkling
eyes, at others fretful and cross, and she
huns about her father's neck as if she were
a very child to be fondled and petted.

In Skipton, Kitty absolutely turned stubborn,
and refused her assistance in preparing
for a " new mistress," vowing that she

would quit at the next hirings. sirs.
Ripley was in despair; Jasper himself remonstrated
; Kitty burst into tears, and
went about the house with a sullen frown
upon her face. And so, going about the
work with no a;ood will, she contrived todo
almost as much damage as service.
Glass and china seemed to shatter at her
touch, one of the nodding Chinese mandarins
lost his head altogether, and in
clearing out Jasper's room for renovation
the antiquated looking-glass on his table
was demolished by a ruthless curtain-rod ;
whereupon Kitty ran downstairs shrieking
over the ill omen ; and a sort of shuddering
thrill went through the household,
although Josiah Proctor did affect to treat
the matter lightly — as a sign that "a
newer and better reflector was required for
the fair face of a young bride." But at the
same time ]airs. Ripley was charged to keep
Kitty in the regions of the kitchen, beyond
the range of chimney ornaments and
mirrors.

A sea-captain, deserted by his crew, was

never in worse plight than Mrs. Ripley
after that edict. Puffing about in vain
endeavours to be active, she lamented her
sad case to Mr. Postlethwaite.

Oh, Mr. Postlethwaite, it's an awful
thing to be fat in one's old age ! floors are
already scrubbed and furniture rubbed, but
how them new curtains are to get up, or
them new carpets get put down, I no more
know than the man in the moon."

To her amazement, the grave clerk came
to the rescue and tendered his services
(after office hours), and answered for those
of Deborah Gill also.

That Simon Postlethwaite should condescend
so far struck the good housekeeper
dumb ; but on the eve before the wedding-day,
when he called Mrs. Ripley into Mr.
Ellis's room to witness the transformation
created by new chintz, new carpets, and the
new pillared swing-glass, tastily draped by
Deborah with muslin, she told him a "good
upholsterer had been spoiled in making him
a lawyer.

May be so, Mrs. Ripley," he assented,

calmly ; but there was an incomprehensible
something in his eyes and those of Deborah
Gill, which might have told of a transformation
effected that had more to do with law
than with upholstery.

Tuesday was appointed for the wedding.
Mrs. Statham had so far relented as to send
a large bride-cake, and lace and satin for
the bride's dress. Mr. Thorpe's invitations
had gone far and wide, including even Allan
and his wife.

Invited by Miss Craggg, Jasper had taken
up his quarters at Well Bank in advance of
the eventful day ; partly, as he stated, that
he mio-ht " hear the banns read out for the
third time on the Sunday."

On that morning the bells were ringing
for church. Mr. Thorpe was already chatting
to friends in the church porch.

Edith, drawing on her gloves as she
came downstairs, and singing " Rock of
Ages" as she made the descent, was suddenly
startled by the sound of hysterical
sobbing in the parlour. Hastening forward
to ascertain what fresh matter was troubling

Dora, her step and pulse were abruptly
arrested.

She almost fell against the closed front
door, as she leaned there for support, incapable
of speech or motion. It was not
merely Dora's hysterical cry, " I shall die !
I shall die ! It will kill me, Jasper," that
had petrified her.

It was Jasper's reply (for he, too, was
there in the recess behind the thin wooden
partition, within half a yard of poor Edith).

Hush, Dora, my sweet one ; you are
killing me. You know I cannot help myself
I am bound in honour to your sister,
and cannot retract''

You promised me, you — you know you
did ; and you said she cared more for
Martin Pickersgill th — than for y — you.
And oh, it will kill me ! It will kill me !
I cannot let you go," sobbed, almost shrieked
Dora.

Oh, Dora, Dora, what am I to do ? " —
and shuddering Edith heard false kisses fall
on other lips than hers. " Before your rare
loveliness developed and led my heart captive

against ray very will, I was bound to
your good sister. The knowledge of your
wealth of love did not come upon me to
change my whole being until it was too
late to free myself. For your sweet sake,
Dora dear, I hung back. I would have
freed myself, but my grandfather, your
father, both held me to my bond, and there
is now no retreat. We must be brave, and
never let dear Edith know the sacrifice we
make."

If he were playing a part (and his thin
ears must have heard the hymn and footstep
brought to a sudden stand so near), he
played it effectively and cruelly. Edith
heard of the sobbing reply only the opening
words,

1 am sure if you were — to — speak to —
Edie — she — would — " Clinging to the wall,
shrinking from them and from herself, as if
she, and not they, was guilty of a great
premeditated wrong, Edith dragged herself
upstairs again, burdened with a terrible
load.

Her happiness was to be bought at the

sacrifice of two lives. She had kept Jasper
waiting until she had lost him. Was she
not more to blame than he? Had she not
herself impressed him with Dora's loveableness?
Had she not in time past rebuked
hiui for censuring Dora ? And, now that the
man's eyes had been enchanted by the
beauty of her young sister, what could she
say ? — " The fraud of men was ever so, since
summer first was leafy." And yet ! and yet !
she had felt so assured of his love, had reposed
so perfect a faith in his faith ! What
was to be done ? Alone now, to all intents
and purposes she felt herself. The motto
on the mantelpiece before her seemed a
mockery.

The bells dropped, the loiterers entered
the church, the solemn psalms came floating
in through the window from congregated
throats, there was a hush as if for prayer,
and still she lay blanched and bewildered
across the white bed where she had flung
herself in the abandonment of a stunned
soul.

What wild inarticulate prayers went up to

VOL. III.

the Throne of Grace for comfort and guidance
in that hour of much agony !

She could not marry Jasper now that she
knew he loved Dora better. She could not
blight the life of the child she had vowed to
guard from pain and sorrow. There remained
for her nothing but to fold away her
bridal dress and her bridal hopes with it.
It was better that one should suffer than
two. But the task of renunciation — how
was that to be performed ?

She was spared the supreme effort to
which she was nervine herself.

Mr. Thorpe, coming in from church,
annoyed that none of his family had been
present, was surprised to discover Dora on
the sofa drenched in tears, and Jasper on
his knees beside her strivings to console her.
An explanation followed which Jasper
managed so adroitly as to convey the impression
that he was a man of strict honour,
bewitched by Dora's infatuation for him ;
and to leave Mr. Thorpe perplexed between
his parental love and his sense of justice.

Dora's tear-stained face carried the day.
As it ever had been, so it ever would bethe
fond father couhi see nothing more imperative
than the gratification of his child.

Yet he was not now so blinded to truth
and duty as to forget Edith and her claim to
be considered. He sought her out, hardly
daring to approach the momentous subject
on which loves and lives seemed to depend.

To his astonishment, he found her composed,
though pale ; herself prepared to
abjure her fickle lover, and to find excuses
for both Dora and him.

Let us be thankful," said she to her stepfather,
"that we made this discovery before
it was too late ! Life-long misery must have
followed such a revelation after marriage !"
But what her feelings were as she said it, no
one around her could imagine or realise.
Her still, white, tearless face deceived them
all.

Not even when Dora fell on her neck and
kissed her with grateful warmth, crying out
she was " the dearest and best of sisters," dido

2

her countenance reveal the emotion within,
for Edith could not with her whole heart
say she was glad to make her happy.

Janet, on the first inkling of the broken-off
match, had exclaimed, " Why, yer's
a pretty hingin-i-the-bell-ropes? No wedding
!" But the woman did not say she was
sorry. Jasper had never stood high in her
estimation.

How all Settle and Giggleswick were
taken by surprise when St. Alkald's bells
rang out their wedding peal on the appointed
morning ; and the fair young Dora took her
place at the altar beside the bridegroom,
attired in the simple dress which she should
have worn as bridesmaid ; whilst Edith,
whose name had been associated with
Jasper's for so many years, proclaimed with
his in open banns, stood behind, the very
hue of the plain cambric muslin she wore,
and to all seeming passive and emotionless
as a statue ! Had she been less rigid, less
statuesque, she must have broken down, for
her heart was bursting. She made her last
sacrifice when she consented to stand there

as she inward] v felt — a mark for all the
scorn and shame that rejection could bring
upon her.

The Rev. Rowland Ingram had been apprised
of the change by receipt of the marriage
licence overnight, but the spectators,
who thronged the church, were filled with
amazement ; and it was buzzed from one to
another that the licence was dated earlier
than the last reading of the basins.

There had been an angry scene at Ivy
Fold in the early morning, when Mr. Proctor
put in an appearance, as there had been
the night before, when Allan and Grace
arrived, and first became acquainted with
the change ; but Edith's apparent sanction
and passivity baffled curiosity, and disarmed
those who would have done battle in her
cause.

There has been some mistake," she said,
quietly, in answer to all inquiries ; " the
sooner it is rectified the better."

There was a much greater commotion
when a post-chaise came rattling down Bell
Hill, scattering the crowd of Grammar

School boys, and almost running clown
Solomon Bracken, on its way to Ivy Fold,
where it stopped just as the last of the
wedding party had entered the door, and
Mrs. Statham alighted, with all the dignity
the antiquated dame could assume, in full
array — fan, mittens, open gown, mob cap,
bag-bonnet, and all.

As she sailed up the flagged path, leaning
on Deborah's arm, smiling benignly, Janet
caught sicrht of her from the kitchen window.
Up went her hands in dismay
'' Why ! if yer's not Deb and t' owt aunt,
an' shoo as black as a crow from head to
heel ! It's like to be a black dav's work, I

1 I"

reckon !

Janet was not far out. The old lady
entered with overflowing condescension ;
curtseyed with formal "race to the assembled
guests, spoke a word of congratulation
to Mr. Thorpe and to Jasper, who had
latterly, thanks to Dora, crept a little into
her soot graces, and then asking for " the

CO' o

bride," been ushered upstairs, where the
ladies were doffimz bonnets and shawls.

At the top of the staircase she met Edith,
who was trying vainly to hide her wound
with a smile.

"My dear," said she, with a kind salute,
I am afraid I have been a silly old
woman ; but let bygones be bygones ; we
must all forget and forgive. And, to show
that your old aunt is not so hard as you may
have thought, I have brought you a nice little
wedding present."

Edith recoiled, as the old lady, who had
been fumbling in one of her capacious pockets,
would have put into her hand a roll of
notes, saying, " There are a thousand
pounds, my dear, to repay you for your
loving care of my little namesake."

"They are not for me, dear aunt," she
faltered, in a faint attempt to seem cheerful.
I am not the bride ; it is Dora !"

Dora shrieked Mrs. Stathara. " Dora .'"
and the shrill tones rang through the house,
setting everyone in commotion. "What
juggling is this ? What deception has been
practised here ?"

Straight into Edith's room marched she,

irate and stern, to demand an explanation ;
on which, brokenly as it was given, she put
her own construction.

Dora came, clung to her knees and implored
forgiveness on account of her great
love for Jasper ; saying it would have killed
her to give him up.

Edith simply repeated her former words
that " Jasper had discovered his mistaken
affection in time to prevent a greater
mistake."

And you ?" questioned Aunt Statham,
fixinfij her s^aze on Edith's dark-rimmed
eyes.

I could not blight two dear lives. My
wound will heal in time."

"Mv dear, such wounds never heal, I
know it. Ladies," (she turned to the friends
who had crowded round), " be pleased to
leave me with my grandsires." She parted
the roll of notes. " Dora, there are five
hundred pounds, take them to your husband
and say I send them to buy kindness for his
hahy-wifeT

'^ Buy kindness ? Oh, aunt, Jasper is sure

to be kind to me. He loves me so much,
so very much," cried Dora, enthusiastically.

Eugh ! Silly baby, loves money so
much, you should say," muttered the old
lady, as with a ready payment of kisses versatile
Dora ran off with the wedding gift to
Jasper.

The wrinkled face changed suddenly.
"■ And now, Edith," she said, " that we are
alone, and fellow-sufferers, sit down, whilst I
uncover a wound that has bled since I was
as young as you. It is the lot of some
women to suffer and endure. It is your lot
now, my poor child, it has been mine. You
have seen how I was moved by the mere
singing of a song, and no doubt thought
your old aunt crazy and capricious. My
dear, I am an aged woman now, but all the
sad history and memories of my young
heart centre in that song. It is a terror tome
now. I sans; it when I was a 2;irl like
you, without shrinking. I had no presentiments.
Youth is fearless. I had a lover
once. I was then beautiful. We had loved
each other from childhood. To separate us

•

his parents sent him to sea, but William
came back voyage after voyage, and never
forgot to bring me some memorial of his
love. If I pet Poll and Fido over-much, it
is because they were his gifts. He had risen,
was the captain of a merchantman, and we
were old enough to marry without consulting
others. He had given up his ship for me.
Our weddings dav was fixed. We were
Walking together by the shore at Whitby,
where I lived, when suddenly, from amongst
the rocks, a press-gang started upon us, he
was torn from me, and I never saw my beloved
one more — m life's

The wrinkled face twitched and quivered.
Edith, in alarm, offered a glass of water,
and soon the poor old lady resumed her
story, which seemed to carry Edith away
from her own sorrow in a tide of sympathetic
emotion.

"It was during the French Revolution,
mv dear. England and France were at
war. And he was sent on board a man-o'-war,
as much distressed as poor me. One
night — shall I ever forget it ? — I was singing

sadly to myself his favourite song,
Mary's Dream,' when, oh ! ray child, it was
awful, I saw my own dear love before me,
pale as a sheet, and dripping wet. I shrieked
and had some sort of fit. It seems, as a
messmate sent me word, he had tried to
swim ashore to me, under cover of the
night, and his drowned body was seen floating
on the waves when daylight came."

Oh ! aunt, how terrible !*'

Ah ! Edith, it was terrible, the shock
almost killed me, for I was young then. I
put on mourning for my lost love, and I
wear it still, for I mourn him in my heart.
And at times he comes back to me in the
still hours of night, wet and white, as a
token and a warning — my dear drowned
love, young as he was, whilst I am grey and
wrinkled, old — all but my heart, and there
the pain seems ever fresh. He came to me
last night, and I knew there was trouble at
hand. Poor Edith ! I fancied Dora would
need comfort, not you!"

At last Edith's tears were falling, and the
aged aunt was weeping too, the aunt who in

all her long narrative bad never jerked out
one impatient " Eugh !" though they plentifully
besprinkled her free comments when
she found her way to the company downstairs,
and watched Jasper with her keen
eyes.

CHAPTER XIII.

Reaction.

JASPER felt himself in favour. The five
hundred pounds in hand were five
hundred assurances that he had done wisely;
that his diplomacy had been successful ; and
he began to feel as if Mrs. Statham's thirty
thousand pounds were almost in his grasp.
Yet the pale face of Edith seemed pictured
on the notes, came like a spectre between
him and the blushful face of his young bride,
and, could Dora have divined his thoughts,
she would have been less rapturously happy,
nay, might have envied her sad sister so
shamelessly deserted at the twelfth hour.
And neither would have been especially
elated, could the hearts of visitors assembled

to partake of the wedding-feast have been
bared before them.

Lawyer Hartley, pushing his spectacles
upon his forehead, had made open protest.

What !" he exclaimed, " sit down to a
wedding-feast, prepared in honour of my
ward, and laid out to be eaten in honour of
her sister ? Not whilst I have a crust of my
own ! Good morning, Mr. and Mrs. Ellis.
Come along, Doctor, I think we are both of
one mind. No offence to you, friend Thorpe,
it's none of your doing."

And, as Dr. Burrow took his friend's arm,
and retired along with him, it may be presumed
they were both of one mind.

Honeymoon trips had not become common.
Had they been, Jasper would most
likely have preferred to save his time and
money. As it was, the newly-married pair
went direct to their own home in a hired
conveyance, and Mr. Proctor with them, ina
state of bewilderment not to be described
or comprehended, so many feelings were at
work within him. As he afterwards told
Jasper, "this wayward wax doll was not the

new inmate for whom he had so freely provided
and prepared, as the future mistress
and ruler of his household." Then Mrs.
Statham's manner was not to be fathomed,
and, notwithstanding the five hundred
pounds, he had misgivings that the old lady
was as adverse to the whole proceeding ashe
himself

Adverse, indeed ! When the post-chaise
carried Deb and Mrs. Statham away from
Giggleswick, leaving poor Edith consoled
with full assurance of her grand-aunt's approbation
and affection, it stopped short of
Settle at Lawyer Hartley's door, and before
it wheeled away there was another " last
will and testament " added to the many
Theodora Statham, spinster, had duly
aimed and sealed.

Her aunt fairly gone, Edith would fain
have sought the solitude of her own room
to still her throbbing pulses. But there
was no respite for her. Grace Earnshaw
left her no leisure for her own thoughts.
She had a hundred questions to ask, a long
string of complaints and domestic trials to

pour into her ear. All little Basil's ailments
to recount ; all Allan's absorption by
Buttermere, who, she averred, made a tool
of her husband, and had only urged the
partnership to get hold of his moneys, which
she feared was fast coming to an end, so
little could she ^^et for her own use. She
could scarcely tell why or wherefore she
distrusted them, but she wished he Alas well
rid both of Buttermere and his clerk Ellison.
She poured all into Edith's ear,
utterly oblivious of the effort required to
keep agony down and attention fixed. Yet
Edith roused at the mention of Buttermere,
and was not too self-absorbed to feel for
poor Grace in her lamentations that little
Basil had never seen either his grandfather
or grandmother Metcalfe, and that, though
they had no other child to love or to endow
with their wealth, neither father nor
mother would look at her if she passed
them in the street. The riches and magnificence
of the Metcalf made no impression
on Edith, but the loss of parental care and
love she had herself felt and could understand,

and in comforting Grace there was
healing balm for herself.

Edith undertook to put Allan on his
guard against his partner. She might as
well have spoken to the winds. "Basil
was a good fellow," he said, " and Grace
did not understand business. They were
promoting a railway company, and that
absorbed their capital."

They, too, disappeared with the next
day's coach, and Edith was at last alone.
Mr. Thorpe was away at daybreak, at
Langcliffe, hard at work exploring the great
cave, named after the newly-crowned Queen,
and the house was preternaturally still.
Old Tippie mewed and wandered about,
looking wistfully for his little mistress ; and
even Janet went about her work quietly
and thoughtfully. Probably she was asking
herself if Tim would consent to have their
wedding indefinitely postponed.

Edith no longer cared to rush to her
room to hide her head ; the time for that
had gone by. She seated herself as of old
in the window-seat, and looked out on the

VOL. III. p

browsing cattle and the filling; autumnal
leaves, but her hands were idle in her lap,
and she felt as if all care or wish for life,
all motive for exertion, were over. She
kept her eyes turned away from the recess
which had been the death-bed of her hopes,
but the very effort brought back all she had
overheard. And now, for the first time
since that bitter hour, she recalled Dora's
reference to Martin Pickersgill, and Jasper's
jealousy, and, as if conjured up by the mere
passing thought of him, Martin's friend,
little Miss Vaseyy, tapped at the door and
walked in.

My dear," said she, " I thought you
might be lonely, so, Elizabeth being willing,
I have brought my sewing and come to sit
with you."

In her then mood Edith would much
rather have been alone, but there was no
resisting the kind good-will of Miss Vaseyy,
who began to chat in her amiable way, just
as a bird might chirrup, but whether by
design or accident the sore subject was

touched, Edith's armour was pierced, and
she gave way to a flood of tears.

My dear, my dear, I am so sorry', but
it is all for the best ; there is nothing like a
good fit of crying to relieve an oppressed,
heart, just as a good shower clears the sky.
If I had not been able to cry ray troubles
away, I might have been a miserable woman
now."

"You, Miss Vaseyy, so bright and cheerful
always," said Edith, wearily.

Yes, my dear, and love troubles, too.
I was very young when my mother died,
and my father went abroad and placed me
with my aunt ; and I was not older than
Dora when Thomas Clapham wanted to
marry me. He was very different then from
what he is now, and I was very fond of
him, but my aunt would not hear of it.
Thomas used to sav it was Cousin Elizabeth
who was jealous, because I had a sweetheart
and she had none, but I fear he was
ungenerous. Any ways, I was locked up in
my bed-room to keep me from him, and

i>2

kept there, and I used to cry and beg to be
released, and I was told horrid tales about
him until I promised I would not listen to
him. And then I was let out, but I was
still kept close in doors. And then — and
then — Thomas in despair went abroad, went
to France, and that was the ruin of him."

Ruin of him, how ?"

"Well, Edith, religion and morals were
what the Reign of Terror had made them,
and he imbibed principles and notions which
put him farther away from me than my
aunt's locks and bolts. And I shed more
bitter tears over him then, when I was old
enough to please myself, than ever I did
before. And then I had to say ' nay ' to
him, with love and Christian principle at
variance; and it was a trial — but! overcame
it in time, as you will your trouble."

Edith shook her head doubtfully.

It is not so very long since — only when
Parson Clapham died — that Thomas climbed
the pear-tree, and frightened me just as I
was going to bed, putting his head in at the
window and wanting to know for the last

time if I meant to marry him ; and I told
him I could not marry any man who was
not a Christian. He swore at me, and went
away, and now he has got a housekeeper at
Backhouse, and I shall die an old maid,
but not an unhappy one, I hope. And, if T
am not rich, I am at least pretty much my
own mistress, and my love-dream is only a
memory. You, Edith, have a stronger
mind than I, and may recover sooner."

A thought struck Edith.

"MissVasey, did you hear that some one
mounted the iron window-guard, and
frightened Dora and me one night?"

Ann nodded.

Do you think that was Mr. Clapham ?"

I dont Janet told Tim, and Tim told
us that the mud and grass were also on the
guard at tlds window, and on the window-sill
above."

Why, that was Jasper's room !" and
Edith gasped.

Yes, my dear, but that is not the first
time Jasper Ellis has laid his blame on
others' shoulders," said Miss Vaseyy, with

another nod. 'poor Martin Pickerswill
could tell you that."

"Martin Pickersgill," murmured Edith,
dreamily.

"Yes, Jasper was always playing tricks
on him because he would not tell tales.
Do you remember the "host ?"

Remember ! As if she would ever
forget !

"Well, that was Jasper's doing. He
stole away Martin's lantern, and he and the
bigger boys crept through Martin's bed-room,
and took away the very sheet from over
him and John Danson, and went off down
the pear-tree to the churchyard."

"Are you quite sure?" questioned Edith,
with white lips.

Quite. John Danson told me, under
promise of secrecy, and John said it was
Jasper who moved Martin's guitar where he
would fall over it. He somehow seemed
to have a spite against Martin."

The room appeared to spin round with
Edith. Was everything coming to crush
her at once ? She questioned and cross-questioned,

and every answer brought her
nearer the truth ; and with the truth came
the painful conviction that she had dealt
Martin the hardest blow of all, and that
Jasper, whona she so trusted, had directed
her hand.

She rose, she paced the room. Her face
flushed, contending emotions at work within
her breast, indignation and remorse rising
uppermost.

She had but to learn that Dora had gone
so readily on errands to John Tatham's
because the post-office was in the way, and
there was a secret correspondence with
Jasper, whose letters waited "to be called
for," and that the marriage licence, for
which he had pretended to ride post-haste
to Ripon, had been pre-dated more than a
week, to fill her cup to the brim.

It was a bitter potion, and she drank it
to the dregs, but it Idlled whatever was left
in her heart of love for Jasper. He had
been a deceiver from first to last ; had
wooed her in very wantonness only to keep
her from another, and to scorn her in the

end. And if in thinking thus she was wide
of the mark, it was not more stinging than
the truth would have been.

Ann Vaseyy had certainly roused her from
melancholy. There could be no more tears
shed for such a man. Perhaps, had her
love had deeper root, it might have been
otherwise ; but when her esteem went her
love went with it ; yet for all that a gaping
wound was left.

It was bitterly humiliating to think she
had been so beguiled ; but more bitter to
feel that she had herself done injustice to
Martin's noble nature, an injustice never to
be repaired.

And now she began to have fears for
Dora : — to question the wisdom of giving
the spoiled darling to a man so utterly
false. And, though she knew of no base
motive for his new choice, she mistrusted
him utterly now. Nay, she despised herself
for her faith in him, forgetting that she had
shared the common belief, and to drive
away regret or obtrusive thought she busied
herself more than ever with household

duties ; plied her needle for the poor,
visited the sick and sorrowful, or, to drive
out evil and bitter feelings, walked out
alone with rapid steps through lanes and
by-ways, and there planned and fashioned
a work of fiction for her pen to perfect in
the solitude of her own room. And so in
process of time the wound gradually healed,
but what lay under the scars was not for
mortal to know.

Of this contest with herself absent-minded
Mr. Thorpe suspected nothing. Misled by
her calm demeanour, he was only thankful
she "suffered so little and got over her
disappointment so well."

From Martin Pickersgill he heard very
rarely ; the wedding was quite an old event
before letters passed, and though her stepfather
mentioned to Edith, with some satisfaction,
that " the fine young fellow seemed
hard at work as a surveyor for projected
railways, and, moreover, with the help of
Mr. Armistead, had got Osmanthorpe colliery
dry at last," he had so much to say to
Martin respecting the new cave they had

together discovered, and the explorations
going on there, that the minor matter of his
daughter's marriage never found its way
into the letter. Glad, indeed, would Edith
have been to convey through him an apology
to Martin for her harsh judgment, but that
would have involved so much — the condemnation
of Jasper, a seeming advance on
lier part — delicacy and modesty forbade
both, and she could only sigh over a wrong
unrepaired, for she had a tender conscience,
and it was easier for Edith to forgive others
than to forgive herself.

So time Hew on under the shadow of St.
Alkald's grey tower, dropping healing bal-san
from his silent wings, and nothing
more startling to the nerves of the assiduous
authoress, who found her pen an antidote to
grief and gossip, than an unexpected antiquary
or geologist to entertain, or an infrequent
letter from Dora Ellis, who certainly
did not spend too many pennies in the new
black portraits of Her Majesty for franking
correspondence.

Her news too was of the briefest, had a

certain stiffness as if written under supervision
— Mrs. Ripley bad resigned. Kitty, the
former maid, had returned. Fido had not
waked from his winter sleep, and Lier aunt
was not to be comforted. Jasper had been
to Leeds and seen Allan. Jasper was going
to be a railway director, like Mr. Metcalfe.
Mr. Postlethwaite was soins; to be a lawyer
himself and leave them, and Mr. Proctor
was in a terrible way about it. Aunt Statim
was kind, or cross, as the case might
be, — and this, with a spice of loves for half
the village, was about the sin total of her
correspondence for many months.

Towards the end of a hot July, when
Edith was doubly occupied with the crisis
of her story, and the coming marriage of
faithful Janet and patient Tim, Mr. Thorpe
announced, with some ceremony, that a
party of scientific friends, mostly members
of the Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic
Society, or of the Yorkshire Union of
Mechanics' Institutes, were coming in a few
days to visit the curiosities of the neighbourhood,
and to examine the Victoria Cave,

the coins, fibula, bones, and other relics
found therein ; that Mr. Howson, John sahara,
and others, would be sure to join
them ; and that if she, Miss Craggg, Miss
Vaseyy, or any of her lady friends cared to
be of the party, they would have a pleasant
day and an intellectual treat. He further
intimated that Martin Pickers^ill, beincr a
member of the former society, might possibly
put in an appearance.

How was it that the bare expectation of
Martin's comus; made her go hot and cold
so strangely ? And why did she feel so
anxious, yet afraid to meet him ? Was she
fearful their positions were reversed, or was
she simply desirous to be just without violence
to womanly delicacy, and saw not
how ?

The morning came to find Mr. Thorpe
with the paper he vas to read still incomplete,
and his pen hard at work, whilst, one
after another, strangers came dropping in, to
the astonishment of Edith and Janet, who
had been told the explorers were to meet in
Settle. As each one came in hands were

shaken, and a fresh order was given for a cup

of coffee and a coop for Mr. A or Z,

as it might be ; and down again Mr. Thorpe's
head went to his paper, leaving Edith to
play hostess as best she might to the learned
men, and of the eight or nine who so dropped
in only three were known to her —
Thomas Lister, John Wilson, and Robert
Polloc, with whom came Mrs. Polloc.

CofFee-grinding and collop-frying kept
Janet in a fume. It was well her bread-flea
was amply filled, so heavy a raid was
made upon it; whilst, between the reception
of these people and their successive breakfasts,
Edith had scarcely time to put on her
bonnet and shawl in readiness.

Miss Craggg had excused herself, but little
Ann Vaseyy came tripping across to join them,
as lissom as a young girl, hoping for a pleasant
change, without caring a farthing for
science.

"I thought j\Iartin was to be here," she
whispered, glancing around, but Edith only
answered with a " may join us on the way."

Others did join them on Bell Hill, who

had paid their first visit to the ,
under the guidance of Dr. Burrow,
then ventilating his own particular theory
anent the well, which differed somewhat
from that laid down in diagrams on view at
the Institution ; and, whilst these scientific
disputants Avere loud in debate on its mysterious
origin and action, their discourse
sent Edith's memory back to a memorable
hour beside that well. But no Martin was
here to-day to share her reminiscences.

The relics, Roman, Samian, Celtic, pottery,
coins, bones, pins, beads, brooches, &c.,
which had been disinterred up to that time,
were inspected at the museum, and commented
on learnedly ; and then, after taking
the steep road out of Settle by Malham,
they were glad to step from sunshine into
the green shade of the wooded dell, where
Scalebar Force gave life and beauty to the
picture. Here science again grew speculative,
now on the denuding power of the
water on the limestone.

And then, climbing; over his walls, over
slippery limestone boulders, where Edith

was glad of Mr. Lister's strong arm, and
gallant Mr. Polloc came to the aid of Miss
Vaseyy, turning his wife over to Mr, Thorpe,
who was all enthusiasm, they reached and
passed Attermire Tarn ; there was a turn to
the bare bold front of Langcliffe Scars, and
an ascent to the Victoria Cave, where the
cliff towered vertically above them two hundred
feet. They were then seven hundred
feet above the adjacent river Kibble, as
John Tatham took occasion to inform them.
Here it was, before the two large chambers
of the cave were explored and commented
on, that Archibald Thorpe held
forth, and told over again the story of the
cave's discovery, regretting the absence of
the young companion to whose faithful
perseverance and unselfishness they were
indebted for his presence there to address
them ; and, though the entrance to the
stalactite chamber had been enlarged, he
made the danger they had run sufficiently
apparent to make Edith shudder ; and,
though her stepfather was the proud hero
of the hour, every word he said brought

Martin before her in his manliness and unselfishness
; and, if a contrast rose beside
the mental picture, who could wonder ?

Lister discoursed scientifically and poetically
of plants and birds as on they went, exploring
the river banks, the rocks and crevices;
others were great on grindstone, and shale, and
fossils, but through all her mind was occupied
with memories of the absent Martin, of
whom Thomas Lister had spoken in glowing
terms. He told — and she was quite willing
to listen — what a transformation IVIartin
Pickersgill had wrought at Osmanthorpe
Colliery, in the short time he had been
owner, although he only came occasionally
and went again. In spite of Squire Thorpe
and his brutal son, cock-fio;htin<]: and doer-fighting
had been almost done away with,
and the Barnsley poet took some little
credit to himself for the effect his own
Temperance Rhymes had had upon the
colliers and their families.

It was not until they were about to separate
near Settle Bridge, at the close of the
day, that Edith was recalled to herself by

hearing Mr. Thorpe, without consideration,
invite the whole party to tea at Ivy Fold.
She stood aghast. What would Janet say
to thirty-two hungry men coming to be
provided for without preparation ? Janet,
already too much disconcerted by the succession
of impromptu breakfasts or luncheons.

Think of it, ladies ! You, I mean, who
have not a set of servants at command, and
unlimited means, you who send out invitations
a week or more in advance, and have
to calculate your accommodation, think what
this meant in a country village, to a young
lady with one domestic!

Edith did not dream of disputing his
dictum. Her only thought was how to
obey. She set off at a run homewards,
leaving the rest to follow, arriving out of
breath to put Janet in a flutter, and test the
capabilities of cupboards and larder.

There was mounting on chairs to reach
do wn china, a rush to the linen press for napery,
and to Betty Dyson's for a supply of bread.
A boiling of kettles, frizzling of rashers and
collops of hung beef; and little Miss Vaseyy,

VOL. III. Q

stunned by the Babel of tongues, almost incapable
to render assistance, after her first
run home for Sally, and tea-spoons, and
pikelets, and cream ; so much, too, was she
overawed by the presence of Mrs. Polloc,
who sat rigid, the very impersonation of
offended dignity. The latter had looked
forward to a quiet chat with Miss Earnshaw
over a cosy tea, and a little private gossip
relative to Miss Earnshaw's brother and his
wife ; and this sudden inroad of thirty-two
argumentative country naturalists she regarded
as a personal injury, seeing that
Miss Earnshaw had not leisure to bestow a
moment upon her.

Poor Edith ! It was no slight part of her
afternoon's trial to see the portly matron so
froid and unamiable.

a

All things come to an end, even a scramble
to extemporise a feast in a country place
where shops are not ; even the long meal
itself, with all its hubbub of scientific disputation
; and then the guests somehow depart.
Even Mrs. Polloc, who declined the offer
of a beds preferring the " Golden Lion" on

this occasion. So at length the young
hostess, who had had her previous day's
ramble with the rest, was left to sink down
utterly exhausted, too faint to eat or
drink.

And Mr. Thorpe having gone, all elate
with his own hospitality, to escort his guests
to their inns or their vehicles, there was a
lull; and in the lull Janet remembered a
letter which came by the post at noon, a
hack-edged letter married '^ Immediate T

q2

CHAPTER XIV.

BEQUEATHED.

WHO knows not the sinking of heart
occasioned by a black-edged missive
from the home of distant friends ?

Edith was roused from the torpor of exhaustion
as she saw the handwriting of
Jasper Ellis, and was kept in a state of icy
dread until Mr. Thorpe at a late hour came
in and broke the sable seal.

Its contents justified her apprehensions.
Death and disaster were in every line,
mingled with bitter invectives against
Simon Postlethwaite as the primary cause
of all.

It stated that, simultaneously with the
appearance of a brass plate upon a certain

door at the other end of the town to
indicate the office of S. Postlethwaite,
Solicitor, Mrs. Statim — and not she alone
had with singular abruptness served a
formal notice on "Proctor and Ellis" to
withdraw all papers, documents, and business
whatsoever from their firm. That Mr.
Proctor, in great agitation thereat, had
gone at once to the old lady to seek an
explanation. It was supposed that during
the interview Mrs. Statham must have
blurted out something or other exceedingly
irritating and unpleasant, for his grandfather
had once more ruptured a blood-vessel,
dropped from his chair at her feet, and was
carried from her house a dead man.

The sudden shock had such an effect upon
the octogenarian Mrs. Statham herself that
she was seized with one of her customary
nervous attacks, had been speechless ever
since, and was not expected to survive ;
and lastly that Dora, in consequence of the
double fright, was lying in a most perilous
condition, and cried for Edith. The writer
ended by saying, " Do you think that Edith,

of her great love and tenderness, could
generously overlook the past and come toiler
sister in this terrible hour ?"

Edith's answer was her presence by the
delirious pillow of Dora before nine o'clock
in the morning, white as ashes with contending
feelings, but ministering to unconscious
needs, and stilling; the failings of
her sister's puny babe as if oblivious of the
treachery to which the feeble infant owed
its existence.

With her still loved Dora's life hanging
in the balance, and the solemn mysteries of
death and birth so close together under the
one roof, what room was there in such a
mind as hers for petty thoughts of self? All
she could see was Dora in danger, and the
commonest appliances of a sick-room wanting.
In her own quiet way she induced ungracious
Kitty to be helpful, dipped her
hand into her own pocket and gave her
orders with a prompt decision there was no
gainsaying. If she shrank from contact
with Jasper himself, it was from knowledge
of his duplicity, not from wounded pride or

affection. She had loner been too indignant
at her own weakness and credulity to envy
her sister.

It was with a beating heart and a fleet
foot she sped for a brief space to her Aunt
Statham's. She was barely in time to catch
a word and smile of recognition and blessing;
before she beheld the withered hands
extended upwards ; the light of another
world irradiated the wrinkled face, as the
glad cr}'- " Willie, I am coming," broke from
the thin lips, and the aged woman and her
sailor lover, separated for more than half a
century, were re-united in that world where
all is perennial bloom.

Josiah Proctor's funeral was conducted
very quietly indeed, even the hospitality
common on such occasions was avoided by
Jasper on the score of his wife's desperate
illness. The plea did not operate in the
pleaders favour, especially as it was supposed
that Mr. Ellis stepped not only into
his partner's old legal practice, but into a
snug fortune besides.

In this they were mistaken, as was Jasper

himself. The practice remained, the house
and the furniture, but what Utile there was
by way of fortune was charged with a
legacy of two thousand pounds to Martin
Pickersgil], " as a small atonement for insufficient
care of his papers," and with an
annuity to Josiah's miserable daughter, the
mother of Jasper, to be paid in small and
secret instalments as directed, in order to
secure her from absolute penury, and the
pittance from the clutches of the gambling
wretch, Jasper Ellis, the elder; and from
him, Jasper the son, was warned to hold,
aloof, lest he should be dra2;o;ed down to
perdition.

It was not satisfactory to Jasper to find
that Martin Pickersgill was to have so large
a slice of this grandfather's cake, of which it
appeared he had actually robbed himself
when he laid his hands on those "accursed
papers."

Still less satisfactory was it to find Simon
Postlethwaite the acting executor of Mrs.
Statham's affairs, in conjunction with Lawyer
Hartley, who held a will executed the very

day of his marriage to Dora, revoking all
former wills, and bestowing? the whole of
her property, real and personal, on her
dear, unselfish grand-niece, Edith Earnshaw,
with the exception of certain legacies —
£500 to her faithful friend and attendant,
Deborah Gill, to whom also she bequeathed
her parrot and household furniture ; £500
to Mr. Simon Postlethwaite, as a reward
for a discovery made, and a secret confided
to her the previous day ; and £2,000 to
that polite young man, ]martin Pickersgill,
to help him to recover his own inheritance,
and to Jasper — her lung — that he might
laugh at it and her at his leisure. Moreover,
it was laid as a charge upon Edith
that not one penny of her bequest should
go into the hands of Jasper Ellis, who had
married Dora under false pretences, with
mercenary motives.

Not a shilling; to Dora ! not a shilling to
Allan ! Edith the heiress after all !" Jasper
sat there dumb with disappointment and a
stinging sense of defeat. What discovery
had Postlethwaite made to be so well rewarded?

Could the clerk have seen him
pick up the draught-will the day his office
was cleared out? It must be so. How
else should his motive for marrying Dora
be known? And that Pickersgill ! What
was he that people should drop their
thousands into his lap for nothing ?

Others were congratulating Miss Earn-shaw.
He could not ; the words stuck in
this throat. To attain the £30,000 or more
left to her, he had crushed his own love
and tied himself to a waxwork vixen who
was next to penniless. He had ceased to
remember how many years it had taken to
scrape together his first £100, or what a
fine nest-eso; ]airs. Statham's £500 had been.
He had no thanks novo for the giver, he
could only in his heart of hearts " curse the
toothless old hag and her capricious wills !"

Imagine his raise when Deborah Gill,

or? '

more "rave and solemn in her sombre care,
with the veriest ghost of a grim smile,
handed to him before the assembled funeral
guests a blue, oval pasteboard box, containing
his legacy. White with over-mastering

fury, he rose to his feet, clashed the wig,
box and all, across the room, and with a
fearful imprecation made his way to the
door.

The missile struck the crape-covered cage,
where Poll moped and mourned in silence
for her mistress, disturbing its equilibrium.
In like rage the disturbed parrot screeched
out her latest lesson, "The grinning imp!
The grinning imp ! Not a penny ! Not a
penny !" and the loud echoes followed him
out of the house, and through the open
street, until he felt as if the very Furies
were pursuing him.

Fortunately, he betook himself to the
nearest refuge — turning sharply into the
office so recently his good grandfather's,.
and there, with his fingers in his foxes hair,
and his elbows on the desk he had violated,
let the whirlwind in his breast whirl itself
out. Had he gone to his wife's room in his
wrath, the consequences might have been
fatal. As it was, Edith's care, not to say
Edith's freely spent coin — Jasper never
knew the cost of her illness — helped to

restore Dora to her husband and her babe —
though shorn of the sunny curls which had
been her pride and glory.

Edith had been seven weeks from home,
was anxious to return, her presence under
that roof was something more than irksome ;
only imperative affection and duty had
called and kept her there. She could not
meet Jasper with equanimity ; for she had
a crowing; conviction that Dora was more
wronged than herself.

Nor was she satisfied to leave her sister
to linseed through convalescence in a home
where her delicacy and fragility were
disregarded, and where parsimony took the
place of prudence. Dora's helplessness had
done much to ensure her forgiveness, if not
to obliterate the memory of deceit.

It was a bright Monday morning in late
September. Edith was about to propose
that the mother and her babe should
accompany her back to Ivy Fold, for perfect
restoration, when Dora herself by a sudden
outburst, bore down the barriers of forbearance.


With Jasper at her heels, endeavouring to
check her, she rushed, in her dressing
gown, into the room where breakfast was
laid, and smarting herself under a taunt of
his, commenced an attack on the sister who
had so generously surrendered her private
feelings to serve her. Remonstrance was
useless. She ran on, "I say you alienated
Aunt Statham's affection from me with falsehood
and deception, you did ! And you
got her to make a will to rob me, her
namesake and her pet, of the fortune she
had left to me. She had left it to me !
I know she had. Jasper himself had seen
the will r

'^ Had he'' Edith turned her searching
dark eyes full on Jasper, who quailed before
their light. There was mingled pity and
contempt on her lips. " Then the secret is
out ! I am sorry for your wife, Mr. Ellis !'^
And, drawing herself up to her full height,
she left the room without another word to
either, wounded to the core by his baseness
and Dora's ingratitude.

In less than an hour she and her few

belongings were waiting for coach-tiuie in
the new office of Mr. Postletbwaite, her dead
aunt's legal representative, listening with
weary ears to details of the property now
her own ; to the technicalities of probate and
other matters, for which, just then, she had
little care. She did rouse to congratulate
her grave executor on being told that so soon
4^s Mrs. Statham's furniture could be legally
removed Miss Deborah Gill was to become
Mrs. Postletbwaite, in accordance with a
"very old promise, of which Mrs. Statham
was cognisant.

Naturally, in discussing the provisions of
her aunt's will, Mr. PickerSgill's name came
to the front, and Mr. Postlethwaite, in what
she thought a somewhat mysterious manner,
informed her that the suit of Pickersgill
versus Thorpe had been placed in his hands,
and that he hoped to be the means of
defeating that fine young gentleman's
enemies. An outbreak of enthusiasm on
Simon's part which took her by surprise, not
more than the word " enemies " haunted
mid perplexed her. She had barely

presence of mind to congratulate the new
solicitor on his client, and the client on and
through his solicitor, and her tongue seemed
tied when she would have left a message of
goodwill for Martin. Afraid of saying too
much she said too little.

Even that little, with well nieanint]^ but
formal Mr. Postlethwaite as interpreter
some twenty minutes later, was misunderstood.


As the coach bowled out of Skipton along
the parched highway a horseman, with his
head bent to avoid the showers of dust
and withered leaves whirling in the wind,
passed the vehicle at a gallop. A turn of
the head to exchange salutes with the
coachman, gave her a glimpse of the well-remembered
manly face which Mr. Apostles
had conjured up for her, and which
even at the moment occupied her mind in
connection with the problem who were the
enemies " to whom her executor had
referred. Her heart gave a sudden bound,
but she sank back drearily, regardless of her
fellow-passengers, and went on wondering

whether Mr. Postlethwaite meant Thorpe of
Osmanthorpe, or Jasper. Surely he could
not mean Jasper ! The lawyer could know
nothing of old schoolboy enmities ! Yet
somehow she had an uncomfortable feeling
that his word " enemies " included Jasper ;
and it was satisfactorily Mr. Pickersgill's
affairs were in other hands than those of Mr.
Ellis.

At Ivy Fold another disappointment
greeted her. Mr. Pickersgill had spent the
previous night there.

"Why, Edith, what brings you back
without a line beforehand ? Martin will be
quite disappointed. I told him you were
staying at Skipton !" was Mr. Thorpe's
salutation.

"Is it not time I was back? am I not
welcome at home ?" she asked playfully,
desirous to evade direct answer on either
point; not caring to awaken her step-father's
suspicions respecting his son-in-law, or to
blame misguided Dora ; and still less caring
to discuss the question of Martin's disappointment.


Why, yes, Edie, quite time. But I
wish Martin and you "

"As welcome as flowers i'May!" simultaneously
exclaimed Janet, following her
young mistress upstairs, whither she had
turned abruptly as if to remove her travelling
attire.

Do you know what brought Mr. 
here ?" Being in advance, and the
staircase dusky, Edith put the question with
more ease than had been possible in the
lighted room below.

"He coom for soon old papers, ah
reckon," quoth Janet. "Anyhow, I seed
register tak a bundle o' papers fro t' secretary
an gie um ta him ; an I feared him
say as he wur glad to be rid on um, lest
they should be lost again, there wur no
known what might happen."

Something did happen, but not immediately.


Months passed away, Edith flew back to
her pen to ease the ache of her heart, which
had awakened to something more than remorse
for her conduct to Martin. Her novel

VOL. III. R

was completed. Through a friend of Miss
Craggg it was introduced to a London publisher,
stood the reader's ordeal, was accepted,
published, and made a stir, for in '43
there was less competition for public favour
than in these days.

But what cared Edith then ? The last
friend to whom she had clung, whose heart
would warm to the sound of her fame, was
by that time gone — none knew whither.

Archibald Thorpe had disappeared.

Five years had elapsed since Keeper and
Keeper's master and Martin discovered the
Victoria Cave. With the permission of the
landowner he had at his own cost excavated
and explored, and, though it was left for
geologists and antiquaries nearer our time,
with Government aid, to discover the vast
proportions of the cavern, chamber beyond
chamber, and to lay bare the secrets of prehistoric
man, buried layer below layer under
their feet, he found sufficient to give a fresh
drift to his scientific mind. He wrote, he
talked, he lectured about his discovery, and,
fired with enthusiasm by his correspondents,

dreamed of hidden caves amongst the
mountain limestone only waiting the sharp
eye of the explorer. A very mania for
cave-hunting seemed to possess him. He
and Keeper would set out at dawn to return
at nightfall weary and be-mired, most likely
soaked to the skin. Sometimes he would
be away for days together.

On such an expedition he set forth late
in the autumn of '43, but days lengthened
into weeks, and the anxious weeks crept
into months, yet nothing was heard or seen
of either him or Keeper.

Silence and shadow seemed to have fallen
upon Ivy Lodge. Edith waiting, still waiting,
had lost all motive to ply her pen. She
was rich ; there was no need to write for
gain. She Alas alone, forgotten by those
of her own blood ; despised and shunned
by the noble soul she had wounded in her
blind prejudice. AVhat cared she to write
for fame !

Janet was wearying of her bonds. Tim
was urgent ; and then, not caring to be left
with only a stranger on the hearth, Edith

ii

proposed that the pair should marry, and
Tim take up his abode there ; from which
neither Miss Craofcj nor Janet dissented.

Once more there was danger of Edith
drifting into melancholy. A certain volume
of Moore's melodies found its way to the
piano ; there were tender and pathetic
lyrics, notably one, which had a strange
fascination for her, and she would sit and
sing sad songs in the twilight with never a
soul to listen. A sharp remedy was needed,
and in the inscrutable decrees of Providence
it was at hand.

It was midwinter. The rain had been
falling all the day in a direct, steady downpour
from a grey sky without a break. To
say that night set in early would be an error ;
there had scarcely been any daylight.
Candles had been burned from three in the
afternoon. Solomon Bracken was slowly
dying, and Edith had just come back from
his bedside, whither she had gone with
nourishment for the failing body, and balm
for the passing soul.

Bonnet and cloak were hung up ; her tea

untasted lay on the little round table
before her ; the rain, falling down the wide
chimney, sputtered in the fire, and kept the
blaze subdued, and on the hearth old Tip
lay wheezing almost at his last gasp. The
old clock buried hoarsely, then beat onijive
with sharp metallic ring, reminding Edith
that she was an hour late. One, two,
three, four, five, boomed from St. Alkald's
tower, and whether it was her visit to old
Solomon, or the rain, and the firelight, or
the striking clocks, or all together, her
thoughts Hew back to that night nearly
fourteen years before, when she had sat
looking in the fire upstairs, after her sister
had been committed to her care by her
dying mother, and Solomon Bracken's shriek

had Her reverie was broken in upon

by the sound of heavy wheels in the lane,
and a loud " Whoa !" as a horse and vehicle
were brought to a stand at the gate, and
there was a clatter of hob-nailed boots upon
the flagged path.

Edith, her heart beating with a strange
foreboding, was at the door as soon as Janet.

By the lantern swung on the shaft of the
cart they saw it was the Skipton carrier.

"Ah've brout yo' surat to tak' care
on," he said, pointedly.

He had indeed. Crouched and huddled
amongst hampers and boxes, so arranged as
to afford the best shelter, with only sacks
and straw to soften asperities, and keep the
tiny feet from freezing, was a white, thin,
wistful creature, who answered to the cry
of " Dora !" with a low piteous sob, which
went to her sister's heart. And on her lap
was a big bundle that woke with a cry to
tell that it was human.

Shoe's bin badly used, shoo hez," said
the friendly carrier, as he lifted, first the
boy, and then the fragile mother, out of the
cart.

Badly used ! It needed no prophet ta
proclaim that. And it needed no more
than the sight of the emaciated forms before
her to call up all Edith's sisterly feeling,
and turn the waters of Lethe back upon
memories of wrong and estrangement.

It was Dora, the Dora she was sworn to
cherish.

The carrier had a guerdon for his compassion
that was likely to keep charity
alive. And Janet, taking Mrs. Ellis in her
arms as if she were a child, laid her on the
big sofa, whilst Edith did her best to restore
warmth to the child's blue limbs. Wraps
to remove were next to none.

Warm tea, hot toast, were almost clutched
at, swallowed ravenously, and in the excitement
no one observed that Tip had crawled
beneath the sofa, to die.

What had brought wife and child of a
thriving solicitor to such a pass ?

CHAPTER XV.

A Green BAY TREE.

ALL they could learn at first was that
she had " escaped," and was in terror
lest she should be traced and forced back ;
terror which alternated with sobbing prayers
for Edith's forgiveness, and fears for her
child, on whose feeble frame cold and exposure
had done their work.

When not even Janet's warm bath could
invigorate the boy, Tim was despatched in
speed and secrecy for Dr. Burrow.

As if by accident, he dropped in upon
them, professed surprise, asked how their
visit came about, took the little fellow on
his knee, made his observations, went into
the kitchen for a few minutes with the languid

child in his arms, and when he came
back a restorative, brought on speculation,
had been administered.

Then the shrewd doctor, interested in
Dora's broken narrative, remained to watch
the effects of the potion, the very necessity
for which was unknown to the unskilled
mother.

It appeared — making due allowance for
Dora's habitual exaggeration — that no sooner
had insulted Edith quitted their house in
disgust so long ago, than Jasper threw off
the mask and almost broke her (Dora's)
heart by a declaration that he would not
have married such a tigress, for all her
wax-work beauty, if he had not counted on
£30,000 to pay him for the sacrifice ; that
even at the time he married her he was
half inclined to forego his prospect of Mrs.
Statham's money and keep his promise to
her better sister, whom he still loved and
worshipped with all his heart and soul ;
that, stung to the core, she had retaliated
sharply, and was straightway addressed
as "■ Fdina^'' and told that he meant to

tame her before he had done with her.

In her weak state the excitement brought
on hysterics. A bowl of cold water was
thrown over her, and she was left to recover
as best she might.

Her boy had been christened Archibald.
That was partly in deference to Edith's
wish, as Edith might remember, partly in
hopes to extract money from her father,
which she believed her husband did under
pretext of losses, and his disappointed expectations.
Indeed, she thought Jasper
would sell his soul for money.

He never let her have any money. Once
or twice her father had put a £5 note into
her hand, or she would have been penniless,
for Kitty made all purchases, the excuse
beings that Mrs. Ellis was too childish and
extravagant to be trusted. And even Kitty
was brought sharply to account, Jasper
"rumbling; over the cost of the commonest
necessaries.

It was not until her father's visits ceased
so strangely that she was treated with absolute
cruelty. He had long taunted her

with the loss of her beautiful hair, with her
readiness to drop into his arms like an
over-ripe plum ; but now she was half
starved, and was never called anything; but
"Felina." At first she had retorted with
Foxes," but she soon lost heart for that,
for her boy, the only comfort she had, was
taken from her. And, le?'i'slie should complain
out of doors, the baize-covered door
in the hall, which had stood open in Mr.
Proctor's time, was locked.

She fancied Kitty was tired of watching
her, or wanted the house to herself, or she
could never have made her escape when
she did. She had neither money nor food,
and, if the good carrier had not taken
compassion on their helplessness, she
thought they must have died on the road
for she had no strength to carry Archie,
and he was soon too tired and cold to
walk ; they were both wet through, and she
was in dread lest Edith should refuse to
take her in, burdened as she was with
Jasper's child.

"Refuse! Oh, Dora !"

Dora flung herself in contrition at her
sister's feet, and their tears mingled.

That Dora's was a one-sided narrative no
one there doubted ; her own wilful temper
might account for much ; but Edith had
seen the niggardliness of Kitty's housekeeping,
before the mask was withdrawn, and
the tale of semi-starvation was writ on the
emaciated forms before them. Whether
in the first instance the result of Dora's
daintiness, or of intentional deprivation, it
was hard to sav. Archie, at least, could not
have had a pampered appetite.

He never rallied. Skill and care were
powerless. That one day's exposure to
wet, cold, hunger, and fatigue had taken all
the vitality out of the little frame.

In less than a week a small coffin stood
upon a tressel in the recess, and Dora's boy
lay dead where she in her babyhood had
played with Tippie and her doll, and wherein
dawning womanhood, she and the child's
father had played with her sister's heart,
that large heart so often wounded by

treachery and ingratitude, but which still
beat so warmly and kindly.

There was no comforting Dora. She
surrendered herself to passionate grief;
accused herself of murdering her darlings
was not to be deterred from following: it to
the grave ; was carried thence in hysterics,
and from that day Edith had a foreshadowing
that the hand of death was laid on
Dora too.

Little need was there of apprehension
that the husband would claim his runaway
wife. By Dr. Burrow he was apprised of
his boy's decease. No notice was taken of
the communication. Jasper hated the
mother; he did not love her child. They
were gone ; there were two less to keep. If
he answered he might have to pay for the
funeral. They who gave the order might
pay for it. Dora had cost him too much
already. He could not afford to take other
people's burdens on his shoulders.

Could not afford ! Was he a poor man,
arguing thus? No, he was only a man so

eager to grow rich, to accumulate wealth sorts
own sake, that his fingers stuck to coin
and soiled it in the contact. More saving;
more scraping than in his boyhood, he
could not bear a penny-piece to pass out of
his reach unless as an item in a sum to
return with heavy interest. The lines in
his face were deepening and sharpening, as
was his long nose ; his very frame was
•attenuatimi; with constant calculation and
measure fare.

O

His disappointments had made him keen.
He had lost some of his grandfather's best
clients, but his cunning and sharp practice
had brought him others. If he had lost the
thousands for which he had bartered his
affections, the five hundred pounds given
^' to buy Fondness for his baby wife," whom he
had made the second sacrifice to his greed,
had been put into a multiplying machine
that was rapidly turning the brain of sober
England. His hundreds had become thousands.
Nay, he had begun to count his
thousands by tens ; was looking forward to
come little short of Mr. Metcalfe, or even

George Hudson, the Railway King, in the
long run. For the traffic in railway scrip
and shares originally confined to legitimate
purchasers and holders, had passed into the
realms of speculation, and the railway mania
bade fair to rival the great canal mania of
George the Third's reign, or the still more
notorious South Sea Bubble. So, too, the
plans and schemes for railway lines and extensions,
originally for the benefit of the
public, were now, in many cases, mere
schemes on paper, backed by pretentious
names, to catch the unwary, and fill the
pockets of the promoters, who scarcely
hoped to pass their hypothetical " Bills "
through Parliament.

In all that concerned this traffic, " Buttermere
and Earnshaw" kept Jasper posted up,
his name flourished as a Director on the
prospectus of a pretentious railway company
which had its fountain-head in their office ;
he introduced business to their firm, pushed
off their scrip, and the' — or Buttermere —
made it worth his while. Little scraps of
information (obtained no one knew how)

reached him before Herapatlis Railway
Journal had the slightest scintillation, he
made his markets accordingly, and so he
was flourishing like a green bay-tree.

He was only poor in heart, not in
pocket, but that " only " was a large one ;
it left him too poor to pay for the burial of
his child ; it left him equally poor when,
after a lingering illness, over which Edith
watched as a ministering angel, that blighted
blossom, poor spoiled, winsome, wilful little
Dora, was laid to rest with her boy and her
own mother in that grave by Giggles wick
churchyard wall, and neither husband nor
brother stood there to shed a pitying tear.
Only strangers supported the broken-hearted
mourner, who went back to her lonely hearth
asking herself if she had done for the sleeping
Dora all their mother could have required.


Miss Vaseyy, and Miss Craggg, and Mrs.
Hartley all reminded her for consolation,
ere they left her, that she had given to Dora
the best years of her life, had surrendered
her womanly hopes, forgiven wrong and

insult, bound up the bleeding wounds of lier
sister with ligatures torn from her own, had
smoothed the sick pillow, and at the very
portals of death opened the gates of life
to the dying ; but this scarcely satisfied the
conscience of weeping Edith that she had
fulfilled her trust. In that hour of mourning
over two wasted lives, the sorrow that
had bowed the younger head even to the
grave pressed heavily on the woman who,
in her thirtieth year, looking forward only
to a spinster's solitary life, sat as of old in
the window seat, her white face and folded
hands showing whiter against her sable robe;
whilst, mingled with her self-reproaches
of a trust imperfectly fulfilled, came 
that she and Dora's father had

a O

mistaken their duty to the child ; and she
sighed as the conviction orrew that more
firmness and less indulgence in the early
years might have brought forth a better
harvest in the riper ones.

She had another trouble on her mind that
would not leave her long to brood.

Some time previously, in the early spring,
VOL. III. s

when first their hopes of Dora began to fade,
Lawyer Hartley had come to Edith one
afternoon in a hurry, with the startling
information that Ivv Fold, the last of Allan's
possessions, was in the market, to be sold
peremptorily to the highest bidder.

"What, sell the house of his ancestors?"
she had cried. " Then Allan must be wanting
money."

"So I should think," said the lawyer,
drily, " or he would never sell the house
over his sister's head without warning."

In much natural agitation she had straightway
authorized the purchase of the freehold,
cost what it would. It must not pass to
strangers, she said. Dora must not be disturbed,
she must keep a home there for her
missing stepfather, should he ever return.
His books, his papers, his specimens were
just as he had left them, and so they must
remain, at least until they had proof positive
that he was no more.

"Then I'm afraid they may be kept till
doomsday, my lass !" said the old gentleman,

pocketing his spectacles as he left the
premises.

And so it had come about that the house
consecrated by so many memories had passed
by purchase from the brother to the sister,
who had likewise made a bid for the
antiquated furniture, double its value. And,
fearing lest Allan should be in difficulties,
she had voluntarily placed an additional five
hundred pounds at his disposal.

He was profuse in thanks at the time, yet
now Dora had been allowed to die and be
buried, and he could not find leisure to
leave his pressing business, even for a day,
to be with her in her distress, and Edith
sitting there alone felt it keenly.

Stay — she might wrong him — she had
read his letter hastily. What was it?
AVould be with you — cannot — involved in
complications with my partner — wish I was
clear of him — fear he is not what I thought
'him'' It was an overleap postscript, not
read before. To what could it refer? Was
the trouble at hand which John Wilson had
so long foreboded ?

s2

She would start for Leeds in the morning.
She must be up and doing if" aught was
threatening Allan. And then thought wandered
in the gathering twilight from Allan to
Grace, and from Grace to Dora, and from
Dora to Dora's father, with a speculative
dreaminess of the possibilities of his return
to find his little darling lying in that grave
where — her thought flew off at a tangent to
Martin as she had seen him when that grave
was opened first — and then

The little gate clicked — her reverie was
over — on the pavement there was a man's
foot which had surely a farailar tread. The
great round knocker sent its reverberations

n

through the silent rooms. Janet opened
the outer door. There was an exclamation,
Why ! suer/?/!" and in another instant
Martin Pickersgill himself, in a rough sort of
travelling suit, stood before Edith in the
semi-gloom.

Had she conjured up a ghost she could'
not have been more startled or more
agitated. It was well that piano and sofa-back
were in the way to steady herself by

as she advanced. It was well that he only
saluted her with a formal bow ; had he
proffered his hand he must have felt hers
tremble.

By the time officious Janet brought in
candles she had recovered her composure,
and invited him to be seated.

Strangely enough, he appeared more
agitated than herself — he seemed to stru^sfle
for words to explain his errand. Her
black dress, her tear-stained face, caused him
to stumble in apologies for his intrusion at
what he feared was an unfitting"; time — he
was afraid that Miss Earnshaw was suffering
under some recent affliction, afraid that he
was bringing sorrow upon sorrow.

She gasped, "Not iVllan! surely no evil
has befallen Allan ! I could endure anv-
thiuiT but that !"

"No, it does not relate to your brother,
Miss Earnsliaw. I was myself apprehensive
from your deep mourning that he "

We buried Dora to-day, Mr. Pickersgill,"
and now tears sprang to her eyes. She
hid her face in lier handkerchief, and sobbed

as he had never seen her sob since she was
a girl, by her mother's open grave.

For the life of him he could not keep his
seat — his self-command. Here was the only
woman he had ever loved bowed before him
in overmastering grief — evidently alone in
her deep distress. What was it then to him
that she had treated him with contumely
years before ? She had been practised upon
by a rascal for his own base ends, he knew.
The past was gone. He saw only' her
sufferings and her loneliness. He drew near,
bent over her, his musical voice quivered
with emotion deep as her own, and his tones
were low and tender.

"Edith," he said, and the word thrilled
through her, " believe me, I did not know of
this, or I would have prepared you and myself,
for your tears unnerve me. 1 am the
old Martin, Miss Earnshaw, with all the old
feelings smouldering in my breast, and every
sob of yours shakes me like an earthquake.
You seem alone. We were friends once,
until that scoundrel (how he emphasised the
word) *' poisoned truth — " He paused.

Is your fiat irreversible ? Can we not
be friends again ?" (He had taken the hand
that was crushing the crape of her skirt, and
that now seemed to wring his own in her
agony.) " I, alas ! bring a fresh sorrow to
you, but it is a mutual sorrow. Will you
forbid me to share it with you ? Can you
not believe in me, Edith ? Mr. Thorpe
loved and trusted me."

His generous sympathy was worse than
reproach. " Oh ! Martin !" burst from herat
length, in a tone that told so much ; but
her sobs were stilled and her pulses seemed
to stop, as his next words fell on her ear.

It is oi Mm I came to speak !"

The composure of dread and expectation
had fallen on her.

And now, her companion, after raising
her hand reverently and compassionately to
his lips, drew a chair close beside hers, and
her one hand still in his clasp — told, as
cautiously and carefully as possible, how in
the midst of his survey for an extension of
the North Midland Railway, he and his
assistants sighted something which seemed

to be a doer on an elevated ledge of
mountain limestone. One of the chain-men
flues; a stone at the animal but it did not
stir. A second was thrown with like result ;
curiosity then induced a scramble to the
spot. It was, or had been, a dog, and it
bore a strong likeness to Keeper. (The
breathless listener gave a sudden start.)

But — the dos; seemed on o;uard before a
crevice or fissure, and into this one of the
party crept. His way was blocked by a
great stone, and under the stone lay the
crushed body of a man. Need he tell her
that his friend, his relative, his teacher, lay
there, a victim to scientific zeal, or that
faithful Keeper had evidently kept watch
until he too died? There had already been
an inquest at a small country inn, a verdict
of " accidental death " returned. They had
buried the dog on the spot, but he had
brought the venerated remains of Archibald
Thorpe to Giggleswick for interment, little
dreaming that Mrs. Thorpe's grave had been
opened for their only child that very day.

Again did Edith's tears fall fast, and her

whole frame shake With stifled sobs, but
now her drooping form had the support of
a strong arm, and her sobs were stilled on
a warm, loving breast, beating in unison
with her own, sorrowing with her sorrow.

There was another funeral in a couple of
days, when the churchyard was crowded, fora
plain black box, not a coffin, was carried
to the grave ; but there was now a second
mourner. And Edith was not left wholly
comfortless when Martin Pickers^ill went
back to his duties. She had atoned for her
early error, and was sure at least of one
true, devoted friend for the rest of her life.

By his advice she did not hurry at once
to Allan. He said that John Danson, then
stationed at Skipton on legal business relative
to the new railway line in progress,
knew something of Buttermere, from his
connection with Manchester, where the
share broker had many transactions. Martin
suggested therefore that, if Allan wanted to
get rid of his partner, it would be better
that John, a stranger, should negotiate than
herself. Buttermere would be sure to take

advantage of her reputed riches and sisterly
affection. She need not trouble Honest
John, if it could be avoided.

It was a new thing for Edith to depend
on others, but a restful feeling came with it,
for which she was truly thankful, though
her anxieties for her brother were by no
means over.

John Danson had found matters in Leeds
much worse than had been anticipated.
Sickness had lodged in Allan's unhealthy
dwelling from the first, had driven Patty
away, carried off two baby girls, had fought
hard to carry off the boy Basil, had taken
the roses out of Grace's cheeks, and much
of the grace out of her manner. Still they
kept in the house and were unable to quit.
As Allan bean his married life with a debt
of Buttermere's creating, so they had drifted
into debt with local tradesmen, which
had grown with years and mismanagement.
Money was paid on account and no balance
struck. Untaught Grace was no economist
at home, or Allan abroad, and when John
Danson went to Little Workhouse, he

found creditors in possession of the house,
and an auctioneer knocking it down. Grace
had been glad in her distress to accept the
hospitable shelter of the dingy dwelling she
had once despised ; and where good old
Mr. and Mrs. Sheepshank received the
Earnshaws as if they had been unfortunate
children of their own.

He found, too, that Allan was bound
hand and foot to Basil Butterraere, not
merely by a flagitious deed of partnership,
but by a debt, with its interest, which had
been growing and accumulating for years.
Where Basil had got the money to lend was
not so apparent ; but he had taken care to
have notes of hand and I U's for whatever
surat he had advanced ; and on one
pretext or other to have absorbed the
greater portion of Allan's seven thousand
pounds.

Some of these notes of hand Allan protested
he had not given ; but there was
Ellison ready to swear to their authenticity,
and that of the I U's which he said
represented losses at cards, when Mr. Earn-shaw

might perhaps not have been in a state
to remember.

To John Danson, Basil Buttermere was
virtuously indignant that his partner should
asperse his character and deny his own signature
; refusing point-blank to annul the
partnership unless all these private liabilities
were discharged, and a good round sum
paid down in consideration of his silence,
to preserve Allan from a criminal prosecution
; more than hinting that he had signed
Mr. Metcalfe's name instead of his own to
an important piece of paper.

Buttermere had a shrewd guess that he
was dealings with Edith through an aojent,
and that, freely as she had devoted her
life to her brother heretofore, so freely
would she open her purse to save him from
disgrace now.

He overshot his mark. To his surprise,
and that of Ellison, John Wilson, older,
greyer than of yore, as shambling in gait,
as careless in attire, walked into the office
along with dapper John Danson some days
later ; and, as one conscious of his own

power, insisted on the instant surrender of
each and every I U or note of hand to
which Allan's signature had been affixed.
And, moreover, he demanded the dissolution
of partnership, and the paper said to bear
Absalom Metcalfe's name.

For reasons best known to himself, Basil
Buttermere thought it best to obey ; and
when Honest John left the office with the
papers in his possession, he threw back at
Buttermere, who stroked his chin viciously,
these parting words :

"NoW; mind, Basil, if I spare you, it is
for the sake of my poor godchild, your
unfortunate wife ; but, if I hear of any more
rascality, you had better look out, and your
clerk too."

Allan could scarcely wait until they were
clear of the office to pour out his thanks
which certainly came from a deep fountain.

The good old man stopped him.

Do not thank me, Mr. Earnshaw, I have
but paid a debt. And I am not sure that
as yet I have done the whole of my duty.
Thank God rather, whose humble instrument

I am, and let your thankfulness be
shown in a reversal of all Basil Buttermere
may have taught you. Quit Leeds, avoid
the men with whom lie lias brought you in
contact, make a companion of your wife,
and books your friends ; and, if you must
have intercourse with others beyond the
range of business, seek it in a Mechanics'
Institution. You will find neither cards,
nor dice, nor drink there. I think you
have found whither these were tending.
Believe me, you have had as narrow an
escape from a pitfall and a prison as I had
from the cudgel of your clerk at our first
selection !"

'" What ! Ellison ? I have always had a
glimmering notion I had seen his face somewhere,
or knew some one like him ! But
that man was a dirty, disreputable vagabond!"
was Allan's amazed reply.

Ah, Ellison, or whatever he chooses to
call himself! But perhaps you have never
seen him after a drinking bout, with his
clothes torn, and his hair like elf-locks over
a muddy face. It must have cost Basil

some trouble to bring him back to respectability.
— And that reminds me you are not
safe in Leeds if you possess any secrets of
the firm. I daresay your excellent sister
will find sou the means to make a fair start
somewhere else. But mind, it must be a
fair start, with less self-confidence, more
humble seeking of God's help. And remember,
no good effort's wholly lost ! No good
effort, mind, nor wholly !"

Before the week was out, Allan's private
debts were paid to the last farthing, and
he, his wife, and little one safe in the peaceful
haven of Ivy Fold, the little one's name,
Basil, having been left behind with old associations
in Leeds, aud become The by
general adoption.

Simultaneously with John Danson's departure
for Leeds on Allan's behalf, Allan's
brother-in-law, Jasper Ellis (who had never
a tear to spare for the poor wee Avise just
laid to rest with her mother and her own
boy under the churchyard wall), in reading
a country paper at an inn, came across a
paragraph headed " Singular Discovery :

The Missing Geologist." As he read, a
sinister smile flitted across his face. " Rather
damaging that to Pickersgill versus Thorpe.
A material witness lost to the plaintiff.
Neither Mrs. Stathara's two thousand pounds
nor my soft-pated grandfather's will go far
to establish his claim without evidence. I
wonder what the plaintiff would give to get
at his lost papers noir V And that was all
the moan he made for Archibald Thorpe.

The Devil's machinery works with cog-wheels,
one evil thought succeeds and fits
into and introduces another, and yet another,
till the whole wicked web is woven,
or the machine thrown out of gear. So his
satisfaction that Pickersgill — who had clearly
robbed him of Mr. Proctor's cash — was
likely to be defeated, was followed by his
wonder what the papers would be worth to
him, and then some little imp suggested,
What would they be worth to the defendants
the Robert Thorpe who had been served
with a writ of ejectment?"

The suggestion took root in his avaricious
and jealous soul. It haunted him. When

he reached home, he raised a plank in his
bed-room, screwed firmly down. He peered
into the cavity. Yes, the sandal-wood box
was there, all dust and cobwebs. He replaced
the plank. Unsatisfied, he raised it
again, and, to be certain, lifted the lid of
the box. Yes, and the papers were there
too, and they were worth money. But they
were stolen papers. How could he best turn
them to account ?

He pondered and pondered, framed one
contrivance after another for secret negotiations
with Robert Thorpe, but avarice
suggested he should delay until the defendant
was hard pressed, and so secure a larger
sum.

In the midst of this plotting he was
startled by the information that Allan Earn-shaw
had retired from sharebrokinoj, and
that the firm would be found gazetted as
Buttermere and Ellison." He was not
satisfied. Allan's frank, upright nature was
well known to him, and stood guarantee
for the firm. His sudden retirement was
perplexing, and that Ellison — well, he was

VOL. III. T

and had always been a mystery to him.

If he had known why or how Allan
escaped from the firm he would have been
less satisfied. Buttermere, however, had
his explanation ready. Earnshaw was unfit
for business, had taken to cards, was extravagant,
and so was his wife. They had
thought best to get rid of him. The company
was progressing favourably, and now
Earnshaw had gone there were hopes that
Mr. Metcalfe would take it up, and in that
case failure was impossible. His friend
Hudson could get any bill through Parliament.
Had he not carried sixteen in one
day?

Ay, King Hudson's star was in the ascendant.
First crowned in the spirited
cartoons of Punchy the Railway Monarch
wielded a potent and far-reaching sceptre.
Far beyond the narrow limits of these
islands his sway was felt ; his nod could
make or unmake men, or capitalists, which
was pretty much the same thing. Another
Midas, all he touched turned to gold. Another
Napoleon, he led his armies from

victory to victory. And Absalom Metcalfe,
ever at his right hand, picked up the magic
gold as it fell at his feet.

England, Europe, had gone mad at railway
speed over railway speculation. Railways
were planned to all sorts of possible
and impossible places. Business men withdrew
their capital from legitimate manufactures
and commerce to sink it in mythic
lines," which were to yield fabulous
interest. Every investor looked forward
to become a millionaire, and the shareholder
was a man of importance.

What more likely, now that Buttermere
had thrown Allan overboard as the Jonah of
the ship, than that Absalom Metcalfe should
recognise the good deed, and fan their sails
with the breath of his favour ? His antagonism
to his son-in-law was no secret. So
Jasper, holding no communication with the
relatives of his dead wife, took Buttermere's
plausible tale for gospel, and kept in with
the " firm."

Meanwhile Jasper's negotiations with
Squire Thorpe were protracted. The squire

T 2

could not or would not see that the
papers referred to could be worth the
sum required. He stood out. At the last
moment the squire agreed. Money and
papers were to be ready at a place appointed.
Once more the plank was raised, the box
was withdrawn, the contents turned out for
examination.

Jasper yelled with baffled rage. The
papers were dummies!

He saw it all. Postlethwaite had cleared
them off when he had so officiously laid
down the new carpet for Mrs. Ripley. And
he nest have had a witness in Deborah Gill.
Mrs. Statham must have known it when she
made her will. He was cowed. Could do
nothing. To proclaim Postlethwaite a thief
would be to convict himself.

How he cursed those " infernal papers !'*
He seemed to date all misfortune and loss
to their " accidental abstraction."

But no curses of his could keep Martin
out of Osmanthorpe now, and he knew it,
although he did not know that the title-deeds
had also passed into Pickersgill's

hands from those of Archibald Thorpe, who
had discovered them in a drawer where tidy
Janet had put them "out o' t' way," the
day she cleared his study.

And when the battle for Martin's possessions
was won, Simon Postlethwaite took
care to proclaim *' victory !" even had not
the newspapers held sensation articles on
the subject.

Then Jasper could only bite his nails, and
count his gains, and plunge into the share
market with all the maniacs who were
fighting for " scrip," as if every bit of worthless
paper so labelled was sterling coin.

The reaction came in 1846-7. The
Times had a well-considered leader, exposing
the hollowness and fallacies of the
railway bubble. The great Director, for
whom a statue was in contemplation, was
brought to bay at an angry meeting in York,
where he had been thrice Lord Mayor. He
was accused of abusing his great trusts for
personal aggrandisement; was unable to
confute his accusers. King Hudson was deposed,
and with him fell his satellite, Absalom

Metcalfe. The panic was universal.
Ruin and desolation were the natural result
of such a reaction.

When the news reached Skipton, Jasper
was like one demented. Only the previous
day he had answered a sceptic who maintained
that " if one man gained, another
lost, that if one man made a stupendous
fortune by railway scrip, some one must
have lost it," by the blind assertion that it
was impossible to lose, absolutely impossible
to lose''

Clients came into his office, townspeople,
farmers, and graziers from the country
round, the widow who had risked her all,
the servant who had invested a life's savings
; all were importunate to know if their
investments were safe, wanted to exchange
scrip of one company for certificated shares
of another, or to sell out whilst there was a
chance.

He had a plausible tongue, glossed the
danger over, said it was a false alarm.
The next morning he was found by Kitty
with a great gash in his throat, and a bloodstained

newspaper by his side. It contained
two announcements close together in parallel
columns.

"Forgery — Absconded. — A reward has
been offered for the apprehension of Basil
Buttermere and Jasper Ellis, alias Ellison,
known as Buttermere and Ellison, share-brokers,
of Basinghall Street, Leeds, for
fraud and forgery in connection with the
Z. and Y. Railway Co., of which they were
the promoters. The Jasper Ellis whose
name figures on the prospectus as a Director,
is supposed to be the son of the absconding
share broker, who, it appears, was formerly
a gambler of the lowest type. Both partners
are said to have escaped prosecution
for forgery many years ago only through
the forbearance of the gentleman whose
name they made free with ; a gentleman
well known throughout Yorkshire as Honest
John. It is mainly through his interference
to extricate the former partner of the firm,
whom they had fleeced, from their clutches,
that the frauds and forgeries of these
swindlers have been discovered. It is

feared they have carried off large sums, for
which the Directors of the Company will be
liable."

"Oil Dit: — The new owner of Osman-thorpe,
Martin Pickersgill, Esq., is losing no
time in repairing the fine old Tudor Mansion,
which has suffered so greatly from his
predecessor's neglect. Mr. Pickersgill had
previously shown his energy and humanity
as a colliery proprietor, setting his face
against the employment of women and
children in his coal-mine before legislation
had come to their rescue. Indeed, he was
one of the most zealous supporters of the
Act of 1842, although not himself in Parliament.
He had done what he could to
ameliorate the condition of his pitman by
rebuilding their dwellings and introducing
sanitary reforms before his claim to the
estate had been legally established. Now
the busy workmen of Mr. Armistead, the
great contractor, literally swarm throughout
house and grounds. It is rumoured that
Mr. Pickersgill is preparing for the reception
of a wealthy bride, Miss Earnshaw, of

Giggleswick, an authoress whose works are
not unknown to fame. We have heard that
Thomas Lister, our local poet, gave the first
fillip to the lady's muse. But we incline
to think the rugged mountains around her
home would be her Parnassus, the celebrated
Ebbing-and-Flowing Well under the scars
her Helicon."

Surely here was Nemesis ! If the man
born on St. Thomas's day was, as the Craven
gossips alarmed, bound to cut himself whichsoever
way he turned, Jasper must have
known as he read that only his own hand

had sharpened the double-edged razor.
* * * ■ * *

Summer sunshine on the earth ! Summer
sunshine in the heart !

The bells of St. Alkald's ring merrily
out over the white silk, the lace and orange-blossoms
of a bride, richly dowered with
wealth for time and wealth for eternity ;
over a handsome, black-eyed bridegroom, of
noble presence and noble soul, who seems
to have nor eyes, nor ears, nor worship save
for the one woman who, all her young life,

has been a saint in his enamoured sight;
and on this glad day is utterly oblivious
that the Saxon martyr-saint is ringing out,
from those full-throated bells, a mystic
summons for all good angels to draw near
and bless the bridal, a potent exorcism to
banish evil sprites.

Merrily, merrily ring out the bells, and
from rock to rock, from scar to scar, the
echoes leap and start, and race away with
their tidings over moorland blossoms and
tinkling backs. And see, whilst Dr. Burrow,
with a smile, gives Edith to Martin, and the
Kev. Rowland Ingram gravely pronounces
the nuptial benediction, a pure white dove
flies in at an open window, circles round
and round the crowded church, then hovers
and flutters above the kneeling pair, coos
softly in response to the Rev, John Howson's
last " Amen," then, as they rise, husband and
wife, wheels in a smaller circle over their
heads, and wings its way like a flash
through another window into the clear blue
ether.

The hush is broken ; there had been a

hush undisturbed by the merrily pealing
bells ; there is a rustle and a flutter, not of
white dove's wings, but of silken skirts and
loosened tongues, and the Miss Hartley,
who are bridesmaids, put anxious queries to
John Danson and their tall brother William,
the two groomsmen, how the mysterious
presence of that white dove was to be interpreted,
little Ann Vaseyy chiming in with
full assurance of some mystic meaning.
Lawyer Hartley, spectacles on brow, suggests
that it is a stray from the Bank Well
dove-cot, which Miss Craajcr who has a

CO'

spice of superstition under her learned cap,
seconds with a feebler "most likely" than
might have been expected, for a whisper,
set afloat by Mother Wellington, in whom
superstition is rampant, has passed through
the crowd from the rear that the dove was
the spirit of Edith's mother permitted to
bless her devoted daughter before she quitted
Ivy Fold for ever.

So whilst the bells ring out their attestation
of Edith Earnshaw's last signature in
the church register, the question of the

white dove's entity or spirituality is discussed
in church and churchyard with
opinions diverse as the tongues. But no
one dissents from the concurrent assertion
of Allan and Grace, that "Edith has been a
daughter and a sister in ten thousand, and
she deserves all blessings," or from the
pleasant chirp of Ann Vaseyy that, " wheresoever
the dove came from, its very coming
is auspicious."

There are grand doings also this day at
distant Osmanthorpe, where the colliers are
resisted, and Mr. Armistead, who has no
care to meet Allan, does duty for the
owner ; and there are grand doings at
Cateral Hall, where Janet is in her glory',
assisting to prepare the wedding-feast, for
which Ivy Fold is far too cramped, even if
there was a matron to do the honours.

Scarcely are the bells so jubilant as
Janet, for is not her Tim, promoted to be
gardener at Osmanthorpe, gone in advance
to have the newly-furnished lodge ready
for her reception. She is bound to a new
home of her own as well as her young

mistress, " an' non ta quit her service
other."

Others were going to new homes. Allan
and Grace Earnshaw, having learned some
lessons from experience, and some from
Edith's self-ignoring love and life, are about
to make a fresh start in busy Bradford.
Edith, with Martin's full approval, has
turned over to lier brother the entire sum
she inherited from her father. With this
he is to enter into partnership with a well-known
wool-merchant, and, if he make
good use of his fair start, he is like to come
in for a snug hoard when old Mr. and Mrs.
Sheepshank have done with it.

There is yet another change. The house
at Bank Well is to let. Death has carried
Miss CraiTcc's uncle from Morecambe, and
she is again a legatee. She needs neither
pupils nor boarders. She and Ann Vaseyy
are the new tenants of Ivy Fold. Ann
Vaseyy, who might be pardoned if a momentary
shadow of sadness crossed her that
she too was not a legatee, since Thomas
Clapham has been gathered to his fathers,

and, eccentric in his will, as in all things
else, has left lands and tenements to an
utter stranger, of whom he knew only that
he was Thomas Clapham. The simpleminded
little creature, to whom he had so
often offered all, was not mentioned. The
silence gave her a pang at the time.

But when the bells ring out from St.
Alkald's tower, and a travelling-carriage,
with Janet in the rumble, rolls away with
Martin Pickersgill and Edith, his wife, from
Cateral Hall to Osmanthorpe, no one wishes
them " God speed !" more heartily than the
cheery little old maid, though she does
choke down a sob, for no one knows so
well the wide difference between " Wooers
and Winners."

THE END.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.
Royal Windsor. By W. Hepworth Dixon.

Second Edition. Volumes I. and II. Demy Svo. SOs.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. I. AND II.— Castle Hill, Norman Keep, First King's House,
Lion Heart, Kingless Windsor, Windsor Won, Geoffrey Plantagenet, Windsor
Lost, The Fallen Deputy, The Queen Mother, Maud de Braose, The Barons'
War, Second King's House, Edward of Carnarvon, Pert de Gaston, Isabel
de France, Edward of Windsor, Crecy, Patron Saints, St. George, Society of
St. George, Lady Salisbury, David King of Scots, Third King's House, Ballad
Windsor, 'The Fair Countess, Richard of Bordeaux, Court Parties, Royal Favourites,
Rehearsing for Windsor, In the Great Hall, Simon de Burley, Radiate
Bridge, A Feast of Death, Geoffrey Chaucer, At Winchester Tower, St. George's
Chapel, The Little Queen, At Windsor, Duchess Philippine, The Windsor Plot,
Bolingbroke, Court of Chivalry, Wager of Battle, Captive Little Queen, A New
Year's Plot, Night of the Kings, Dona Juan, Constance of York, The Norman
Tower, The Legal Heir, Prince Hal, The Devil's Tower, In Captivity Captive,
Attempt at Rescue, Agincourt, Kaiser Sigismund, The Witch Queen, Sweet
Kate, The Maid of Honour, Lady Jane, Henry of Windsor, Richard of York,
Two Duchesses, York and Lancaster, Union of the Roses.
' Royal Windsor ' follows in the same lines as ' Her Majesty's Tower,' and aims
at weaving a series of popular sketches of striking events which centre round
Windsor Castle. Mr. Dixon makes everything vivid and picturesque. Those who
liked 'Her Majesty's Tower' will find these volumes equally pleasant." — Athfiixum.
"A truly fine and interesting book. It is a valuable contribution to English
history; worthy of Mr. Dixon's fame, worthy of its grand subject." — Moi-king Post.
Mr. Dixon has supplied us with a highly entertaining book. 'Royal Windsor'
is eminently a popular work, bristling with anecdotes and amusing sketches of
historical characters. It is carefully written, and is exceedingly pleasant reading.
The story is brightly told ; not a dull page can be found. '' — Examiner.

These volumes will find favour with the widest circle of readers. From the first
days of Norman Windsor to the Plantagenet period Mr. Dixon tells the story of this
famous castle in his own picturesque, bright, and vigorous way." — Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Hepworth Dixon has found a congenial subject in 'Royal Windsor.' Under
the sanction of the Queen, he has enjoyed exceptional opportunities of most
searching and complete investigation of the Royal House and every other part of
Windsor Castle, in and out, above ground and below ground." — Daily Jews.

VOLS. III. AND IV. OF ROYAL WINDSOR. By

W. Hepworth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy Svo. sos. Completing
the Work.
CONTENTS OF VOLS. Il AND IV.— St. George's Hall, The Tudor Tower, A
Windsor Comedy, The Secret Room, Treaties of Windsor, The Private Stair,
Disgracing a Knight, In a King's House, The Maiden's 'Tower, Black Days,
The Virgin Bride, Elegy on Windsor, Fair Geraldine, Course of Song, Windsor
Gospeller, Windsor Martyrs, A Royal Reference, Hatchment Down, The
People's Friend, St. George's Enemy, Lady Elizabeth's Grace, Queen Mary,
Grand Master of St. George, Deanery and Dean, Sister Temperance, Elizabeth's
Lovers, Dudley Constable, The Schoolmaster, Peace, Proclaimed,
Shakespeare's Windsor, The Two Shakespeare, The Merry Wives, Good Queen
Bess, House of Stuart, The Little Park, The Queen's Court, The King's
Knights, Spurious Peace, King Christian, A Catholic Dean, Apostasy, Expulsion,
Forest Rights, Book of Sports, Windsor Cross, In the Forest, Windsor
Seized, Under the Keep, At Bay, Feudal Church, Roundheads, Cavalier
Prisoners, The New Model, Last Days of Royalty, Saints in Council, Changing
Sides, Earshot Lodge, Cutting Down, Windsor Uncrowned, A " Merry "
Caesar, Windsor Catholic, 'The Catastrophe, Domestic Life, Home.
"Readers of all classes will feel a genuine regret to think that these volumes
contain the last of Mr. Dixon's vivid and lively sketches of English history. His
hand retained its cunning to the last, and these volumes show an increase in force
and dignity." — Athenaeum.

"Mr. Dixon's is the picturesque way of writing history. Scene after scene is"
brought before us in the most effective way. Hia book is not only pleasant reading,
but full of information." — Graphic.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WORKS— Conti7iuecl

MONSIEUR GUIZOT m Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 158.

TALES OF OUR GREAT FAMILIES. Second

Series. By Edward Walford, M.A., Author of " The County
Families," " Londoniana," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. discontents
— The Old Countess of Desmond, The Edgcumbes of Edgcumbe and
Console, The Inches of Galway, A Cadet of the Plantagenet, The Proud
Duke of Somerset, Lady Kilsyth, The Dalzell of Carnwath, The Ladies of
Llangollen, The Foxes, The Stuart of Traquair, Belted Will Howard, An
Episode in the House of Dnndonald, The Ducal House of Hamilton, The
Chief of Dundas, The Duke of Chances and Princely Canons, The Spencers
and Comptons, All the Towards, The Lockhart of Lee, A Ghost Story in the
Noble House of Beresford, A Tragedy in Pall Mall, An Eccentric Russell, The
Lady of Fathom House, Two Royal Marriages in the Last Century, The
Boyle, The Merry Duke of Montagu, The Romance of the Earldom of Huntingdon,
Lady Hester Stanhope, The Countess of Nithsdale, The Romance of
the Earldom of Mar, Margaret Duchess of Newcastle, Lord Worthington, The
Cutlers of Wentworth, The Earldom of Bridgewater, The Cares of haddington,
A Chapter on the Peerage, The Kirkpatrick of Closeburn, The Clifford
Earls of Cumberland, The Homes of Polwarth. The Ducal House of Bedford,
Tragedies of the House of Innes. The Ducal House of Leinster, The Royal
House of Stuart, The Great Douglas Case, The Radcliffe of Derwentwater,
The Rise of the House of Hardwicke, Field-marshal Keith.

THE VILLAGE OF PALACES ; or, Chronicles of

Chelsea. By the Rev. A. G. L'Estkangk, Author of " The Life of
the Rev. W. Harness," &c. 2 vols crown 8vo. 21s.

"Mr. Estrange's volumes are a fair specimen of the popular books on antiquarian
matters which are constantly coming out. They are pleasantly written
and fairly interesting." — Athetixum.

"Mr. ii'Estrange fells us much that is interesting about Chelsea. We take
leave of this most channing book with a hearty recommendation of it to our
readers." — Spectator.

"One of the best gossiping topography since Leigh Hunt's 'Old Court Suburb.'
So many persons of note have lived in Chelsea that a book far less carefully compiled
than this has been from historical records and traditions could not fail to be
amusing." — Daily Tdegrajjli.

This is a work of light antiquarian, biographical, and historical gossip. Mr.
Ii'Estrange is inspired by interest in his subject. The names of Chelsea celebrities,
dead and living, including poets, novelists, historians, statesmen, and painters
will be found thickly clustering in these volumes." — Daily Neics.

Every inhabitant of Chelsea will welcome this remarkably interesting work.
It sheds a flood of light upon the past; and, while avoiding the heaviness of
most antiquarian works, gives, in the form of a popular and amusing sketch, a
complete history of this 'Village of Palaces.' " — Chelsea Xeics.

DIARY OF A TOUR IN SWEDEN, NORWAY,

AND RUSSIA, IN 1827. By The Marchioness of Westminster.
1 vol. Demy 8vo. 15s.

"A bright and lively record. So pleasantly are the letters written which Lady
"Westminster sent home, that her book is most agreeable; and it has this special
merit, that it brings clearly before us a number of the great people of former
days, royal and imperial personages, whose intimate acquaintance the traveller's
rank enabled her to make." — Athenaeum.

"A very agreeable and instructive volume." — Saturday Review.

"We recommend Lady Westminster's diary to all classes of readers as a
highly instructive book of interesting travel, replete with graphic sketches of
social life and scenery, and abounding in many entertaining anecdotes. It is
written throughout with excellent taste and good sense." — Court Journal.

MESSRS. HUPtST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WOVai^— Continued.

CONVERSATIONS with Distinguished Persons

during the Second Empire, from 1860 to 1863. By the Lata
Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Snipso.v.
2 vols. 8vo. 303.
Among other persons whose conversations are given in these volumes are : — Prince
Napoleon; the Due de Broglie; the Marquises Chambre, Lasteyrie, Pallas
Vogue; Marshal Random ; Counts Arrivabene, Circourt, Corneille, Kern
Montalembert, Rdmusat, Zamoyski ; Generals Changarnier, Felon,
Trochus; Lords Cowley and Clyde; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Chamber,
Chevalier, Cousin, Dayton, Drouyn de Lhuys, Duchatel, Dufaure, Demon,
Duvergier de Lausanne, Guizot, Lamartine, Lome'nie, Auvergne, Sanguinis,
Maury, Marochetti, Mason, Me'rimee, Dillon Barrot, Pellets, Pietro, Rdnau,
St. Hilaire, Slide, Thiers, De Witt; Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, Moil, &c.
"Mr. Senior's 'Conversations with M. Thiers, M. Guizot,' &c., published about a
year and a half ago, were the most interesting volumes of the series which had
.appeared up to that time, and these new 'Conversations ' are hardly, if at all, less
welcome and important. A large part of this delightful book is made up of studies
by various critics, from divers points of view, of the character of Louis Napoleon,
and of more or less vivid and accurate explanations of his tortuous policy. The
work contains a few extremely interesting reports of conversations with M. Thiers.
There are some valuable reminiscences of Lamartine, and among men of a somewhat
later day, of Prince Napoleon, Drouyn de Lhuys, Montalembert, Victor
Cousin, Rdnan, and the Chevaliers." — Athenaeum.

It is impossible to do justice to these ' Conversations ' in a brief notice, so we
must be content to refer our readers to volumes which, wherever they are opened,
will be found pregnant with interest." — The Times.

Many readers may prefer the dramatic or literary merit of Mr. Senior's ' Conversations
' to their historical interest, but it is impossible to insert extracts of such
length as to represent the spirit, the finish, and the variety of a book which is
throughout entertaining and instructive." — Saturday Review.

CONVERSATIONS tvith M. Thiers, M. Guizot,

and other Distinguished Persons, during the Second Empire. By
the Late Nassau W. Senior. Edited by his Daughter, M. 0. M.
Simpson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
Among other persons whose conversations are recorded in these volumes are : —
King Leopold; the Due de Broglie; Lord Cowley; Counts Arrivabene, corneille,
Daru, Flahault, Kergolay, Montalembert; Generals Lamorioifere and
Chrzanowski; Sir Henry Ellis; Messieurs Ampere, Beaumont, Blanchard,
Buffet, Auguste Chevalier, Victor Cousin, De Witt, Duchatel, Ducpetiaui,
Demon, Dastard, Duvergier de Lausanne, Leon Faucher, Frere-Orban, Grim-blot,
Guizot, Lafltte, Baume, Lamartine, Sanguinis, Mallac, Main, Mdrime'e,
Magnet, Jules Moil, Monticello, Dillon-Barrot, Quetelet, Re'musat, Roger,
Rivet, Rossini, Horace Say. Thiers, Trouve-chapel, Villemaln, Wolowski;
Mesdames Circourt, Cornu, History, &c.
"This new series of Mr. Senior's 'Conversations' has been for some years past
known in manuscript to his more intimate friends, and it has always been felt that
no former series would prove more valuable or important. Mr. Senior had a social
position which gave him admission into the best literary and political circles of
Paris. He was a cultivated and sensible man, who knew how to take full advantage
of such an opening. And above all, he had by long practice so trained ibis
memory as to enable it to recall all the substance, and often the words, of the long
conversations which he was always holding. These conversations he wrote down
with a surprising accuracy, and then handed the manuscript to his friends, that
they might correct or modify bis report of what they had said. This book thus
contains the opinions of eminent men given in the freedom of conversation, and
afterwards carefully revised. Of their value there cannot be a question. The book
is one of permanent historical interest. There is scarcely a page without some
memorable statement by some memorable man. Politics and society and literature
the three great interests that make up life — are all discussed in turn, and there is
HD discussion which is unproductive of weighty thought or striking fact." — Athenaeum.



MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW WORKS— Co^i^mweJ.

HISTORY OF TWO QUEENS: CATHARINE

OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN. By W. Hepworth Dixon.
Second Edition. Vols. 1 & 2. Demy sto. sos.

"In two handsome volumes Mr. Dixon here gives us the first instalment of a
new historical work on a most attractive subject. The book is in many respects a
favourable specimen of Mr. Dixon's powers. It is the most painstaking and

elaborate that he has yet written On the whole, we may say that the book

is one which will sustain the reputation of its author as a writer of great power
and versatility, that it gives a new aspect to many an old subject, and presents in
■I very striking light some of the most recent discoveries in English historj-."^.
Athenaeum.

In these volumes the author exhibits in a signal manner his special powers
and finest endowments. It is obvious that the historian has been at especial pains
to justify his reputation, to strengthen his hold upon the learned, and also to
extend his sway over the many who prize an attractive style and interesting narrative
more highly than laborious research and philosophic insight'' — hoisting Post.

"The thanks of all students of English history are due to Mr. Hepworth Dixon
for his clever and original work, ' History of two Queens.' The book is a valuable
contribution to English history. The author has consulted a number of original
sources of information — in particular the archives at Simancas, Alcala, and Venice.
Mr. Dixon is a skilful writer. His style, singularly vivid, graphic, and dramatic —
is alive with human and artistic interest. Some of the incidental descriptions
reach a very high level of picturesque power." — Daily Nets.

VOLS. HI. & IV. OF THE HISTORY OF TWO

QUEENS : CATHARINE OF ARAGON and ANNE BOLEYN.
By W. Hep-worth Dixon. Second Edition. Demy Svo. Price sos.
Completing the Work,

"These concluding volumes of Mr. Dixon's 'History of two Queens ' will be perused
with keen interest by thousands of readers. Whilst no less valuable to the
student, they will be far more enthralling to the general reader than the earlier
half of the history. Every page of what may be termed Anne Boleyn's story affords
a happy illustration of the author's vivid and picturesque style. The work should
be found in every library." — Post.

"Mr. Dixon has pre-eminently the art of interesting his readers. He has produced
a narrative of considerable value, conceived in a spirit of fairness, and
written with power and picturesque effect." — Daily JVeics.

HISTORY OF WILLIAM PENN, Founder of

Pennsylvania. By W. Hepworth Dixon. A Ne-r' Library Edition.

1 vol. demy Svo-with Portrait. 12s.

Mr. Dixon's ' William Penn ' is, perhaps, the best of his hooks. He has now revised
and issued it with the addition of much fresh matter. It is now offered in a
sumptuous volume, matching with Mr. Dixon's recent books, to a new generation of
readers, who-will thank Mr. Dixon for his interesting and instructive memoir of
one of the worthies of England." — Examiner.

FREE RUSSIA. By W. Hepworth Dixon. Third

Edition. 2 vols. Svo-with Coloured Illustrations. sos.
"Mr. Dixon's book will be certain not only to interest but to please its readers
and it deserves to do so. It contains a great deal that is worthy of attention, and
is likely to produce a very useful effect" — Saturday Review.

THE Swimmers. By W. Hepworth Dixon,

Third Edition. 1 vol. demy Svo. 15s.
"A lively, interesting, and altogether novel book on Switzerland. It is full of
valuable information on social, political, and ecclesiastical questions, and, like all
J\Ir. Dixon's books, is eminently readable." — Daily News.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW Works— Continued.

HOLIDAYS IN EASTERN FRANCE; Sketches

of Travel in Champagne, Franche-Comte, the Jura, the Valley of
the DouBS, &c. By M. Beth.'UI-Edwards, Author of " A Winter
"with the Swallows," &c. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations, los.

"Miss Edwards' present volume, written in the same pleasant style as that which
described her wanderings in Western France, is so much the more to be recommended
that its contents are fresher and more novel." — Saturday Review.

Readers of this work will find plenty of fresh information about some of the
most delightful parts of France. The descriptions of scenery are as graphic as the
sketches of character are lifelike." — Globe.

The tourist could not have a pleasant companion than this pretty book, and
lits well laid out itineraries." — Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF Georgians. LADY Chatterton

; With some Passages from her Diary. By E. Engage
Bering. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
Among other persons mentioned in this work are Lords Vanstone, Brougham,
Macaulay, Lytton, Houghton; Messrs. Wilberforce, Wordsworth, Hallam,
Rogers, Moore, Sydney Smith, Landor, Lockhart, Fonblanque, Warburton,
Harness, Chantry; Count Montalembert, Dr. Ullathorne, Dr. Newman,
Joanna IJaillie, Lady Gifford, Lady Cork, Mrs. Somerville, Mrs. Norton, &c.
"Lady Chatterton's Diary gives a sketch of society during a well known but
ever-interesting period. Mr. Deriug may be congratulated on having furnished a
graceful epilogue to the story of an interesting life." — Athenxuin.

THE YOUTH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH. Edited,

from the French of L. Wiesener, by Charlotte M. Yonge, Author
of " The Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
M. Wiesener is to be complimented on the completeness, accuracy, and research
shown in this work. He has drawn largely on the French Archives, the
Public Record Office, and British Museum, for information contained in original
documents, to some of which notice is directed for the first time. M. Wieseners
work is well worth translating, for it is most interesting as showing the education
and circumstances which tended to form the character of that extraordinary
queen. Miss Yonge appears to have successfully accomplished the task which she
has undertaken." — Athenxuin.

A LEGACY : Being the Life and Remains of John

Martin, Schoolmaster and Poet. Written and Edited by the
Author of " John Halifax." 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait. 21s.

This is, in many respects, a remarkable book. It records the life, work, aspirations,
and death of a schoolmaster and poet, of lowly birth but high-strung and
ambitious soul. His writings brim with vivid thought, keen analysis of feeling,
touches of poetic sentiment, and trenchant criticism of men and books, expressed
in scholarly language." — Guardian.

"Mrs. Crank has related a beautiful and pathetic story — a story of faith and
courage and untiring energy on the part of a young and gifted man, who might
sunder other circumstances have won a place in literature. The story is one worth
reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

THE THEATRE Francis IN THE REIGN

OF LOUIS XV. By L(1rd Leamington. 1 vol. demy 8vo. lys.

A most valuable contribution to dramatic literature. All members of the profession
should read it." — Morniiuj Post.

A work on a most attractive subject, which will be perused with keen interest
'by thousands of readers. It is written in a style singularly vivid, dramatic, and interesting."
— Court Journal.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW WOT^KS— Continued.

VOLS. I. & II. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER,

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Sixth Edition. 8vo. sos.
From the Times: — "All the civilized world — English, Continental, and American
— takes an interest in the Tower of London. The Tower is the stage
upon which has been enacted some of the grandest dramas and saddest tragedies
in our national annals. If, in imagination, we take our stand on those time-worn
walls, and let century after century flit past us, we shall see in due succession the
majority of the most famous men and los-ely women of England in the olden time.
We shall see them jesting, jousting, love-making, plotting, and then anon, perhaps,
commending their souls to God in the presence of a hideous masked figure,
bearing an axe in his hands. It is such pictures as these that llr. Dixon, with
considerable skill as an historical limner, has set before us in these volumes. Mr.
Dixon dashes off the scenes of Tower history with great spirit. His description
are given with such terseness and vigour that we should spoil them by any attempt
at condensation. In conclusion, we may congratulate the author on this work. Both
volumes are decidedly attractive, and throw much light on our national history."

VOLS. III. & IV. OF HER MAJESTY'S TOWER,

By W. HEPWORTH DIXON. DEDICATED BY EXPRESS
PERMISSION TO THE QUEEN. Completing the york. Third
Edition. Demy 8vo. sos.

ROUND THE WORLD IN SIX MONTHS. By

Lieut-colonel E. S. Bridges, Grenadier Guards. 1. vol sto. 15s.

The author may be congratulated on his success, for his pages are light and'
pleasant. The volume will be found both amusing and useful." — Athenian.

Colonel Bridges' book has the merit of being lively and readable. His advice
to future travellers as well as his estimate of expenses may be found serviceable"'
—Pall fall Gazette.

"A thoroughly interesting and amusing book, as full of solid matter as pleasant
anecdote. 'We have not met a truer picture of American, Japanese, Chinese,
Indian, Egyptian, or Maltese scenery and surroundings." — Court Journal.

A YOUNG SQUIRE OF THE SEVENTEENTH

CENTURY, from the Papers of Christopher Jeaffresox, of Bellingham

House, Cambridgeshire. Edited by John Cord Jeffrey

"A Book about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. dis.

Two volumes of very attractive matter: — letters which illustrate agriculture,

commerce, war, love, and social manners, accounts of passing public events, and

details which are not to be found in the Gazettes, and which come with singular

freshness from private letters." — Athenaeum.

Two agreeable and important volumes. They deserve to be placed on library
shelves with Pepys, Evelyn, and Hereby." — Notes and Queries.

RORAIMA AND BRITISH GUIANA, with a

Glance at Bermuda, the West Indies, and the Spanish Main. By
J. W. Boddam-Whkthaji. 8vo. With Map and Illustrations. 1 5s^

"The author has succeeded in producing an interesting and readable book of
travels. His remarks on every-day life in the tropics, his notes on the geography
and natural history of the countries he visited, and, above all, his vivid descriptions
of scenery, combine to form a record of adventure which in attractiveness it
will not be easy to surpass." — Athenaeum.

"Mr. Whetham writes with vigour, and describes the life in the forests and on
the rivers and prairies of South America with a picturesqueness and freshness of
interest not inferior to that of the late Mr. Watertown's immortal wanderings. Mr.
"Whetham travelled in portions of Guiana little known, meeting with many adventures,
seeing many strange sights, and taking notes which have furnished matters
or a book of fascinating interest." — Daily J\'eu:s.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S
NEW W Oaks— Continued.

HISTORIC CHATEAUX: Blois, Fontainebleau,

ViNCENNES. By Lord Lamington. 1 vol. 8vo. 15s.
A very interesting volume." — Times.
"A lively and agreeable booli, full of action and colour." — AtheuKum.

CELEBRITIES I HAVE KNOWN. By Lord

William Pitt Lennox. Second Series. 2 volumes demy 8 vo. SOs.
Among other persons mentioned in the Second Series of this work are — The
Princess Charlotte and Prince Leopold; the Dukes of Wellington and Beaufort;
the Earls of Durham and Carlisle; Lords Byron, Clyde, Adolphus Fits
and Cockburn; Sirs Walter Scott, G-. Wombwell, A. Barnard, John
Elle, Sidney, Harry, and O.F.Smith; Count Doorway; Dr. Dodd; Messrs.
Thomas Moore, Theodore Hook, Leigh Hunt, Jordan, James, Horace, and
Albert Smith, Brazier. Tattersall, Hudson, Ude, George Coleman, The Kemble,
G. F. Cooke, Charles Young, Edmund and Charles Kean, Yates, Harley ; Miss
Foote; Mrs. Nisbet; Mesdames Catalani,Grassini, Rachel, &c.
"This new series of Lord William Lennox's reminiscences is fully as entertaining
as the preceding one. Lord William makes good use of au excellent memory,
and he writes easily and pleasantly." — Pall Mall Gazette.

COACHING ; With Anecdotes of the Road. By
Lord William Pitt Lennox. Dedicated to His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, Keg., President, and the Members of
the Coaching Club. 1 vol. deny 8vo. 16s.

Lord William's book is genial, discursive, and gossipy. We are indebted to the
author's personal recollections for some lively stories, and pleasant sketches of
some of the more famous dragoman. Nor does Lord William by any means limit
himself to the English roads, and English coaches. Bianconi's Irish cars, the continental
diligences, with anecdotes of His Grace of Wellington, when Lord William
was acting as his aide-de-camp during the occupation of Paris, with many others
more or less germane to his subject, are all brought in more or less
naturally. Altogether his volume, with the variety of its contents, swill be found
pleasant reading." — Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8vo, with Portrait. 24s.
"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. We need scarcely state that all the portions of Moche
diary which refer to his intercourse with Beethoven, Hummel, Weber, Czerny,
Sporting, Rossini, Auber, Halevy, Schumann, Cherubini, Spohr, Mendelssohn, F.
David, Chopin, J B. Cramer. Clement, John Field, Habeneck, Hauptmann, Kalk-
brenner. Kiesewetter, C. Klingemanu, Laplace, Dragonetti, Soutag, Persian!,
Malian, Paganini, Rachel, Eonzi de Begnis, De Heriot, Ernst, Donzelli, Cinti-
Moreau, Heard, Bochsa, Reporte, Charles Kemble, Paton (Mrs. Wood),
SchriJder-Devrient, Mrs. Siddons, Sir H. Bishop, Sir G. Smart, Staudigl, Thalers,
Berlioz, Veluti, C. Young, Bale, Abraham, and many other artists of note in their
time, will recall a flood of recollections. It was a delicate task for Madame 
to select from the diaries in reference to living persons, but her extracts have
been judiciously made. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called the ' Music of the
Future ' and its disciples, and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Rubens
Dr. von Billow, Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a
liberal spirit. He recognizes cheerfully the talents of our native artists, Sir .Stern-dale
Bennett, Mr. Macfarren, Madame Arabella Goddard, Mr. John Barnett, Mr.
Hullah, Mrs. Shaw, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The celebrities with whom Moscheles
same in contact, include Sir Walter Scott, Sir Robert Peel, the late Duke of Cambridge,
the Bunsen, Louis Philippe, Napoleon the Third, Humboldt, Henry Heine,
Thomas More, Count Nesselrode, the Duchess of Orleans, Prof. Wolf, &c. Indeed,
the two volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenxuin.

MESSRS. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

NEW W Ores— Continued.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to, 5s. bound.

These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature." — Athenaeum.

•'The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissively
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were foul to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life." — British
Quarterly Review.

This touching and most comforting work is dedicated to The Queen, who took
a gracious interest in its first appearance, when printed for private circulation, and
found comfort in its pages, and has now commanded its publication, that the
world in general may profit by it. A more practical and heart-stirring appeal to
the afflicted we have never examined." — Standard.

OUR BISHOPS AND DEANS. By the Rev. F.

Arnold, Bea., late of Christ Church, Oxford. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.
"This work is good in conception and cleverly executed, and as thoroughly
honest and earnest as it is interesting and able " — John Bull.

LIFE OF THE RT. HON. SPENCER PERCEVAL ;

Including His Correspondence. By His Grandson, Spencer Walpole.
2 vols. 8vo. With Portrait. sos.
This biography will take rank, as a faithful reflection of the statesman and
Lis period, as also for its philosophic, logical, and dramatic completeness." — Post.

THE SEA OF MOUNTAINS : An Account of

Lord Dupferin's Tour through British Columbia in 1876. By

MoLTNEUX St. John. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Portrait of Lord

DufTerin. 21s.

"'Mr. St. .John has given us in these pages a record of all that was seen and done

in a vei-y successful visit. His book is instructive, and it should be interesting to

the general reader." — Times.

Mr. St. John is a shrewd and lively writer. The reader will find ample variety
in his book, which is well worth perusal." — l-'all Mall Gazette,

MY YOUTH, BY SEA AND LAND, from 1809 to

1816. By Charles Loftus, formerly of the loyal Navy,
late of the Coldstream Guards. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Major Loftus played the part allotted to him with honour and ability, and he
relates the story of his sea life with spirit and vigour. Some of his sea stories areas
laughable as anything in 'Peter Simple,' while many of his adventures on
shore remind us of Charles Lever in his freshest days. During his sea life
Major Loftus became acquainted with many distinguished persons. Besides the
Ijuke of Wellington, the Prince Regent, and William IV., be was brought into
personal relation with the allied Sovereigns, the Hue D'Angouleme, Lord William
Bentinck, and Sir Hudson Lowe. A more genial, pleasant, wholesome book we
have not often read." — Standard.

ACROSS CENTRAL America. By J. W. .

8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
"sir. Boddam-Whelham writes easily and agreeable Pall Mall Gazette.
"A bright and lively account of interesting travel" — Globe.

MESSRS. Hues AND BLACKETT'S
PUBLICATIONS— a?7zfmweJ.

LONDONIANA. By Edward Walford, M.A.,

Author of " The County Famines," &c. 2 volumes crown 8vo. 21s.

"A highly interesting and entertaining boolj. It bristles with anecdotes and
amusing sketches. The style is vivid, graphic, and dramatic, and the descriptions
are given with a terseness and vigour that rivet the attention ot the reader. The
historian, the antiquarian, and the lover of romance will combine in pronouncing
'Londoniana' one of the most readable books of the day." — Court Journal.

There is variety and amusement in Mr. Walford's volumes." — Pall Mall Gazette.

HISTORY OF ENGLISH HUMOUR. By the

Rev. A. G. L'EsTRANGE, Author of " The Life of the Rev. W.
Harness," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
This work contains a large and varied amount of information. It is impossible
to give any idea of the wealth of anecdote and epigram in its pages." — John Bull.

A MAN OF OTHER DAYS : Recollections of the

Marquis de Beauregard. Edited, from the French, by Charlotte
M. YoNGE, Author of " The Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols. 21s.

MY YEAR IN AN INDIAN FORT. By Mrs.

Guthrie. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With Illustrations. 21s.

RECOLLECTIONS of COLONEL DE Bonneville.

Edited from the French by Charlotte M. Yonge,
Author of the "Heir of Radcliffe," &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

THROUGH FRANCE AND BELGIUM, BY

RIVER AND CANAL, IN THE Steam YACHT " YTENE."
By W. J. C. Mons. R.V.Y.C. 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

MY LIFE, FROM 1815 to 1849. By Charles Loftus,

formerly of the Royal Navy, late of the Coldstream Guards.
Author of " My Youth by Sea and Land." 2 vols-crown 8vo. 21s.

A BOOK ABOUT THE TABLE. By J. C.

Jefferson. 2 vols. 8vo. sos.

Costs ESPANOLAS ; or, Every-day Life ln

Spain. By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-BurJ^ 2nd Edition. 8vo. 15s.

PEARLS OF THE PACIFIC. By J. W. Boddam-

Whetham. 1 vol. Demy 8vo, with 8 Illustrations. 15s.

"The literary merits of this work are of a very high order." — Athenaeum.

TURKISH HAREMS & CIRCASSIAN HOMES.

By Mrs. Harvey, of Ickwell-Bury. 8vo. Second Edition. 15s.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OP napoleon III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol. 6s.

RECOLLECTIONS OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE

and ENGLAND. By Lady Clementina Davies. 2nd Edition. 2 v.

THE EXILES AT ST. GERMAINS. By the

Author of " The Lady Shakerley." 1 vol. 7s. 6d. bound.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.
Forestalled. By M. Betham-Edwarus,

Author of " Kitty," " Bridget," &c. 2 vols.

WOOERS AND WINNERS. By Mrs. G. linus

Banks, Author of " The Manchester Man," &c. 3 vols.

THE TENTH EARL. By John Berwick Haywood,

Author of " Lady Flavian," " Young Lord Penrith," &c. 3 vols.

MISS BOUVERIE. By Mrs. Wordsworth, Author

of " Hathercourt Rectory," '' The Cuckoo Clock," &c. 3 vols.

' Miss Bouverie ' is a pure and pretty story." — Athenaeum.

'Miss Bouverie ' is one of the prettiest stories which has appeared for years.
It is sure to be widely read, and no one who tales it up will lay it down unfinished."
— Post.

"A very charming story. In these delightful volumes Mrs. Wordsworth has
produced a capital book." — Grcqihic.

Mervin O'CONNOR. By the Earl of Desart,

Author of " Coverdale," &c. 3 vols.

Lord Desart shows his accustomed liveliness in description which is always
distinct and never prolonged so as to become wearisome'' — Athenaeum.

' Mervin O'Connor ' is a bright, lively story, full of interest and action. The-reader
will find ample amusement throughout the volumes'' — Sunday Times.

A MODERN GREEK HEROINE. 3 vols.

A very interesting novel. The characters are admirably drawn, the incident*
rivet attention from the first page to the last, and the whole book is replete with
dramatic intensity. Few novels will be read with more interest than the life and
adventures of this modern Greek Heroine." — Court Journal.

POOR ZEPH. By F. W. Robinson, Author of

Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.

The author has written many good stories, and has long since established his
reputation. He has done well to reproduce these charming studies and sketches."
Athenaeum.

"These stories are, without exception, told in a vivid and lively style. Altogether
the book is a highly entertaining one. " — Post.

THREE RECRUITS, and The Girls They Left

Behind Them. By Joseph Hatton, Author of " Cruel London,"
&c. 3 Told.
"Mr. Hatton's novel hurries us along in unflagging excitement. The scenes of
the good old times, when Farmer George was king, are excellent." — Tie Times.,

"Mr. Hatton's new story is likely to become very popular, for it contains stirring
incidents, delightful love episodes, bright descriptions, and a most interesting-plot."
— Whitehall Review.

' Three Recruits ' is likely to surprise even Mr. Hatton's admirers by reason of
the powerfully dramatic character of its plot, the excellence of the language, and
its remarkable picturesqueness. It is one of the best novels of the season, and is
sure to become exceedingly popular'' — Morning Post.

FOR HER DEAR SAKE. By Mart Cecil Hay,

Author of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.
It is very seldom that a novel has appeared more deserving of popularity than
this unusually interesting story." — Post.

LILY OF THE VALLEY. By Mrs. Randolph,

Author of " Gentianella," &c. 3 vols.
A very pretty and romantic tale. Headers who begin the book are sure to
fish it " — Examiner.



PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

POET AND PEER. By Hamilton Aide, Author of

Penruddocke," «S;c. Dedicated to Lord Lytton. 3 vols.

'Poet and Peer' is a novel of unusual merit, the work of a cultivated man of
the world, who describes what he has himself seen. It is, both in intention and
execution, the best of Mr. Aide's novels, and will interest anal amuse every reader
who takes it up." — Aihenoium.

A thoroughly readable and attractive novel." — Morning Post.

In these days of careless and ill-considered writing it is satisfactory to read a,
novel like ' Poet and Peer ' that shows signs of reflection and conscientious workmanship.
Mr. Aide evidently knows society well, and is as much at home in
society abroad as in England. The final chapters are worked out with great skill,
and the story is sufficiently relieved with brightness and humour to make it not
only interesting but agreeable reading." — Saturday Review.

"If Mr. Aides aim in writing his 'Poet and Peer' was to produce a clever,
readable novel, he has succeeded in it remarkably well. In this entertaining and
interesting book there are numerous cleverly and carefully sketched figures of
modern life, and the arrangement of the story is artistic and well composed." —
Daily Jews.

THE GREATEST HEIRESS IN ENGLAND. By

Mks. Oliphant, Author of " Chronicles of Carlingford," &c. Second

Edition. 3 vols.
'The Greatest Heiress in England' should add to Mrs. Oliphant's reputation.
It is noticeably good among the great number of her good novels. The story runs
along pleasantly, and maintains the reader's interest throughout." — Athenaeum.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE. By the Author of " John

Halifax, Gentleman." Second Edition. 3 vols.
'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — The Times.
'• There is much tenderness and good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and
wholesome." — Athenaeum.

LITTLE MISS PRIMROSE. By the Author of

St. Slave's," " The Last of her Line," &c. 3 vols.
"The graceful tone and quality of the work of the author of 'St. Slave's' are welL
known to novel readers. 'Little Miss Primrose' is a very good example of her
manner." — Academy.

A SYLVAN QUEEN. By the Author of " Rachel's

Secret," &c. 3 vols.
A picturesque and very pleasing story, the principal merit of which consists iu
its bright little pictures of country life and character." —-ithenxum.
"A charming tale ; the plot is varied and entertaining." — Post.

YOUNG LORD PENRITH. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of " Lady Flavian," &c. 3 vols.
An interesting and well-told story. The plot is exciting and yet natural." — Post.

IN THE SWEET SPRING-TIME. By Mrs. Mac-quod),

Author of " Patty," &c. 3 vols.
A pleasant and highly interesting story. The conversations are bright and
natural, and the descriptions of sceuei-y picturesque." — Pall Mall.

FRIEND AND LOVER. By Iza Duffus Hardy,

Author of " Glencairn," &c. 3 vols.
"A powerful story, well worth reading. The plot is ingenious, original, and yet
perfectly natural. Miss Hardy's sketches of character are truthful, vivid and
graphic. It ia decidedly one of the best written books of the season." — Post.



Published annually, in One YoL, royal 8ro, tvith the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6c?.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE Forty-ninth EDITION Poe 1880 IS NOW EEADT.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
Sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honour
able Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight, Hon. Ladj-.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator.

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

"The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the subject." — Standard.



OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS,

ILLUSTRATED BY SIR J. GILBERT, MILLAIS, HUNT, LEECH, FOSTER,
Pointer, TENNIEL, Sands, HUGHES, Tambourine, &C.

Each in a Single Volume, elegantly printed, bound, and illustrated, price 5s.

1. SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blankets Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous
productions, and is well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain
in its present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type, and good paper, the lesser but attractive merits cf
being well illustrated and elegantly bound." — Post.

2. JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman; and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and
written with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass
freely from hand to hand as a gift book in many households." — Examiner.

3. THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.
"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is
its reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

4. NATHALIE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her
which are as individual as they are elegant." — Athenaeum.

5. A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well-written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a
young lady may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

6. ADAM Gramme. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"A story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its admirable pictures
of Scottish life and scenery. The author sets before us the essential attributes of
Christian virtue, with a delicacy, power, and truth which can hardly be surpassed-/"oi^.

7. SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND MODERN
INSTANCES.

"The reputation of this book will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's Novels
Its remarkable originality and happy descriptions of American life still continue tho
subject of universal admiration." — Messenger.

8. CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Rome and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Roman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has treated a special subject with so much geniality, that
his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously opposed
to every idea of human infallibility represented in Papal domination." — Atkenmuin.

9. A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"In 'A Life for a Life ' the author is fortunate in a good subject, and has produced a
work of strong effect" — Athmseum.



10. THE OLD COURT Suburb. By LEIGH HUNT.

"A delightful book, that will be welcome to all readers, and most welcome to those
who have a love for the best kinds of reading." — Examiner.

11. Margaret AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming." — Athenxuin.

12. THE OLD JUDGE. By SAM SLICK.

"The publications included in this Library have all been of good quality; many give
information while they entertain, and of that class the book before us is a specimen.
The manner in which the Cheap Editions forming the series is produced, deserves
especial mention. The paper and print are unexceptionable ; there is a steel engraving
in each volume, and the outsides of them will satisfy the purchaser who likes to see
books in handsome uniform." — Examiner.

13. DARIEN. By ELIOT WARBURTON.

"This last production of the author of 'The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

14. FAMILY ROMANCE.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.
"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book." — Standard.

15. THE LAIRD OF NORLAW. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"The 'Laird of Norlaw ' fully sustains the author's high reputation." — Sunday Tiiius.

16. THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is interesting, and full of opportune instruction"— Kme*.

17. NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New ' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax '
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

18. FREER'S LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET.

"Nothing can be more interesting than Miss Freer's story of the Ufa of Jeanne
D'Albret, and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Post.

19. THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY she AUTHOR OF "MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify thiswork, we should give it place between 'John Halifax 'and
•'The Caxtons.'-Sta/idarci.

20. THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM.

BY PETER BURKE, SERGEANT AT LAW.
A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm." — Illustrated Nun.

21. ADELE. By JULIA KAVANAGH.

"' Adele ' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh ; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting." — Athenaeum.

22. STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"These ' Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation Tl.e
book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." — Saturday Review.

23. GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

"We commend 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel The
.Characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athemeutti.

H

24. A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS. By J. C. Jefferson.

•' A delightful book." — Athenaeum. " A book to be read and re-read ; fit for the study
swell as the drawing-room table and the circulating library." — Lancet.

25. NO CHURCH.

We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book." — Athmxum.

26. MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenceum. " A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

27. LOST AND SAVED. By HON. MRS. NORTON.

'Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest. It is a vigorous novel." — Tires.
"A novel of rare excellence. It is Mrs. Norton's best prose work." — Examiner.

28. LES Miserable. By VICTOR HUGO.

AUTHORISED COPYRIGHT ENGLISH TRANSLATION.
"The merits of 'Les Miserable' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

29. BARBARA'S HISTORY. By AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as ' Barbara's
History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very graceful
and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and sentiments
expressed with an exquisite elocution. It is a book which the world will like." — Times.

30. LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. Irving's Life ought to have a niche
In every gallery of religious biography." — Saturday Review.

31. ST. Slave's.

"This charming novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as
well as experience and knowledge of the world. ' — Athenaeum

32. SAM SLICK'S AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"Dip where you will into this lottery of fin, you are sure to draw out a prize." — Post.

33. CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN Halifax, GENTLEMAN."

"A more charming story has rarely been written. Even if tried by the standard of
the Archbishop of York, we should expect that even he would pronounce ' Christian's
Mistake' a novel without a fault." — Times.

34. ALEC FORBES. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenceum.

35. AGNES. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.
"A story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Post.

36. A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks
out of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

37. NEW AMERICA. By HEP WORTH DIXON.

A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well." — Times.
"Wfi recommend every one who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting book." — Saturday Reiietc.

IS

38. ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life ami humour and of the deepest human
Interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

39. THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.
BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"the Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the
purest and noblest kind of domestic stories. — Athenaeum.

40. ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.
"A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole
work sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

41. DAVID ELGINBROD. By GEORGE MAC DONALD.

The work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of readers." — Times.

42. A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very good novel; a thoughtful, well written book, showing a tender, sympathy
with human nature, and permeated by a pure and noble spirit'' — Examiner.

43. HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a
wide circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

44. SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.

45. THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."
"The author of 'John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can
call to mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful
sketches in this work." — United Service Magazine.

46. A ROSE IN JUNE. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its
own with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

47. MY LITTLE LADY. By E. F. Pointer.

There is a great deal of fascination about this book. The author writes in a clear,
unaffected style; she has a decided gift for depicting character, while the descriptions
of scenery convey a distinct pictorial impression to the reader." — Times.

48. Phoebe, JUNIOR. By MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This novel shows great knowledge of human nature. The interest goes on
growing to the end. Phoebe is excellently drawn." — Times.

49. LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.
A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the
most popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.
"This book is well written, and of thrilling interest." — Academy,

50. SIR GIBBIE. By GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius'' — Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power", pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike." — Athenceum.

•^'
Ifi '

s^.jt

■£ij^

rp-
