w

,'*>

'J'

'Hi

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

L161— O-1096

>

VOL. r.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

Deronda. By The Countess of Munster. 3 vols.
MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in the

Life of a Jacobite's Daughter, By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.

THROUGH THE LONG NIGHT. By Mrs. E. Lynn

Linton, author of ' Patricia Kimball,' ' Pastor Carew,' &c 3 vols.

THE TRACK OF THE STORM. By Dora Russell,

author of ' Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken Seal,' &c. 3 vols.

HUGH Warrington. By Gertrude Forde, author of

'Driven before the storm,' 'Only a Coral Girl,' &c. 3 vols.

hurst & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

ANNE BEALE

Author OF

FAY ARLINGTON,' * THE PENNANT FAMILY,

'SQUIRE LISLE'S BEQUEST,' ETC.

Fortune, men say, doth give too much to many :
But yet she never gave enough to any.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.
All Rights Reserved.

n;,

CONTENTS

OF

K-

THE FIRST VOLUME.

0"

I

-^

I. A Millionaire's Family

II. His Three Wives

Iir. Fan . .

IV. The Gipsies

V. The Old Ladies

VI. A Jack of all Trades

VII. His Daughter's Education

VIII. A Good Girl .

IX. An Assault Frustrated

X. A First Parting

XI. School

XII. Bruce's Tutor .

XIII. Une Petite Partie Carrie

XIV. Edith's Schooling .
XV. At the Encampment .

XVI. The Gipsies at School

XVII. A Ship Lost .

Xvii 'A Ruined Man'

XIX. Janet at Last .

PACK













9'1

























CHAPTER I.

A millionaire's family.

Mr. Aspenelelelel, of Aspenelelelel Park, was a millionaire.
He did not himself know how
many millions he possessed, but he did
know that he kept one of them floating in
the Bank of England for chance monetary
exigencies, and the others shut up in mines,
and let loose in argosies in South America
and elsewhere. He had accumulated all
this wealth himself, was the founder of his
own fortune — as people say — and, if winning
the heart's desire secures happiness,
he was a happy man. He had schemed all

VOL. I. B

his life to acquire money, and he had
heaped up so much that he did not know
what to do with it, where to invest it, or
how to spend it. Spending it was out of
the question, for, having made it, he willed
to keep it. He had gambled on the Stock
Exchange, in railways, in foreign speculations
at home and abroad, and he seized
his gains with such a deadly grip that no
man could wrest them from him.

Nevertheless he loved pomp and show
and grand company, and, before all, the
upper ten. He even gave, occasionally,
large sums in public charity, and had his
name blazoned forth before the public, if
not as a philanthropist, at least as a benefactor
of his species. He stood tolerably
well with the outer world that did not
understand him, but not quite so well with
the members of his home circle who did.
They were terribly afraid of him, and
avoided him whensoever they could. Ashe
went almost daily to London, they did

not often come into collision, and no sooner
did he drive off from his house to the
station than his domestics, at least, let
loose the reins of their tongues and tempers.
As to his wife and children But

they require a special introduction.

Aspenelel Park and the magnificent mansion
in its midst were as bright and beautiful
as any of the bright and beautiful
places in that garden of England, Kent.
But its mistress was not so happy as she
might have been, in spite of the green
glades, umbrageous trees, swan-crested
lake, and model farm by which she was
surrounded. Neither did the fact that it
had once belonged to an out-at-elbows
nobleman comfort her as it did her husband.
She was herself a scion of the
aristocracy, and we rarely care overmuch
for the things to which we have been all
our lives accustomed. She, at least, was
so desirous of an entire change that she
had married a plebeian for his riches and

B 2

what she hoped to get out of them. She
had been disappointed, as most people are
who make sordid matches ; and so were her
predecessors, since Mr. Aspenelel had been
thrice wed.

As she sat in her morning-room, pondering
over the peculiarities of her husband,
who had just driven off, and listening to
the distant hilarity of the housemaids, she
looked what she was — utterly bored and
discontented. She had undertaken a post
for which she was quite unsuited, and her
salary did not suffice to compensate to her
for its penalties.

How could I have married him ?' she
muttered, as she thought first of his personal
appearance, then of the school-room
and nursery.

Not that he was ill-looking. She had
watched him get into his brougham, and
was forced to confess that although his
figure was spare, and he had what she
called a money-getting stoop in his shoulders,

his carriage was not bad, and the
cut of his head, hair, and beard respectable.
The latter were iron grey, sprucely
clipped, and meritoriously superintended.
AShe sometimes wished them white and
rough, and their owner less scrupulously
neat and clean, just for a change. ' Anything
for a change,' she sighed.

Still she dreaded the change that
sometimes happened in his small black
ej^es. They were naturally bright and
cunning, but occasionally grew so fierce
and foxy that she was afraid of them and
him. She was told when she married that
she would have her own way in everything,
but she found that he was resolved
to have his, and, like many another who
makes rash promises for imaginary gain,
she got no compensation for her venture.

What can I do with those children ?'
she groaned, as she seated herself at a
luxuriously-furnished writing-table. ' I
know I have the reputation of being a

sort of rnardtre^ and they hate me accordingly.
I can do with Edith, but Janet is
aggressive, and browbeat Bruce, and
would rule me if she could. She must goto
school, but Bruin grudges the money,
and I cannot possibly spare it out of my
niggardly allowance.'

Mrs. Aspenelel was in the habit of calling
her husband Bruin when alone with her
own thoughts, and being young and
sprightly, and not over-conscientious, saw
no harm in it. People said ' there was no
harm in her,' but her actions sometimes
belied this opinion. She was naturally
hasty of speech and quick of judgment,
and, although not devoid of kindness of
heart, frequently obscured her virtues by
her vices. The latter word may be strong,
but are not all bad passions vices?

No sooner had she taken pen in hand
with the intention of writing to her intimate
friend, Toady Ascham, to make
inquiries concerning schools in general,

than there was a sound of pattering feet
in the corridor, followed by many thumps
on the door, and attended by shouts of
Mammy, mammy !'

She was on her feet in a moment, had
opened the door, and was soon hugging a
riotous, screaming boy, with a whip in his
hand. This was her only child, Master
Bruce, who answered her pathetic inquiries
as to what was the matter, by sobbing
repetitions of the word, ' Janet, Janet !'

What has Janet been doing now, darling?'
asked the mother, soothingly.

Nothing, ma'am,' replied for him a
respectable-looking, middle-aged woman,
who had followed him. ' Master Bruce
kept on whipping and teasing Miss Janet,
and when she pushed him away he tumbled
down. He would smudge her drawing,
ma'am !'

Janet pinched me,' screamed the boy.

Oh ! Master Bruce, you promised me
to tell the truth,' remonstrated the nurse.

I hate Janet — I won't tell the truth
was the answer.

This must be put a stop to,' exclaimed
Mrs. Aspenelel, walking hastily down the
corridor and mounting the staircase at its
end, followed by Bruce and the nurse.

'Where are the young ladies?' she
inquired.

In the school-room, ma'am.'

Bruce declared his intention of going to
the nursery, for he had an instinctive
feeling that he might get the worst of it
when face to face with Janet. Accordingly,
Mrs. Aspenelel marched into one room, and
he and the nurse into another, which
adjoined it.

The occupants of the former were two
young girls, one of whom was seated at a
table, crying over the drawing which Bruce
had ' smudged ' ; the other bending caressingly
over her, and seeking to comfort
her.

I won't bear it any longer,' sobbed the

juvenile artist, as Mrs. Aspenelel appeared.

What is all this, Janet ? What have
you been doing to Bruce?' she asked,
severely, for she was in a passion.

What has he been doing to me, rather,'
asked Janet in return, suppressing tears
and sobs with admirable self-command, and
holding up a block, on which Alas a watercolour
drawing, disfigured by many black
marks.

The elder girl, Edith, suddenly disappeared
into the nursery, which communicated
with the school-room. She, like
Bruce, avoided a collision, but hearing
the word ' coward ' sent after her, like
some sharp missile, she returned and retired
to a seat near the window. A contemptuous
smile passed over Janet's face,
but she rose and offered her chair to her
step-mother, who sat down before the disfigured
drawing.

Bruce says you pinched him.'

I did no such thing, Mrs. Aspenelel. I

pushed him off when he snatched my brush
from my hand, and then he put it right
into the sepia and spoilt my drawing. He
is the plague of one's life.'

I should rather think you are the

plague of his, as you are ' Here Mrs.

Aspenelel paused.

Not of my father's, for I never see him,'
put in spirited Janet. ' Nor of Edith's, nor
of Nurse True's, nor '

Of mine, then. I think you had better
go to school. Your governesses cannot
manage you, and Mrs. Nunnn left us on
your account.'

Janet uttered a sound that in a boy
might have been accounted a whistle, and
repeated with a shrill voice,

Mrs. Nunnn !' then, turning to her sister,
said rapidly : ' Edith knows as well as I
do why Mrs. Nunnn left. She said her
salary was too low, and that she couldn't
maintain her children upon it. Now, Edith,

can't you speak up? Didn't Mrs. Dunn
say that?'

Yes,' replied Edith, timidly.

We were very fond of Mrs. Nunnn,
weren't we, Edith ?'

Very,' was the trembling response.

Were you ever fond of anyone, Janet T
asked Mrs. Aspenelel, with a sudden change
of tone.

I am very fond of Edith, and Nurse
True, and '

'But Edith is only your half-sister, just
as Bruce is your half-brother, and Nurse
True was her mother's maid.'

My own mother was very fond of Edith,
wasn't she, Edith ? And we were always
treated alike ; and Nurse True says no one
ever knew that Edith was not her very
own daughter.'

I think Nurse True had better hold
her tongue.'

Mrs. Aspenelel felt that she was getting

the worst of it, and with a slight twinge
of conscience, reverted to her darling
Bruce.

^ Since Bruce is the plague of your life,
Janet, perhaps you had better leave him,
and, as I cannot manage you, a schoolmistress
may.'

We get on very well sometimes, but I
don't like to have my drawings spoilt, and
to be punished when he is naughty. He
tells stories and I am blamed. I shall be
very glad to go to school.'

Oh, Janet !' came from pale Edith.

The colour rose to Mrs. Aspenelel's cheeks
and anger to her heart. She knew that
she had not tried to gain the affection of
these two girls, yet she could not put up
with their dislike or indifference. She
turned round from the drawing which she
had apparently been contemplating all the
time, and faced Janet, standing at the end
of a long table. They might have been
mother and daughter, for both were dark

and handsome, only Mrs. Aspenelel did not
look her ao^e, and Janet looked older than
she was. She was tall, slight, and angular,
and not only her attitude but her face was
defiant. The hazel eyes that melted to
tears at a kind word flashed at injustice,
and the colour rose and disappeared in
her clear cheeks at every changing feeling.
At the moment she was bristling with real
or imaginary grievances, and decision lay
in every muscle of her frame, especially in
the hand which pressed the table.

'To school, then, you shall go if your
father does not object,' said Mrs. Aspenelel.

'That will suit all parties, if it is not
too expensive,' returned Janet, with provoking
resolution. ' But I fear that, if he
found Mrs. Nunnn's salary too heavy for his
small income, he will not be able to afford
a school. Shall I go as pupil-teacher?'

You will remain in the school-room today.
Your impertinence is insufferable,
and your treatment of your brother quite

unbearable,' replied Mrs. Aspenelel, rising,
and looking as if she would fain chastise
her step-daughter.

A reply rose to Janet's lips, but it was
stayed by a touch. Edith laid her hand
on her shoulder, and when she turned
quickly she met her entreating glance.

She does not mean to be impertinent,
and she is not really unkind to Bruce,'
breathed the elder girl, whose fear exceeded
in proportion her sister's courage,
and who had crept across the room with
mouse-like quietude.

Mrs. Aspenelel glanced haughtily at the
pair. They were less alike than were she
and Janet ; for Edith was pale, fair-headed,
and scarcely so tall as her sister, though
three or four years her senior.

I think, Edith, Janet and I can manage
without interference,' she said, contemptuously.
' You are both resolved to
annoy me, and I shall complain of your
conduct to your father.'

The pressure of the small, white hand
again restrained an answer from Janet that
would have provoked further irritation,
and Mrs. Aspenelel, perceiving that no reply
was intended, sailed out of the school-room
and into the nursery. She found Bruce
en penitence, seated on a low chair at his
nurse's knee. He was supposed to be learning
a lesson. He started up, asking to be
allowed to go with his mother.

'May I, nurse? I'm good now; and I
won't spoil Janet's drawing no more,' he
entreated.

Of course you may, darling,' said his
mother, and took him quickly away.

'Always the same !' muttered the nurse.
'Injustice to my dear lambs, and indulgence
to her own. No sooner do I punish
him than she spoils him. What is to bethe
end of it all ? Had I not promised my
dear mistress never to leave Miss Edith, I
would not stay here an hour.'

Is the coast clear?' here broke in Janet,

looking in at the door. ' Even you may
venture, mouse, for there is no cat to eat
you up.'

I wish you would not talk in that way,
Miss Janet. If you were more cautious, it
might be better for us all. Edith, my
sweetheart, you are ill.'

Only a little frightened, nurse dear.
My heart seems to rise to my mouth when
Mrs. Aspenelel appears. And I am sure she
does not mean to be unkind.'

Edith walked timidly towards the 
on Which her friend was moving
to and fro, put her arms round her neck,
and let fall a few suppressed tears. Janet's
arms were instantly round the pair, and
they were all in danger of an upset. They
righted themselves, however, and were soon
engaged in discussing the new plan of a
school for Janet.

CHAPTER II.

HIS THREE WIVES.

Mr. Aspenelel's first wife was a Miss Halley.
She was a lady of good family, or oui*
ambitious millionaire would not have married
her. Her father was an officer who
was not over rich, and who had no scruples
in advising his daughter to accept the proposal
made to her by one whose fortune
Alas already considerable. As she had no
positive dislike to Mr. Aspenelel, she did her
utmost to please her father. She received
him courteously, entered into his views,
and finally fancied that she had a preference
for him. He was not then quite so
greedy of gain as he became as years went

VOL. I. c

on, and he was neither ill-looking nor deficient
in good manners, so it ended in her
marrying him. If he had any affection for
aught but money, it was for her.

She was a delicate, fragile creature, and
soon found that her despotic lord and
master took small heed of her. She saw
little of her family, for they lived at a distance,
and her husband never approved of
visitors who stayed in the house. He considered
it loss of time, and did not see why
he should spend his money in keeping those
who could afford to keep themselves. Besides,
his breakfast-table was sacred to
himself, his wife, his newspapers, and his
accounts. A stranger would have interfered
nth these domestic arrangements,
and accordingly Mrs. Aspenelel led a solitary
life. Her husband frequently brought back
with him to dinner such friends as could
return to their homes the same night, and
occasionally entertained the Dons and
Dresses of the neighbourhood ; but,

beyond this and morning calls, she had
no society. She was herself a north-country
woman, and often pined for the
hospitality to which she had been accustomed
; but being naturally amiable and
yielding, she made no complaint. Thus,
Mr. Aspenelel's introduction to matrimony
Alas unattended by the 'jars,' sometimes
associated with that second estate, married-manhood,
which he was wont to compare
with the first, bachelorhood, and, subsequently,
with the third, widowhood.

When Mrs. Aspenelel married she brought
with her from the north a maid named
Trueman, whom she had known all her
life, and who was devoted to her almost
with the devotion of clanship. She it
was who had consoled her Ashen she lost
her first child, and had promised never to
forsake her second, for the first Mrs.
Aspenelel died a few days after the birth of
Edith, and two years subsequently to her
marriage, confiding the infant, with her

c2

last gasp, to the care of her faithful
attendant.

Call her Edith, and never forsake her,'
she had breathed, just as her husband
hurried into the room.

He had been telegraphed for some hours
before, but thousands of pounds hung on
his being at his office just then, and his
scales were pretty equally weighted by
money on one and life on the other.
Money, however, outweighed life, and in
saving the one he was too late for the other,
for death met him on the threshold of his
home.

'No one could possibly blame me,' he
thought, as he looked regretfully on his
dead wife, and heard his infant daughter
wailing.

He mourned her for several homes, and
then went for consolation to his accounts,
which were so complicated and intricate
that no mathematician had more engrossing
means of comfort than he.

He made no objection to Mrs. Trueman's
undertaking the sole charge of ' the muling
and puking ' baby ; and no two words
could better describe the infant than those
immortal and very natural ones of Shakespeare.
Edith was a tiny, delicate snowdrop
from her birth, and the wonder was
that she ever pierced through earth's hard
crust at all, and grew up capable of hanging
her drooping head on her fragile stem.
Humanly speaking, she would not but for
Nurse Trueman — Nurse True, or True
nurse, so the children called her as years
sped on.

Before she was quite two years old, her
father brought her a step-mother. He had
a short memory for all save his arithmetic,
and honestly confessed that he could not
live without a wife. If he was a rich man
when he first married, he was a richer
when he prevailed on Sir Connop Gerard's
widow to bestow on him her youngest
daughter. Of course she had no money,

for Sir Connop had run through his fortune,
and his widow was nearly penniless; but
Mr. Aspenelel looked only for family, and
having married the daughter of a general
officer first, aspired to the baronetcy next,
and his aspirations were not disappointed.

His second wife was very different from
his first, being a bright, high-spirited girl,
who had a fancy for a fine home and a
change from comparative poverty to certain
wealth. She did not pretend to be in love
with Mr. Aspenelel, but she had no positive
dislike to him, for he had the power of
making himself pleasant if he chose, and,
as we have said, was rather good-looking
and well got up. Of course, when a girl
marries on no better foundation than this,
she must take the consequences.

She did take them with tolerable cheerfulness,
and put up with one of them much
better than was expected. This was her
small step-daughter. She took her at once
to her heart, and with her the nurse which

had been providentially given her. Not
even when her own little daughter arrived
did she allow her to be displaced. As
Janet said, no onlooker could discover that
any difference was made in the treatment
of the two children ; if there were any
preference shown, Edith certainly was the
one preferred. The shrinking snowdrop
was never molested, while the hardier
celandine was often blown about by the
March winds.

Mrs. Aspenelel the second had a quick
temper, and was impetuous and warmhearted,
so that if annoyed she wanted an
object for her temporary displeasure, and
would always rather reprove her own offspring
than her predecessor's, while she
usually petted and spoilt both.

Being high-spirited and particularly
sociable, she managed to scrape acquaintance
with such scions of gentility as lived
in the neighbouring village of Roselands,
and introduced the clergyman to the Park

on more intimate terms than her husband
quite liked. Roselands had been the name
of his property until he changed it to
Aspenelel Park, following, unwittingly, the
scriptural description of those who call
their possessions * after their own names.'
But he failed to alter that of the village,
which did not belong to him. He succeeded,
however, in changing the title of a
neighbouring cluster of houses from ' The
Roselands Cottages ' to ' The Aspenelel
Homes,' because he assumed he had a right
over them. This right was, however, disputed,
he asserting that he had purchased
them with the Park ; and Lord Beechen
declaring that they were built and endowed
by an ancestor of his, whose descendants
had no right to sell them. Lord Beechen
was a great landed proprietor who lived
about five miles from Aspenelel Park, and
the disputed cottages lay near the village
of Roselands, and just outside the Park.
They consisted of a group of six small

and pretty houses, enclosed in a lawn, or,
more properly, field, and built by a philanthropist
for the benefit of half-a-dozen
decayed gentlewomen,' as people call poor
ladies who, having no private means, are
content to live upon the means provided
for them by the benevolent. Widows or
single ladies were equally available for
admission into the Aspenelel Homes, or Rose-lands
Cottages, and these, without exception,
used the latter name, in which we mil
humour them ; for there is no reason why
ladies — or gentlemen either, for that
matter — should be reminded of their
indebtedness to some long-departed benefactor,
by that much-abused word ' Home.'
Not but that the Cottages were really very
nice and pleasant homes, in which, if women
ever could ' dwell together in unity,' the
six impecunious ladies who tenanted them
might have ended their days in peace.

They are particularly mentioned here
because Mrs. Aspenelel the second, in her

kindness of heart and need of sympathy,
made the acquaintance of the six ladies,
and because her own mother's sister dwelt
amongst them. She, however, only took
possession of the abode a few months before
her niece's death, and but for that niece
would never have tenanted it. The widow
of a poor clergyman, she was looking about
for the means of livelihood, when she
heard of the Cottages, and wrote to Mrs.
Aspenelel to inquire if there were a vacancy.
It is unnecessary to enter upon the difficulties
which Mrs. Aspenelel encountered
before she prevailed on her husband to
nominate her. At first he positively refused,
but vvhen his wife represented to
him that he was expected to help to maintain
her, and actually asked him for money
for that purpose, he relented, and said she
might fill the next vacancy, provided he
were no more pestered with her.

Edith was nine years old and Janet six
when their mother was seized with an illness

that ended in decline. She had time
given her to arrange her mortal affairs,
and to prepare for the immortal. Nurse
Trueman had now two children committed
to her care, and she undertook the charge
in faith. Her simple piety and enduring
love for Edith had not been without effect
on Mrs. Aspenelel, who was naturally worldly
; and when she was solemnly asked
if she would be to Janet what she had
been to Edith, and never forsake either
she replied,

I will, God helping me.'

Mrs. Aspenelel had made herself much
beloved, both by domestics and her outer
world, but her children idolised her, as
she, indeed, did them. She had taught
them herself, aided by Trueman, and in
teaching them had learnt her own lessons,
particularly religious ones. She had sought
to influence her husband, but she saw even
less of him than had his first wife, for he grew
more and more engrossed with his golden

idol. However, he managed to be with her
when she died, though the weight of this
heavy god, that he always carried with
him, had more power than her last words.

Be kind to the children. Let Nurse
True always live with them. Think of the
world to which I am going. Oh ! come to
the Saviour!'

He stood beside her while she expired in
the good nurse's arms, her aunt and the
children being also present, but whether
he grieved or not none could tell. Indeed
he could not tell himself. Men with one
engrossing passion rarely feel for anything
outside it.

I could not help her dying. She has
had all she wanted,' he said to her aunt
afterwards, who remained the day with
him and the children, unasked, and fancied
that he drank more heavily than usual, as
if to drown some sort of feeling.

This brief story of Mr. Aspenelel's two
wives is merely to serve to account for the

state of affairs at the commencement of
our first chapter. In less than a twelvemonth
after the death of the second he
married the lady to whom we have been
introduced. She was the daughter of the
Hon. James Bruce, who, though the son
of a peer of the realm, was delighted to
Avec his daughter to one of the richest
commoners of England, and was not too
particular in examining the branches of
his son-in-law's family-tree when the settlements
were made.

They had been married nearly six years-when
our story began, and their only child
was the Master Bruce who was 'the plague
of Janet's life,' and the paramount anxiety
of Nurse True's. She found herself in a
very difficult position, since she was compelled
to seek favour from this youthful
autocrat and his mother, if she were to
fulfil the mission imposed upon her by her
previous mistresses. Being true by nature
as well as by name, and never having been

taught the diplomatic art, as political state
nurses have, she was often astonished at
the results of her own measures. But she
would say to Edith, who was her confidant
in every difficulty,

I pray, and the Lord hears me.'

CHAPTER 111.

FAN.

You know it was a story, Nurse True
exclaimed the still exasperated Janet, when
the trio in the nursery had righted themselves
after the episode in the rocking-chair.


Perhaps not exactly a story, only a
mistake, my dear. You were often troublesome
to Mrs. Nunnn, and she may have
complained to Mrs. Aspenelel.'

Then she was a nasty, cross old thing ;
but I don't believe she did. She left because
Mr. Aspenelel wouldn't pay her a
proper salary.'

'Pray say my father, and not Mr.

Aspenelel, Miss Janet. Whatever has put
that into your head? It was very obstinate
of you not to call Mrs. Aspenelel
mother.'

That was my fault, Nurse True,' put in
Edith. ' I could not bear the idea of a
third mother. I cannot remember my own
mother, and our mother was so dear that I
could never acknowledge another. Janet
only followed my lead. I think Mrs.
Aspenelel does not mind, and my father
does not know.'

I don't believe he is our father, for he
takes no notice of us,' said Janet. ' I don't
mind calling him papa, for that word
doesn't occur in the Bible, you know.
There is something very solemn in the
word father, and almost all the fathers are
kind. So I shall say papa.'

It does not much matter which,' returned
the nurse ; ' but, if you think of
the Bible, remember it tells you to " honour
your father." '

Janet was silent, and sat biting her

lip.

May we go and see auntie ?' asked
Edith, always nervous at this sign of
temper. ' I will ask Mrs. Aspenelel about
Bruce.'

Bravo, Edith ! that is more than I could
do,' cried Janet. 'But I won't accompany

you, if that young imp He is an imp,

Nurse True. Look at my poor drawing,
and I meant to present it to Mr. Austen.'

Edith, who had a mortal fear of giving
offence, was anxious to show Mrs. Asj)enel
that she had meant none when she sided
with Janet, so she hastened downstairs.
When she reached Mrs. Aspenelel's room,
however, she stood some time at the door
before she ventured to knock, and, when
she did so, the imperative ' Come in,'
frightened her. She found her step-mother
with Bruce on her lap, and a plate of sweetmeats
before them. She explained that
she had come to ask whether Mrs. Aspenelel

VOL. I. D

wished Bruce to go out, as it was the usual
time for a walk.

I won't go with Janet,' screamed the
boy, and the question was settled at once.

You see how it is, Edith. It is impossible
to get on when you all conspire
against him, even Nurse True,' said Mrs.
Aspenelel, haughtily.

We are all very fond of Bruce, when
he is good,' rejoined Edith. ' I am sorry
if I annoyed or offended you just now,
when I agreed with Janet about Mrs.
Nunnn. I think they liked one another
very well.'

Edith was one of those natures, timid
when taken at unawares, self-possessed
when having time for reflection. Mrs.
Aspenelel was hot and hasty, and disliked
all interference.

You are always sorry for one thing
and another, Edith. I wish you would
be just. You must know that Janet rebels
against every person and thing, and

provokes Bruce until he pays her back.'

'Oh! Mrs. Aspenelel!' ejaculated Edith,
her favourite exclamation when she was
afraid to reply more fully.

The only way out of these complications
that I can find is to send Janet to school,
and T shall ask Mr. Aspenelel about it this
evening.'

Edith sighed.

You have no objection to our going to
the Cottages to see Mrs. Glanville?' she
said, by way of changing the subject.

I think you generally go whether I
object or not ; but since Janet's mother
saw no impropriety in placing her aunt in
an almshouse, and allowing her to receive
charity at her husband's gates, T suppose
she is a proper person to be visited. But
how you can endure sitting with those old
women I can't imagine. It must be faute
de mieiLx. Of course we must be civil to
Mrs. Glanville, since she is a sort of connection,
but the others ! — I see them now !

D 2

Miss Short, pacing up and down the gravel
Avalk, with her long walking-stick and
poked bonnet, followed by the maid.
Then Mrs. Lucy and her corkscrew curls.
She objects to her juvenile maid wearing
a fringe, but persists in curling her own
hair. I see no difference. I have never
had the pleasure of an introduction to
bedridden Miss Lome, but the sentimental
Lilyton, and the strong-minded and literary
Vigors, are my abhorrence.'

they say you are very kind and condescending
when they come to tea,' said
Edith, smiling.

One must be polite in one's own house ;
and, since I understand they none of them
visit one another, it amuses me to have
them here all together.'

'Auntie visits them all. Nurse True
calls her " oil on the troubled waters." '

She is not your aunt, Edith. Why do
you call her so ?'

I suppose because Janet does.'

*Then, if Janet called me mother, you
would probably do the same. I am surprised
at your allowing yourself to be led
by the nose by a child three or four years
your junior.'

Mrs. Aspenelel flushed, and Edith was
silent, perceiving for the first time that
there was a grievance under her stepmother's
apparent nonchalance. The momentary
silence was broken by Bruce, who,
having devoured all the sweetmeats, began
to think of dinner, and asked, noisily
enough, when it would be ready. Mrs.
Aspenelel looked at her Avatch, and said,

There will not be time for your antiquarian
researches before dinner, Edith,
so you had better go afterwards, and Bruce
shall drive with me.'

Thank you ; I will tell Janet,' returned
Edith, and hurried back to her sister
rejoicing.

The children dined at luncheon, and it
was usually a stiff and silent meal. An

occasional guest broke its monotony, otherwise
few words were spoken, save by-bruce,
who was allowed to say just what
he pleased. The antagonism between Mrs.
Aspenelel and Janet was never laid aside.

But all was forgotten when the two girls
and Nurse True found themselves in the
Park, With an afternoon before them in
which to do just what they liked.

How nice it is to have you all to ourselves
again, Nurse True !' cried Janet. ' I
am glad Mrs. Nunnn is gone, though I
maintain that it was money not I that sent
her away.'

And, unquestionably, money it was ; for
Mrs. Nunnn asked for an increase of salary,
was refused politely by Mr. Aspenelel in
person, and resigned her post.

He was in the habit of getting all that
he could out of people at the cheapest rate,
and reflected that what one would not do
another would. Accordingly he was already
on the look-out for a ' cheap governess,'

knowing full well that in the multitude
of unemployed ladies he should assuredly
find one who would ' teach everything fora
nominal emolument.'

Edith caused beside the lake to feed the
swans. It was spring, and just where she
stood grew several pink and white 
in full blossom. Sheltering
them towered a group of horse-chestnuts,
also clad in green and white, and it would
have been difficult to say which was the
fairer — swans, flowers, or pale-faced maiden.
Janet left her in hot haste, and before
Nurse True could arrest her was running
at full speed across a side walk beneath an
avenue of elms, towards a house on the
outskirts of the Park.

We must go after her,' said Nurse True ;
and she and Edith followed Janet.

Looking back towards the house they
saw the carriage at the door, and congratulated
one another that they had not
Bruce to look after as well as Janet, since

they knew not wliicli was the wilder. The
house looked well from the side avenue.
It was situated on a slight eminence, and
stood out from a background of trees, a
stately mansion, porticoed, pillared, and
stuccoed to a shining whiteness. Mr. As-penes
spared no money in maintaining its
personal appearance, and neither flaw nor
discoloured was allowed to deface it.
His own outer man was not more scrupulously
attended to than was the outside of
his abode. It looked pure as did Edith and
her swans.

^ How brightly the sun shines into the
windows !' said that young lady, as she
glanced across at the carriage. ' I suppose
glass reflects only, since the shine
flickers from pane to pane, and the least
cloud effaces it. That is just what I am.
The sun is in my heart one minute, and
gloom the next.'

Dear love ! you take things too gravely
for your years ; just as your dear mother

did,' returned Nurse True, whose broad
north-country accent never deserted her.

I wish I could do something kind to
Mrs. Aspenelel,' said Edith, reflectively.

The time is sure to come, lovey. Watch
your opportunities, and have patience,' was
the reply.

They hurried after Janet, but her figure
was out of sight in no time.

No good to hasten. Let her have her
joy, poor child,' said Nurse True, and they
slackened their steps.

They eventually reached an iron swing-gate,
placed beneath an archway in the
park wall, and leading into a country road.
This road was a favourite and favoured
spot, for it was flanked with hawthorn
hedges and adorned with wayside flowers.
In summer wild roses bloomed here, in
autumn traveller's-joy, and always some
frond or floweret lurked beneath the
thorns. Here, too, were cottages, and
here was the big brick school-house, lately

built to accommodate many Board schools.
But there was another school-house in the
village, old and ivy-clad, which the vicar
maintained for such parishioners as preferred
the voluntary to the Board-school
system. And it must be confessed that
most of the villagers were as conservative
as was the Rev. Philip Austen, their 'pastor
and master,' and affected what they
called 'the Church school.'

Edith and Nurse True walked briskly
down this road, receiving and returning
salutations from the cottagers, till they
reached a substantial brick house called
Hoplands, probably after the flourishing
hop-gardens in the neighbourhood. They
went through a swing-gate into a large
garden surrounding the house, and full
of spring flowers. The round bed in the
middle of the gravel-walk was ablaze with
tulips, and in the borders flourished hepaticas,
polyanthuses and Russian violets, surmounted
by various shrubs, among which

the laurustinus had the pre-eminence.
The door was open, and they went into
the hall. They heard Janet's voice in the
dining-room, and Edith tapped at its door.

Come in,' sounded from a cheery voice,
and she entered, Nurse True remaining in
the hall. ' Miss Aspenelel ! this is good for
sore eyes !' continued the same cheery
voice.

It proceeded from a middle-aged man
who was seated in an elbow-chair near a
large lire, with Janet on a stool at his
knees.

I hope you are better, Mr. Barton's
said Edith, going towards him and putting
her small hand in his.

Oh, yes ! I am better, but the rheumatism
sticks to me like a leech. I was just
telling Miss Janet that we have heard
from Jack at last. He has fallen on his
feet in the wilds of Canada, and says he is
already in a fair way of making his fortune.
My boys have their father's hopeful temperament,

and, like Micawber, declare that
something is always on the eve of " turning
up." '

But it does turn up,' cried Janet,
enthusiastically. ' I wish Tom would come
back.'

My dear child, it will never do for you
to call my boys by their Christian names,'
laughed Mr. Harton, laying his hand on
her head. ' What would your father and
Mrs. Aspenelel say ?'

'Our mother didn't object, did she,
Edith ?' asked Janet ; ' and I don't care
what Mrs. Aspenelel says. Papa never
thinks about it, or cares what becomes
of us.'

Where is Fan ?' interrupted Edith.

Taking my place in giving orders and
managing man, woman, and child,' said
Mr. Harton. ' She thinks herself a woman
of importance, and is ruining me by bringing
in every beggar and his brat that
comes near the house.'

That is just what you did to her,'
whispered Janet.

Voices sounded in the hall, and in another
moment the door was flung open,
and a young girl was seen struggling with
Nurse True, while several dogs were barking
and leaping round them.

You must come in. Sir will be so
angry,' she shouted at the top of her voice.
^ ^ Pray do, Mrs. Trueman. I would getup
to escort you if I could, but I am
chained to my chair,' said Mr. Harton.
'Fan, you needn't be quite so violent.'

She won't come unless I force her,'
cried Fan, still struggling with Nurse
True.

Janet ran towards them, and was soon
kissing Fan energetically, while Nurse
True advanced towards Mr. Harton. Fan
was a born hoyden of sixteen, or thereabouts,
of the true gipsy type of beauty.
Black hair, black eyes, red lips, red cheeks,
a box of teeth as white as the snow in

which she was found, and a complexion as
dark as if she had really been the Egyptian
people supposed her to be ; in other words,
a stray from a gipsy-tent. Everybody
called her Fan, both rich and poor, and
everybody adopted her, everybody except
Edith, who was afraid of her. But, as
they were in such different positions, they
saw but little of one another. Indeed,
when Fan perceived Edith, she made a
little curtsey, and did not attempt to offer
her hand till Edith held out hers. Miss
Aspenelel had the reputation of being proud,
as reserved, shy people frequently have.

To Janet's mortification, Nurse True
proposed their pursuing their Avay to the
cottages ; but before they left, Mr. Harton
gave a third account of how he had heard
from Jack.

'And he has killed a skunk which smelt
awfully, and cleared away yards of snow,
and been nearly frozen to death, and felled
more trees than ever Mr. Gladstone felled

in all his long life, and been half-starved
poor Jack !' said Fan, with tears in her
big black eyes. * But he is building a
log-hut, and says I shall go out to keep
house for him if Sir can spare me. But that
would be impossible.'

In a moment her hand was on Mr.
Harton's shoulder, and the lustrous eyes
looking into his.

'Nobody could spare Fan!' exclaimed
Janet, rising from her low seat at a glance
from Nurse True.

We can keep our girls, Mrs. Trueman,
though there is no holding in the boys
nowadays,' said Mr. Harton. ' Fortunately
I have Fan, my books, and my newspapers,
but I am half-afraid the property will goto
rack and ruin.'

Not yours, sir. God will never forsake
those who work for their fellow-creatures
as you do,' returned Nurse True.

'Thank you, Mrs. Trueman, for that
word of comfort. Remember me to the

old ladies — I beg their pardons, they don't
like to be called old — none of us do.'

Fan accompanied her visitors to the
gate, followed by her train of dogs, and,
as she watched them down the road,
muttered,

I wish I was as white as a lily, like
Miss Aspenelel, and not black as a nigger,
like — like Fan.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE GIPSIES.

Me. Harton was also watching the vanishing
forms of the trio from the park, as
they passed beneath the low Avail that
served as boundary between his garden
and the road. The garden itself was
almost level with the top of the wall, and
thus enabled him to watch the passers-by.
Many thoughts rushed through his mind
while Fan stood at the garden-gate surrounded
by his dogs. They concerned
Mr. Aspenelel and his family, as well as his
own, for he had known something of the
former in his youth, and had marked his
rise, progress, marriages, and millionaires
VOL. I. E

from that period to the moment when he
sat a prisoner from rheumatism, following
with his eyes the movements of his
daughters. But he knew no more than
other people of Mr. Aspenelel's birth and
parentage. He had been a successful man,
and that was enough for him as well as for
the world at large.

He heartily disliked Mr. Aspenelel, and,
whenever he chanced to come in contact
with him, they were sure to quarrel.
There was one especial grievance between
them : Mr. Aspenelel was for uprooting the
gipsies from the neighbourhood, and kindly
Mr. Harton insisted on allowing them to
pitch their tents on his land whenever
they chanced to come that way. ' Live
and let live,' Alas his motto ; and he would
moralise on the short lives probably in
store for the strange people that always
interested him. He knew that their race
was gradually dwindling away here in
England, and that few of the genuine

descendants of the swarthy wanderers from
Egyptian or Tartarean deserts — as might
be — still survived. Intermarriage with
other vagabonds of British extraction had
tainted the pure Asian or Egyptian blood,
and he would sigh when he thought of it,
for he was somewhat of a dreamer, and
therefore not so utilitarian as his ao;e. He
had tried to puzzle out the Romany dialect,
but no sooner had he dug down to the root
of one verb, than he found it crossed by
some horrible English or Irish sister, and
so, as in the intermarriages, nothing but an
unintelligible jargon was left.

It is hard to drive them from pillar
to post till they are hunted out of the
world,' he would say, when Mr. Aspenelel
remonstrated, ' and they are welcome to
my little bits of waste land, so long as I
have any left me.'

Mr. Aspenelel, who never wasted words,
would turn on his heel, with the epithet
fool ' on his lips ; while Harton, who was

E 2

^^^'''''^m

LLiUOia

a strictly religious man, would also mutter
the same word, but with an addenda which
made it legitimate : 'Thou fool! this night
thy soul shall be required of thee.' Thus
these neighbours were always at issue, not
only on this, but on every subject that
ought to have made them more neighbourly.
Mr. Aspenelel was not, however, the only
neighbour who blamed Mr. Harton, and,
when on a biting winter's day Fan was
thrust upon his tender mercies, they all
said, ' Serve him right ' — all except his
rector and friend, the Rev. Philip Austen,
a o-ood man and true, who would fain have
made all Christendom Christ-like.

Nobody could doubt that Fan was a
born gipsy, but how she came to Roselands
in mid-winter not even Mr. Harton could
guess. His gipsy friends always visited
him in spring, summer, or autumn, but
never in Winter. During that inclement
season they usually migrated to the towns,
or lived in their vans, if they had them ;

at any rate his land was free of them,
therefore he could not account for Fan.
His wife had found her one morning outside
the garden-gate, with her long black
hair matted with hoar-frost, and her poor
little bare feet covered with chilblains ; had
found her just where she is standing now,
watching her young neighbours, and longing
to be ' as fair as a lily, like Edith.'
Ten years or thereabouts before she had
been watching for her mother and a promised
cake, but, when Mrs. Harton appeared,
had said, with more of the London than
the Romany dialect, ^ Give us a copper
please, mum.'

She was evidently a precocious child,'
said Mrs. Harton. ' Much more forward in
talking than had been either Jack or Tom.'
All that Mrs. Harton could get from her
was that her name was Fan, and her
mother's. Clorandy, and that she was to
stay by the gate till she got her a cake.
Eut as neither mother nor cake appeared,

and Mrs. Harton, who was as generous asher
husband, could not let a child die of
cold at her very door, Fan was taken into
Hoplands and regaled with hot broth,
while Jack Alas set to watch for the errant
parent. She never returned, and there
was no clue to Fan's history ; not even the
initialed garment or amulet of romance.
Mr. Harton closely questioned his friends
the gipsies, but, either from clanship or
absolute lack of knowledge, he elicited
nothing. Clorandy, or Florida, was a
favourite name, and there were several
gipsy women who bore it, but none was
forthcoming, so he gradually ceased to
inquire, leaving the development of the
child's history to Providence.

The Union was suggested for her abode
and would probably have been accepted,
had not Master Jack taken a great fancy
to her, and, as he was youngest born and
his mother's favourite, she was received
into the Hoplands kitchen pending inquiry.

It ended in her remaining there for a few
weeks, but finally Mrs. Harton kept her
until she should be claimed by the gipsies.
As this never took place, and as she proved
a very amusing and companionable child,
she was allowed to grow up at Hoplands.
At first her protectors meant to make a
servant of her, but somehow she slipped
into their affections, and, when Mrs. Harton
Alas taken ill, became a necessity to
that good lady. When Mrs. Harton died,
she became equally a necessity to her husband,
and so, as general messenger for the
master, romp and plaything of the boys,
and torment of the servants, Fan grew up
with a very desultory education.

At first she was sent to the village-school
with the village children ; then she was advanced
to a superior seminary whither the
farmers' daughters went before they were
drafted to boarding-school, and finally one
of the inmates of the Roselands Cottages
had asked to be allowed to complete her

education on the voluntary system, as she
refused remuneration ; and Fan was terribly
trammeled by the reading of abstruse
books under the supervision of a lady who
had once been a governess in a nobleman's
family.

Why didn't the nobleman keep her,
and not let her come down here to bother
me ?' Fan had frequently asked of her
friend Jack.

Because the nobleman was very glad to
get rid of her, and have board and lodging
found for her without dipping into his
purse,' replied shrewd Jack.

Fan was still completing her education
with Miss Vigors when she uttered that
irrational wish respecting her complexion,
and Mr. Harton lived on in hopes that he
might eventually find in her an intellectual
companion. He was, himself, a great
reader, and malicious people whispered
that it would be better for himself and his
family if he read less, and attended more

to his affairs. He looked, indeed, a bookworm
as he sat in his somewhat uneasy
chair with a ponderous tome beside him,
and a black velvet cap surmounting his
hio;h and broad forehead. He was a arose
man both as regarded width and height,
and, not having as yet grown the patriarchal
beard, his well-shaven face was
clearly developed. His features were
regular, and his dark eyes had an expression
of humour that mingled now and
again with their more prevailing one of
thought. But, whatever his mood, nothing
destroyed the sweetness of that character-indicator,
the mouth, and his boys were
wont to say that, however cross father
might be, his mouth was always good-tempered.


'I don't like Miss Aspenelel as well as
Miss Janet, but I wish I was as fair as she,'
cried Fan, breaking in upon Mr. Harton's
musings, followed by the dogs.

Tossing off her hat, she took the stool at

his feet vacated by Janet, and the four
dogs grouped themselves round her.

You are jealous, lass. Your poor
mother always said that was your worst
fault.'

Then I will cure of it said Fan, setting
her face and clenching her teeth, and suddenly
grasping the shaggy coat of a retriever
who lay nearest to her. ' All gipsies
are jealous. I wish I weren't a born gipsy,
don't you, old Rolf?'

She tugged at the dog's hair until he
turned round upon her with remonstrating
e3'es and a whine.

He'd have bitten anybody else, Fan,'
said Mr. Harton.

Of course he would. Sir, and quite right
too. But he knows me, and the sort of
girl 1 am ; don't you, Rolf?'

Rolls paws were instantly on her shoulders,
and his tongue uncomfortably protruded
towards her cheek.

I wish Jack had Rolf, don't you, Sir ?

Jack has nobody, and I can't go and keep
his house, because you couldn't do without
me, could you. Sir?'

She had been taught, as a child, to call
Mr. Harton ' Sir,' and she had now no other
name for him. If she inquired for him, it
was as often, 'Where is Sir?' as 'Where is
Mr. Harton ?'

'What a question. Fan. You are the
only one at home just now. Of course 1
could not do without you. But is not this
your afternoon for Miss Vigors ?'

I have just been to tell her that, as you
have the rheumatism, I am wanted at
home.'

Naughty Fan. I thought you were
interested in that book I lent Miss Vigors
on geology.'

It is a bad book, sir. I don't believe a
word of it. It tries to make one think
that a day is thousands of years, and I
know very well that a day means a day,
and nothing more ; and I haven't the least

interest in old stones, and fossils, and
things that happened before the Deluge,
and even the Bible. I like the world and
the people just as they are, and don't care
a straw for the pre-admits. It is all
bosh.'

Perhaps you are right, Fan. But what
does Miss Vigors say ? She is pre-eminently
intellectual.'

Fan burst out into a most unintellectual
fit of laughter, in which Mr. Harton joined,
for, though he delighted in a literary gossip
with Miss Vigors, he never thought of her
without a smile.

Here is Mr. Austen,' shouted Fan, jumping
up and running to the hall-door to let
in an elderly clergyman, the rector of
Roselands.

Well, Fan, and how is the invalid?' he
asked.

Scarcely an invalid, Austen,' came from
the dining-room, ' but right glad to see
you.'

Jack is building a log-hut, and has
killed a skunk. What is a skunk, Mr.
Austen? Sir won't tell me. He says I
must look it out in the cyclopedia,' said
Fan, preceding him to Mr. Harton's chair.

Jack killed a skunk !' exclaimed Mr.
Austen. ' Wh}^, that is more than dogs
will do, he has such an intolerable odour.
He is a kind of weasel, Fan, happily devoted
to home, and, unlike the young
people of this age, not as yet finding it
necessary to '' make the grand tour." He
hasn't come to Europe, as most Americans
do, and long may he stop at home.'

As soon as Mr. Austen was seated, Fan
ran off, followed by her dogs, and left the
two men to the discussion of affairs, public
and private.

CHAPTER V.

THE OLD LADIES.

Edith, Janet, and Nurse True pursued
their way rapidly when they left Hoplands.
They skirted the park wall until they came
to that bone of contention, the Cottages.
These were half-a-dozen small houses, enclosed
within iron gates, and seated in the
centre of a kind of lawn. The builder
must have had an eye to the picturesque,
for the frontage was pretty, and the verandah
that accompanied it light and airy.
Beneath this verandah were six doors and
six windows, and in front neat flower-beds
terminated by a gravel-walk. Above the
said verandah were six Elizabethan windows,

over which protecting eaves protruded.
On all sides save that which
opened into the road stretched fields, and
a more peaceful spot could scarcely be
conceived. In summer the houses were a
mass of flowers and creepers, and even in
this springtide the walls were not bare of
leaves. Primroses and violets flourished
everywhere, and a casual visitor would
have said how happy must be the inmates
of this sequestered scene.

Janet was the first to set foot on the
verandah.

Here we are, auntie, at last !' she
shouted, as she burst open the door, rushed
through the little hall, and upstairs into
the neatest, smallest, and most elegant of
sitting-rooms. ' Not here !' she added.
Then she must be in her room.' And she
tore off, heedless of ornaments, to a wee
and equally pretty sleeping apartment at
the back of the house.

As this was also empty, she ran downstairs

at once, shouting 'Auntie' at the
top of her voice, and into a tiny kitchen.
Here a juvenile maid-of-all-work was toasting
and buttering tea-cakes.

What's up, Miranda?' she asked. And
the girl rejoicing in that high-sounding
name pointed to the back door.

She had the toasting-fork between her
teeth while she was manipulating the cake,
so she could not speak, and Janet, whose
dignity was easily offended, muttered,

That comes of taking Cousin Gerard's
slum-children into one's service.'

But she entered the miniature and spotless
scullery, nevertheless, and went out
into what was magnificently styled ' the
back garden,' still screaming ^ Auntie.'

In another moment she had flung herself
almost upon the back of a lady in a
broad hat and gardening apron, who, with
trowel in hand, was stooping over a bed of
ferns.

Wild as ever, Janet !' came from a

masculine voice, before Mrs. Glanville was
able to release herself.

Cousin Gerard ! How jolly ! That is
why Miranda is buttering cakes,' screamed
Janet, leaving Mrs. Glanville and seizing
upon a stalwart young man who had his
foot on a spade.

He stooped to kiss her, and she nearly
upset him by twining her arms round his
neck.

Are there cakes enough for all, auntie ?
Edith and Nurse True are here, and weare
come to tea. Bruce has gone off with
Mrs. Aspenelel, and we shall have you and
Gerard all to ourselves. Isn't it jolly?
We can sit four comfortably in the hall,
for you know Nurse True never will join
us, though you ask her. She always says,
I know my place." '

She certainly does ; which is more than
we can say of all our domestics,' laughed
Mrs. Glanville.

*We don't consider Nurse True a

VOL. I. F

domestic, but a friend,' said Janet, offended.

But we are all domestics, Janet, if weare
worth anything,' put in Gerard. ' I
become one as soon as I come to Roselands.
In town there is nothing to domesticate
me.'

Poor Gerard ! You should have a
cat.'

My landlady's feline friend does pay
me a visit now and then, and I begin to
feel quite a family-man. Where is Miss
Aspenelel ?'

Let us surprise her. I will bring her
here.'

Janet rushed off, and returned with
Edith and Nurse True. There was a
hearty greeting on all sides, but shy Edith
was not so demonstrative as her sister,
though very glad of an addition to the
little party. Besides, Gerard was not her
cousin, though she almost looked upon him
as one.

Mrs. Glanville was a distinguished-looking

woman, verging on fifty. She was
distinguished in other ways besides her
appearance. She was gentle-voiced and
gentle-mannered — a gentlewoman, in short.
Mr. Austen called her justly his peacemaker,
and said that his parish would be
paradise if all its female inhabitants were
like her. She was young-looking still,
and declared that there was nothing to
make her grow old, since she had all her
wants supplied, and Gerard was the best
of sons.

Although she was Janet's great-aunt,
the girl treated her as a companion, and a
sincere affection existed between them.

As to Gerard, he was Janet's beau-ideal
of a hero, although she was always wishing
that her hero was not a clerk in her
father's office. Still, he was a sort of
modern hero, for he was content to fight
his battle just where God appointed, and
he certainly had a hard field for his hand-to-hand
combat. He had his aspirations,

fas

we all have, but he smothered some of
them for his mother's sake and others for
his own. He was personally like his
mother, and they both seemed too big for
the house they were in. As Janet said,
they filled it.

I shall help Miranda to lay the table,
and do everything, Nurse True,' said
Janet, decidedly ; ' so you may go and see
poor Miss Lome and Rebecca.'

Do. It will be kind to both,' said Mrs.
Glanville ; and Nurse True departed.

What have you done with your fringe,
Miranda?' asked Janet, while doing her
best to hinder that damsel in her work.

Missus wouldn't let me wear it,' replied
Miranda, with a crestfallen air. ^ I don't
know what the gals will say when I goes
home. You haven't got one, miss.'

No. I don't like them, and they are
going out of fashion. They are called the
factory system. You were a factory girl
were you not, Miranda ?'

No, miss, I was never notion' till Mr.
Glanville brought me here, and now missus
says she'll make a servant of me. I'm the
eldest of eight, and father's out of work,
and I had to nurse, and wash, and every -
think, while mother went out charing.'

Had you a tiresome brother who wore
your life out ?'

Bless you, miss, I had seven ; but I'm
alive still ; and Mr. Glanville used to tellus
never to mind, if we could help it ; and
I tried not to mind.'

Janet grew reflective and thought to
herself, ' She is wiser than I.' Indeed the
wisdom of the world seemed to her to be
concentrated in that particular cottage,
small as it was.

To avoid dirtying the one sitting-room,
and to save trouble, Mrs. Glanville took
her meals in the miniature hall, and they
were quickly disposed of, as the kitchen
communicated with it. There was, as
Janet said, just room for four at the

oblong table, and on this occasion the
quartette was very cheerful. Auntie's
tea-cakes and bread-and-butter were always
nicer than any at the Park, and certainly
superior to what her son got in London ;
so appetite was not wanting at the feast.
It was Gerard, not Miranda, who waited,
and not only helped the ladies, but fetched
the kettle from the kitchen, tended the
small stove, drew the curtain over the door
lest his mother should take cold, and made
himself so useful that Janet declared
he ought to have been a woman. She
sometimes called him a ' Molly.'

The best compliment you can pay me,
Janet, since this issaid^tobe "the woman's
age;" and, if we men don't bestir ourselves,
we shall be ousted from clerkships and
professions by the so-called softer sex,'
said Gerard.

How very much frightened the poor
women must be !' suggested Edith, to

whom the idea of publicity was distasteful.


On the contrary, Miss Aspenelel, they
like it ; not all, perhaps, but most. You
would not.'

I should,' interrupted Janet. ' I am
going in for art, auntie. I am to be sent
to school.'

'The best thing that could happen to
you, Janet,' said Gerard ; but his mother
scarcely agreed.

When tea was over, he said he had much
work to do before he returned to town by
the last train. Janet volunteered to help,
and the pair went together to the small
plot of ground at the back, belonging to
Mrs. Glanville's cottage. They picked off
the dry fronds of the budding fern, commenting
on the curled-up leaves, unfolding
so carefully at the call of spring. They
admired the green promise of fruit on the
six currant-bushes. ' The exact number

of the cottages,' said Janet. They professed
to weed the mustard-and-cress
where not a weed was to be seen, and
dug up such bits of ground as still lay
fallow.

It is multum in pavo, Janet. How
does the mother manage to get so much
into so little ?' said Gerard.

It is like her head ; it holds everything,'
was the reply.

Then the cousins went round to the
front, and fastened up the trailing parasites.
While they were doing this, a
curious little figure stepped out from door
No. 2.

How do you do, Mr. Gerard ? You
are so tall and I am so short — short byname
and stature — that I cannot reach
that tiresome branch of japonica ; and, if
the wind catch it, good-bye to the tree,' it
said.

Gerard instantly used the hammer and
nails he held in his hand to confine the

obstreperous branch, while Miss Short and
Janet entered into a lively conversation.

The little lady was said to be over
eighty years of age, and held a walking-stick
as tall as herself, but was as brisk as
if she were eighteen. She was an incessant
talker, and was sometimes even too much
for Mrs. Glanville, who listened to the
complaints of her neighbours with exemplary
patience.

Perhaps, my dear, you could prevail on
your excellent father to lay down a little
gravel in front and send a tiler to the roof.
Tims would come at once, if he was sure
of payment. And, now the spring is on,
he might perhaps paint up the doors and
windows for us ; for truly we are going to
decay. Nothing personal, my dear ; I am
quite well, thank you. And, as you seethe
verandah wants looking to, and the
very pavement is cracking. When I see
your dear mamma, I will represent it to
her; for your papa is so much engaged

that I never meet him. I don't know
what we should do without Mr. Gerard,
who is our Jack-of-all-trades, for there's
nothing he cannot do, and, my dear, he's
willing to do it, which one can't say of all
men, young or old.'

When the japonica was properly affixed,
Gerard said he was bound to go in to see Mrs.
Lucy, for she considered that she had a
right to him, being a widow, like his
mother. Miss Short tramped off, making
a rattle on the pavement with her walking-stick,
and Gerard and Janet were soon
ushered upstairs into a tiny apartment of
the exact size of Mrs. Glanville's but less
elegantly furnished. The chairs and tables
were too big for the room, and the portraits
that surrounded it must have come from
some ancestral dining-room belonging to
previous members of the Lucy family.

Mrs. Lucy was sitting bolt upright in
one of the big, antique chairs. She held

out a limp hand, and welcomed them ina
melancholy voice. She always had a
grievance, and aired it whenever she could.
To-day it was Miss Short's walking-stick,
which was too much for her nerves; but,
not being on visiting terms with Miss
Short, she could not take the liberty of
telling her how excruciating was the tap,
tap, tap of her very ponderous support.

Gerard apologised for a short visit, and
she said, with a deep sigh, that everybody
was in a hurry in these fast days, but that
she could not expect young people to stay
with one who could no longer amuse them,
and who was reduced from affluence to
dependence.

I'm sure Gerard would stay if he had
time,' exclaimed Janet.

I must inquire for the others, or my
reputation will be gone,' said Gerard, tapping
at No. 4.

Miss Linton was away on a visit, and

No. 5 — Miss Vigors — had gone off in
search of Fan and to have a gossip with
Mr. Harton.

'Mistress will be sadly vexed to miss
you, sir ; for she says she enjoys an intellectual
talk,' said a middle-aged woman,
who had followed Miss Vigors to her present
abode from a more pretentious one in
which she formerly kept a school.

It was remarkable that three out of the
six of these ladies had faithful friends, who
had clung to them through good and ill.
Gerard always said that this told well for
human nature.

At No. 6, the last of the cottages, they
were greeted by Nurse True, who was
standing at the door with her particular
friend, Rebecca Sure. She was waiting for
Mrs. Glanville and Edith, who were upstairs
with poor, bedridden Miss Lome.
All the inmates of the Cottages had histories
more or less sad, but none interested
Janet so much as Rebecca's, for, although

she was an elderly woman, there was still
a romance to be ended in her life ; for had
she not still a lover? and had not old
Stroke, the blacksmith, been waiting for
her ever since they were both young, only
(how many ants and only there are in
life !) — only she would not marry so long
as her mistress lived. That mistress had
been the daughter of a previous incumbent
of Roselands, and had devoted her life to
works of love. Amongst these had been
the bringing up as servant at the rectory
of the orphan Rebecca, who had never left
her from that day to this.

At the moment when she and Nurse
True were saying their east words,' Miss
Lome was saying hers to Mrs. Glanville
and Edith.

Good-bye, dear friends. It seems as if
the Lord was long in calling me ; but He
knows best. He summons the young
and vigorous, and leaves the cumbered of
the ground, like me. It seems mysterious.

I shall have lived ninety years ere long,
and Rebecca is over sixty — happy years
most of them ; and now at their close God
has sent you to me, dear Mrs. Glanville,
and I thank Him heartily. You, Rebecca,
and Mr. Austen, and you, my darling
Edith — so like your mother ! — are indeed
very good to me.'

CHAPTER VI.

A JACK OF ALL TRADES.

No one knew exactly how Gerard Glanville
had got into Mr. Aspenelel's office. Neither
he nor his mother could account for it.
He was, in most respects, quite unlike his
patron, and had to use much circumspection
in his dealings with him ; but how it
was that he had been actually chosen by
him as clerk, and how he had managed to
keep his situation for six years, he could
not understand. His mother had been
with Mr. Aspenelel at the time of the death
of his second wife, and he had, in some
slight degree, relaxed his constrained and
formal manners towards her ; but why he

had selected Gerard, of whom he knew
literally nothing, as one of his acting aids,
was a riddle both to him and his mother,
who had merely mentioned once that she
had an only son struggling for a maintenance.


Gerard was six-and-twenty, and like
most active-minded yomig men often
kicked against the goad of his wearisome
and subservient life ; but his watchword
was duty, and his love his mother. He
owed everything to her, for she had sacrificed
literally ' all her living ' to give him
a fine education ; and to make of him a
gentleman and a Christian had been the
paramount desire of her widowed life. He
had not realised that to send him to college
she had sold out of the funds and
otherwise crippled her own means ; but
when he did realise it he declared his intention
of accepting the first situation that
offered. Her wish was to see him take
orders, but as he felt no special call to the

ministry, and did not see how lie could
complete his collegiate course, she was
obliged to yield her will to his. When
she, finally, anchored at the Cottages, he
knew that he had done right.

Mr. Aspenelel kept him, as well as all his
other dependents, sharply to their work.
He grudged them their holidays, and
doubtless would have found enough to
employ them on Sundays as well as weekdays,
had that been discreet, or, rather, had
it looked respectable in the world's eyes.
As it was. Bank Holidays and the Saturday
cone were an abomination to him, and Sir
John Lubbock would not have been gratified
had he heard what he said of him.
Not that he always granted his people
their Bank Holiday, since he was pleased
to affirm that he was not a banker, and
that his dealings all over the world necessitated
work all the year round. And we
need scarcely say, in these days of overflowing
population, that he found people

VOL. I. G

willing to work and grumble from year's
end to year's end.

Not so Gerard. He held his own and
received his due in the Avay of occasional
recreation, and he always spent it at Rose-lands
with his mother. He vas a Sunday
institution there, and helped the rector in
choir, school, and evening class ; he even
read the lessons for him. Mr. Austen's
children, male and female, were all married
and settled at a distance ; so that Gerard
became almost as great a necessity to him
as to the old ladies, who equally adopted
him. The latter began to assume that
they had as great a right to him as his
mother had, and nothing went on in the
six small dwellings without reference to
Mr. Gerard. What he would think of the
planting of such a flower, or the arrangement
of such a picture, or the settling of
such a difference, was a constant resource
to these forlorn females, who often asserted
that, ' had all men been like Mr. Gerard,

now, they need never have been reduced
to live upon charity.' How ungrateful we
all are ! We even complain of the warmth
of the hand that feeds us.

Mr. Aspenelel sometimes honoured Gerard
with an invitation to dinner of a Saturday
night, when he and his mother went instate
to the Park. Mrs. Glanville looked
on Mr. Aspenelel as a two-fold benefactor,
and always did her best to uphold him
when, behind his back, other people
knocked him down ; and she never ventured
to decline his invitations. Thus
Gerard had become tolerably well acquainted
with Mrs. Aspenelel, her son, and
step-daughters, who generally welcomed
him kindly. He was a good-looking fellow,
and probably that had something todo
with it. Janet and Miss Sharp were
not far wrongs in calling; him a 
; but none was more perplexing
than that of being factotum to three
mows and three spinsters.

g2

Not that he was their only masculine
consolation. Contrary to custom, widowers
preponderated in the village, and the
rector and Mr. Harton, being untrammelled
by the fair sex, were always ready for a
gossip with the ladies when they came
across them. Mr. Harton's sons, particularly
Jack, had been the plague of their
lives ; but they were happily dispersed or
dead, for he had lost two, and the Cottages
were at peace. Of Mr. Aspenelel they. saw
nothing, with the exception of Mrs. Glanville,
who, being a connection, was of course
privileged. But they were even more bitter
against him than were his clerks, for, like
the dog in the manger, he would not take
the management, repairs, and ornamentation
of their small abodes upon himself, nor
let Lord Beechton take it. His lordship
was very kind, nevertheless, and often sent
them game, which was more than Mr.
Aspenelel ever did.

At about six o'clock of the day of our

introduction to Roselands, Nurse True interrupted
a merry quartette in Mrs. Glanville's
pretty sitting-room, by saying that
it was time for her young ladies to depart;
and the little gathering walked together to
the big iron gates that enclosed the miniature
park containing six houses instead of
one. Prudent Mrs. Glanville had prevented
Gerard's accompanying his young friends
home from their earliest acquaintance ;
because, she said, Mr. Aspenelel might not
like it. Accordingly they parted at the
gates. Just as they were shaking hands,
Miss Vigors appeared. She seized Gerard's
hand and held it in both hers, to Janet's
great amusement. She was the strong-minded
and literary member of the sisterhood,
and, like Gerard, helped Mr. Austen
in the parish. She would have managed
the world had she had her will.

Fan is entirely spoilt. They let her
have her way in everything,' she began, as
she and the Clarvilles turned towards the

Cottages. ' Only think, Mr. Gerard, lie
begins to argue upon pre-Adaraite and pre-silurian
matters with Mr. Harton, and he
encourages her.'

Gerard laughed, saying Fan was Fan,
and he supposed she must have her way.

At last he and his mother were alone,
and they had still an hour or more before
his mile's walk to the station. They had
much to talk of when seated side by side
on the couch opposite the window. The
aspect of the Cottages was west, and they
could just see the setting sun beyond the
far-stretching fields, and through the trees
of the wide-reaching park. On the left
was a grove in which the nightingales were
already beginning their wonderful song ;
for the evening was warm and spring well
advanced. All the harmony of the bird-spheres
swelled about that befriended
spot, and, as Mrs. Glanville often said,
nature had conspired with man to bless it.
Her son once added, maliciously,

But Mother Eve's progeny conspire to
introduce the trail of the serpent.'

'You still get on with Mr. Aspenelel,
Gerard ?' asked the anxious mother.

I believe so ; I do my best. He is too
cautious either to praise or blame ; but,
when he finds any defalcation, he dismisses
the offender. I had hard work to get him
to raise my salary, but he has done so, and
I begin to think myself as rich as he, with
two hundred a-year and no particular
anxiety.'

He finds you of use, Gerard.'

Perhaps so ; but he will not make a
cat's-paw either of you or me. He wants
us to have an eye on the gipsies that are
beginning to frequent Mr. Harton's land ;
but I can't meddle with them, and ventured
to say that 3'ou only visited them occasionally
in a philanthropic sort of way. He
mentioned one known as Wandering Will,
whose movements he was anxious to
follow, and said that mischief was sure to

arise wherever he appeared. " As to that
fool, Harton," he added, " he will be the
means of setting: us all robbed, if not
murdered." '

Brotherly love and not persecution is
the best antidote to the poison he fears,'
said Mrs. Glanville. ' 1 will do my best to
instil it.'

He asked me if I would accept a position
in South America with a still increased
salary, and I said I could not leave you,
mother.'

Oh, Gerard ! Don't let me ruin your
prospects. It will never do to offend Mr.
Aspenelel.'

He was not offended, I hope ; but he
dismissed me '

Gerard !' interrupted Mrs. Glanville,
alarmed.

Not from his service, mother, but from
his presence.'

'When did this take place?'

'Yesterday, and I have not seen him

since. But there are hundreds of his
slaves ready to go to the world's end for
money, so he can easily supply my place.
Money is the " golden idol " that this our
Nebuchadnezzar has set up ; and his subjects
are ready enough to fail down and
worship it. I question if even the " three
children " could be found to withstand the
bait;

You have, my son !'

For your sake, mother. But for you,
perhaps I, too, should yield.'

Mrs. Glanville took Gerard's hand, and
they sat a few moments silent, gazing
through the leaf-encased window at the
dying day. The picture of St. Augustine
and his mother, Monica, might have represented
the pair.

Is this enormous wealth gathered
honestly ?' asked Mrs. Glanville. ' Are
your hands clean ?'

Honestly as the merchant world counts
it ; that is to say, wealth somehow breeds

wealth, but it would be difficult to give an
account of its accumulation. I who have
to reckon up a portion of it day by day,
should not like to know the history of each
sovereign. But, happily, my hands are
clean enough, unless the touch of the pen
and ledger defile them, like pitch.'

Again there was silence. Mrs. Glanville
broke it.

I would rather you lost your situation
than that you should be corrupted by
gold.'

No fear at present, dear mother. Two
hundred a-year will not demoralise me.'

Gerard laughed merrily, and his mother
caught the infection. There was a tap at
the door.

I am so glad to hear you laughing, and
that you are here, Mr. Gerard. I have
just come home unexpectedly, and find
that tiresome Juliettata out, and no fire anywhere.'


This was said by Miss Lily ton, who was

the youngest, weakest, and prettiest of
Gerard's six allies. She had a drooping
figure, flaxen hair, of which she was j justly
proud, since it had survived unscathed
the wear and tear of youth, and a pale,
interesting face.

'Let me help you,' exclaimed Gerard,
starting to his feet. *I constantly light
my own fire, and Miranda can come and
help also.'

'Oh, no, if you please, Mr. Gerard.
Juliettata is already jealous of Miranda,
and she would leave me at once if she
knew.'

All right ; I can manage it. I have a
box of safety-matches in my pocket.'

In less than no time Gerard was on his
knees before Miss Lily ton's tiny grate, and
had soon kindled a cheerful flame. Juliettata
slunk in during the process, and he administered
a lecture which he knew Miss
Lilyton would fear to do, and departed.

Thus ended his holiday, and when he

returned to his mother lie told her that
she must look after Miss Lily ton, because
she seemed worse than usual, and he knew
not what the rector or the choir would do
without her. She played the organ and
helped with the choir during the week,
when the organist, who was also schoolmaster,
was otherwise engaged. Gerard
was wont to say,

You might travel the world over, and
not find six more useful ladies than ours ;
only I wish they would not interfere with
one another's work.'

At eight o'clock he hastily took some
refreshment prepared by his mother for
him, and, as the night was fine, he prevailed
on her to walk with him to the station.
Miranda followed, carrying pompously her
mistress's mackintosh and the door-key.
The moon was up, and looked brightly
down upon the mother and son as they
hastened on arm-in-arm. The nightingales
were harmonising the moonlit twilight, and

all save they was in repose. Nature at rest
calms the soul, and Gerard almost whispered
to his mother, as if from fear of
arousing her.

They skirted the park wall, went through
the village, past the old church and schoolhouse,
and into the country road. They
reached the station just as the train dashed
in. An embrace, a fervent ' God bless
you !' and a ' Good-bye, Miranda,' and
Gerard was off.

CHAPTER VII.

HIS daughters' education.

Several days elapsed before Mrs. Aspenelel
could speak to lier husband concerning the
desirability of sending Janet to school. He
had remained in London two or three
nights, and had brought friends, or, more
properly, acquaintances, to the Park on
the others. She broached the subject at
breakfast, when Mr. Aspenelel suddenly
looked up from his paper and inquired if
Mrs. Nunnn were gone.

This ill-matched pair sat opposite each
other in a delightful breakfast-room, he
engrossed in some calculation induced by
the shipping-news, she reading her letters.

He was, as usual, scrupulously got up,
and, personally, at least, he was unobjectionable.
Save for ^ the ferrets,' as she
called his eyes, he would have been even
good-looking. She was decidedly handsome,
and a stranger would have said,
What a prosperous, happy couple !' But
strangers always make mistakes. First
impressions are delusive and hasty judgments
unsound. At least, it is best to
think twice in most cases.

Mrs. Nunnn left last week, and I wish
to consult you on what it is best to do
with your daughters. At their respective
ages they cannot be left to the exclusive
instruction of their nurse,' said Mrs.
Aspenelel.

She always spoke to her husband satirically
; she could not help it. She neither
knew nor cared whether he understood
her manner or not, and he never gave sign
of doing so.

My daughters ! Can't you teach them,

Mrs. Aspenelel? You are very talented,' lie
replied, returning to the shipping interest.

I ! What will you propose next ? I
think Janet, at least, should be sent to
school. She is beyond my control, and
treats Bruce abominably. They are always
squabbling.'

Bruce ! School !' repeated Mr. Aspenelel,
who had a habit of saying over the last
words of the person to whom he was speaking,
while his mind was intent on its own
particular problem.

'Yes; Bruce will do better without
Janet, and she may perhaps be controlled
at school.'

'But schools are so expensive. Some
run you up bills of a couple of hundred
pounds. I could not afford it, I have had
so many losses lately. I may be on the
verge of ruin.'

'Then it might be wise to give your
daughters such an education as might
enable them to support themselves. As

you are polite enough to consider me accomplished,
I might also turn my talents
to account.'

'Account! It is difficult to make up
one's accounts, Mrs. Aspenelel. Mine are so
complicated that it is impossible to keep
them distinct, and, although you will not
believe it, I may be ruined any moment.
I wanted to send young Glanville to look
after my affairs in America, and he won't
go. I call that ingratitude, seeing that
both he and his mother owe everything tome.'


'A heavy debt, indeed, Mr. Aspenelel !
A nomination to a charitable institution
that you do not support, and a clerkship
that probably costs you little !'

Two hundred a-year. And he declines
to oblige me, because he can't leave his
mother.'

I hope Bruce may turn out as good a
son, Mr. Aspenelel. But what are we to do
with Edith and Janet ? I have written to

VOL, I. H

Lady Ascham, and she recommends several
schools.'

Something like a smile passed over Mr.
Aspenelel's enigmatical face as he replied,'

Lady Ascham ! She has a registry-office,
hasn't she ? What percentage does
she get ?'

Really, Mr. Aspenelel, you insult Lady
Ascham. She is very philanthropic, and
interests herself in finding situations and
canvassing for votes for all sorts of people.
She knows all the institutions and schools,
both at home and abroad.'

Depend upon it, she doesn't work for
nothing. Nobody does. But she needn't
expect a percentage from me. since I am
not to be taken in. The aristocracy are
just as fond of money as the rest of us,
and go into trade, or drive coaches and
omnibuses, or keep cabs and job them, ordo
anything to hold them above water.
You would be surprised at the applications
I have from them for positions that

they could not fill. But I am wide awake.'

Mrs. Aspenelel laughed satirically.

'In business, perhaps, but not at home,'
she said.

Which school does Lady Ascham recommend
?* he asked.

Here are the prospectuses she has sent
me,' she replied, passing a heap of papers
across the table.

I will look them over, sirs. Aspenelel.
It might not cost much more to send
Janet to school than to keep a governess
at home.'

You must do both ; for Edith's education
is not finished, and Bruce must be
taught.'

I cannot be bored by another governess,
always complaining and wanting an increase
of salary. Why can't Edith have lessons
of the old ladies at the Aspenelel Homes ?
They are all highly educated, and would
be glad of an extra pound or so. There
is Miss Lilyton for music, Mrs. Vigors

h2

for general literature, Mrs. Glanville for
languages, and '

Mr. Aspenelel's calculations were arrested
by a laugh so unaffected that he looked at
his wife in astonishment. Natural laughter
was not her tendency.

Poor Edith !' she exclaimed. ' Miss
Short might teach her how to use a ,
and Mrs. Lucy give her lessons
in deportment.'

Precisely. Will you settle it ? I daresay
twenty pounds a-year would cover it
all; and money is a consideration just now,
when one's ships are going to pieces like
cartridge-paper. What with the storms and
the shocks of earthquake, and the tidal
wave, and one confounded thing and
another, there's no calculating either distance
or atmosphere. A fog comes on, and
an ironclad goes down, and with it one of
one's own vessels. I don't see what use
the weather forecasts are, when one's ships
are in mid-ocean. You may laugh, Mrs.

Aspenelel, but these are serious times — very
serious times.'

Providence circumvent plans. Still,
a few hundred thousands would not be of
much moment to you, who have millions at
your disposal.'

Millions ! Where did you pick up that
notion ? Why, the times are so bad that
we may soon be without a house over our
heads. I assure you the failures are
enormous, and my speculation in West
Indian sugar-plantations has been worse
than a loss. Those rascally Germans, with
their beetroot sugar, undersell and ruin us.'

'Ah, I hear there are great complaints
against the influx of Germans in London
and elsewhere.'

Capital fellows ! They work for next
to nothing, and live on less than that. If
Glanville doesn't take care — and you may
tell his mother so — he weill be superseded
by a German, who won't want his salary
raised.'

You will let me know about the school
Mr. Aspenelel ; for there is no time to lose,
if your daughters are to be made fit for
their station in life.'

Station ! Ah, to be sure. I will look
over these ; but you can settle with the
old ladies about Edith. She is better at
home.'

If there was a vulnerable part in Mr.
Aspenelel's ojold-encased heart, his daughter
Edith had found it. His wife knew this,
and, with that strange inconsistency attributed
to human nature, was jealous of it —
jealous on her own and her boy's account.
While her husband was gathering up the
prospectuses, she cast another arrow at
him.

Is Bruce also to be consigned to the old
ladies ?'

^ I should think you could teach him for
the present, Mrs. Aspenelel — until, at least,
I am more at ease concerning my foreign
investments.'

'From India to Peru, Mr. Aspenelel?'

Just so ; or from Australia to Chili.
As soon as Harton's son Tom returns from
abroad, I think of asking him to undertake
Bruce. He wouldn't charge much, and
would be glad of a little help. His father's
going to the dogs.'

Further discussion was cut short by Mr.
Aspenelel glancing at his watch, and finding
himself five minutes late. He bustled
off with a hasty ' Good-morning, Mrs.
Aspenelel,' and left that lady to her thoughts.
She did not indulge in them long, however,
but went to her morning-room, and bade
her maid summon Edith.

What have you been doing, Edith ?'
was Janet's exclamation when the summons
reached the school-room.

'You stopped out too late last night.
Mammy said so,' shouted Bruce.

We weren't out last night, you storyteller,'
said Janet, following Edith from
the room, and detaining her in the passage

with the following cautions : — ' Hold your
own, Edith. Don't be a white mouse any
longer. Say you're nearly grown up and
want finishing-masters. Say I must have
lessons in painting, and am ready to go to
school. Say we will both go to the same
school. Say '

Dear Janet, I pray to say what is right.
I have learnt this from Nurse True. But
I have done nothing wrong and have nothing
to fear.'

But she never sends for us at this hour,
Edith, and it is a shame you don't breakfast
with her and — papa.'

Mrs. Aspenelel soon quieted Edith's mind
by telling her what her father had said
concerning her education. She had a
malicious pleasure in this, for she could
never rouse the girl to cast a stone at her
father. She was, however, deceived in her
notion that she would give annoyance.

What do you say to your finishing-mistresses,
Edith?' she asked, with her

mocking laugh, which always grated on
the nerves of the delicate girl.

1 should like them better than masters,'
replied Edith, smiling as she thought of
Janet's injunctions.

You would like to be taught by those
rusty pieces of machinery ?'

I would rather not leave home, and, as
papa objects to another governess, I might
pick up learning enough from the ladies,
if they Avould undertake me. They have
all been teachers in their youth except Mrs.
Glanville and Miss Lome. But they will
not like to begin again.'

Why do you prefer so doubtful and
desultory an education to a school?'

Because I could not leave Nurse True.
And I might, perhaps, in time, be of use
to papa, and to you and Bruce.'

'Thank you, Edith, for including us.
Even the last dregs of sympathy are welcome
when the full cup is denied one.'

I wish I could be of any use. Indeed,

I should clearly like to love you if you
would let me.'

Edith spoke these words timidly, for she
was afraid of her step-mother, but she had
long been waiting an opportunity to say
them, and now they came. She had not
realised that there are many people who
resist the encroachments of love until no
further inroads can be attempted ; some
from pride, others from coldness, all fi'om
lack of sympathy. In Mrs. Aspenelel's case,
however, these encroachments had not
hitherto been attempted, and they came
upon her with surprise. She believed
Edith to be hypocritical in making them,
and put her to the test.

If you are sincere in what you say, you
will undertake Bruce's education till Mr.
Tom Harton returns from his tutor-tour.
He will not learn of me.'

I would do my very best. If only I
could please papa, and be of some use to

you, I should be quite hapj^y — at least, if
Janet were happy.'

Mrs. Aspenelel was silent a minute, and
looked at Edith with some surprise. She
still misdoubt her. She had a suspicious
nature, and the circumstances of her married
life tended to foster it. She did not
believe it possible that any girl approaching
womanhood could be satisfied with the
life she led. She asked, therefore,

What do you expect from this self-sacrifice
?'

'I do not quite understand you,' was
the repl3^ ' I should not be separated
from Nurse True, who has been with me
all my life. I would try to win Bruce's
and your love, and to help papa. I should
still visit the poor people, and teach in the
school. The animals and birds would not
miss their little treats, and my dog True
and my dove would not pine after me. I
am happier here than I should be at any

school, and it might amuse our ladies to
help me, as Miss Vigors helps Fan.'

Edith always called the inmates of the
Cottages ' our ladies.' She had an instinctive
dislike to ' the old ladies ' and ' the
old maids,' as employed by others.

^ I wish you could talk over this matter
with your father as you are doing with
me, Edith,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, with a voice
out of which had died all sarcasm and
asperity.

I should be afraid. Still, it is wrong
to fear one's own father,' replied Edith,
going close to Mrs. Aspenelel, attracted by
the voice.

You might, perhaps, soften him, and
prove that there are better things in life
than gold.'

'My mother tried, and failed. But, as
Nurse True says, God can bring to nought
the treasures of this world, and open the
soul to receive those of another and a
better.'

As she spoke, Edith bent over Mrs,
Aspenelel, and kissed her forehead. This
involuntary action touched her feelings.
The cold kiss night and morning impressed
on her cheek by her step-children had
been all the signs of affection hitherto
interchanged ; and this spontaneous act,
and the pressure of a small hand on her
shoulder, she felt to be genuine.

I am not so hard-hearted as you think
me, Edith,' she said. ' But Janet exasperates
me, and, between her and your father,
I know not how to endure the life I lead.
I should end it, but for Bruce.'

'Oh! Mrs. Aspenelel.'

I do not mean that I should destroy

myself, but ' Mrs. Aspenelel paused,

then added : ' Thank you for the first sympathetic
word I have heard since I married
your father.'

Again Edith kissed the forehead, and
felt a slight quiver run through the shoulder
which her hand pressed. It was transitory,

and the old satirical manner returned
when Mrs. Aspenelel spoke again.

We will ask the old ladies to tea, and
see what they think of your father's original
plan. Suppose you all walk down with
the invitation this afternoon, for tomorrow.
They are not so overdone with engagements
as to object to short notice.
Five o'clock, of course. You might sound
Mrs. Glanville. If her son chance to be
with her, tell her to bring him. What
dissipation for Janet ! Five calls in one
day !•

We shall all like to go,' said Edith, and
she returned to the school-room.

CHAPTER VIII.

A GOOD GIRL.

The ladies from the Cottages accepted
Mrs. Aspersed's invitation. They all arrived
separately. There was no esprit de corps
amongst them, and they took some pride
in being independent of one another : and
what is independence, if it is not to have
a house of one's own, which each of them
had ? Mrs. Aspenelel, who was by nature
hospitable, had provided something more
than a five-o'clock tea for them, and they
partook of a substantial meal. Unfortunately,
Gerard was not at the Cottages,
but the rector answered Mrs. Aspenelel's
summons, and joined them ; so that they

were not quite doomed to female gossip.
He, like them, dined early, and rejoiced in
cold chicken and pigeon pie when he could
get it ; so did Edith and Janet, to say
nothing: of Bruce, who made a second male
ingredient in what Janet called le pate aux
femmes.

Edith had hinted to Mrs. Glanville
the plan for her education, and that
lady had judiciously sounded her fellow
cottagers.' All were quite excited at the
chance of turning an honest penny and the
prospect of the honour in store for them ;
all save Mrs. Glanville herself, who foresaw
disagreeable complications, and thought
the idea absurd.

When the tea was over, and the party
adjourned to the drawing-room, Mrs. Aspen
el broached the subject. The fact was,
she said, that her husband would not part
with Edith ; indeed, none of them could
do without her. At this assertion Edith
looked at her step-mother in astonishment,

and Janet covered her mouth to suppress
a laugh.

^Mr. Aspenelel thinks pursued Mrs. As-penes,
' that vdih so many clever ladies at
hand, Edith might be educated at home,
and that, if she could receive lessons from
you in the branches in which you excel,
she might remain at the Park while Janet
goes to school.'

I should be most happy to impart such
knowledge as I possess to one who endears
herself to me as she does to everyone,' said
strong-minded Miss Vigors, holding out
her hand patronisingly to Edith. ' Fan
only reads with me occasionally, and
Miss Aspenelel might come on alternate
days.'

It would be jolly to learn with Fan,'
put in irrepressible Janet.

I am afraid my style is old-fashioned,'
remarked humble Miss Lilyton. ' My
school, both in music and singing, was the
Italian ; and now nothing but German goes

VOL. I. I

down. But I suppose the rules and rudiments
are always the same.'

'Why, you understand music from beginning
to end, tonic solfa and all,' said Mr.
Austen.

'And she plays and sings beautifully
ventured Edith.

Old Lucas said the other day Miss Lilyton
had the prettiest pipe in the village,'
put in Janet, demurely, at which the
performer blushed.

I'm afraid I'm past work. One can't
settle to teaching at eighty,' said Miss
Short, ' but I hope the dear child will lookin
upon me and Nurse Sampson, as she
has been used to do.'

Everybody laughed, for Sampson was a
huge Persian cat, with a tail of abnormal
size.

And on me,' said sentimental Mrs.
Lucy. ' I should be delighted to help her
with her embroidery ; but perhaps Mr.
Aspen el might consider that waste of time ?'

And Mrs. Glanville?' asked Mrs. Aspen,
doubtfully.

Edith knows that she can come to me
whenever she likes ; but I am too desultory
a person myself to promise to give regular
lessons — indeed, I should not know how to
set about it.'

I will undertake the divinity, and we
will make a genius of you amongst us,'
laughed Mr. Austen, who perceived that
Mrs. Glanville was in some difficulty.

We may do more for her, Mr. Austen,
than all these colleges and high-schools
could do,' said Miss Vigors, authoritatively.
I do not believe in them. No individual
teaching, and probing the mind, and exercising
the judgment ; but all superficial,
just to get a degree. These modern innovations
on time-honoured institutions
make me ill. Cramming, and nothing
else.'

Poor Edith! poor Fan !' muttered Janet.

You are all so kind,' said Edith, flitting

i2

like a white butterfly from one old friend
to another. ' If you will undertake me, I
feel sure that I shall get on. Mrs. Nunnn
said I was beginning to improve when she
left.'

Nothing conciliates so much as an interchange
of benefits. It is cold work when
they are all on one side. The ladies grew
conversational and at home Ashen they
found that they could oblige those to whom
they were under obligations, and, when
Mrs. Aspenelel said she would tell her
husband of their willingness to oblige him,
they displayed more of their natural
manner than Mrs. Aspenelel had ever seen
before. Miss Vigors began to talk of the
nobleman's family in which she had been
so many years governess ; Miss Lilyton of
the organ of infinite stops she had once
played ; Mrs. Lucy of her ancestors ; and
Miss Short of the wonderful health and
vigour she enjoyed at fourscore. Mrs.
Glanville, with Bruce on her lap and a

girl on either side, did not join ; but Mr.
Austen, with proper clerical tact, made up
for her reticence. As to Mrs. Aspenelel, all
her guests affirmed they had never seen
her so agreeable before, and when they
rose to take leave thanked her for ' a
delightful afternoon.'

Just as this ceremonial was concluding,
who should appear but the master of the
mansion. He had returned earlier than
usual, and his wife's manner, Which was
waxing cordial, suddenly relapsed into
frigidity. He shook hands with the ladies
that is to say, their palms touched —
and spoke to Mr. Austen with as much
friendliness as he ever displayed.

Another ironclad sunk. An emigrant
ship. Have you seen the account ?
Frightful loss of money. It is on all the
placards,' he said.

What lives lost?' asked Mr. Austen.

I was in a hurry and didn't stop to
look,' replied Aspenelel.

The ladies departed, and Janet and
Bruce fled from the paternal presence. Mrs.
iVspenel took Edith aside, and told her she
must speak to her father, and make the
best she could of the novel arrangement
for her future education.

I cannot, T dare not,' said Edith; but
her step-mother gave her no choice, for she
left her alone with her father when the
rector took his leave.

He seemed unconscious of her presence,
having taken a pocket-book from his
pocket, and being instantly engaged with
his accounts. She summoned courage to
interrupt him. Some unflattering epithet
rose to his lips, but stopped there when he
perceived that it was Edith.

Thank you, papa, for letting me remain
at home,' she began, timidly. ' The ladies
are quite willing to help me with my
education, and I shall be delighted to do
what I can for Bruce.'

'A good girl. You will save money,
which gets scarcer every day. I suppose
the old ladies won't charge anything,' said
he.

I think they will expect to be paid.
But there will only be two, Miss Vigors
and Miss Lilyton. 1 will ask them about

it;

^ About it ; no, you had better let it
remain uncertain. What did Mrs. Glanville
say?'

I am sure she will help me, but she
cannot undertake regular tuition.'

Like mother, like son. An ungrateful
couple.'

'Oh no, papa. They are excellent
people. Everybody says so.'

'Everybody! ha, ha! What do you
know about it? But I'm glad you are
settled, as well as Janet and Bruce.'

'Have you decided for Janet, papa?'

Yes, I've seen Mrs. Aspenelel's universal

provider, Lady Ascliam, and she recommends
a school where they don't run you
up such frightful bills as they do in some
places. This is a French school ; that is
to say, the principals are French. ^'A
gentleman and lady of the old noblesse,"
said Lady Ascham. As if that mattered,
so long as they don't ruin one. But she
didn't ask for a percentage, as I expected
indeed, still expect. People don't work
for nothing in these days of competition.'
I don't quite understand you, papa.'
I daresay not. Women never do understand
pounds, shillings, and pence, and
that's why they ruin the men. My number
three would soon ruin me if I would
let her.'

When Mr. Aspenelel was at his ease, he
would occasionally affix numbers to his
wives as a shorter and easier means of distinguishing
them than the first, second, or
third Mrs. Aspenelel. This was one of his
very few jokes, for he was not jocular.

'When is Janet to go, yjapa?' asked
Edith, waxing bolder as her father grew
communicative.

The next term, as they call it ; and, as
she and her mother and brother don't get
on, 1 have arranged for her to spend her
holidays with this Monsieur and Madame
de Belleville. They go to Paris most years,
and will take her with them.'

Oh, papa ! Will she never come
home ?'

The despair in Edith's voice attracted
her father's close attention. Looking at
her, he perceived that her hands were
clasped and that her face expressed absolute
terror.

Come home ! Oh, yes, now and then,
of course. We shall all do better without
her. She wants more discipline than she
has ever had from that foolish old woman
Trueman. I should have sent her off, had

I not promised your Well, I promised

to keep her, and I suppose I must.'

She is our best and most faithful
friend,' said Edith, whose pulses were quivering
with the excitement caused by
what she had heard. * Perhaps I had
better go now,' she added, fearing to give
way before her father, who brooked no
tears.

Perhaps. Tell your mother — I mean
Mrs. Aspenelel — what I have arranged for
Janet. She will be pleased, for once.
Tell Miss Vigors that she must be particular
in teaching you arithmetic thoroughly.
Many a man is ruined because his
family know nothing of £ s. d. I shall be,
if we don't take care.'

I hope not, papa. I will help you if I
can. I wish to be of service to you.'

The 'ferrets ' were turned sharply upon
Edith, and when Mr. Aspenelel perceived
that she was really in earnest his face relaxed.
It seemed usually strained to the
uttermost, like a working machine.

That is what your mother used to say.

But she was delicate, like you, and nothing
came of it,' he said. ' Nobody is of
use to me. I can only trust as far as I can
see.'

Edith looked disappointed, and he muttered
something about ' a good girl,' which
raised a smile. She left him and went to
Mrs. Aspenelel. Bruce was with her. She
told her what her father had done as briefly
as she could, and it was evident that Mrs.
Aspenelel was delighted, while Bruce clapped
his chubby hands, and cried, ' I'll tell
Janet.' He was half-way up the stairs
before the others knew what he was about,
and in the school-room in no time.

Let him alone,' said Mrs. Aspenelel. ' He
will only break the news, and Janet has
not much feeling.'

You do not know her, Mrs. Aspenel,^
said Edith.

I know a great deal too much of her,
and shall be thankful when she is under
proper government.'

I will go to her, if you please,' said
Edith.

We will both go,' replied the stepmother.


To their amazement, they found Janet
dancing round the room With Bruce, and
Nurse True expostulating. Both were
shouting ' Hurrah !' and appeared to be on
the most amicable terms, and in uproarious
spirits. When Janet perceived Mrs. Aspen
el, she danced up to her, exclaiming,

'Is it true ? Am I really going to
school?'

Oh, Janet !' sighed Edith.

'You will all be better without me.
You know I am the plague of your lives.
I shall learn painting, and have nobody to
smudge my drawings. Bruce will torment
somebody else '

Let us dance again, Janet,' interrupted
Bruce, tugging at her skirts.

You see, he doesn't hate me, after all,
Mrs. Aspenelel,' cried Janet. ' We quarrel

and make it up — don't we, Bruce ? You'll
have no playfellow, when I'm gone.'

You are certainly very provoking, Janet,'
said Mrs. Aspenelel, leaving the room as suddenly
as she had entered it.

Janet's spirits were soon calmed when
she heard the actual state of the case, and
that she might possibly be separated from
Edith and Nurse True for a long time.
She saw, besides, that Edith was very
unhappy.

You will have companions, I none,' said
the latter.

You will have the six juveniles at the
Cottages, who are devoted to you, and
Nurse True, and Bruce, and Fan,' returned
Janet, telling them off on her fingers, ^ and
Cousin Gerard, who is worth them all. I
wish I weren't going,' she added, throwing
her arms round her sister, and beginning
to cry.

^ You have your wish. Miss Janet. Don't
make Miss Edith miserable,' said Nurse

True. ' You must try to improve, for
everybody's sake. It is better to learn than
to idle, my dear ; and I daresay this monster
and madam will be kind. I only hope
they ain't Papists, and that you won't
come back Frenchified. I can't understand
why English people want their children
to be brought up French.'

I don't care which I am, for my part,'
said Janet, recovering her spirits. ' I'm
not so proud of my parentage, and don't
seem to have any ancestors.'

Nurse True was wise enough not to
reply to this sally, and Janet began to
question Edith closely as to what their
father had said, Bruce listening with those
long ears said to belong to little pitchers.

CHAPTER IX.

AN ASSAULT FRUSTRATED.

Before Janet was sent to school, Mrs.
Asp en el managed to have an interview
with Lady Ascham. She was only too
glad of an excuse for a visit to London,
and appointed a day to have luncheon
with her friend in Belgravia, in order, as
she expressed it, 'to talk over the matter
on which Mr. Aspenelel had consulted
her.' These ladies corresponded chiefly on
post-cards, for Lady Ascham was always
too busy to fold a letter, place it in an
envelope, and gum it down, and preferred
being spared the trouble of opening and
unfolding similar missives. Thus, they

sometimes found it difficult to throw a veil
over their language, in order to make it
invisible to the curious eyes of domestics.
Not that such a veil is necessary nowadays,
since concealment is impossible where
education is universal. We can no longer
say, 'The best servant I ever had could
neither read nor write,' but must change
it to ' The best servant I ever had minded
his own business.'

Lady Ascham was wont to enunciate
this in the presence of her household, and,
being indifferent to its opinion, found good
results. Mr. Aspenelel was not far wrong
when he called her 'The Universal Provider,'
quoting from an advertisement he
was in the habit of seeing ; for, as she sat
awaiting Mrs. Aspenelel, she might have
been Secretary of State. She was a widow
and childless, and employed her time,
energy, and superfluous feelings for the
good of the public. On the library table
at which she sat, and on every other available

chair and table, were scattered prospectuses,
voting-papers, appeals, petitions,
letters from every quarter of the globe,
presentation copies of pamphlets concerning
charitable institutions, reports of all
known and unknown charities, and postcards
without end. Her face indicated
the perplexity into which this philanthropic
undertaking had cast her. Her
forehead was much wrinkled, and she
looked worn-out by the multiplicity of her
self-imposed duties ; for nothing accumulates
like charity. The appellants have no
compassion, and are like so many cormorants
pouncing upon their prey. It must
be confessed that Lady Ascham liked to bea
victim, and nothing pleased her better
than to sigh out her fatigue after a hard
day's work to some sympathetic friend in
such words as, ' I am really exhausted
with the appeals I have had to-day. I
have no time for private or personal
affairs,' etc., etc.

VOL. I. K

Always at it, Salina !' said Mrs. As-penes,
as she was ushered into her friend's
presence.

No diminution in my responsibilities,
dear,' replied Lady Ascham, embracing
her warmly. ' I was never so surprised in
my life as by that visit from Mr. Aspenelel.
He was really quite agreeable, and amused
me by saying that he might have to make
an appeal soon on his own behalf, for he
was on the verge of ruin.'

'He is always saying that. I should
like to know something of the school he
has chosen, for we don't quite want a 
Hall,' said Mrs. Aspenelel.

I have nothing of the kind on my
books, Dorothea. But we will talk it over
at luncheon, for I have not a moment to
lose. I have a committee at three, and I
am obliged just to look in at a charity
concert afterwards, and in the evening
there are the theatricals by the Roaming
Restorers, on behalf of the Home for —

I positively forget what at this moment,
but an excellent institution.'

Mrs. Aspenelel laughed. It was pleasant
to see her show her white teeth, and reveal
a dimple that was usually hidden.
She seldom laughed when at home. Still,
in spite of her grievances, she was a much
more cheerful-looking woman than washer
friend, who made her own grievances,
if she had any, and looked pale, careworn,
and anxious — years older than Mrs.
Aspenelel, who was about her age.

At luncheon she dismissed the man, and
began at once upon the subject of Janet's
school. Food, like everything else, gave
way before work, and people wondered
how she existed.

The De Bellevilles are old friends of
mine. Not teachers who want to be kept
afloat, exactly, but refugees of the old
noblesse. You understand, Dorothea.
They don't pester me with prospectuses,
but I send them a pupil when I can ; for

kil

faut vivre'' as Monsieur De Belleville
says, ironically. They take daily pupils, and
have only three or four boarders, who live
entirely with them, and have the benefit
of their pure Parisian French. They have
a vacancy just now, and I hope your —
what shall I call her ? — step-child may fill

it;

Call her Janet. She is a very disagreeable
girl, and quite unmanageable.'

'That is what I hear of all the girls,
and boys too. I am told that they are
men and women before their time, and
parents obey them, thus reversing the
commandment.'

Mr. Aspenelel's children are not exactly
that, but they set their faces against me,
and, now that their governess has left, I
don't know what to do with them.'

'Perhaps you set sour face against
them, Dorothea. I remember you had
always strong likes and dislikes. But Mr.
Aspenelel seemed to jump at the De Belle-villes

when I told him that a hundred a-year
would cover all expenses.'

'I can quite imagine that. Where do
they live?'

'At Clifton, in the Paragon, where, I
believe, Hannah More lived — a good precedent.
At least, people who want my
nomination or recommendation make a
point of telling me about the reputation
of the place or people for a century back.'

Lady Ascham then proceeded to describe
her foreign friends, and, had Mrs. Aspenelel
been really anxious about Janet, she would
have been satisfied with the account. As
it was, she thought the school would be as
well as another. She did not, however,
think it would be strict enough, and plied
Lady Ascham with questions as to rules
and discipline. Of these she kncAV nothing
indeed, she had not time to go into them,
for her carriage drove up, and she exclaimed,

I shall be late for the committee.
Where can I drive you, Dorothea?'

To Regent Street, if convenient.'
LadyAschara suddenly bethought herself
of her want of hospitality, and entreated
her to remain until she returned from the
committee, to go with her to the concert,
stay to dinner, do any and everything, in
short, save interfere with her engagements.
Your busy people have no time for friendship.
But Mrs. Aspenelel declined. She
had her own plans. She wanted to make
the best of a brief afternoon by doing a
vast amount of shopping and calling on
several friends. Somewhat against her
inclination, she had promised her husband
to return home with him, therefore she
had not much time. She accordingly got
through her engagements as quickly as
possible, in order to join him. Just as her
cab drew up at his office in the City, a
strange-looking man came out of it. He
was ill-clad, and had a bold, defiant air ;
still he was handsome, and attracted her.
Beneath his slouched wide awake glanced

piercing black eyes, and a bushy blackbeard
and whiskers covered and concealed
an oval, olive complexioned face. As she
was about to enter the huge, many-storeyed
house, dignified by the name of office, or,
more properly, offices, this man accosted
her.

You are Mrs. Aspenelel ; may I have a
word with you ?'

He accompanied her into the hall, and
forcibly stopped her as she was about to
mount the staircase, in the hope of escaping
from him. Her husband's offices were on
the first floor. The hall was dark, and,
although she knew she was in the very
centre of life, she was frightened.

You needn't be alarmed,' said the man.
It is of your husband I want to speak.
If you have any influence with him, tell
him that his life isn't worth a penny if he
doesn't do what I say ; neither is yours,
for that matter. He doesn't care to see me
starve and die — and — and — he has known

me all his life. Give me money or food,
for pity's sake.'

I have no influence with Mr. Aspenelel,
but here is money. Let me pass,' she said,
producing her ^^urse.

He seized it with the words, ' Tell him I
have taken what he refused to give,' and,
before she could utter either cry or remonstrance,
was gone. Her fear was now
heightened by the fact that she had lost
not only her money but her railway-ticket ;
she ran upstairs, nevertheless, preferring
rather to face her husband than to turn
in pursuit of the robber. She found
Gerard Glanville with Mr. Aspenelel, and
heard the words :

'That is the Wandering Will whom you
and your mother object to looking after.'

Is he the man I have just met ?' she
exclaimed, not noticing in her excitement
that the men she saw before her were as
flustered as she, and that the room was in
confusion.

Whom do you mean ?' stammered her
husband, whose hands trembled and whose
voice shook audibly.

An awful wretch, who told me to tell
you that neither your life nor mine is
worth a penny unless you comply with his
demands ; who snatched my purse from my
hands, and said he had taken what you
refused to give.'

Give ! Your purse ! What was in
it?' gasped Mr. Aspenelel, recovering his
strength.

Not much ; only my railway-ticket was
there also.'

Then you will be obliged to get
another. Why did you let him have your
purse ?'

Gerard could not help smiling at the
sudden transition from terror to greed.
He had been at work in the next room,
when he heard a scuffle and loud cry. He
rushed into Mr. Aspenelel's office, and found
him struggling with the man who had

just left, and getting the worst of it. He
separated them, but before he could seize
on the assailant he was gone. He was
about to pursue him, when Mr. Aspenelel
stopped him with a ' Let him go ; he is not
worth catching.'

The trio stood a moment looking at one
another. Gerard spoke first.

You should have let me run after him,
sir. Once caught he wouldn't have needed
watching. A thief in handcuffs is worth
two on Roselands Common.'

I want nothing public ; but, if he
threatens life and property, he must be
watched — watched.'

Get a detective. Set the police on him,'
said Gerard.

I must know my own affairs best, Mr.
Glanville.'

Gerard felt himself snubbed, and was
about to withdraw, when he perceived that
Mrs. Aspenelel, usually cold and self-possessed,

looked pale and frightened still, and
signed to him to remain.

Would it not be well for Mr. Glanville
to go with us to Roselands ?' she asked,
timidly, of her still more timid spouse.
We hear of such terrible tragedies in
railway carriages that one scarcely feels
safe after that ruffian's intimidation.'

Well, it might not be amiss. I suppose
you have no engagement, Glanville ? Your
mother would be glad to see you. We
could come up together tomorrow.'

I shall be delighted, sir. Only I shall
not be able to finish that extra work.'

Never mind, for once. You can work
later tomorrow. But we have lost the
train. However, there is another in half-an-hour.'


Gerard said this would just give him
time to run to his lodging and meet then
at the station. His rooms were not very
far from the office. They were snug

decent apartments, and he was wont to
argue with his friends who lived farther
afield that he was better ois than they
were, since he had within reach ' forests of
masts and the silvery Thames.' He certainly
had good experience of human
nature round about him, and, being
energetic, he spent some of the scant
leisure granted to him amongst the so-called
' dangerous classes.' He believed
that it was every man's duty to help his
neighbour to the extent of his ability, and
was not of the opinion of the multitude
that a philanthropist could not be a hero
of romance just as well as the sentimental
or sensational individual generally approved.
But people are beginning to
appreciate the self-denying efforts of the
City clerk or curate who devotes himself to
the good of his fellow-creatures, and is of
much more use in his generation than monk
or devotee.

So, Ashen Gerard hurried to his first-floor

lodging in his ^ close,' several workmen
touched their hats to him, and when he
entered the house his landlady received
him with maternal effusion. The house
was one of the relics of the past, and had
been once an important mansion, just as
the great warehouses which surrounded it
had been, maybe, princely dwellings. But
Gerard lived more in the present than the
past, and considered a human soul of more
value than all the bricks and mortar of a
city that contains more bricks and mortar
than has any other since the Creation.
Thus his neighbours had, perhaps, a higher
opinion of him than his patron and master,
Mr. Aspen el.

Be that as it may, he gathered together
one or two things that he wished to take
to his mother, and left his somewhat untidy
apartment to the care of Mrs. Pottle,
his landlady, who, despite her name, had.
as she expressed it, ' seen better days.'

While he was threading his way through

the ever-sifting crowds to London Bridge,
Mrs. Pottle began to ' tidy up ' his room,
assisted by two juvenile Bottles, who
hindered more than they helped.

Bless his heart ! how he do leave his
things about !' she said. ' But all the
men's alike; they just throw down purpose
for the women to pick up. I, for one,
should be a deal better without 'em. As
well to be a maid-of- all work.'

CHAPTER X.

A FIRST PARTING.

Mrs. Aspenelel invited Gerard not only to
dine but to sleep at the Park, and Mr.
Aspenelel seconded the invitation. He
declined, however, and, when about to
separate from them at the station, was
surprised at their eagerness to drive him to
the Cottages. Their carriage had been
waiting some time, and the horses were
impatient. He got in at once, and on the
way home was minutely questioned by Mr.
Aspenelel as to the sleeping and other
accommodation in his mother's small abode;
for, said he, ' Each house was only intended

for one inmate and a servant, and it could
never have entered the founder's mind that
a male visitor could find either room or
food. Forty pounds a-year is ample for
one, but not enough for two.'

Like the time-honoured ^^oose,' laughed
Gerard ; ' when I arrive unexpectedly, as
to-night, my mother and Miranda make
me a shakedown on the sofa, in the sitting-room
; but usually I sleep at the rectory,
or sometimes at Hoplands. Mr. Austen is
kind enough to say that he likes a visitor,
and you know he always keeps open house.'

Mr. Aspenelel frowned, and Gerard saw
that he had talked too fast.

If he can afford to keep open house he
shouldn't complain if his tithes aren't paid,'
said the former ; then, arriving at the iron
gates, he added, ' These Aspenelel Homes
are absurdly grand for places of charity.
It would be more appropriate if they were
built plain. Have an eye to Wandering
Will, and tell your mother just enough to

convince her that she ouo^ht to look after
him. I hear she preaches to the gipsies.'

He nodded as Gerard got out of the
carriage, but Mrs. Aspen el gave him a
warm hand-grasp.

Come to the Park for me tomorrow
precisely at 8.30,' shouted Mr. Aspenelel
after him ; and Gerard thought to himself
that he Alas expected to play policeman.

But he soon forgot all else in his mother's
delighted welcome. He found her
and Miranda together ; for she was giving
the girl her nightly lessons in reading and
needlework, Miranda's education having
been much neglected in the boat-cabin
where she had been born and bred.

Here's Mr. Glanville, missus. I knows
his step,' cried excited Miranda, as he was
ascending the stairs, and to whom a new
face looked ' quite 'heavenly in that 
place,' as she was wont to say.

She nearly tumbled into his arms in her
zeal to open the door, which his mother

VOL. I. L

did entirely when he was inside it. But
maternal fears soon asserted themselves,
and, ' Have you lost your situation ?' was
the first inquiry.

Gerard quieted them, and briefly detailed
the events of the afternoon.

I think I have seen the man,' said Mrs.
Glanville ; ' but he does not often come to
these parts. I was at the camp to-day,
and the gipsies were loud in their complaints
of Mr. Aspenelel's persecution, as they
call it. Fan told me that Mr. Harton thinks
he means to exterminate them. She was
there this morning, and I am afraid her
gipsy proclivities increase. They look upon
her as one of them, and impose on her in
many ways. She will never settle down,
and Miss Vigors is in despair, because she
cannot interest her in the books she wishes
her to read.'

I don't wonder,' laughed Gerard.

Supper is served interrupted the conversation,
as Miranda, with important

manner and glowing face, threw the door
open.

Where did she learn that ?' asked
Gerard.

From Hopkins, who tells her how she
managed when she used to live in good
families,' laughed his mother.

Hopkins was Miss Short's devoted attendant.


Everything that the larder contained
was placed on the table in the hall, and
the feast was crowned by early radishes
and mustard-and-cress from Mrs. Glanville's
small garden.

Miranda, you have been robbing your
mistress,' said Gerard.

There's a sight more a- coming up, sir,'
replied Miranda, abashed at the reproof of
her particular hero.

Nevertheless, she was off, unbidden, to
prepare the shakedown, happy in any event
that could change the even tenor of her
day.

l2

Mother and son sat up late, discussing
Mr. Aspenelel and the gipsies, and consulting
what they could do to be of service on
either side.

Gerard was at the Park punctually at
the appointed hour. Mrs. Aspenelel manacled
to see him during a brief interval.
She appeared holding up a purse.

This was returned to me last night,'
she began. 'A gipsy lad gave it to one of
the servants, saying I had lost it. He was
off immediately. On opening it, I found
that the money was all there, but the 
had been abstracted. Mr. As-penes
thinks it was probably used by the
man who assaulted him to convey him in
the same train as the one we came by.
But for your presence, we might have seen
more of him. I shall always be grateful
to you. In the purse was this paper, with
these words scrawled on it, "No robber,
after all." '

Gerard's response was interrupted by

Janet, who came flying into the diningroom,
followed by Bruce. Mrs. Aspenelel
looked displeased, but all she thought of
was her cousin.

I must say good-bye, Gerard,' she said.
Perhaps I shan't see you again before I
go to school. Do get out of the way, Bruce.
You interrupt everything.' Bruce, in fact,
managed to get before her, and to encircle
Gerard's knees with his chubby arms.
Good-bye, Gerard. Make haste. Here's
papa,' she continued, tugging at Bruce, who
would not be removed.

Gerard bent over the child to meet
Janet, who offered her face for the cousinly
kiss to which she was accustomed, when
Mr. Aspenelel came in.

What is this ?' he exclaimed.

I am only saying good-bye to Cousin
Gerard, and Bruce has come between us,
as usual,' replied Janet, forgetting natural
fear in the uncertain moment, and putting
her arms round her cousin's neck.

My clerk ! Mother in the almshouses !
I had forgotten the relationship,' muttered
Mr. Aspenelel. ' The carriage is waiting
he added, and motioned to Gerard to
precede him.

Gerard freed himself from the children,
shook hands with Mrs. Aspenelel, and went
out. Janet, for the first time in her life,
followed, and stood at the door to see the
last of him. Bruce, of course, ran after
her ; despite their antagonism, she was his
only companion.

good-bye, Gerard, good-bye!' she
screamed, heedless of her father's frowning
face, who looked on, wondering what
could have brought wife and children
from their breakfast-tables to meet his
clerk. His clerk !

He made a mental resolve to invite him
to the Park no more, and upbraided himself
for his weakness in taking a connection of
Number Two into his service.

Why did you come down summoned

?' asked Mrs. Aspenelel, when the
carriage had driven off.

• Because I wanted to wish Cousin
Gerard good-bye. He is my best and
dearest friend,' replied the girl.

You are too old to throw your arms
round young men's necks ; and your father
was displeased,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, severely.

He is my own cousin ! I don't care !'
flouted Janet.

Naughty Janet ! Wicked Janet !' cried
Bruce, and Janet gave him a sisterly shove.

There will be an end of this,' apostrophised
Mrs. Aspenelel, as Janet ran off,
pursued by Bruce.

In fact, the end alluded to was imminent.
Madame de Belleville consented to
take Janet for the half-term, and to keep
her through the holidays, if her ' parents '
wished; so preparations were soon in
progress.

She was in great spirits, which not even
Edith's depression and the prospect of

partings from her could allay. To get
away from home was elysium. Her stepmother
positively forbade further leave-taking,
and told Nurse True that she
would have no village gossip concerning
Miss Janet's education. Mrs. Glanville
would naturally come to wish her goodbye,
and there were no other neighbours
sufficiently intimate to necessitate farewells.
Mr. Austen she would see, of course. Accordingly,
Nurse True did not take her
charge outside the Park walls until she
accompanied Janet to school.

On that eventful morning all was excitement
in school-room and nursery. A first
journey is an event in life, and Janet slept
little the previous night and ate little at
breakfast. Indeed, the quiet tears in
Edith's eyes, which no sly application of
handkerchief could get rid of, would have
sufficed to destroy any appetite. Moreover,
Bruce would not leave her for a
moment, and declared he would not let

her go. He was more affectionate in her
departure than in her companionship.
She, too, felt some remorse when she remembered
that she had not been a perfect
sister to him.

There is the carriage. You must go
down and wish your papa good-bye,' said
Nurse True.

I am afraid,' responded Janet.

I will 2:0 with

t)

you.

And me,' cried Edith and Bruce.

The trio crept to the breakfast-room, all
more or less in awe of him whom they
should have loved. Edith went in first.

Janet is come to say good-bye, papa,'
she said.

'Janet!' he repeated, glancing up from
his papers, which he was hastily tying together
with red tape. ' Good-bye, child.
I hope you will take advantage of your
chances of education. Nobody knows how
soon you may have to turn them to account.
Above all, learn French thoroughly

; that carries you everywhere. Many
men and women get clerkships through a
knowledge of French and other modern
languages. They are far more useful than
Greek and Latin.'

Janet stood before her father dumb-foundered.
She had never heard him say
so much before.

Speak,' whispered Edith.

'Yes, papa, I will learn everything I
can ; but I like painting best. I am very
glad to go,' she said, with provoking nonchalance.


I daresay. We are always glad of
excuses for a change. Good-bye.'

He held out his thin hand, which she
took coldly.

Won't you kiss her, papa ?' asked tearful
Edith.

'Kiss her? Yes, if she wishes. But
she must not strangle me, as she did Glanville.
That was quite unnecessary.'

No fear,' said Janet, presenting her
cheek.

There was something in that round,
blooming face which touched a parental
spring somewhere. He stooped to kiss
it, and his eyes had a spark of apparent
feeling.

Janet saw it, and did, in spite of prohibition
and previous fear, cast her arms
round his neck, saying, in a choked
voice,

I wish I could love you, papa. I do
indeed.'

There was no response. Mr. Aspen el
hurried to his carriage, while his wife
looked on wondering, and Edith sobbed
out,

How could you say that, Janet?'

There was no time to lose. The carriage
that took Mr. Aspenelel to the station
was to return, and in the course of an
hour convey Janet thither. They all went

upstairs to prepare, and the sisters were
alone for a short space.

What shall I do without you, my darling
?' was all Edith could say.

Better than with me ; for I know I am
very provoking,' sobbed Janet.

I have not been as good to you as I
ought, Janet. Our mother told me never
to leave you, and now you are leaving
me.'

That is my fault. You have been better
than best. But you will have True, and
I — I shall have lots of people, and I mean
to come home for the holidays by hook or
by crook.'

She cast her arms about Edith, and the
pair knew for the first time what the word
parting ' meant.

The real one came all too soon. Mrs.
Aspen el, Edith, and Bruce accompanied
Janet to the station. She was more annoyed
than flattered by her step-mother's and
brother's presence ; she would have preferred

Nurse True in the carriage, instead
of in the rumble.

At the station were Mrs. Glanville, Mr.
Austen, and Fan. The latter had come
uninvited to see the last of Janet. She
generally went where she pleased, whether
her company were acceptable or not.
Janet, who was brimming over with regretful
affection for all her friends, embraced
her with the rest.

Be a good girl,' said Mr. Austen, with
clerical propriety.

Til try,' returned Janet.

Up steamed the train, in went Nurse
True and the sandwiches, and in hopped
Janet like a bird. Her last embrace and
last look were for Edith, whose white face
and tearful eyes touched the hearts of her
friends.

Mrs. Aspen el summoned her and Bruce
to the carriage, saying they would go fora
drive, and the breezes of May and
the delightful lanes soothed Edith. Mrs.

Aspen el took advantage of the occasion to
inform her that, now Janet was gone,
certain changes must be made in the household
arrangements.

I did not like to propose that you
should breakfast with your father and me
always, and dine when there is no company,
so long as Janet was at home,' she said.
But as you are nearly grown up, and must
be introduced in due course, and as you
have no resident governess, you cannot
continue to live entirely with Nurse True,
however delightful she may be '

The last part of this speech was spoken
ironically, and it roused Edith from the
tearful absorption into which she had
fallen, and from which Bruce, with childlike
intuition, was using every effort to
disturb her.

Nurse True has been with me ever since
I was born, and has supplied my own
mother's place as well as she could,' she
said, suppressing a rising sob.

That may be ; but she is scarcely companionable,
I should think. You cannot
object to be more with your father and me
than with her. It will look better in the
eyes of the world, if not in your own, that
you should accept me as chaperone, instead
of a domestic, estimable as she may be. I
flatter myself that, in spite of stepmother-dom,
I am at least as agreeable as Nurse
True or those old ladies whom you so
greatly rejoice in.'

Edith was astonished at this advance on
Mrs. Aspenelel's part, who had never said so
much to her before. She felt that it washer
duty to meet it briskly, but she had
neither the will nor the power. All she
could do was to sob out meekly that she
would endeavour to act as Mrs. Aspenelel
wished, and would be ready to join her at
the breakfast table on the morrow.

CHAPTER XT.

SCHOOL.

Edith did not know what absolute loneliness
meant until she found herself at tea
With Bruce. Thanks to Mrs. Aspenelel, she
had got through the day tolerably well.
That lady had told her that she would not
expect her at dinner until she had mentioned
the subject to her father, so she and
Bruce were sole companions. No Janet ;
no Nurse True. How desolate it was !
But solace came when she least expected
it.

I'll be a good boy, Edith, and learn all
my lessons, if you'll let me sleep with you.

Ellen says I shan't, and I say I will — in
Janet's bed, in your room,' said Bruce, a
slice of bread-and-butter in one hand, a
cup of milk in the other.

You shall, if you will promise to love
Janet,' replied Edith.

I wish Janet was back, T do,' said
Bruce, putting down the cup and rubbing
his sleeve across his eyes. ' I want to
play, I do.'

Up rose Edith and embraced Bruce, and
then and there told Ellen, the inter-nurse,
that Master Bruce might sleep in her room
for once, if Mrs. Aspenelel had no objection.
And thus it came to pass that Bruce
occupied Janet's bed, instead of his own
in Xurse True's room, and Edith was
consoled.

Meanwhile, what of Janet? She had
just reached her destination. After an
enjoyable journey, much good advice from
True, and all the excitement of expectation,
she found herself at the door of a

VOL. I. i\r

good-sized house, which overlooked the
Severn and its surrounding woods.

This is much more beautiful than the
Park !' she cried, enthusiastically, when
Nurse True had rung the bell.

No sooner were they in the hall than
out came the loveliest lady Janet had ever
seen, so she thought ; and she was not far
wrong. She shook hands with Nurse
True ; kissed Janet on both cheeks ; paid
the cabman, told him to assist the maid in
carrying up the luggage, and did it all so
rapidly that even Nurse True was surprised.
There was a foreign accent on the
English, otherwise, Janet thought, with
some disappointment, she need not have
been a Frenchwoman at all.

Still,' she argued to herself, ' I have
never seen anyone like her.'

She was right. Madame de Belleville,
at about forty, retained the beauty and
vivacity of half that age. She was of
medium height, stout, with that embonpoint

characteristic of her countrywomen,
round-faced, and clear coniplexioned. Her
eyes were large and of that pure, transparent
hazel which always emits a <2jolden
light ; while they, and her somewhat widemouth,
seemed to be ever smiling together.
Her hair was grey before its time, and she
wore it in large, short curls, which became
her well. It was surmounted by no cap,
but drawn up to the crown and fastened
by a tortoiseshell comb.

She took her new arrivals upstairs to a
double-bedded room, and begged them to
take off their things preparatory to tea.
Nurse True demurred.

I have made this apartment prepared
for you both to-night. You will sleep
here, madame, and when you leave tomorrow
the dear child will be already
reconciled to her ncAv home, and will have
made de acquaintance of her companion.'

Saying this, Madame de Belleville tapped
Janet on the cheek, and left the room.

m2

Isn't she a love ? isn't she a dear ?' cried
Janet.

If only her teaching and example are as
honest as her face, she certainly is,' replied
Nurse True, reflectively. ^ I had a prejudice,
but it is half gone already.'

It was wholly gone before long. Madame
soon re-appeared, and led them downstairs,
talking all the while. She took them into
a comfortable dining-room, where a gentleman
and three young ladies were seated
at tea.

'Here she is, mon ami ; here she is, mes
enfant P she exclaimed, leading Janet, first
to Monsieur de Belleville, and then to each
of the girls.

Vous parlez Francis ? Non P Den
you must be my j^oiJig de cote at table, till
you speak courammeni. What de English
of dat, Lizzie ?' said monsieur, shaking
hands.

'Fluently, monsieur,' was the ready
answer of a fair girl about Janet's age, who

received her with an air of patronage and
looked her well over.

Several remarks passed in French, while
madame seated Janet and Nurse True before
an omelette and a haricot, cooked in
true French fashion. These remarks were
complimentary to Janet. She was considered
very pretty, and, strange to say,
exceedingly like madame. The girls talked
freely in French, with true Parisian accent.

She resembles you greatly, iii mie
said monsieur, contemplating the newcomer
with increased interest.

Monsieur de Belleville's English was far
less perfect than his wife's, for, being also
a teacher of his own language, and a lecturer
therein, he made a conscience of
speaking it to his pupils, and rarely indulged
in — or aired, as it is now the custom
to say — his English. He was a tall,
thin, sallow, black-eyed, black-haired man,
every inch a Frenchman, and every inch
a gentleman. He was, as Lady Ascham

had said, ^ of the old noblesse'' and he and
his charming wife had a sorrowful story
hidden down deep below the cranny whence
issued their easy and pleasant manner. Mr.
or Mrs. John Bull would not have finished
ois a long train of misfortunes so airily as
did these strays of a revolution, but would
probably have proclaimed their grievances
by their countenances : while our new acquaintances
either concealed, ignored, or
forgot theirs.

As soon as the young ladies had finished
their tea, they disappeared, to the great
relief of the travellers, who felt uncomfortable
beneath their scrutiny and foreign
tongue. Janet knew enough of French to
interpret some of their remarks, and understood
when madame bade them be cautious.
But she perceived that they were
perfectly at ease.

I will leave you to finish your repast,'
said madame ; and she and monsieur withdrew.


• It is not like a school. They won't be
strict enough,' moralised Nurse True, while
Janet made a fine tea.

It is not a school, " only classes." I
poked that out of Mrs. Aspenelel,' said Janet.
You weren't strict with me, old True !'

Better if I had been, perhaps, my dear ;
but I couldn't find it in my heart to
punish you poor motherless children.'

When they had finished tea, madame
reappeared, and suggested that they should
arrange Janet's wardrobe. Accordingly
they went upstairs again. Just as they were
entering their room, they were accosted by
the fair girl called Lizzie.

I can tell you what to do, for I am to
sleep with you,' she said, unceremoniously
preceding them. ' I gave up my bed for
the night, and am to share Bella's. We
shan't have too much room, but it will be
great fun. This is your chest of drawers
and washstand, near your bed, and these
are mine. We have the wardrobe between

US. We must be tolerably tidy, but ma-clara
isn't too neat herself. The French
never are, you know.'

Nurse True uplifted her hands, and
exclaimed,

Then who teaches you good habits, my
dear ?'

Lizzie, having learnt Nurse True's position,
was slightly offended by this familiar
question, and answered, curtly,

nobody. They come naturally to
ladies.'

Indeed they do not ! I am very untidy
; but perhaps I'm not a lady. I
should have no habits at all, but for Nurse
True,' said Janet.

'Aren't you one of the Aspenels of As-penes
Park? My mother knows your
mother a little.'

My dear mother is dead. The present
Mrs. Aspenelel is only my step-mother.'

Never mind. 'Tis all the same. Aspenelel
is a good name, and a park's a park. My

name is Hazelwoocl. Isle father is Sir
James Hazelwoocl, of Hazelwood Grange.
There's the bell. We read and work an
hour before we o;o to bed. French, of
course ; and sometimes monsieur reads tous.'


Miss Hazelwood ran off, and Nurse
True began to arrange Janet's wardrobe.
She bade her remark where each article
was, so that she might ' keep her things
tidy.'

A place for everything, and everything
in its place,' she said, with nursery
acumen.

At half-past eight o'clock they were
summoned to prayers. This comforted
Nurse True. Two respectable-looking servants
were present, and madame read
them in English. Monsieur was not there.
Janet felt more of amusement than devotion,
because of madame's somewhat rapid
reading and peculiar pronunciation ; but,
when she subsequently remarked upon

this to Nurse True, slave was rebuked by
that o'ood woman.

You will never forget to say your own
prayers and read a chapter before you goto
bed,' said True. ' If you promise me
this, I shall be happy about you, for I am
sure you will be kindly treated if you are
good and obedient. I have put your Bible
and prayer-book on your drawers, with
dear Miss Aspenelel's text-book. When you
look at them, you will think of us.'

I would rather not promise, dear old
True, because I always break my promises ;
but I will try,' replied Janet, humbly.

We will pray together to-night, my
deary, and read in the Blessed Book, and
that may help you to remember,' said
True, taking the Bible, and opening it at
her favourite book of Proverbs.

She read aloud the first nine verses of
the twenty-second chapter, which called
forth from Janet the satisfactory interruption
of

I'm sure you've done all you could to
train us up in the way we should go,"
and I'll do my best not to " depart from
it " when I'm old ; but that's a long way
off, dear True.'

True shook her head, and Janet added,
penitently, that she would try to begin at
once. They knelt side by side in silent
prayer, which the simple but wise woman
concluded aloud by ' Our Father,' and
The grace of our Lord.' Impressionable
Janet was in tears, and flung herself into
her good friend's arms, by which she was
tenderly enfolded.

Nurse True was to leave by an early
train the following morning, so she aroused
Janet at break of day. Kind Madame de
Belleville gave them a private breakfast,
which enabled them to ' gather up the
crumbs ' of the last words, ever so significant.
Janet had not believed that she
could have felt so miserable as she did
when the cab was announced, and madame

came, all smiles and promises, to wish
Nurse True good-bye.

I will be a mother to the child, be
assured,' she said. ' I have one son of my
own, and know what is maternity.'

Thank you, madame,' replied True, as
she released herself from clinging Janet,
and got into her cab.

CHAPTER Nit.

bruce's tutor.

Mr. Tom Harton came home from his
travels. He arrived a year or more after
Janet went to school, and meanwhile
Bruce had received a desultory education.
Edith was strictly conscientious, and taught
him to the best of her ability when not
herself under tuition at the Cottages. He,
with truly masculine in constancy, clamoured
for Janet, and, what with maternal indulgence
and indomitable self-will, did not
make much progress. However, it must
be confessed that there was more peace in
the domestic economy of the Park without
Janet than there had been with her.

Mr. Tom Harton increased it fourfold.
What terms Mr. Aspenelel had made with
him did not transpire, but he agreed to
undertake Master Bruce's education while
himself working: for his degree at home.
He resided at Hoplands with his father,
while devoting; his morning: hours to
Bruce ; and a study was prepared for that
juvenile autocrat, where, it was whispered,
the tutor kept a rod in pickle. At any
rate he succeeded in bringing the boy into
subjection to himself, whatever the power
he exercised, by way of indemnity, over
his former instructors. But Tom Harton
had a way of subjecting most people to himself.
No one knew where lay his talent,
but his father said it was in his own unconquerable
will. Be that as it may, even
Fan obeyed him, while she heartily disliked
him.

He was the eldest son, and the only one
who had displayed a taste for letters. He
was somewhat of a pedant as well as a

scholar, and argued with his father until
he silenced if he did not convince him.
Mr. Harton preferred his literary jousts
with Miss Vigors and the rector, but Tom
was omnipotent, and put them all down.
He was a reformer, besides, and disapproved
of his father's easy ways, not only with his
work people and servants, but with the
gipsies and other vagrants. He was a
favourite of Mr. Aspenelel's, who would fain
have had him as a clerk or factotum had
he felt so disposed. He had good manners,
good looks, and, before all, a good opinion
of himself, which, when not conspicuous,
carries weight with the ladies. It certainly
did with Mrs. Aspenelel. He had travelled
a good deal as tutor, and his knowledge of
the world made him an oracle at Roselands.
He either was, or fancied himself, irresistible
to the fair sex, and had a very flattering
manner with all but Fan.

Sauntering one morning over Roselands
Common, he saw that damsel hovering

about the gipsies' camp, attended, as usual
by her dogs. She was talking to an old
woman who might have been her grandmother,
so strange was the typical likeness
between them. Several ragged urchins
Avere squatting about, a couple of donkeys
were browsing near, and a rough cur was
impudently disputing territory with Fan's
more aristocratic canine friends. Within
a small low tent a couple of men were
tinkering and making skewers, and beyond,
near a cart, a woman vv^as spreading out
some clothes to dry.

Tom Harton drew near, unperceived
at first, but Fan soon turned and faced
him.

'This is Mrs. Lee, who is almost queen
of the gipsies,' she said. ' She is of a very
old family, Tom, and you are always talking;
about old families. Tell him about
your family, Mrs. Lee. She thinks I must
belong to the Hearts, because Clorandy,
which was my mother's name, was a

Heart. But the Hearts are not quite so
old a family as the Lees.'

*Ours is too remote to be traced exclaimed
Mrs. Lee, in excellent English,
'but I believe we are of the stock of
Abraham. I'm told he lived in a tent.'

I should think it time for you to dwell
in stone walls at your age, and to find more
suitable occupation for your descendants.
Fan, come with me,' returned Tom, severely,
glancing about him.

I could no more die in a house than
could my fathers before me. Smoke
suffocates me ; and I'll commit my soul to
the natural elements, and leave my body in
my tent, or I'll not die at all.'

Mrs. Lee stood with flashing eyes and
arms akimbo. With many-coloured shawl
and fantastic head-gear she looked like a
sibyl, and Tom longed to place her on the
oracle-giving tripod. But he said, sententiously,


We must send the inspector to look

VOL. I. N

after these children. They ought to be at
school. I daresay they can neither read
nor write.'

At the word ' Inspector the boys took
to their heels, and were half across the
common in no time. Fan laughed, and Mrs.
Lee drew herself up majestically.

We are more learned than you think.
I can draw your horoscope or tell your
fortune by your palm. Let me try, my
fine gentleman.'

And be put in prison for your pains.
The law is stringent now, Mrs. Lee.'

Law is hard : so is Aspenelel : so are you.
Good-day, sir.' So saying, the gipsy woman
drew her shawl about her and strode off in
the direction of the boys.

She doesn't know you are a Harton,'
said Fan. They walked away together,
she and Tom.

Have you nothing to do at home, that
you pass your time with the gipsies?'
asked Tom. ' I should have thought that

a girl could have occupied herself more
profitably in many ways. I believe you
are taking lessons of Miss Vigors.'

I don't understand them, but I do the
gipsies. That is natural, since I am of
their race. I try to find out my parentage.'

Better leave that in doubt, unless you
wish to rejoin them,' said Tom, coldly.

Perhaps I do — who knows ? But I
love Sir, and would not leave him if I
could help it. I wish Jack would come
home. How far is it to America?'

'If you paid more attention to your
geography, and less to gipsies, you would
not ask such foolish questions. Of what
use are you in the world, if you do nothing
but wander about ?'

I am of some use. I help to make the
beds, and mend Sir's stockings, and feed
the poultry, and see to the dogs, and nurse
Sir when he is ill, and make the tea, and
do a lot more things. I really do try, Mr.
Tom; but I am afraid I am a born gipsy,

n2

and I shall never be good for much. Jack
says I shall go and keep house for him.
I think I mio^ht manatee awiojwam.'

Further conversation was interrupted
by the appearance of Mrs. Glanville and
Edith. They were on their way to the
encampment the others had left. Mrs.
Glanville was taking Edith to see for herself
the poor people whom her father was
trying to exterminate. She had not met
the Wandering AVill whom Mr. Aspenelel
was anxious to find, and she and her son
continued to do what they could for the
gipsies.

They are much to be pitied, but they
must be educated,' said Tom Harton.
They cannot evade the law much longer.'

But Fan managed to elude Tom, and was
on the watch for Mrs. Glanville and Edith
when they returned.

Do you think they are so very wicked ?'
she asked, breaking in upon them from a
neighbouring covert, where she had been

lying in ambush. ' Is it very bad to be a
born gipsy, like me ? Oh, I wish I were
white and good, like you, Miss Aspenelel !'

The o:irl was in a state of o-reat excitement,
and there were tears in her large
black eyes.

What have they been saying to you.
Fan ?' asked Mrs. Glanville ; and Fan
poured out her version of Tom's opinions.

Everybody talks of the gipsies as if
they weren't human beings, much less
Christians,' she said, indignantly. ' But
I'm a gipsy, and yet Tm a human being
and a Christian.'

But you are trained and educated,
dear,' said Mrs. Glanville, kindly. 'The
real gipsy, or Egyptian, as may be, has
wandered so long, and had such curious
ways, that he has passed out of the road
to education, until he shuns it as an
enemy. We who call ourselves Christians
are much to blame for this state of things ;
but we are aroused at last, and, what with

Board-schools and everybody's wish to do
good to somebody else, the gipsies are
likely either to be rooted out or made like
the rest of us.'

• I'm sure I hope they won't grow like
Tom,' said Fan, reflectively. ^ He scolds
me for trying to look after my own people.
But you and Mr. Glanville are very good
to them, and they love you, if they sometimes
laugh at you. I tell them they
oughtn't to laugh, because you only preach
to them for their good.'

Why do they laugh at us, Fan ? '
asked Mrs. Glanville, restraining a laugh
herself.

I think I oughtn't to tell; but I will,
if 3'ou will not tell again,' replied Fan,
confidentially. ' They say that, with all
your wisdom, you're not half as learned as
they are ; for you can only tell them what
has happened already, and they can tell
you what is to come to pass ; for they
believe in themselves and their predictions

And is that all the good we have done
them, Fan T asked Mrs. Glanville, sadly.

Oh, no. One thing that you teach
them is, they say, far more wonderful
than all their arts, because it tells of past
and future, and of a world beyond the
stars they pretend to prophesy by. This
is the history of our Lord Jesus Christ.'

Fan spoke this solemnly, and bowed her
head.

If we have done only this, we have not
utterly failed,' said Mrs. Glanville. ' But,
if you believe this marvellous and mysterious
story of the salvation of our fallen
race, you may be of immense service to
your people, as you call our wandering
friends.'

'How?' asked Fan, suddenly standing
still and facing Mrs. Glanville with hands
outspread, eyes dilated, and lips apart.

By studying well the Holy Scriptures
yourself, and teaching them to the tribes
who eschew both church and chapel.'

I will !' cried Fan, casting up her
hands, and uplifting her eyes in a way
that in anyone else might have seemed
theatrical.

But, my dear child, you cannot undertake
this great work without faith and
prayer. We can do nothing of ourselves.'

Will you teach me, ma'am ? Mrs. Lee
says you could convert the world. May I
learn of you, instead of Miss Vigors, who
only gives me hard books to read that
aren't of any use — all about things that
have happened long ago, while I want
to know all that is going on now. I like
the newspapers best, though they make
me cry. Is not the world very, very
sad?'

It is. But each of us can help to make
it less so.'

How ?' exclaimed both the young girls
at once ; for each in her different way was
excited by what her friend was saying.

First by doing our duty to God and

the relations and friends to whom Ave
belong ; secondly, to our neighbour.'

I want to know what my duty is,' cried
Fan, with an earnestness that startled Mrs.
Glanville.

^ Come to me tomorrow afternoon, and
we will see what God's Word teaches us,'
said ]airs. Glanville.

'May I come, too, dear auntie?' asked
Edith.

If Mrs. Aspenelel has no objection.'

She don't like me. She don't think
me good enough for Miss Aspenelel — I, a
born gipsy,' said Fan, humbly.

They where at the gate of the Cottages,
which was nccirly opposite the Park gates,
so they separated, Mrs. Glanville going to
her small abode, the girls turning towards
their homes.

May I walk a little way with you. Miss
Aspenelel ?' asked Fan.

Edith looked doubtfully at the dogs, and
felt dubious about Fan.

sto heel, Rolf! to heel, Jack!' shouted
Fan, and her faithful attendants slunk
behind her. Then to Edith : ' I will runaway
the moment T see anyone ; but I
want to ask you something particular,
Miss Aspenelel.'

'Then we will take the side-path,' replied
Edith ; and, instead of the drive,
they skirted the Park wall.

If my mother, Clorandy, is still alive,
and if I have a father, and if I should
find them, and if they wanted me, ought
I to go away with them, and leave Mr.
Harton ?' asked Fan, speaking rapidly.

Edith was taken by surprise, and could
not answer at once. Fan began again —

If sour father was to lose all his money,
and be an outcast, or a bankrupt, or whatever
they call it, and if everyone was to
forsake him, even Mrs. Aspenelel, and he
was left all alone in the world, Avould you
stand by him and try to comfort him, even

though he isn't a very kind father, and
nobody likes him ?'

I think — I hope 1 should, Fan,' replied
Edith at last, slowly and reflectively.

I thought you would say that,' continued
Fan, a shadow passing over her
features. ' But, if you had some one you
loved very dearly far, far away, would you
leave sour father and run after him?'

I hope not, Fan. But such a thing
could never happen to me. I have no
friends at a distance, except Janet, and
she, you know, is at schooL'

If 3'ou had somebody you hated tormenting
you all day long, would you runaway
from him ? I suppose you don't
hate Mrs. Aspenelel, though I think Mis
Janet does ; but, if you did, would you runaway
from her ?'

I think not. I must do my duty to
my father, and sister, and brother. Besides,
I have Nurse True.'

Fan's countenance changed ; it grew
reflective. Then she said,

Miss Janet isn't as good as you. She
would like to run away. She told me so.'

Oh ! Fan, you are older than Janet,
and should know better. She is very
happy at school. She is making many
friends, and monsieur and madame are
very kind to her. She spent her holidays
with them in Paris, and is to go for Christmas
with her friend, Miss Hazelwood, to
their place in the north. She sent us
home a beautiful painting, which her master
considers well done, and says she is
working quite hard.'

Then why doesn't she come home ?
What right has Mrs. Aspenelel to keep her
away from you? There is nothing but
injustice in all the world !'

Fan ! you should not speak so. Goodbye
; I think I must make haste home.'

I beg your pardon, Miss Aspenelel. I
didn't mean to be rude. Mr. Tom says

I am rude, and that it is my gipsy blood.
I think that is rude, don't you ?'

Very ; but good-bye, Fan. We must
try to do right, notwithstanding our
temptations to do wrong.'

With which laconic truism Edith hurried
ois, leaving Fan in doubt whether she
had offended her or not.

CHAPTER XIII.

UNE PETITE Partie Carrie.

When Edith reached the house, after she
left Fan, she went to her kind friend and
counsellor, Nurse True. She was much
distressed at the hint concerning; Janet's
desire to ^ run away,' and wondered how
and when she could have made a confidante
of Fan. Nurse True reassured her,
as usual, by saying that Fan had probably
imagined it, because people gossiped about
her disagreements with her step-mother.

'At any rate, Miss Janet is safe now,
deary,' she said. ' She will have no
temptation to run away from those nice,
kind people who keep the school. All I

fear is that she'll be as much spoilt by
them as she was kept under by Mrs. As-penes.
As for poor Fan, she can no more
help wandering than I can help sitting
still. Her forbears where gipsies ; mine where
factory hands ; and as the tree's bent soit
lies. 'Tis like the sins o' the fathers.
We inherit by nature, but are changed by
grace.'

I say, Edith, you must dress for dinner,'
here broke in Bruce, whip in hand. ' I
want to be nauo'htv. Xurse True, I will
be naughty.'

Edith, who dreaded all battles and disputes,
ran to her room. Bruce, held in
awe by his tutor, gave vent to his feelings
when away from him, and Xurse True, as
wx41 as Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith, had more
than they could do to curb him. As to
Edith, she was in a perpetual turmoil.
Her shy, peace-loving nature was attacked
on all sides. Since she had made one of
the family-party at meals, her mind had

been constantly disturbed. She wanted to
honour her father,' and love her stepmother;
she tried to do it with all her
strength, and was miserable because she
failed. In all that great house the only
one she could honour and love was Nurse
True. And she was not yet clear-sighted
enough to understand either her father or
his wife. She did not realize that greed
on one side and profusion on the other
caused the disputes and bickering to
which she had become an unwilling listener,
or that the awful craze for money
was at the root. Money to save or money
to spend — what is the difference, when the
saving or spending is for mere personal
gratification ?

Edith was always glad when their trio
became a quartette by the addition of a
guest ; for she was not relegated to the
nursery or school-room for one visitor, but
always for more. On this occasion, when
she and Bruce descended together, she

found Mr. Tom Harton in the drawing-room.
Bruce, who was in hilarious spirits,
was subdued as by a spell ; and Edith, in
spite of her pleasure at seeing a guest,
shrank back from the ultra-politeness and
studied refinement of Fan's enemy. But
Mrs. Aspenelel, who liked him and was always
agreeable in society, came in and
saved Edith from the difficult duty of conversation.
She took refuge with Bruce,
"svo was seated demurely on the edge of
a low ottoman, and listened to the polite
and flattering speeches of her step-mother
on the progress of that hopeful only son.
Bruce listened too, and began to think
himself quite a prodigy.

Mr. Aspenelel was rather late, but when
he arrived, spic and span, the conversation
turned upon the state of the money-market
until dinner was announced.

Here was no stint ; for Mrs. Aspenelel
would entertain according to her state,
saying, when her husband remonstrated,

VOL. I.

If you choose to bring people to dinner,
I choose to feed them properly.'

The battle raged when the bills came in.

It was a ]petite partie carries and Edith
was seated opposite Mr. Tom Harton. She
was conscious that he was always looking
at her, or seemed to be. He addressed her
occasionally ; but the talk flowed principally
from him to Mrs. Aspenelel. She
answered when addressed, like any other
good child, but, although in her seventeenth
year, was too timid to originate
a sentence. Mrs. Aspenelel looked at her
occasionally, as if she longed to say, ' How-stupid
you are, Edith !' But politeness
forbade this manifestation of opinion. Her
father was engrossed by his speculations
and his dinner combined, and was almost
as silent as she ; but he made up for it
when she and Mrs. Aspenelel left the diningroom.


What are we to do with those pests of
creation, the gipsies ?' he began. ' Your

father persists in letting them pitch their
tents on his common, and my object is to
root them out.'

Send the School-Board inspector after
them. Insist on the children being sent
to school and the parents paying. Of
course, if you can bring proof of robbery,
or fortune-telling, or other misdemeanour,
you can get rid of them. My father has
been infatuated by them all his life, and
now the girl my mother brought up rules
him.'

'She was a gipsy, eh?' asked Mr.
Aspenelel.

I suppose so. She has all their peculiarities,
and also their Eastern appearance,'
replied Harton.

She is handsome enough for an Indian
queen, much less a Cleopatra,' said Aspenelel.
I see her in church and meet her sometimes.
But there seems no harm in her.
"What I want is to be rid of the tribe. Do
you know anything of a fellow they call

Wandering Will, who prowls about sometimes
? He is a bad lot, and I should like
to get him sent abroad.'

^ Certainly, Mr. Aspenelel. I remember
him when I was a boy. He was a clever
fellow, and scarcely a born gipsy. My
father used to say he must have had some
education.'

If your father had done his duty, he
wouldn't be roaming about still. Where
did you learn to make yourself so agreeable
to the ladies?'

This sudden change of subject might
have disconcerted a less self-possessed man
than Tom Harton, and the sharp, inquisitive
glance that accompanied the question
would have been still more embarrassing ;
but Tom only smiled, and said blandly,

Am I agreeable to them ? I am glad.
They always appear beyond the mark of an
impecunious fellow like me, and I never
bestow a thought on them after I have
met them. My studies engross all my time.

But when in society I go with society.
You and I are equally averse to loss of time,
I think, Mr. Aspenelel, though one must
dine.'

^ And pay for one's dinner. You would
be astonished if you knew how expensive
keeping up such a house as this is.'

I can well imagine it. We must train
Bruce to understand pounds, shillings, and
pence thoroughly. That is a part of education
too much neglected, Mr. Aspenelel.'

Neglected ! You are right. And all
for Latin, and Greek, and mathematics, and
tomfooleries that will never make a fortune.
But geography and modern languages —
work him up in those, I beg you.'

Whatever was Mr. Aspenelel's method of
saving, Tom Harton remarked that it
did not include wine. He drank freely —
too freely, he thought. Harton was himself
all but a teetotaller, so he was the
better able to estimate the consumption of
others. It rather pleased him to find that

Mr. Aspenelel had a vulnerable point in his
gold-encased character.

When they joined the ladies, Mrs. As-penes
was at the piano. She played and
sang like an artist, and she had discovered
that Tom Harton was musical.

Edith, let us hear what the old ladies
have taught you — if there is such a thing
as an old lady — eh, Harton?' said Mr.
Aspenelel.

'• Ladies, like wine, mellow by age, Mr.
Aspenelelelel. Certainly those at the Aspenelelelel
Homes must be extremely mellow.'

Tom Harton said this with an indescribable
nonchalance which made Mrs.
Aspenelel laugh and Edith wonder.

What do you think of them ? What
are they doing for you, Edith ?' asked Mr.
Aspenelel.

They are exceedingly kind. They are
doing their best to teach me,' was the
reply.

Then let us hear results. In business

we judge by results. Which is the 
? If you can't sing in public,
we must stop the supplies. I don't believe
in giving something for nothing.'

I will accompany you, Edith,' said Mrs.
Aspenelel. .' Miss Lilyton has really a good
method, and must have been an accomplished
teacher.*

Poor Edith was sadly nervous, but she
did not dare to disobey her father. She
had a singularly sweet and sympathetic
voice, and timid Miss Lilyton understood
both it and her, so she was making progress
under her tuition. But she failed to do
herself justice, in spite of the ' Bravo !
charming !' of Tom Harton. However, she
proved that she had a voice and was in
good training ; so her father was satisfied,
and said,

That isn't bad. The old ladies aren't
to be despised, after all. But you won't
make your fortune on the boards, if I
should lose mine, which is only too likely.

Continental courses flat, premium on gold
of Buenos Ay res fell, and there's no knowing
how soon I may be ruined.'

Not much fear of that, I should say,
Mr. Aspenelel,' said the affectionate wife.

What do you know about it, Mrs. As-penes?'
returned the loving husband.

When Tom Harton took his leave, he did
not go straight home, but took the road that
led to Roselands or Hoplands Common, as
it was indifferently called. When he arrived
at the encampment, it was about eleven
o'clock. He took care to stand upon the
outskirts of it, lest he should excite suspicion
; but he need not have feared, for
his plans, if he had any, were circumvented
by his finding the population in repose.

The scene was picturesque. The dark
sky, with its crescent moon and sparkling
constellations, looked down on the gorse-clad
common and its tiny village of low
tents, sleeping donkeys, van, and carts.
No human form was visible. There was

no midnight marauder bringing in stolen
poultry or game, as lie had hoped — no outlying
guard keeping watch.

*The nineteenth-century gipsy is not
what he used to be,' he muttered. ' He is
simply inoffensive. But I must do something
to please the millionaire ; for has he
not daughters?'

A cur suddenly dashed out from a tent
and began to bark. He instantly walked
off, taking the path that led through one
of his father's copses to the back of
his house. Hoplands was an old-fashioned
place, half farm, half country-seat, and the
outbuildings were large. Yard, drying-ground,
and coach-house spoke of a former
position superior to the present ; but they
were in bad repair, and Tom grumbled ashe
approached them with words to the
effect that his father was letting his
property go to rack and ruin.

As he emerged from the copse which
flanked the house on one side, he saw the

figure of a man near the orate which led
into the spacious yard. He was standing
as if looking at the premises or at a large
yew-tree which had stood for generations
in the centre of the 3^ard. He must have
been unusually quiet, or Lion, the watchdog,
would have been aroused. Tom came
upon him from behind, and laid his hand
on his shoulder with the words,

^ What may you be doing here at this
time of night ?'

No harm. I am footsore, and resting
by the gate before going by the copse to
the common,' responded the jean, with perfect
coolness, turning and facing him.

The voices and the rustle now aroused
Lion, who began to bark furiously. Tom
quieted him by a few words. Lion, like
Bruce and the Hoplands' household generally,
instinctively obeyed Mr. Tom.

I should say you were here for no
good. I suppose you belong to the gipsy
vagabonds on the common, and are on

your way to the encampment,' said Tom,
trying to look under a slouched, brigand-like
hat, which hid all the man's face, save
his bushy beard.

I do. I am on my way to the common.
Thanks to Mr. Harton, the poor, persecuted
fugitives from Asia and Africa are allowed
breathing-space. Ever since the days of
Tamerlane we have been wanderers, and
doubtless are of the lost tribes of Israel. I
am, if not the Wandering Jew, a wandering
Jew.'

Tom was astonished at the effrontery
and mocking tone of the man, as well as at
his language. He spoke in good. English,
and with pure accent.

Whether Jew or Gentile, you have no
business here,' said Tom.

Then, with your good pleasure, I will
take my departure. I am the last person
in the world to stay where 1 am not
wanted. My versatile talents usually ensure
me a welcome. You would scarcely

believe that I have been, as the song
says,

In court, in camp, and grove ;
For love is heaven, and heaven is love." '

You are an impudent vagabond,' said
Tom.

Not so. I am myself, as you are yourself.
If I am a vagabond, you are one. I
merely wander up the copse to the tents ;
you wander from the tents down the copse.
Vagary, to wander, you know. Remark
that I omit the unpolite epithet of " impudent."
We are both scholars ; but my lore
embraces the heavens, yours grovels on
the earth. Good-night.'

He waved his arms in a semi-circle
towards the star-tessellated arch above,
and then swept the ground as with a
scythe. Before Tom could either reply or
seize him, as he would fain have done, he
was out of sight in the copse. Tom's impulse
was to loosen Lion and send him
after him ; but he was a cautious soul, and

reflected that if Lion bit him he might
feign hydrophobia, and he, not believing
in Pasteur, would not know what to do
with him. Therefore he went into the
house, and left Lion to his rest.

He found his father and Fan waiting up
for him.

I couldn't get Fan to bed,' began Mr.
Harton. * She wants to know what you
had for dinner, what the ladies had on,
and how you all comported yourselves,
generally and individually.'

Indeed I do not, sir. You sat up, and
I sat up with you ; that was all,' said Fan.

AVell, what's the news ? Are the tenants
behaving better, and does the impoverished
Aspenelel mean to join the tithe
agitation against Austen, and has he put
down the gipsies ?' asked Mr. Harton.

'Not the latter, certainly,' replied his
son. *I walked round the encampment,
and found a peaceful colony asleep.'

Spy !' interjected Fan.

'And then I came through the copse,
and met with a suspicious-looking personage
leaning on the back-gate. He could
not have been there for lawful reasons at
such an hour.'

'Why not?' asked Fan.

How do sou know he was a gipsy V
asked Mr. Harton.

Tom recounted the conversation word
for word ; for, amongst his manifold accomplishments,
he had a remarkable
memory.

That must be Wandering Will back
again,' said Mr. Harton, laughing heartily.
I haven't seen him for years. He is a
character worth studying, and you, as a
student, should avail yourself of the opportunity.
All sorts of things have been
said of him. He has been a prince in disguise,
roaming, like Haroun al Rancid, to
see the world ; a philosopher, like Diogenes,
looking for truth, and not finding
it; a swindler, like half our race, who has

swindled once too often ; a madman, like
the other half, who ought to be shut up ;
and a fool, like all of us together, who
fancies he knows everything, and knows
nothing;. I used to think him more roo-ue
than fool ; for there's nothing he cannot
do, and nothing he has not done.'

While Mr. Harton spoke, Fan's eyes
seemed fastened upon him, and Tom
watched her narrowly.

'You know something of this gentleman.
Fan ?' he said.

I have heard of him, but I never saw
him, Mr. Tom. I want to see him. Mrs.
Lee has told me about him.'

'What! the old Tigress?' asked Mr.
Harton.

She says they call her Tigress because
she loves her whelps,' replied Fan, indignantly.
' I think it wrong to give people
nick-names. She is a very nice old lady.'

Well done, Fan ! She is a connection
of Wandering Will's, 1 have heard; but

how I can't conceive, for he is a man of
education, and she — well. Fan, I suppose a
tigress can't be educated.'

I don't know, sir ; but they are very
clever at the circuses.'

*As you have nothing more to wait up
for, Fan, perhaps you had better go to
bed,' said inexorable Tom.

She made an involuntary little face at
him at which Mr. Harton laughed, kissed
her benefactor, and withdrew.

The others soon followed, Tom muttering,


'Wandering Will! Wandering Will!
That's the man Mr. Aspenelel wants. I'll
have him.'

CHAPTER XIV.

Edith's schooling.

Edith's education was strangely desultory,
but as she was in earnest in pursuing;
it, and as her mistresses were equally in
earnest in imparting what they knew, she
did not do amiss. It was delightful to her
to know that she gave new life to the
inmates of the Cottages. They actually
rubbed up the rusty iron of their lore, and
took to all sorts of accomplishments in her
service. The expected guerdon from her
father was second to the gift she bestowed
she and Fan — for they both brightened
up the lives of the good ladies. Edith
spent the best part of her day with them,
VOL. I. p

and it might have made the cynical or satirical
smile to watch her go from one flower-encircled
door to another, to take her various
lessons. But she saw nothing ridiculous
in it. Her teachers were accomplished
women, and each instructed her in the art
she understood best. Neither she nor Fan
had been thrown much with other girls, so
they had not acquired the manners of the
day. They did not call their friends
Poor old thing !' which is the pitifully
respectful epithet by which young people
speak of their elders, or patronise them as
if they had been born before the Eocene
period, whatever that may be ; or take the
words out of their mouths because they
were so ' awfully slow.' On the contrary,
Edith was grateful to them — genuinely
grateful, and reproved Fan when she
sometimes grumbled at Miss Vivors' • hard
books.' These they managed to study
together when fortunate chance permitted,
and nothing pleased Miss Vigors more

than to deliver a lecture on some learned
topic to the two girls, who were expected
to take notes, and to give her a full, true,
and particular account of it.

People suppose, my dears, that because
one is not certified one knows nothing
thoroughly. A great mistake,' she said
one day, as she sat, spectacles on nose, cap
erect, and huge book before her, giving
a history lesson. ' I hate cramming. One
ounce of well-digested food is more nourishing
to the body than one pound of ill-digested.
And so with the mind. One
thing at a time. History to-day, geography
tomorrow, and so on.'

I wish it was always geography,' sighed
Fan. ' I should like to go all over the
world.'

And I to stay at home,' put in Edith.

They were a great contrast. Edith with
her pale, fair, sweet, intellectual face, and
small, delicate form ; Fan nth her russet
cheeks, black, glittering eyes and hair, red

p2

lips, and strongly-built figure ; a greater
contrast, indeed, than were Edith and
Janet. But Janet was Fan's favourite,
and she never tired of asking questions
about her and her education. Edith discovered
that Janet had never planned to
run away, but had only said how much
she should enjoy it, when Fan had suggested
the charms of a roving life. That
Janet should actually be chained to the
desk, learning languages of native teachers,
and pursuing the ' abstruse sciences,' as
she called them in her letters, bewildered
Fan, while it delighted Edith.

The sisters wrote once a week to one
another, and the minute details on either
side were quite a domestic diary, in which
the ladies of the Cottages and the monsieur
and madame of the Yale figured
largely.

To return to Miss Vigors from this
digression.

'I considered myself a traveller, my

dears, when I was young,' she said, 'for I
went With a family to Bologna. Now
people go from Pole to Pole. Apropos of
the Poles, Fan, what can you tell me about
them?'

Fan, who was expecting a foreign
episode, started.

'The Poles, Miss Vigors! Why, they
are the ends of the great, big axle, on
which the earth turns like a big wheel ;
but I never shall understand how the axle
was pushed through, or how the earth
runs round upon it, and we don't tumble
off. Miss Aspenelel says she does, but I
don't.'

The laws of gravitation ' began

Miss Vigors, extending her hand, in which
she held a paper-knife, when there came a
tap at the door.

It was Mrs. Glanville, and both girls rose
to give her an enthusiastic greeting, as
they always did.

'I fancied your time was up. Miss

Vigors she said. ' I just looked in to
arrest Fan before she goes home.'

It is more than up,' said Fan, pulling
out a small silver watch, a parting gift
from her friend Jack. 'It is nearly a
quarter-past twelve, instead of twelve ; and
Miss Aspenelel ought to be at Miss Lilyton's
at twelve.'

'Then you are kept in,' laughed Mrs.
Glanville.

When I once begin my historical lecture,
I forget time. Young ladies, you are dismissed,'
said Miss Vigors, who never forgot
what she considered due to the scholastic
scheme.

Fan put on her hat with alacrity, and
went wolf with Mrs. Glanville, while Edith
lingered to thank Miss Vigors for her painstaking
lesson.

It is a pleasure to teach you, my dear;
but Fan !' Miss Vigors uplifted her hands
significantly, while Edith busied herself
in replacing the school-books beneath a

curtain in the passage, improvised to conceal
them.

Miss Victors' sitting-room resembled nothing
if not a bazaar. Every available
space was covered with ornaments, to
which even her favourite authors crave
way, and were relegated to a bookshelf on
the small landing. ' Presents from my
pupils, my dears. I, like her most gracious
Majesty, our pattern Queen, have kept
every gift I ever received, from childhood
until now,' she would say. To which
Edith would reply, 'How very nice of you,
Miss Vigors ;' and Fan, ' No wonder you've
got so many, ma'am, for that must have
been a long time ago.'

Edith hastened on to Miss Lilyton, who
was seated at her piano, industriously
practising the accompaniments to the
exercises and songs she was teaching her.
The piano and music-stand occupied much
space ; and Miss Lily ton's room was not as
neat as it should be. It was strewn with

music, hymn-books, scores for the choir,
and all the other accessories of village
practice, for Miss Lilyton Alas the organist's
right hand ; indeed, people were so ill-natured
as to say that not only she, but
others of the ' old ladies,' as they were
called by their neighbours, had an eye to
the widowed rector.

But he knew better, though he and Mr.
Harton would sometimes poke Miss Vigors
and Miss Lilyton at one another, for they
both loved a joke. Mrs. Lucy was not
beyond suspicion ; but nobody ventured to
suggest Mrs. Glanville, who, having a
grown-up son, was considered sufficiently
provided for.

Widowers, widows, and old maids are
staple commodities at Roselands,' Tom
Harton would say to Mrs. Aspenelel, when
wishing to be amusing, which he was not
by nature, only satirical.

However, to see meek Miss Lilyton giving
Edith her lesson, you Avould not have

supposed lier capable of matrimonial aspirations
; she was too much engrossed with
her music. So Alas Edith, who loved both
the art and her mistress too well to think
of anything else while engaged with them.
Fan once called them a Christmas rose and
a snowdrop ; and her illustration suited
them.

Fan was eno:a2:ed in serious conversation
with Mrs. Glanville Awhile the sino-inff
lesson went on. That lady had given
much time to Fan of late, for she had discovered
in her a strange spirit of restlessness,
which she could not account for, and
Fan would not.

Mrs. Glanville had undertaken the
superintendence of the Sunday-school, in
which Fan had a class that she managed
remarkably well. Her pupils were devoted
to her, and whatever Fan said was law.
Of course she had her own irregular
method of teaching, but she taught, and
Mrs. Glanville did not interfere.

It was in connection with this class and
in reference to a previous interview that
Mrs. Glanville wished to speak to her.
Fan had already poured out her heart to
this friend, on the subject that had frightened
Edith, and had received counsel that
she did not seem inclined to follow. When
they were seated in Mrs. Glanville's pretty
room. Fan began :

'Sir says that he will fight Squire
Aspenelel to the death before the gipsies
shall be expelled from the common. He
has offered to pay for the children's schooling,
and Mr. Tom is in a great Avay. I
can't live any longer with Mr. Tom, ma'am.
I shall run away, I know I shall.'

'Nonsense, Fan. You must stop and
teach the gipsy children. If Mr. Harton
will pay for them at the Board-school, and
we can get them to Sunday-school, think
what good we may do.'

They're too wild and dirty. Tidy
children won't learn with them. They've

no shoes and stockings, and wouldn't wear
them if they had.'

But, Fan, the inspector has been down
upon them and caught them. If they do
not go to school they will be fined, and, if
they decamp, Mr. Aspenelel will follow them
up. They are liable to imprisonment for
breaking the law, and he is resolved to root
them out.'

Horrid old miser ! How did he manage
to be Miss Aspenelel's and Miss Janet's
father ? Now, I'm just like my fathers, and
I suppose you are, ma'am. " Cat after
kind," Mr. Tom says of me. But he isn't
like Sir.'

Fan looked reflective ; Mrs. Glanville
laughed.

'Heredity is a difficult question, Fan ;
but, if you will help me and my son, we
may perhaps be of use to your fathers, as
you call the gipsies. Gerard is accustomed
to meeting all sorts of people when he
prowls about London to try to do good ;

and you know he and I visit the encampment
most weeks. To-morrow is Saturday,
and he will be down, If you will come
with us, we will try to persuade the children
to come to Sunday-school, as a preliminary
to Board-school ; you can have
them in your class. Once bring the young
under Christian teaching, and they will
tell their parents of Him who died to save
them.'

That's what I want to do. I must find
my mother Clorandy, and ask her for my
father, and give them the " glad tidings.'
That's the meaning of " Gospel," Mr. Austen
told me.'

Fan rose in her excitement, and stood
before Mrs. Glanville.

In God's good time, dear Fan, you may
even do this. But first let us help our
friends who are near us. Ask Mr. Harton
if you may come with us tomorrow afternoon.'


Mustn't tell Tom. He's like a weasel.

That's the same as a skunk which Jack
killed, only it don't smell like those
American beasts. Tom is always after me
and pokes his nose into everybody's affairs.
I'll manage to puzzle him tomorrow,
though, and put him on another scent,
while we go to the common. I'll say Mr.
Aspenelel has sent for him — oh ! it won't bea
story, ma'am, for he has — and he'd make
his way through the earth, like that dreadful
axle, straight to the Poles, for an Aspenelel.
How does the axle get through the earth,
and what a big piece of iron it must be ?
I can't believe all that Miss Vigors tells
us : and what's the use ?'

This question was too deep for Mrs.
Glanville, who, like Fan, found enough todo
immediately round her, and never
puzzled her brains over abstruse matters.
She had, however, relaxed somewhat in
her determination not to undertake Edith's
coaching-up in languages ; for she read
and spoke French and German with her

whenever opportunity offered. But this
was done with the proviso that no return
should be made; for Mrs. Glanville had an
independent spirit, albeit, poor lady she
was living, as she herself expressed it, ' on
charity.' These anomalies are curious, and
occur turn where you will ; but her pride
resisted what it called being under an
obligation to Mr. Aspenelel. The founder of
the ' Homes ' had nothing to do either with
him or his family ; therefore she did not
owe her house or annuity to him. Edith,
who looked on her as a perfect woman, did
not understand the root of her apparent
generosity.

While she and Fan were still discoursing
of the plans for the morrow, Edith appeared.
She was in haste, for it was nearly the
Park luncheon-time. She said she would
return in the afternoon, and then she and
Fan departed together. She did return in
the afternoon, and found her friend ready
for her. Mrs. Glanville, though a clever

linguist, was not a teacher, so the lesson
was more conversational than theoretical ;
but they both enjoyed it. According to
modern custom they discussed their English
friends in French, and Janet and Gerard
were their themes.

I promised to go to Mrs. Lucy,' exclaimed
Edith, in the midst of a maternal
effusion. ' I am learning a wonderful embroidery
stitch, which she says is hundreds
of years old, lout which has been reproduced
at the School of Art.'

Nothing new under the sun,' laughed
Mrs. Glanville, and Edith proceeded to Mrs.
Lucy.

No one knew exactly how Mrs. Lucy
managed to keep up with her age in the
High Art school of needlework ; but she
did, and, it was shrewdly suspected, turned
an honest penny — as many a richer woman
does, to whom the sous is not a necessity
by supplying a certain shop with her
work. Pride as-ain ! She did not confess

this, but preferred conversing on past generations
of Lucy to her OAvn praiseworthy-exertions.
For she owed the power of
helping occasionally the poor around her
to the sale of the beautiful and fanciful
designs that grew beneath her lingers.
Edith admired and imitated, and Mrs. Lucy,
in her most lackadaisical voice, generally
wound up her lesson by, ' My dear Miss
Aspenelel, you will soon surpass me.'

She and Edith might have been themselves
mediaeval as they sat over their
embroidery in that small Elizabethan room ;
for Mrs. Lucy had managed to save such
remnants of her former home as were stifFest
and ugliest. She called it aesthetic and
artistic, and prided herself on having
nothing absolutely modern in her very
small abode. A great display of blue ware
hung between the family portraits, and the
village carpenter had surpassed himself incertain
shelves that surmounted the chime
and contained crockery ware

enough for the use of all the Cottages. She
endeavoured to educate Edith up to High-art
and High-church ; but, as Fan said,
Miss Aspenelel is too lowly for that sort of
thing,' and she did not make much way.

However, obedient Edith made the best
of her opportunities, and Alas quite happy
so long as she was not separated from her
old friends and Xurse True. Her scholastic
day would not be finished without a visit
to bedridden Miss Lome and energetic Miss
Short, both of whom welcomed her, as did
their faithful attendants, as moonlight on
the evenings of their lives.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XV.

AT THE ENCAMPMENT.

Gerard always said, change of occupation
is recreation, which his affectionate mother
believed to be a proverb, whereas he made
it out of his own head, as the children say.
He could not always secure a half-holiday
on Saturday, for Mr. Aspenelel used many
curious arts to deprive him and his
other employed of it ; but he managed to beat
the encampment on this particular Saturday
at about four o'clock. His mother
and Fan were with him. The trio went
into the midst of the gipsies, just as if it
was a natural thing, and began to converse
with them freely. Mrs. Lee, or the Tigress,

ns she was called, was chief speaker, but
such men and women as were ' at home '
joined occasionally. Preparations for decamping
appeared to be in progress, and
there was an unusual stir when the visitors
appeared. Children and dogs were numerous,
as usual, and the scene was diversified
by the return of certain members of the
community, who had been abroad selling
their wares. Men with skewers, pegs, or
cane for chair-mending ; women with
baskets of all kinds of goods, and babies
tightly shaved to their sides. They spoke
to one another in a jargon incomprehensible
to our friends, but having its orion in
Romany, diluted and degraded by intermixture
of the born gipsy With the travelling
vagrant of less pretentious lineage.
Indeed, the genuine gipsy is fast dying out
of the land, and the Tigress was a true
specimen of the vanishing race.

It was a clear September day. The air
was bracing, the sun was not too hot, and

q2

Gerard felt that it was a boon to breathe
and feel. He thought of the multitudes
he had left, crowding bridge, riverside, and
wharf, and no longer wondered that his
bare-footed, brightly-clad brothers and sisters
preferred the breezy common and canvas
tent to the close room and foggy
atmosphere.

Mrs. Glanville was a frequent visitor to
these poor people, and, thanks to the rector
and Mr. Harton, seldom came unprovided
with comforts for such as were sick ;
though the invalids were few. She managed,
however, to enter, by stooping, into
a low tent where a woman lay on a bed on
the ground, with a week-old baby by her
side, and to administer a small deed and
word of comfort ; but, as this was not the
object of her visit, she did not remain long.
Glancing into another tent, she fancied she
saw a man at the further end, but she did
not venture to intrude. The major part
of her motley acquaintance were in view.

Having paved the way by this kindly act,
she opened the campaign.

'■ We are old friends now, and I shouldn't
advise you against your interest,' she began
; ' but, since it is the law of the land
that all children shall be educated, why
don't you take advantage of your present
situation, so near the Board-school, and
send your children ?'

We want none of their education ; we
won't be beholden to them,' said the
Tigress, extending her arm, and stamping
her foot.

We ain't got no money, ma'am,' put ina
man, with a whining voice.

^ Perhaps the money would be found fora
week or so, just to make a trial,' continued
Mrs. Glanville. ' Only think how
much better it is to grow up with knowledge
than without it. Such of you as can
read confess that.'

Yes ; there's some truth in what you
say, missus,' growled another itinerant.

who was no more of a gipsy than Mrs,
Glanville herself.

Here Gerard broke in.

'Why, my friends, I shouldn't have a
shirt to my back but for the three R's.
You know what that means, Reading, rising,
and Arithmetic.' A laugh, ' In these
days you haven't a chance without learning.
You may as well go to jail or workhouse,
if you don't know how to use what
brains you have. Tents are pleasant, God's
air is delightful ; but railroads and fresh
towns leave no space for tents, and the
smoke from machinery blackens the pure
air. By the time these boys are men,
they won't find standing-room, unless they
force their way through the throng by
learning. Why, friends, you stand in their
light by letting them run away from school.'

Force us to school — force us to stonewalls
— force us to death in stifling smoke !'
cried the Tigress, the crimson kerchief that
covered her head trembling as she shook

it and her fist. ^ Never ! I'll die where
I've lived, under God's heaven, with
my grandchildren and great-grandchildren
round me.'

God's heaven canopies city as well as
moor,' replied Gerard, reverently. ' Our
Father cares for us everywhere, and we
should show our gratitude by following
Him. But how can we do that unless
we learn the way? And how can we
understand that unless we read it ?'

Murmurs of ' True for you. I don't
want to know the way. He speaks like a
parson,' succeeded this effort, accompanied
by whiffs of tobacco smoke.

One handsome young fellow stood up,
however, and spoke out. He was the husband
of the young woman in the tent, and
both were of the old families of Lee and
Boswell. He glanced deprecatingly at his
grandmother, the Tigress, and addressed
Mrs. Glanville.

I'm all for learning, ma'am. I can

read a little myself. There's my eldest,
turned five, and you may have him, if we
stops on here. You've been kind to my
Avise and all of us. But I couldn't sell no
skewers to-day, and where the money for
the schooling's to come from, I can't tell.'

Let him come to Sunday-school tomorrow,'
cried Fan, seizing on the ragged
urchin indicated by the father, who, himself,
looked almost a youth ; 'you needn't
pay for that; and I'll give bulls eyes and
toiFy and a halfpenny to every boy and
girl that is in my class by half-past nine
o'clock. Who'll come ?'

I will,' and ' I will,' and ' 1 will,' sounded
on all sides, and every child of the
encampment surrounded Fan.

A miracle ! a miracle !' were words that
reached Gerard's ears, in the midst of the
children's ' I wills.' He glanced in the
direction whence they seemed to come,
and saw a head peering through the opening
of one of the tents. A slouched gipsy

hat enveloped it so efficiently that beyond
a row of gleaming white teeth, just visible
through a black, bushy beard, he discerned
nothing of the said head. It was withdrawn
when he looked towards it. He
thought it strange, and resolved to see
more of its owner, if possible. A fairer
sight awaited him, however, for on the
outskirts of the camp, just beyond this
particular tent, stood Edith and Bruce,
with Nurse True as chaperone. They had
been attracted by Fan, and the ' I wills.'

Let them all come tomorrow, Mrs.
Lee,' said Fan, persuasively, facing the
Tigress. ' I'll see they have fair play ;'
then she whispered something which the
old woman alone could hear, and which
took instantaneous effect.

I'm converted ! I'm converted !' she
exclaimed. 'We'll stop and see the end
on't. We won't move on tomorrow morning
as we was to. We'll be here for jour
sermon, young mister, if you'll preach to

US. I always listens, and now I'm converted'


This conversion had been effected by
Fan's whispered finale —

You can circumvent Squire Aspenelel.'

Then she continued aloud,

No child shall have bulls eyes or halfpence
who hasn't clean face and hands
and feet — legs, I mean ; because, if it
should rain, your feet must get a little
dirty. Nine o'clock sharp, remember.'

Shall us have bulls eyes and halfpennies
if we goes to Board-school ?' asked a youngster
rolling about at Fan's feet.

Perhaps ; I'll ask. There's no knowing
what you may get if you try.'

More kicks than half-pence, maybe,'
hissed a bystander.

Learning is better than house and
land,' came in a mocking tone from the
man in the tent.

We don't want houses or land ; we
only want the common, what's public property,

and the fresh air, and to be let
alone,' responded a neighbour.

And the learning, which is better,' put
in Gerard, good-humouredly. 'Our friend
over there has hit the right nail on the
head. Some of you who say you can see
into the future by means of the occult
sciences, can't you prognosticate which of
those children may be member of Parliament
some of these days, and help to make
the laws for the Egyptians ? "Who knows
but your native country, Egypt, may
belongs to us before long?'

'• Our ancestors were Asiatic,' came from
the tent.

No matter ; we've lots of possessions in
Asia,' replied Gerard.

A suppressed laugh from the tent was
followed by an inroad upon it. Master
Bruce suddenly escaped from True, broke
through the encampment, and made for
this particular tabernacle. He wanted to
find out what was inside, and unceremoniously

penetrated the almost imperceptible
opening.

Oh, Mr. Gerard, will you fetch him
out?' pleaded Edith, who had followed
him, and stopped near Gerard.

Gerard hastened to the tent. Its owner
was using bad language, and Bruce was
evidently paying the penalty of his intrusion,
for he was screaming lustily. He
thrust open the curtains and crept in,
striking his head against the tent-pole ashe
did so. He saw a man holding Master
Bruce by the arm, and cuffing him soundly.
You deserve it,' was on his lips ; but
Bruce in his efforts to escape had managed
to throw off the brigand hat, and he recognised
the man from whose grasp he had
rescued Mr. Aspenelel. He seized Bruce,
and pushed him outside the tent, then
faced the Wandering Will that his employer
had bade him track.

I have seen you before,' he said.

Yes ; you have had the best of it twice.

Beware the third time,' replied Will, nonchalantly.
' Your patron fears me too
much to bring me to justice, so you had
better let me alone. Mind your business
of trickling: to a miser and snivelling; to
unbelievers, and I'll mind mine. I'm a
philosopher, and only want enough to eat.
That was all I was after when your master
and I came to blows. I'm neither murderer
nor thief. I took the fine lady's purse,
and availed myself of one shilling to buy a
meal and her railway-ticket to come down
here. Ha, ha, ha ! I daresay he stormed
at taking another. I saw you on guard,
travelled with you, only I didn't go first-class.
" He who steals my purse steals
trash," said I with my namesake Will, and
sent back the miser's gold. I mean to
return the shilling when I get one. Tell
him so, with my components, and that
he'd better not send spies after me. I
nearly strangled that imp of his. Better
let me pass quietly, for I've the best of

it here, if I had the worst you know
where.'

Before Gerard could find words to reply
to this rhodomontade, the man fell upon
all fours, crept from beneath the tent, and
vanished.

Gerard, who was less nimble, though
many years his junior, got out with an
effort, and, glancing round, saw him scudding
across the common.

He's not to be caught,' said the Tigress,
defiantly ; and, as Gerard did not wish to
catch him, he turned to look for Bruce,
who was carried ofi* in a contrary direction
by his two guardians.

'Didn't he howl!' laughed Fan, approaching
him. ' But we had better go now,
before they all change their minds.'

Gerard agreed ; for he was doubtful as
to what course to pursue with regard to
the fugitive. He went round to take leave
of the gipsies.

You'll come and preach tomorrow ; for

I'm converted,' said the Tigress, her eyes
flashing ominously.

If the children are at school in the
morning, you shall have a sermon in the
afternoon,' said ready Fan.

But Gerard was uncertain. Wandering
Will's speech had troubled him, and he
began to fear that his friends the gipsies
mio'ht be harbouring: a criminal.

His mother came forward, and promised
that she at least would visit them on the
morrow, and then the trio departed.

Fan's curiosity concerning Gerard's encounter
with the man in the tent was
insatiable, but he thought it best not to
gratify it. He evaded her questions, and
she grew almost as fierce as the Tigress,
declaring that she ought to know everything
; for wasn't she ' a born gipsy, as Tom
said?'

He and his mother left her at Hoplands
and on their way to the Homes he consulted
Mrs. Glanville as to what he ought

to do, having first recounted his adventure.

I think you should be before Bruce in
telling Mr. Aspenel/ she advised. 'The
boy will complain to his mother, who will
make the worst of it, and Mr. Aspenelel will
take out a summons for assault, and the
gipsies will get into trouble, just as we
may be softening them.'

Mrs. Glanville was of a sanguine, hopeful
nature, and ' believed all things ' — even
in the conversion of a Mahometan, much
less a gipsy. Gerard's faith Alas scarcely
less, only it was tempered by greater
worldly wisdom. He believed it to be his
duty to his employer, however, to tell him
of this second episode of strife between an
Aspenelel and a vagrant, and turned into
the Park instead of the Cottages.

He found Mr. Aspenelel at home, and was
ushered into his sanctum — if a room dedicated
to Mammon can be called a sanctum.
He was, as usual, surrounded by bills —
always settling accounts. Gerard related

as briefly as he could what had occurred.
Mr. Aspenelel turned livid, whether with
fear or rage Gerard knead not.

'Always haunting me! Prowling about!
My life isn't safe,' he muttered. ' Tom
Harton has just been here with a similar
story. Better keep it close. Don't let it
get abroad; but watch, watch. This is
what I say to Harton — watch.'

The words recalled to Gerard irresistibly
similar words in Holy Scripture, and the
association was painful to him.

If I knew who and why I should watch,*
he said, ' I should do so on your account,
sir ; but I cannot work in the dark.'

Those who work for me must do my
bidding. I can find plenty of willing
hands,' returned Mr. iVspenel. ' That man
is my enemy, and my life and property are
not safe. Return the shilling ! A spendthrift
vagrant such as he ! That isn't
likely.'

But he returned the purse. If he is a

VOL. I. R

robber, and threatens your life, lie should
be brought to justice.'

^No, no. We must get rid of him
secretly. I mean, send off the gipsies with
whom he has fraternised at present. They
shall go to prison if they don't obey the
laws, and they won't send their children to
school because they can't pay. I expect
they will all have decamped tomorrow
morning. Sunday is their day, because
they have nothing else to do — no fairs and
fortune-telling, no selling and buying.
What a lot of time we lose — and time is
money, you know — by this Sectarianism.
But we're getting enlightened by degrees.'

I thought you respected the Sabbath,
sir.'

^ So I do ; of course I do. Only it comes
in the way of business. Many a stroke of
luck fails because the Stock Exchange and
the shipping offices and the General Post
Office are shut on Sundays.'

But the managers and the clerks want
rest, sir. The Day of Rest is a gracious
institution of the great Creator. Can I do
anything for you ?'

To-morrow, do you mean ? Certainly,
you can help me to get through this pile
of work. Nobody will be the wiser.'

I meant with regard to Wandering
Will.'

This name recalled Mr. Aspen el from a
momentary abstraction, and relieved Gerard
from a sudden terror. He was always in
fear lest his employer should want him to
work on Sunday, and he should lose his
situation by refusing.

Wandering Will ! Let him alone for
the present. He is probably on the railway
by this time. I wish he were '

What he wished did not transpire ; for a
servant knocked at the door, and asked if
Mr. Tom Harton could see him for a few
minutes.

Certainly. Bring him in here,' replied
Mr. Aspenelel, with alacrity ; and Gerard
withdrew, to be replaced by a more willing
slave.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE GIPSIES AT SCHOOL.

Fan was at her post in the Sunday-school
the following morning punctually at half-past
nine. She had asked Edith the
previous day to take her class, fearing that
the children of the decent cottagers would
rebel against learning with the gipsies.
She had also consulted Mr. Austen on her
plan of campaign, and he entered into it,
albeit doubtful as to the propriety of bribing
' the young idea ' into religion by means
of bullseyes.

They wouldn't come without them,'
said Fan, and that argument was conclusive.


Certainly that very appetising temptation
brought tlieni — rags, clean faces, bare
feet, and all. The other children looked
on in astonished consternation as Fan
marshalled her new class and placed them
around her. Mrs. Glanville, as superintendent,
bade them be good and quiet, and
Mr. Austen welcomed them kindly. They
were a shrewd lot of youngsters, and had
not roamed the world without picking up
bits of its wisdom ; but their hearts were
set on the loaves and fishes more than on
the instruction they were to receive, and
Fan knew this.

You shall each have a bullseye and a
lollipop and a halfpenny if you are good,'
she whispered, when she was sure no one
else was listening. ' But you must all
kneel down like the other children, and
listen to that lady and say '' Our Father"
after her.'

This when Mrs. Glanville opened the
school with prayer. The black-eyed and

wide-awake gipsies did as they were bid,
and knelt down by the form at which Fan
placed them ; but of the ' Our Father ' they
knew next to nothing. One, only, joined
in that prayer so free to all, with a proud
consciousness of superior knowledge. Another
seemed to be acquainted with the
tune of the hymn that followed the prayer,
and hummed it amid the nods and reproofs
of his companions. But these
juvenile wanderers Avere not ill-behaved.
Although their only education had been in
the cleverest way to beg, their manners
were superior to those of the ragged
classes generally. Two or three of them
had actually put on shoes, which Fan believed
to be a concession on the part of
their parents not to be disregarded. They
had, indeed, been ' got up ' With some idea
of effect. When Fan placed the easiest
lesson-books she could find into their
hands, their thoughts again turned to the
promised sweets, and she had much difficulty

in keeping their attention alive. But
some of them were not quite ignorant of
letters, and declared their capability of
reading with much boldness.

That's big 0, and that's A, and that's
c, a, t — cat,' echoed through the schoolroom
; and poor Fan found her task even
more difficult than she imagined.

She taught them the verse of a hymn ;
she told them a Bible story ; she amused
them, in short, until it was time for
church ; and then she kept them back
while the other children filed off, and
quietly presented them with the promised
dole.

Shall I make them go to church?' she
whispered to Mrs. Glanville.

Better not ; you have done enough for
one day,' replied that lady, passing the
class with an approving smile.

We'll go to school again tomorrow, we
will,' said the children, their mouths full
of bullseyes.

Fail marshalled them a little way down
the village in the direction of the common,
then watched them a moment as they
scampered off towards the encampment.
She did not see that her gift of halfpence
resulted in many games of pitch and toss,
as they slackened pace outside the village ;
nor hear their account of their various experiences
when they reached their vagrant
friends.

She was late for morning service, and
was met by a disapproving frown from
Tom. Mr. Harton, on the contrary, gave
her an inquiring glance, and she managed
to reply to it, unobserved by her enemy,
by whispering, ' They all came. They'll
go tomorrow.' After this she essayed to
be reverent and attentive, for she was
always occupied by a mental study and
imitation of Edith, who sat opposite her in
the chancel, and thought that, if she was
only as fair and gentle and well-behaved
as she, there would be no impediment in

the way of her getting to heaven. ' How
to get to heaven,' was as much one of her
problems, as how to serve her mother's
relatives, the gipsies. Mr. Austen would
make the abstruse subject clear on Sunday,
but Tom would cast many clouds over it
during the week ad assure her that she
was ^ too disobedient for anything.'

Am I disobedient, sir ?' Fan would say
to Mr. Harton, with angry tears in her
eyes.

Not to me, Fan ; but then you know
Tom is so good he would reply, with an
amused twinkle.

On this particular Sabbath she was
especially tried by this all-absorbing
question. She wanted to make all the
gipsies good, that they might not be excluded
from this happy region, and her
thoughts wandered off from her mother,
Clorandy, to the ragged urchins she had
been seeking to reform. She wished she
had brought them to church ; she wished

she knew whether her mother were in
heaven ; she wondered if Tom would ever
get there ; she felt sure that Mr. Harton
and Jack would, because they were so
kind. Then she fell to thinking of other
members of the congregation, settling their
future according to their deserts, and
finally fixed her eyes and thoughts on Mr.
Aspenelel.

No one in that sacred edifice was so
devout as he, except perhaps Tom. Mr.
Aspenelel did precisely what Miss Vigors
told Fan she should do — kept his eyes on
his book, stood, knelt, and sat precisely at
the proper moment, and joined both in the
responses and singing. Fan had never
spoken to him in her life, but she had
watched him narrowly, and had heard
people talking of him every day. What
they said was certainly not in his favour,
and she sometimes fancied that he had a
queer way of looking up from his book
without uplifting his eyelids. All this

puzzled her, and, when the Tigress talked
of her ^ conversion,' she wondered if Mr.
Aspenelel was, after all, as good as the
Tigress. Of course Fan ought to have
been looking into her own soul instead of
the spiritual condition of her neighbours ;
but she had not been very carefully
educated, and her mind ran adrift. Does
yours ever run the same way, gentle
reader ? Are you ever guilty of speculating
on the state of the soul of some son of
Mammon, or that of his richly-attired,
defiant-looking wife, or innocent daughter?
Then you will make excuses for Fan.

She made none for herself, for her mind
was in a constant state of turmoil about
her manifold sins of omission and commission,
and, had it not been for Mrs. Glanville,
she would often have been in an unnaturally
depressed condition. She poured
out her troubles to her whenever she had
an opportunity, and was taught where
alone she could find the way to heaven

over which she was puzzling. Mrs. Glanville
never tired of pointing to the Scriptures
as the only certain guide.

It got abroad, somehow, that her son,
Gerard, was going to preach to the gipsies,
and, much to his annoyance, his congregation
was increased by outsiders. Country
people taking their Sunday walk on the
common often tarried awhile to listen, but,
on this occasion, Tom Harton, Mrs. Aspenelel,
and Edith, as well as three of the ladies of
the Cottages, stood on the outskirts of his
camp. His mother and Fan were at his
side, together with Miss Lilyton who was
always ready to lead the singing ; and
these interlopers, as Gerard considered
them, placed themselves in their vicinity.

^ I had heard of your son's powers of
eloquence, and was curious to listen to
them,' said Mrs. Aspenelel to Mrs. Glanville.
I hope we shall not be in the way.'

Not in ours, but your presence may interfere
with the attention of the poor

people,' replied Mrs. Glanville. 'I hope
you won't make Gerard nervous.'

^ Oh ! he always seems self-possessed,'
put in Tom Harton, with a sort of sneer.

If Gerard was nervous he did not show
it, and his more aristocratic audience must
have been disappointed if they expected
either a display of talent or a sermon.
Neither was forthcoming. He began his
little service by giving out one of Moody
and Sankey's hymns familiar to the gipsies,
and he and Miss Lilyton and Fan led it off.
Book in hand, he went in amongst them,
singing as he walked, and, as if reproached
by his presence, the men and children who
were lounging on the ground sprang
to their feet singing vigorously. The
women, always more piously disposed,
were already attentive, and stood about
with the Tigress as their centre. If you
take religion to the backslider, the fallen,
or the vagrant, they give you their attention
sometimes out of politeness, sometimes

conviction ; and Gerard knew his people
and how to deal with them.

He is very shy,' whispered Fan to Mrs.
Glanville, as she perceived that he had no
intention of returning to their vicinity, but
placed himself at the other end of the encampment.


The gipsies followed him, and Tom
Harton and all the ladies were left a solitary
group. All but Fan, who was after him
like a shot. What people chose to call his
sermon,' was simply a familiar address,
couched in such terms as his audience
could understand, and took the form of a
conversation. They responded, applauded,
or condemned according as their feelings
or consciences were aroused, and, as Gerard
was bold in the truth, he did not hesitate
to speak out. Mr. Austen had joined him
once or twice, but it was found that 'the
parson's choker' interfered with the success
of the work. The gipsies, like hosts of
other ne'er-do-weels, had a decided objection

to the ' cloth.' Still, in the midst of
an entreaty that they would ' Seek the
Lord before it was too late, and let their
children learn of Him,' one man interrupted
by ' Then we must send 'em to the parson's
school. No 'spectators there. Haven't
got no money, or mine should go for a
week or so. 'Isn't convenient to move on
just now.'

We'll have bulls eyes and halfpence
there,' shouted the children.

Didn't I say that I was converted and
that they should go,' broke in the Tigress,
stamping her foot. ' Let the gentleman
go on with his preachment.'

She and Fan had been holding a whispered
conversation to the effect that Mr.
Harton was still willing to help with the
school-fees, which the Tigress concluded
with the mysterious words, ' And we must
stop here till we know that he who ran oiF
yesterday is safe.'

By this time the interlopers had cautiously

skirted the encampment, and were
standing near the speakers. Perceiving
this, Gerard gave out another hymn, and
even the cynical Tom and the high-spirited
Mrs. Aspenelel were surprised at the volume
of song that succeeded.

I am trusting, Lord, in Thee,
Blessed Lamb of Calvary,'

rang out upon the autumnal air, and who
shall say which was the most impressed,
the millionaire's wife or the gipsy queen ?
Certain it is, that this and similar hymns
have a great effect on those classes which
can only be reached by a force external to
the regulated religious services of any sect
whatsoever.

A short but solemn prayer succeeded,
asking for the blessing of the Almighty on
the assembly, through that ' Lamb of
Calvary ' of whom they had sung. Most
of the faces were covered by the hands,
but such as came for curiosity saw a won-vol,

I. s

tearful sight. In the midst of a little
crowd, all standing, Mrs. Lee, the so-called
Tigress, was on her knees, her hands uplifted,
her head bent low. Fan saw this,
and, with some uncontrollable impulse,
knelt down beside her.

That is the way to heaven,' said excited
Fan, when she rose.

Through the wilds, through the wilderness
; in the tempest, in the calm ; under
the tent, under the sky ; that is the way,
and we will tread it,' shouted the Tigress,
making her way to Gerard and extending
her hand. ' You, none of you believe it,
but I'm converted. Henceforth I tell no
more fortunes, no more lies. I change my
life. Let us sing " Shall we gather at the
river r

Gerard was startled but not convinced.
He had seen many excited women at revivals,
and had discovered that the Tigress
was an actress as well as a fortune-teller ;

still, he gave out the hymn she asked for,
and far away over the common and high
up in the air floated the words, ' River,
silver river.'

s2

CHAPTER XVII.

A SHIP LOST.

Fan seemed to be the person most likely
to catch Wandering Will, if she chose.
That very Sunday evening she met him,
as she was returning alone from evening
service.

She was alone, because Mr. Harton did
not go to church of an evening, and
Tom was dining at the Park. Most of
her friends had remained behind for the
choir practice, superintended by Miss Lilyton
and Gerard, but she felt singularly
restless, and thought she would go home
to her ever-sympathising benefactor. As

she passed the big Board-school, which
was closed, she heard herself called from
the surrounding copse.

Fan !'

She was so accustomed to the name that
she did not pause to consider who uttered
it, but involuntarily answered,

Yes, who wants me ?'

I do,' was the reply, and she saw Wandering
Will's head protruded above the
hedge which divided the road from the
adjoining pine wood. She was not in the
least frightened, nor was she surprised at
the man's freedom ; indeed, nothing seemed
either to frighten or surprise her.

Hide yourself,' she whispered. * I'm
coming, so is somebody else,' for she heard
footsteps in the lane.

A countryman passed her with a ' Goodnight,
Miss Fan,' to which she responded
by a ' Good-night, Hawkins,' and, having
waited till he was out of sight, she climbed
a neighbouring high gate, and joined

Wandering Will, who was in hiding
beneath the hedge.

What do you want with me ?' she asked,
boldly, but in a suppressed voice.

I want to make your personal and
intimate acquaintance,' he replied. ' I
know you by repute ; I have seen you
at a distance ; 1 wish to meet you face to
face.'

'That will do you no good, and you will
be caught and imprisoned, if you don't
take care. They say the police are after
you,' she said.

• No fear ; I have a hundred lives, and
if, hydra-like, they take one, another will
replace it. A sort of transmigration. Fan.
I have already inhabited numerous tabernacles,
and am perfect in the art of transformation.
I know the Avorld and its disguises,
Fan, having well scoured it.'

You talk a deal of nonsense. One can
scour pots and pans, but not this dirty
earth. What do you want with me?'

I want you to keep an eye on that
electric eel, Tom Harton.'

I always have. That's only tit for tat,
because he keeps an eye on me.'

But I want you to find out and tell me
all you can about Aspenelel, the so-called
squire, through Tom Harton, who we will
call the electric eel.'

'Why must I do this, Mr. Wandering
Will?'

Because you are one of us, and I knew
your mother, Clorandy, and I promised
her, when she died, never to lose sight of
you.'

Then you have broken your promise ;
for she died when I was seven, and now I
am nearly seventeen. The Tigress told me
all about it.'

'And, when I was in foreign parts, she
kept me informed of you, from time to
time, when the tribe pitched their tents
on Hoplands Common. I have not lost
sight of you. Fan, and never shall.'

'That's a story; for you could not seeme
when you were in other parts of the
world. I suppose you mean you heard of
me.'

Yes. You are sharp, Fan. You and I
could make a fortune together. You are
bolder, braver, handsomer even than your
mother, Clorandy. I have always been on
the point of making a fortune, but my fate
has interfered. Aspenelel has not half my
talent or education, and see how rich he

IS.

But I would rather be you than he.
You are free, and he is afraid of his
shadow.'

'Afraid of me ! Well said, Fan. I am
his shadow, and will follow him wheresoever
he goeth. In spite of his plots and
his millions, I will be after him ; and, if
you will help me, have the best of it.
Gather up stores of honey against you seeme.
It may be in a month ; it may be ina
year; but we shall meet again. Remember,

child, that, if you tire of the life
you lead, and if the electric eel annoys
sou beyond your endurance, you can come
to me. You belong to us. You are more
mine than Mr. Harton's, though he has
done better for you than I have. Perhaps
I will tell you more when we meet again.
My stars have been against me all my life,
so says the Tigress.'

It was getting dark, and Fan knew that
she ought to be in doors ; but the fascination
of this man held her. His voice and
manner were those of a gentleman, his appearance
of a vagrant. Was he mad or
sane ? She would ask him in Mr. Harton's
words.

*Are sou knave or fool?' she said.

Both, Fan,' he replied ; and face and
manner grew stern. 'But I am not mad.
I am as sane as my enemy, Aspenelel. Go.'

He waved his hand towards the gate,
and himself vanished into the wood. She
stood to look after him. The moon was

careering amid the clouds above ; the
breeze was moving the trees around ;
shadows lay thick and heavy everywhere.

Strange ! — what can he mean ?' she
muttered, when she had seen the last of
him, and was turning, slowly, towards the
gate.

What are you doing there, Fan ?' came
in a severe voice from the road.

It was Tom returning from the Park.

Gipsying, Mr. Tom,' she said, climbing
the gate and running off down the road
as fast as she could.

He had the curiosity to examine the
spot, and saw other footprints than Fan's
on the dew-bespangled turf Doubtless
he drew his conclusions, but they were
not the right ones. Fan was home long
before him, and had much difficulty in
evading Mr. Harton's inquiries concerning
her prolonged absence. But he soon reverted
to what he called his ' tussle with

the squire,' which enabled Fan to enlarge
on her gipsy-class and the camp-meeting.

'You must pay the school-fees, Fan,'
he said, laughing. ' I shall make you my
scapegoat. But I don't promise to provide
the bulls eyes and coppers.'

I wish we were a better race !' sighed
Fan.

You may be made so by Act of Parliament,
Fan. We are going to provide
education for the world on wheels, and all
the vans and travelling villages, and, I
take it, the very menageries that roll from
place to place, will be taught their duty to
their neighbour. I hope the lions will
then conscientiously abstain from laying a
paw on their keepers, and the tigers Avon't
look hungrily at the outside multitude.'

Oh ! sir, but then the gipsies will belike
everybody else, and that would be a
pity.'

The result of education. Fan. Your

friend Glanville thinks we should be all
alike, and nothing but preaching will make
us resemble one another.'

He wants to convert us, sir,' said Fan,
solemnly.

Here Tom came in and Fan escaped,
leaving that worthy to give his father the
history of the footprints on the dewy grass.
Mr. Harton only laughed and shrugged his
shoulders.

The following morning the juvenile gipsies
came to school, and when Mr. Aspenelel
was driving to the station he met some of
them en route. His suspicions were excited ;
but then people of suspicious temperament
always have their suspicions excited about
something or other ; and a very unhappy
state of mind it is — a state to be religiously
shunned. Instead of shunning it, however,
he fostered it, and during his short drive
to the station he was wondering what mischief
the gipsies, and particularly Wandering
Will, were brewing. Gerard was

waiting for the train, and he bade him
come into his compartment. If Fan was
Mr. Harton's scapegoat, Gerard was certainly
Mr. Aspenelel's, only Fan incurred
no expense, whereas poor Gerard did. It
never occurred to Mr. Aspenelel that he
deemed it his duty to pay the difference
between his third-class ticket and the first-class
which did him the honour of receiving
him at the squire's command.

What are the gipsies up to ?' he asked
as soon as they were seated. ' I saw a
lot of shameless children near the Board-school.'


I fancy they are obeying the inspector's
orders, and going to school as long as they
remain on Hoplands Common,' returned
Gerard.

Then Wanderings Will is sure to be
about. Is this the result of your snivelling
and preaching, Mr. Glanville ?'

I fear not. I wish I could think anything
I said bore such good fruit. They

are going to school, because it is convenient
to them to remain on the common,
and they say everybody except Mr. Harton
hunts them off his land.'

Quite right too. Harton is an ass.
They ought to be exterminated root and
branch. But for them, my life wouldn't
be in danger.'

But, sir, you have the law in your own
hands. If you set the police after that
man, they could catch him easily. I saw
him attacking you — Mrs. Aspenelel's purse
was seized by him — we should both recognise
him. I knew him when I rescued your
son from him. It seems that he should be
prosecuted in the interests of justice.'

I know my own affairs best, Mr. Glanville.
I don't want the fellow shut up, but
I want him kept at a distance.'

Gerard was silent, and Aspenelel's face
wore an ominous frown. They were 
for early travellers by first-class were

rare from Roselands station. To Gerard's
relief, a lady got in at the next station. It
was Lady Ascham. She bowed to Mr.
Aspenelel, whose frown vanished, and whose
company manners returned.

I have been staying at Beechton from
Saturday to Monday,' she said. ' I had nota
moment to drive over and see Mrs. As-penes.
How is she? She knows how busy
I am, and will excuse me. Is that your
son ? Oh ! I beg your pardon, I see he is
too old ; but I seem to recognise him. May
I ask '

It is Mr. Glanville, one of my employed'
said Aspenelel, with a sort of half-introductory,
half-patronising manner.

Mr. Gerard Glanville ! I am so glad
to meet you,' said Lady Ascham, stretching
forward and holding out her hand. ' I
knew your mother years ago, and should
much like to see her again. But I have no
time even for old friends, as Mr. Aspenelel

knows. You too will understand, for I
hear you are engaged in charitable pursuits.
Somebody told Lady Beechton that
you were interested in the gipsies, and so
am I. We must have them brought under
instruction by Act of Parliament, like the
riverside population. Will you call on
me ? Any evening after nine — or perhaps
you will come to dinner. Here is my
card. We could work together in many
ways ; but I am quite unconventional.'

His time is mine, Lady Ascham. It
does not benefit young men to take them
out of their sphere of labour,' put in Mr.
Aspenelel, ominously.

Certainly not, Mr. Aspenelel; but naturally
his evenings are his own. I may
reckon on seeing you, Mr. Glanville ?'

Gerard could not help smiling, though
he felt that the plot was thickening round
him ; and that he would have to be cautious
if he meant to keep his situation.

^ I shall be very glad to call, Lady Ascliam;

but my time is pretty well filled up
he replied, diplomatically. ^ It belongs,
indeed, to Mr. Aspenelel.'

An approving smile passed over the
millionaire's face, not unperceived by Lady
Ascham, who glanced at Gerard. She
wondered if he were a time-server, but his
eyes were honest, and his countenance
impressed her favourably. He looked,
indeed, singularly straightforward. She
saw that he might have a difficult part to
play.

• I shall expect you some evening. Come
Ashen you can manage it,' she said. Then,
without waiting Gerard's thanks, she
turned to Mr. Aspenelel, with, 'How does
your daughter Janet get on with my old
friends. Monsieur and Madame de Belleville
?'

'Very well, I believe,' replied Mr. As-penes,
busying himself with his bag, for he
had never inquired.

They reached Charing Cross, where Lady

VOL. L T

Ascham got out. She shook hands with
both gentlemen, and said, aside to Gerard,
^ Don't forget.' They proceeded to London
Bridge, whence they went in a cab to the
office.

Gerard had scarcely settled to his work
when an office-boy summoned him to Mr.
Aspenelel. He found him seated at his
table with an open telegram before him.
His face was white, and he was trembling
either with passion or terror. He pointed
to the telegram, which was from South
America, and announced the loss of one of
Mr. Aspenelel's largest ships. ' Crew saved
cargo sunk,' were the last Avoids, and
Gerard involuntarily uttered a cry of
thankfulness that, though the freight of
gold which the vessel bore was lost, the
souls of men were saved. Mr. Aspenelel
clenched his fist and struck the table,
exclaiming,

You rejoice in my ruin, sir ! Your own
ruin ! Our ruin ! A shipload of gold at the

bottom of the sea. Do you know what
that means T

*Yes, sir, but '

Come with me to the Stock Exchange ;
call Mason. Grant, Leslie, Brown — no ; I'll
cable back at once. If you had gone out
to Chili, as I wished, you might have
averted this, if '

Aspenelel sank back in his chair, and
Gerard witnessed the awful power of gold.
He grew livid, and gasped as if he were
dying. Gerard unfastened his neckerchief,
gave him water, and stood by while he
recovered himself, not daring to speak to
one who would resent any word he should
utter.

The offices were soon all astir with the
news, and, although the clerks knew well
enough that a loss which might ruin a
poorer man would scarcely be felt by Mr.
Aspenelel, they doubted if they might not
be dismissed upon plea of it.

Hundreds of thousands !' was the milt



lionaire's cry, as he tore open several
other letters and documents that lay before
him. One of these contained the
ominous words,

/ must have money ^ — W. L/

With a muttered imprecation he thrust
this into a drawer, turned the key, and
again summoned Gerard, whom he had
dismissed. He asked him if he would go
for him to a certain small street leading
down to the Thames, and inquire if a Mr.
Loveridge had been there lately.

^ [ can only beg a confidential person
to do this, for it is important,' he said, giving
him an address.

Wharf Court. I know it,' said Gerard,
whose habit it was to thread all sorts of
courts and alleys, and he liked nothing
better.

But as he left his patron, and soon
found himself engaged in this congenial
occupation, he began to wonder whether
he was being made a caspar of However,

lie sot involved in a labyrinth, and
forgot everything but how best to thread
it. Down narrow streets, under arches,
through crowded courts, past huge warehouses,
into densely-peopled alleys, and
finally within a small space surrounded by
high, dirty, squalid houses, — and this was
"Wharf Court.

He knocked at a dingy door, and inquired
if Mr. Loveridge were Within.

A suspicious-looking man, who eyed
him askance through the half-opened door,
said,

No, he isn't ; but he will be about ten
o'clock to-night.'

If I should come again, could I see
him?' asked Gerard.

That's modern I can tell,' was the surly
reply.

Gerard reported the result of his visit to
Mr. Aspenelel, whom he found almost as he
had left him, seated grim and deep in
thought.

Would you mind going again at ten
o'clock?' asked Mr. Aspenelel, in a hoarse,
despondent voice.

Not if I can be of use — and — and — it is
a righteous cause,' replied Gerard.

*Whatdoyou mean, sir ?' shouted Mr.
Aspenelel, roused from his lethargy.

That it is a queer place to go to at that
hour,' said Gerard ; ' and one would almost
need the escort of a policeman.'

^ You needn't be afraid. I owe the man
Loveridge money, and I want to get it
safely conveyed to him. You shall be no
loser if you will take it to him.'

'I want no gain, sir. But I will do
what you ask.'

Then come to me before I leave. Now
I must see about this loss. A hundred
thousand pounds !'

Mr. Aspenelel covered his face with his
hands, and so Gerard left him.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A Ruined man

Gerard was in Wharf Court punctually at
ten p.m. He had left his watch and chain
and his seal ring at his lodging, and had
hidden the envelope directed to Mr. Love-ridge
carefully between his waistcoat and
shirt. The court was truly a shady and
retired spot, and, unlike many a similar
one that he had visited, was strangely
quiet. A solitary lamp blinked at him ashe
entered, and lights dimly burst here
and there in the houses, just making the
darkness visible. As to the moon, she
never looked beyond the roofs and chimneys
of Wharf Court, and not a ray of her

heavenly light ever penetrated to its pavement.
As he approached the house he
had visited in the morning, he saw a man
lounging against the wall, smoking his pipe.
He could not discern his face even when
quite near him, but the voice seemed
familiar. He spoke first.

You come from Mr. Aspenelel. I hear
he has lost a ship,' he said, and Gerard
wondered how the news could have already-reached
Wharf Court.

Your name ?' asked Gerard.

Loveridge. If the rich miser has given
you a dole, 'tis for the poor spendthrift
before you.'

'How am I to know ?' asked Gerard.

By this sign,' replied the man, removing
the pipe from his mouth, and taking a dry
piece of paper from his pocket. ' I have
written my receipt, for I expected you,
and the pass-word is " Never again." '

Gerard took the envelope from its hiding-place,
and gave it to him. He opened it,

struck a match, and examined the contents.


This will do for the present, but I
must be paid up,' he said. ' I wonder he
ventured to send you. He must have
either a very good or a very bad opinion of
you. You'd better be off as quick as you
can, for Wharf Court isn't the safest place
in the world about midnight. The police
would rather come here in couples than
singly.'

Then why are you here?' asked Gerard,
boldly. 'You don't belong to the class
that frequents these parts.'

I'm a nob amongst 'em ; but between
ourselves, I belong to no particular class.
I'm Al to-day, and the dregs of society tomorrow.
There are many like me. Take
care you don't come down to our level.'

Have we ever met before ?' asked
Gerard.

I shouldn't wonder if we had, for I've a
large acquaintance. More know W. Love-ridge

than W. Loveridge knows. Goodnight.
My compliments to the miser.'

He opened the house-door and went in,
leaving Gerard to make his way back to his
lodging.

While this was passing in Wharf Court,
a very different scene was enacting at
Aspenelel Park. Its master did not return
till late, and, naturally, dinner had been
kept waiting. Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith
were waiting also, so was the establishment.
When a punctual man is two or three hours
behind time, it would seem that the whole
world is at a standstill.

Some accident must have happened.
We hear of such awful ones !' said trembling
Edith.

Nothing ever happens to Mr. Aspenelel
but loss of money,' returned Mrs. Aspenelel,
sarcastically.

Her words were soon verified, for the
husband of whom she spoke arrived with

blanched face, and the news that he was a
ruined man. He spoke so confidently that
even his wife's incredulity was staggered.
However, dinner was served immediately,
and no further allusion was made to money
matters until the servants left the diningroom.
Then Mr. Aspenelel, usually so secretive,
poured out his grievances. While
doing so he drank freely. Whether he
believed himself ruined or not, his listeners
could not discover; but his wife, at least,
did not believe it. She knew enough of
his wealth to be convinced that the loss of
one ship, however valuable, could scarcely
lessen its enormous bulk. But, perceiving
that he was in an unnatural state of excitement,
she bridled her sarcastic tongue
and did her best to calm him.

I daresay it will all come right,' she
said, soothingly.

That is what you women always say.
Come right! Would you like to be

obliged to give up the Park, and to retire
to an obscure lodging? Would you call
that coming right ?'

Certainly not. But we have not
arrived at that pass. I daresay you will
easily get over this loss.'

This loss ! It is the forerunner of utter
ruin, I tell you, Mrs. Aspenelel. You must
all set to Avork to retrench. You must
draw in your expenses, reduce the number
of servants, keep no company.'

'We can scarcely reduce the latter item,'
interrupted Mrs. Aspenelel, who could not
restrain a mocking laugh. ' Our stock-in-trade
consists of the old ladies, the
rector, Mr. Tom Harton, and occasionally
Gerard Glanville. Seriously, Mr. Aspenelel,
we must give a dinner-party, if not a
ball.'

'A ball! And I have just lost a hundred
thousand pounds — a hundred thousand
pounds, I say.'

A large sum, yet only the tenth of a

million. Edith will be eighteen in a few
weeks, and must come out.'

*I would rather remain just as I am
put in Edith, quietly. ' You need give no
dinner-party or ball on my account, papa.
What was the name of the vessel?'

The vessel ? The Aspcnel. One of
the largest in the world. Only surpassed
by the Great Eastern. An ironclad warranted
to breast every storm. I would
have wagered her against all the gold of
the Australian mines. And she is lost —
sunk — gone to the bottom with a cargo of
gold.'

^ There are better things than gold, papa''
said Edith, hesitating.

What ?' thundered her father.

Love. God's love — our love.'

He looked at her keenly for a moment,
then rose and left the room.

What have I said — what have I done ?'
she asked, appealing first to his vacant
chair, then to her step-mother.

Done us out of a little gaiety, probably.
Your father is somewhat excited at this loss,
which can only be a drop from the ocean
of his riches. I hope it will do him good,'
replied Mrs. Aspenelel, philosophically.

I must follow him. He looked almost
beside himself

You are mistaken. He knows perfectly
well what he is about.'

But Edith went to her father's business-room
and listened at the door. She heard
the customary rustle of papers, and opening
and closing of drawers, and did not
venture further. She ran upstairs to
Nurse True, and detailed to her what she
had already heard from others of the
servants. Edith, happily for her, believed
in her father's truthfulness, and did not
doubt that the ruin he foretold was really
imminent.

You need not be alarmed, lovey,' said
Nurse True. * I daresay Mr. Aspenelel is
troubled at his loss ; but they say he is so

ricci that he won't really feel it. Moneys
a burden grievous to be borne, yet none
of us care to lay it down.'

'And what use is it? Oh, Nurse True,
what is it doing for any of us ?'

Nothing, my deary. Like seed, its only
use is when sown and scattered. You
must help to mind Mr. Aspenelel of this.'

Edith ran back to wish her step-mother
good-night. A kinder feeling had sprung
up between them during Janet's lengthened
absence, and comparative calm in
school-room and nursery had penetrated
even to Mr. Aspenelel, who agreed with his
wife that Janet's holidays were well spent
in perfecting her education in Paris.

Mr. Aspenelel did not go to bed that
night. This was all that was known of
him by the outer world. He appeared at
breakfast the following morning, but was
so absorbed by his loss, and the telegraphic
report of it in the Times that he spoke
even less than he generally did. He looked

haggard, and his personal appearance was
less spruce than usual. He volunteered
one question, howcA'er, and that was as
to whether anything had been heard of
the gipsies. His wife answered it.

Mr. Tom Harton says they are settling
down again, and that the children have
actually been to school. He thinks the
Clarvilles have influenced them, and says
his father will not allow them to be molested
so long as they keep the law.'

Old Harton shall pay for this,' muttered
Aspenelel. ' As to Mrs. Glanville and
Gerard, they are absolute fools.'

Edith longed to say a word in their
favour, but forbore. She had, since her
admission to the breakfast-table, been in
the habit of quietly helping her father to
collect and tie up his various papers, and
to place them in the black bag awaiting
them. She was the first person whom he
had ever allowed to meddle with his documents,
but she managed so unostentatiously

that he was scarcely conscious of her
interference. On this occasion, he permitted
her to arrange the whole matter ;
for, after the brief interlude of the gipsies,
he fell into a state of abstraction, and forgot
the necessity of having the black bag
ready by the time the carriage was announced.


I think it is all right, papa,' she said,
timidly, when he was aroused by, ' Carriage
at the door, sir.'

'Thank you, Edith,' he said, and his
voice trembled.

The words rang gladly in her ears the
whole day; and, incongruous as it may
seem, Mrs. Aspenelel resented them. He
rarely thanked her for anything, but then
she seldom volunteered to do anything for
him. ' She was tired of trying,' she said
to herself, wearily.

And she was weary — weary of her life.
Yet she had chosen it: sold herself for
gold; that idol which had sunk with the

VOL. I. u

steamer — her husband's idol ! Indeed,
her life seemed a burden to her, and but
for Bruce, she sometimes thought, she
would gladly have ' cast off this mortal
coil.' She thought little of the sacredness
of life, less of its responsibilities. She
was content if her wearisome days wore
through without accident, and if their
monotony was broken by an occasional
guest or morning-caller. She welcomed
the advent of Tom Harton, because he
was not only a man of education, but
good-looking and agreeable. Few days
passed that she did not invite him to her
presence, after he had finished his mornings
with Bruce ; and luncheon was the
inevitable consequence. Bruce behaved
so well at that meal when Harton was
there, that his mother and Edith were
only too glad to have him kept in order.
Thus the tutor grew into the friend. Mrs.
Aspenelel did not consider that she was
throwing temptation in Edith's path, or

imagine that the devotion paid to her
might have an ulterior object. As to Mr.
Aspenelel, he suited him so well that he
never complained of his presence.

He chanced to be at the station when
Mr. Aspenelel reached it — /.(?., it was premeditated
chance which brought him there.
He had a few words to say, which were for
Mr. Aspenelel's ear alone.

I have every reason to believe that
Wandering Will was in this neighbourhood
on Sunday evening,' he began. ' He
was tampering with my father's gipsy
protegee or I am greatly mistaken. I have
been sounding her, but can make nothing
of her, except through her inadvertent admissions,
which tend to show that it was
he to whom she was talking in the copse,
when I saw her near the gate by the schoolhouse.
I have been several times to the
encampment since, but have not caught
sight of him.'

Have you heard of my loss ? I am a

u '1

ruined man !' interrupted Mr. Aspenelel, the
remembrance of his gold overmastering
fear.

*]Sfo ! What can you mean, Mr. Aspenelel T
exclaimed Tom Harton, with genuine
alarm.

But up steamed the train, and there was
no time for an answer. He saw Mr.
Aspenelel in, shut the door of his compartment,
and turned towards the Park.

A ruined man ! Impossible,' he repeated,
as he walked meditatively along the bright
country road, not heeding the carpet of
red and brown leaves spread by the trees
that overhung the Park wall.

He turned into the gates opposite the
Cottages, and in doing so was arrested by a
voice. It was Miss Short, who was taking
her constitutional, and who, seeing him in
the distance, hurried after him. She was
panting and puffing from the exertion.

Is it true, Mr. Tom, that Mr. Aspenelel
has lost everything he possesses, and that

the Park will be sold, and we shall all be
ruined together?' she said, pausing at
every three words.

I hope not, Miss Short. But Mr.
Aspenelel, himself, says so,' replied Tom,
hastening on to avoid further questions.

There must be something in it,' he
thought, as he walked up the drive, and
then made a detour to throw a piece of
bread to Edith's swans.

He was in the habit of telling her that
he fed them regularly, and, at sight of him,
they sailed majestically towards him, their
snow-white plumage gleaming beneath the
morning sunshine. In his poetical moods
and he was no mean poet — he was wont
to write sonnets to Edith and. her swans.
However, he left them hastily, and went
on to the house, gleaming, like the swans,
in the sunlight.

He was early, therefore unexpected quite
^o soon. Bruce had been naughty, and
he found Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith with

him, endeavouring to soothe him into propriety.
Harton's presence effected this.
The boy grew in a moment smooth as satin,
smothering sobs and drying tears with
wonderful self-control.

How can you manage him T whispered
Mrs. Aspenelel, aside.

By the law of obedience,' he whispered
back.

'Have you heard of Mr. Aspenelel's loss?'
she asked.

I have seen him,' he replied.

And what did he say ?'

That he was ruined.'

How absurd. He has only lost a valuable
ship and cargo. Bad enough, I daresay
; but not ruin. What with this craze
about the gipsies, and constant complaints
of losses and crosses, one is driven out of
one's senses. You will stay to luncheon,
and we can talk it over.'

Thank you. I shall be only too glad.'

While this was passing, Bruce whispered
to Edith,

If papa is ruined, he can't keep a schoolmaster,
and you shall teach me again

It was curious how the flames spread.
Before Mr. Aspenelel returned that evening,
it was currently reported in Roselands
and the immediate neighbourhood that
Aspenelel Park was likely to be sold, and
people speculated as to whether a new
owner might be better than the old.

Can't be worse,' was the fiat, ' but I'm
sorry for the young ladies.'

And so Mr. Aspenelel's own words were
the key-note to a more than seven-days'
gossip.

CHAPTER XIX.

JANET AT LAST.

All the details of home life at Aspenelel
Park reached Janet at school, in the shape
of a diary written by Edith, who rarely
retired to rest without detailing the events
of the day. This was despatched once a
week, and never failed to arrive on Saturday
morning. Janet was less regular,
because, she said, she had less of mutual
interest to communicate ; but really because
she had less time at her own disposal,
and was more carried away by her surroundings.
The account of Mr. Aspenelel's
losses and crosses were written by Edith
for Janet's edification, and, though they

were slightly modified the day after our
winding up in the last chapter, Janet, when
she had read her diary, became quite convinced
that ruin was staring her in the
face. Being a highly impressionable girl,
she rushed with her documents to Madame
de Belleville, and burst into a passion of
tears.

'Edith says Mr. Aspenelel is ruined,
madame,' she cried, throwing her arms
round this friend, to Avhom she was entirely
devoted.

Oh ! I am sorry ; but that cannot be,
assuredly,' said madame, patting her on
the cheek. 'And, if it is so, you know you
desire nothing better than to work for your
own bread.'

But what will Edith and Nurse True
do if cast upon the world ? and Mrs. As-penes
and Bruce ? I cannot work for
all.'

I think that you have not need to distress
yourself. I daresay your sister, in

her fear, has exaggerated matters. On dit
that your father is immensely rich.'

But if his ships have been wrecked, and
his money lost, he must be ruined, as Edith
says.'

'And even then, my dear Janet, your
desires will be gratified. You will have
your wish, and work for your living.'

It was one thing to imagine a life of
labour, and another to face it. Youth is
sanguine and fancies all things ; but when
the reality arrives fancy fades. Madame
was very fond of Janet, and, by opening
her almost maternal arms, received boundless
affection in return. Youth is also, or
should be, trustful; but Janet had been
bred so entirely in the region of uncertainty
that she was doubtful of everything
save of the love of Edith and Nurse True.
Her father was always on the eve of ruin,
her step-mother ever mistrustful, and her
one prevailing idea was to help herself.

She had confided this to madame, and

during the two years she had been with
her she had worked energetically, particularly
at painting. Madame could never
understand why she remained with her
during the holidays, though Janet failed
not to assure her that it was the fault of
her step-mother, for whom she had a cordial
dislike.

Has Mr. Aspen el paid you, madame,'
asked Janet. ' If he has not, you must
take me as a pupil-teacher till I am fit for
something. I will work for you and monsieur
with all my might. Mr. Bellamy
thinks I have a talent for painting ; monsieur
says my French is nearly perfect ;
Herr Paper declares I shall never make
anything of German ; my music is detestable,
and I hate everything ancient ; and
Miss Lawrence is always complaining of
my general requirements. What can I do,
dear madam e ?'

'In the first place, let me tell you that I
have been regularly paid to the last sou.

There was, indeed, one penny in the last
account, and monsieur your father sent me
one stamp for it. We will wait till Christmas,
which will soon be here, till we
commence the pupil-teacher. Now calm
yourself, and we will adjourn to the classroom.
What will the young ladies think
of your red eyes ?'

What matters, dear madame, if we are
ruined ? Nobody cares whether poor
people have red eyes or not. But, while
you are rich, it is important to keep your
looks. I daresay my nose is also red.'

This fortunate change of conversation
turned the current of Janet's thoughts.
She looked in the glass, and was so horrified
at the effect of eyes and nose that she forgot
the impending ruin. She clasped her
hands, shrugged her shoulders, and burst
out laughing. She was more French than
English, to judge from her attitudes ; indeed,
she loved Paris and the French so
dearly that she slightly affected Parisian

manners. The language she had quite
mastered. Not that she was affected, in
the generally received acceptation of the
word, but she was imitative, and so full of
buoyant life that the easy brilliancy and
lightheartedness of the French pleased her
more than the heavy intellect and ' insular
dulness ' of her own country-people.

Chere madame, I must wash my eyes
and restore my nose to its natural whiteness
before I present myself to the gaze of the
girls,' she said, and left her friend as
unceremoniously as she met her.

It cannot be as she says,' ejaculated
madame ; 'if so, what will become of her?*

She had no time to answer her own
question, but went off to her work while
Janet was in her bed-room vigorously drying
her tears, and faintly striving to efface
the red.

It only gets worse and worse,' she murmured,
rushing from washstand to glass.

What have you been doing ? Oh I

what a fright !' exclaimed her friend, Lizzie
Hazelmere, entering suddenly. ' What is
the matter, Janet?'

Mr. Aspenelel, I mean my — my — papa,
is rained,' she replied, covering her face
with her towel.

It would take a great deal to ruin him,
I should think,' said Lizzie, philosophically.
Try a little cold cream or pomatum ; I
wonder what Maximilien or Wilbraham
would say to you now ?'

At these magnificent names Janet laughed
; for the one was Monsieur and Madame
de Belleville's only son, the other Lizzie
Hazelmere's eldest brother ; and their
opinion of Janet, expressed in their mother
tongues, was that she was belle et piquanie^
handsome and jolly.'

And she certainly was all this, in spite of
the roseate glow left by her copious tears ;
for Janet never did anything by halves.
If she laughed, she laughed, so said her
nestorian, too immoderately ; and if she

cried, the tears came in torrents. Happily,
she did not cry often, though she had
suffered from occasional storms during her
school-life.

I shall have to support myself; I always
knew I should,' she said, despondently.

But you needn't take all the girls into
your confidence,' returned Lizzie. ' I
should be much too proud. Whatever
happens, you know I am your friend, and,
Ashen I leave school at Christmas, you can
come and stay with me. But you mustn't
think of Wilbraham, for papa says he must
have money.'

^ What do you mean ? I never did
think of him. He is the stupidest owl I
ever saw.'

The ringing of the school-bell put a stop
to this discourse, which would soon have
waxed into a dispute, for the friends frequently
quarrelled. Both were hot-tempered,
and Janet often longed for Edith's
quiet voice to soothe her turbulent spirit.

All eyes were turned upon her as lie
entered the class-room, for, in spite of
water and pomatum, her face showed that
she had been crying, and the girls wondered
' what sort of row Janet had been getting
into.'

But she soon recovered her complexion
and her equanimity. Her application was
such all that morning that she was commended
by Miss Lawrence, usually slow to
praise, and ever ready, Janet thought, to
blame her. But a weight was on her
spirits, and her companions failed to rouse
her to her usual hilarity. Lizzie's opinion
that it was not necessary to make her
possible change of circumstances generally
known was an incredible restraint, for she
was naturally so open that what she knew
and did was patent to all. However, when
the day-girls had departed at two o'clock,
and the four boarders went to dinner, she
no longer disguised the cause of her tears.
Her father had lost a ship worth a hundred

thousand pounds, and they might have to
leave Aspenelel Park, and go nobody knew
where. Edith had emphasised * the obscure
lodging,' suggested by her father to Mrs.
Aspenelel.

You won't miss the Park, Janet,' remarked
Marcellus Walsh, ' for you never go
near it. For my part I would rather have
a poor home that I lived in, than a rich
one that I never saw.'

How rude to say that, Marcellus,' exclaimed
Lizzie, for conversation was not
only general but unrestrained at dinner.
I don't believe that Mr. Aspenelel will be
obliged to give up the Park.'

What does it matter ? We shall spend
our vacations in Paris all the same,' put in
monsieur. 'My friends, reverses of fortune
are salutary. I have seen enough of them
and so has madame. We should not be
here with you, or have made the acquaintance
of hospitable England, but for the revolutions
of our country and our family.'

VOL. J. X

And I am sure the Somerset have seen
enough said Bella, whose forte was history,
and who never tired of poring over
the family-tree.

The Hazelmeres have always held their
own,' said Lizzie, with dignity. ' As my
father says, an old baronetcy is grander
than a new peerage. But, if Mr. Aspenelel is
really ruined, he will not be made a peer,
I suppose.'

My children, pray finish your dinner.
You generally like my hoeuf a la mode that
I prepare myself, because no English cook
is capable of doing it; but to-day you
scarcely eat. Janet, you must not lose
your appetite. You generally set an excellent
example.'

Madame's cuisine was her particular
forte, and the girls declared that she was
prouder of her hoeuf a la mode and haricots
veris and omelettes, and other dainties,
than she was of their literary attainments.
They certainly did credit to her cookery,

and were as bright and happy a quartette
as school-life ever saw.

All that afternoon Janet was pondering
over Edith's dolorous diary. Even her
painting was irksome to her, and as to the
practice, which, at best, she disliked, it became
hateful. A walk across the Downs,
usually so exhilarating, only depressed her,
and her conversation with madame was
entirely on the subject of her father's
losses. She always walked with madame,
and was generally regarded as her daughter.
They were known as the handsome
French-women, for Janet, to the best of her
ability, affected the dress, air, and manners
of her friend's countrywomen. She had
spent three sets of holidays in Paris, one
at Hazelmere. She loved the bright gaiety
of Monsieur and Madame de Belleville's
friends, and the petits soins of their only
son, Maximilien, who was studying art in
the French capital ; while she cared little
for what she was pleased to call the

x2

aristocratic monotony of Hazelmere. She
laughed at the little romance woven by
her friend Lizzie concerning the future
baronet, Wilbraham, and herself; and
declared that Maximilien was infinitely
more interesting. Girls will weave such
romances, and Lizzie was essentially
romantic. She was to leave school and be
introduced,' as the phrase is, at Christmas,
and the two friends had planned that Janet
should spend her holidays at Hazelmere.
But now this announcement of Edith's
upset their arrangements ; for neither knew
exactly what the ruin of a millionaire
meant. Never had hastily-written diary
caused more commotion.

You see, madame,' said Janet, ^ Edith
distinctly says ruined ; and she entreats
me to make the most of my education.'

'I will write to Lady Ascham, and
inquire what the reports are,' said madame,
struck suddenly with this happy thought.

How clever of you, dear madame,' exclaimed

Janet. ' Edith says at the very
end of her letter that Cousin Gerard has
met LadyAscham, and she has invited him
to call on her ; Aunt Glanville told Edith,
and Gerard must know all about Mr.
Aspen el's affairs.'

Mr. Aspenelel,' as Janet persisted in calling
her father, was a sort of myth to the
girls and madame, Lizzie alone having
learnt, on reliable authority, that he was
enormously rich. Madame knew only that
her accounts were duly paid to the uttermost
farthing, and that she was limited in
the pocket-money she was instructed to
give her pupil, and restricted as regarded
her dress ; for the arrangement made by
Mr. Aspenelel was that she should pay everything
and remit the bills to him. No half-year
had passed without various questionings
respecting certain items in the different
accounts, which had given madame so
much trouble that she had more than
once been on the eve of sending Janet

home ; but she was so sincerely attached
to the young girl, and herself so dependant
on her pupils for support, that she refrained.
But she had not an exalted opinion
of Mr. Aspenelel.

Now she wondered whether his niggardly
payments were caused by this impending
ruin.

The remainder of that day, and even the
following week, was spent in speculations
on Janet's future. The day-girls were as
much interested as the boarders, and
various reports were brought to her from
parents and guardians concerning her
father's loss. Edith's next diary was more
reassuring. In it she said that, although her
father made the worst of everything, other
people only laughed, and that in the village
and at the Cottages they called it ' a scare.'
Lady Ascham replied to madame's letter of
inquiry that she had heard nothing about
it ; but that she was hoping for a visit from
young Glanville, and would ask him. Thus

matters went on till the approach of Christmas,
and Janet was in a fever of anxiety
concerning her holidays. The De Belle-villes
were not going to Paris, and she
could get no answer as to whether she
might go to Hazelmere. The effect on her
was salutary, for she set to work with a
will, and, according to results, made more
general progress in two months than she
had previously made in two years. On
the Saturday before the breaking-up day
she received the following letter from
Edith :

Darling Janet,

'Oh, what joy ! You are to
come home for the holidays. It is only
just settled, and I think it is Mrs. As-penes's
doing. Papa tells me to write to
you. I think he is less depressed, and
hope he has overrated his losses. Mr. Tom
Harton thinks so too. He is a great comfort
both to papa and Mrs. Aspenelel, but

Bruce detests him. Not another word. All
the rest viva voce. True dying to see you.
Bruce in the extremest excitement. My
heart seems bursting with gladness.

Your loving sister,

Edith.'

Janet's excitement was as great as
Bruce's, but like him she scarcely knew
whether to be glad or sorry. Truly glad
she was at the prospect of seeing Edith
and Nurse True and Fan and all the rest ;
much enchanted with the idea of meeting
her head ideal, Tom Harton ; but strangely
depressed when she thought of her former
relations with her father, step-mother, and
her torment, Bruce.

END OF the first VOLUME.

London : Printed hy Duncan Macdonald, Blenheim House

%

v^f,

•^■^.

%

%

.-. ',L

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

L161— O-1096

VOL. II.

BY

ANNE BEALE

FAY ARLINGTON,' 'THE PENNANT FAMILY,
'SQUIRE LISLE'S BEQUEST,' ETC.

Fortune, men say, doth give too much to many ;
But yet she never gave enough to any.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, Limited

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.

All Rights Reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

MY ' DANCING-FROCK.'

The carriage from the Park was waiting at
the little station at Roselands when the six
o'clock train puffed up. Out stepped Mr.
Aspenelel as usual, followed by a tall, graceful
girl, enveloped in a fur mantle, and
crowned with a somewhat high black-velvet
hat, in which was tastily placed a
bunch of artificial roses. Out rushed from
the pretty station-house a small figure,
clad in dark-blue serge and round sailor

VOL. II. B

hat. The words ' Janet !' ' Edith !' passed,
and. the sisters embraced fervently ; the
younger and taller stooping over the elder
and shorter. There was no time for further
greeting, for Mr. Aspenelel hurried
them to the carriage, while the footman
looked after the luggage. But, when in
the brougham, Edith threw her arms round
Janet, and literally wept for joy.

'Are they glad to have me?' asked
Janet. ' Mr. Aspenelel, — I mean, papa — I will
try to call him so, darling — seemed pleased
at first. Said I was grown, hoped I was
improved, and assured me that my return
is due to Mrs. Aspenelel's intercession. What
does he mean ?'

It does not matter ; you are here, and
we are all glad,' replied Edith. ' Why,
there is Fan !'

And, assuredly, creeping stealthily round
the carriage, and looking in at the window,
was that erratic damsel.

I just came to say how-d'ye-do, Miss

Janet. Shake hands, quick. Here's Mr.
Aspen'

Janet stooped to kiss Fan's ice-cold cheek
and to take the offered hand.

I was watching for you at the station,
but you were so grown I shouldn't have
known you but for Miss Aspenelel,' she continued,
rapidly. you are handsomer
than ever, and I daresay you are as accomplished
and clever as — as — as Mr. Tom ;
but I hope you are nicer. Good-bye ;
good-night. Miss Aspenelel.'

Fan vanished like a dark spirit, and was
replaced by Mr. Aspenelel, who had seen
her.

What can that gipsy girl of old Harton's
want with you, Edith?' he said.

She only came to welcome Janet home,'
replied Edith, timidly, who had taken the
seat with her back to the horses.

Mr. Aspenelel and Janet were therefore
side by side. He turned towards this 
daughter, and said he

B 2

thought she had better give up her old
acquaintances, and cultivate those she had
made at school.

'The Somerset and Hazelmeres, for
instance,' he added, and Janet wondered
how he had learnt their names.

Edith told her afterwards that she used
to read their father portions of her letters,
and that these worthies always attracted
his attention, and drew forth some remark.

When they reached home, they were met
in the hall by Bruce and Nurse True.
Heedless of spectators, Janet threw herself
into the arms of the latter, and was received
with the homely salutation of ' God
be thanked, my lovey, we have you once
more.' As to Bruce, he danced round her,
screaming at the top of his shrill voice,
'Janet! Janet!' His arms encircled her
neck, and nearly throttled her, and, when
he released her, he shouted,

'Now we'll have some games. Come
and play battledore and shuttlecock.'

To-morrow,' replied Janet, hastening
to the drawing-room, at Edith's instigation.


There Mrs. Aspenelel was awaiting her instate.
She was dressed for dinner, and
Mr. Tom Harton was with her. Janet went
to her impulsively, and embraced her.

Thank you for letting me come home,'
she said, when this little ceremony was
over.

Mrs. Aspenelel made an effort at cordiality,
but her kiss and hand-shake were cold, and
Janet's warmth was checked. Her stepmother
looked at her amazed. She had
sprung from the girl to the woman in those
two years of absence, and it would have
been impossible not to admire the beauty
of face and elegance of figure developed
during that period. She looked older than
she was, and her manners were assured, so
that Mrs. Aspenelel felt almost patronised
when she said, with the ease of a Frenchwoman,


^ I am so happy to be at home again ;
but you would delight in Monsieur and
Madame de Belleville, and they were so
kind that it was not like a school.'

'You have forgotten me, Miss Janet,'
came from behind her back.

Mr. Tom !' she cried, turning to face
the speaker, and holding out both hands.

He only took one, which he shook and
pressed gently, and Janet was abashed at
her impetuosity. She forgot that when
she had last seen him she was a child often,
and now she was grown up, or nearly
so. But she soon recovered her natural
manner, asked for his father, said she had
seen Fan, and inquired after Jack. His
replies were interrupted by Edith, who said
she must come and dress for dinner.

Bruce was waiting for her in the hall.
He eschewed the presence of his tutor
whenever he could, and made up for schoolroom
coercion by tormenting Edith and
Nurse True. Now he had Janet, who had

come home for the holidays,' and whom
he expected to coerce in his turn, though
he did not exactly employ that expression.
She had made admirable resolutions both
as regarded him and his mother, so she
took his hand, and they danced together
up the broad, richly-carpeted staircase,
along the corridor of the old scenes, and
into the nursery, now True's sitting-room.


you dear old True. Let me hug you
as T used,' cried Janet, becoming again the
child, and literally ' hugging ' first True,
then Edith.

Me too, Janet. I won't spoil your
paintings,' said Bruce, ruefully.

And Janet caught his extended hands,
and whirled him round the room in an
ecstasy of ]pleasure.

I never thought I should care for coming
back to the Park !' she panted, Ashen
at last they came to a halt for very exhaustion.


Home's home. No place like it,' ejaculated
Nurse True, who was watching their
gyrations with uplifted hands.

At last Edith succeeded in getting the
wild girl into her bed-room. The sight of
a blazing fire made her remember that it
was cold, and that she had left hard frost
without. Nurse True had unpacked one
of her boxes in haste, and was there to
help them, having told Edith's maid that
she ' would wait on the young ladies this
first evening.' Bruce was outside drumming
at the door.

We must be to the moment, darling ;
papa is very particular,' said Edith, whose
simple blue dress was soon on, and her
fair hair arranged.

'This is my 'dancing-frock," ' laughed
Janet. ' It is en demie toilette but I used
to wear it in Paris, at evening receptions.
Mrs. Aspenelel was dressed like a queen.
Is papa really ruined ?'

I cannot make out,' replied Edith,

watching Janet while the dancing-frock
was put on.

It was of white cashmere, high to the
throat, and relieved by crimson ribbons.

How well you look ! Crimson is your
colour,' said Edith, enthusiastically.

So says Maximilien,' returned Janet,
nonchalantly.

Bless you, my dearies,' said Nurse True.
Don't set your heart on dress and they
sort of vanities. " Handsome is that handsome
does." '

^ You have not forgotten your proverbs,
you dear old True,' said Janet, looking at
herself in the cheval-glass. ' I wish madame
were here to give me the finishing touch.
First impressions are everything. What
do you think of me, Bruce ?'

Edith had opened the door, and that
youth rushed in.

You are beautiful. Prettier than Edith
or mamma. I'm coming down to dessert,
and shall see you again.'

The dinner-bell rang, and the sisters
walked down the corridor hand in hand ;
the white, fairy-like, childish Edith, and
the rose-tinted, symmetrical, womanly
Janet.

Is Tom Harton as clever and agreeable
as he used to be ?' asked Janet.

^I cannot tell; I do not understand
him,' replied her sister.

When they reached the drawing-room,
Edith pushed Janet in before her. The
little tussle between them at the door was
unperceived by the trio within, and the
entrance of Janet first probably unnoticed ;
but it was impossible not to remark upon
her appearance, as she eclipsed her sister
on the threshold. Even her father gazed
at her, and was astonished at the change
in the girl who left that house, angular
and somewhat awkward, about two years
before, and returned to it in all the radiant
beauty and unconscious grace of budding
womanhood.

She certainly is groan,' remarked Mr.
Aspenelel, as if taking up the thread of
something that had been spoken before
the girls came in.

Dinner was announced, and, to the
surprise of Janet, her father offered his
arm to her, saying, with a sort of jerky
courtesy, ' You are the greatest stranger.'
Edith, nothing loth, fell behind, while Tom
Harton and Mrs. Aspenelel followed silently
remarking on Janet. Edith was, however,
placed next Tom Harton at table, while
Janet sat alone on the opposite side. Mrs.
Aspenelel and Tom usually kept up the conversational
ball, but to-day Mr. Aspenelel
joined. It seemed as if he were resolved
to make himself agreeable to this daughter
whom he sent off almost in disgrace. She
was not shy, and answered all his questions
briskly, to the amazement of Edith,
who, though not absolutely afraid of him,
never felt quite at her ease with him. By
degrees the quintette were all engrossed

with Janet's experiences at school and in
Paris, and the vivacious girl replied to the
questions of her elders with a piquancy at
once fresh and entertaining. Mrs. Aspenelel
had never seen her husband so pleasant
before, and Edith looked astonished at
Janet, who thus managed to engross the
attention of one always absorbed in his
various speculations. As to Tom Harton,
who was a student of character, as well as a
tac titian, he glanced from father to daughter,
and wondered where lay the fascination.
' Beauty and originality,' he said to
himself, and with customary diplomacy
avoided taking the lead as he did when
there was no Janet. But he managed,
nevertheless, to rivet her attention from
time to time. She was thinking of the
days when she used to escape from the
Park to romp with Mr. Harton, Tom, Jack,
and Fan, and wondering whether the Tom
whom she then looked upon as a sort of
oracle and divinity were exactly the same,

or whether college and travel had put
another Tom into his handsome tabernacle
during the six years that had passed since
she had seen him.

If only papa could always be like this
reflected Edith, who was quite willing to
suffer eclipse through the intervention of
her younger sister.

Even Bruce stole from his mother s side
to Janet's when he appeared at dessert,
and not even the all-conquering eyes of
his tutor could stay his demands on the
attention of this formerly distasteful half-sister.


When the three ladies were alone for a
short space after the dinner was over, Mrs.
Aspenelel began a kind of inquisition. But
Janet replied so frankly to all her enquiries
that she could find no fault with her.
Still it was difficult to kindle affection
where dislike had always dwelt, and two
years of separation were not likely to effect
this. But Janet had made up her mind

to bepjin well, and lie certainly sought to
carry out her o^ood intention.

Would Miss Hazelmere like to come
here, Janet?' asked Mrs. Aspenelel.

I am sure she would. She quite
longs to see Edith — and you,' replied
Janet, first enthusiastically, then reflectively.


See me ! I am of secondary importance.'


It is so kind of you to think of Lizzie,
and to have me home. Oh ! Mrs. Aspenelel,
I will really try to be less — less — what
shall I say, Edith ? less aggressive. I daresay
it was all my fault that I was sent to
school for two years, and they have been
quite the happiest years of my life, and I
thank you for them.'

Janet intended to atone and apologise
for the past by this doubtful speech, but
Edith saw at once that Mrs. Aspenelel was
offended. She was quick to take offence,
and would not believe that these, her ,

had any wish to conciliate her.
Fortunately the arrival of Tom Harton
turned the current of her displeasure, and
the inevitable classical music put an end to
conversation. Mr. Aspenelel did not appear
again.

You are improved, Edith. Is that due
to the drooping Lilyton ?' asked Janet,
when there was a pause after a Mendels-
socinian trio.

You sing and play of course, Miss
Janet?' suggested Harton, fixing his dark,
enigmatical eyes upon her.

Very badly. I am not musical. Madame
calls my singing execrable, though I
can sino; French senses with her and
monsieur.'

And the Maximilien? Does he sing?'

No. TVe both paint. He is a genius.'

Why was she so communicative ?'
thought poor Edith, who was intent on
everything her sister did and said.

In truth, Janet had been carried away by

the interest she excited, and had talked of
Maximilien and Wilbraham as openly as she
had of their parents. At sixteen, happily,
we are not over-cautious, and she was
especially transparent. It was probably this
which had won her very opaque father ;
since people like their opposites. Both Mrs.
Aspenelel and Tom asked for one of these
French songes, but she steadily refused to
sing, assuring them that they were chants
de province in the provincial dialect, and
that she could not attempt them without
madame and monsieur.

I wish sou could hear monsieur. He
would make you die of laughing. And he
sometimes sings us a song that makes us
all yawn,' she said, exploding in the most
cheerful of machinations at the recollection.
But we have no voices like Mrs. As-penes's,'
she continued, with a sort of
intuitive tact, for she could not help perceiving
that her step-mother liked to be
first in the estimation of Tom Harton.

Few people sing like Mrs. Aspenelel,' said
Tom. ' She surpasses all the amateurs,
and most of the professionals — if, indeed
it be not a distinction without a difference
to separate the two classes. Nowadays all
amateurs are virtually professionals, and
are not above taking money for their performances,
whether literary, musical, theatrical,
or artistic'

That is what madame says,' cried Janet,
as if she had clinched the argument at
once. ' Do you ever sing in public, Mr.
Tom ?'

He laughed, and replied that he had
occasionally taken part in amateur concerts,
but had never usurped the professional
place. Mrs. Aspenelel said he might
easily do so if he liked ; and, with a little
more similar talk of no moment to anyone,
the evening ended and Mr. Tom departed.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER 11.

OLD FRIENDS.

Christmas was always a time of great trial
to Mr. Aspenelel. He disliked Christmas
bills and Christmas charities, and, though
he felt obliged by his position to pay heed
to both, he did so with grudging heart
and hand. But when it came to gaieties
he was utterly overdone. Mrs. Aspenelel
had been long working towards an entertainment
of some sort that should announce
to the world that Edith was duly
introduced into society ; but her husband
objected to the expense, and utilized the
well-worn excuse of the lost ship as a plea
for retrenchment instead of enlargement of

domestic liabilities. Her amazement was
therefore great when, the day after Janet's
return, he volunteered his assent to the
holding of some sort of Christmas festivity.

A dinner and a dance afterwards,' he
suggested.

*That will do splendidly,' replied his
astonished wife. 'We can invite the
Beechtons and others, to whom we owe a
return, to dinner, and the immediate neighbours
and your town friends to the dance.
You must give me a list.'

Oh ! we don't want a multitude. 1
can't afford that ; but really Janet is so
handsome that she may make a grand
match.'

The murder was out, but ]airs. Aspenelel
was discreet enough not to pry into details.
She merely suggested that Janet was not
yet old enough to be regularly introduced,
though Edith was.

Janet is older than Edith in person, if
not in years,' he replied, irritably. ' She

cis

uncommonly good-looking and agreeable.
She might be twenty, and one show
will save trouble and expense. Introduce
them both at the same time, and the thing
will be over. It is like two marriages on
the same day ; one fuss and folly does for
both.'

Then we had better invite everyone
we know, good, bad, and indifferent,' suggested
his wife.

Perhaps so, not forgetting the "old
ladies," ' he replied, with a grim effort at
gaiety.

No sooner said than done. Mrs. Aspenelel
set to work at once to make out lists, and
arrange for a real festivity. Edith was
alarmed, Janet in ecstacies, Bruce obstreperous,
but the quartette were united for
once in a desire to bring about a success.

^ Let us have it on Twelfth Night, the
old jour che /'a/?,' cried Janet, who became
more at her ease with her step-mother as
the delightful prospect expanded.

But Mrs. Aspenelel did not intend to delegate
any of her authority to the girls,
albeit she allowed the proposed Twelfth
Night to be the period fixed on. She had
a genius for organisation, and it cost her
no trouble to make all necessary arrangements.
Fortunately Mr. Aspenelel was away
all day, and she took care that none of
her preparations should be visible to him
^vhen he was at home; indeed, he had
soon forgotten his unguarded concession
altogether. She took carte blanche as regarded
expense, and proceeded with a
high and lavish hand. She had grown
reckless under perpetual restraint, and,
breaking loose for once, determined to ' go
the pace,' as the language of slang hath it.
Edith did her best to warn her, indirectly,
of consequences, while Janet and Bruce
rejoiced in the unusual stir. It was holiday
time for both, and wheresoever Janet
went, Bruce followed, much to the girl's
annoyance ; but she had made up her mid

to conciliate both him and his mother, so
she alternately romped and roved with
him, much to his delight.

Mrs. Aspenelel, also, was doing her best
to avoid collision with Janet. She had
heard from various side-winds that appearances
were against her, in Janet's long
absence, and this had caused her request
for a recall. Mr. Aspenelel had consented
upon plea that there should ' be no more
rows ;' but she had not contemplated the
effect on him and others of her stepdaughter's
looks and manners. She was
rather jealous than unkind, and disliked a
rival, while she desired peace at any cost.
However, she did not attempt to put any
restraint on Janet's movements, whose
happiness at seeing her old friends again
was so intense that she was out and about
so long as the short day-light permitted ;
sometimes with Edith, Nurse True, or
Bruce ; often alone.

Her first visit was to her aunt, Mrs.

Glanville, and the other inmates of the
Cottages. Edith and Bruce were with
her. It was a bright, clear, frosty day,
and as they ran through the park, over
the rime-clad drive and grass, and beneath
the trees bare of leaves but studded with
diamonds, their feet seemed to tread the
air rather than the earth. Bruce insisted
on a hand of each of his step-sisters, and
his shouts and their laughter preceded
them as they neared the Cottages. Edith
and her instructresses had also their
Christmas holiday, and made their little
jokes concerning it.

Here you are still, Miranda,' shouted
Janet, bursting into Mrs. Glanville's neat
kitchen, where that handmaiden was on
her knees, scrubbing the floor. ' You are
grown !'

So be you, miss. My ! How beautiful
you do look,' said Miranda, jumping up,
and nearly upsetting her pail.

Roses always do look smart in winter,'

responded Janet, extending her hand,
while Miranda carefully wiped hers in her
apron, curtseyed, and took it. ' Where's
auntie ?'

I think she be along with poor Mrs.
Lome. The old lady be on her last legs
now, Miss Janet.'

Then Rebecca Sure will marry at last,'
said Janet.

Mrs. Glanville returned at the moment,
and the greeting between aunt and niece
was very Alarm. Although Mrs. Glanville
did not express her admiration at Janet's
appearance as frankly as did Miranda, she
was yet struck by it ; indeed, Janet's
vanity was sufficiently stirred during her
royal progress from house to house to
satisfy any girl. Not that she was naturally
vain, but she was human, and the incautious
remarks of friends often rouse
feelings not easily put to sleep again.
Strike the match, and flame follows.'

While Janet remained with Mrs. Glanville,

Edith went to ask for Miss Lome,
and Bruce accompanied her.

What is Gerard doing, auntie ? He is
almost the only person Edith has not told
me about,' began Janet, when she was
seated in her aunt's cosy parlour.

Working as hard as ever, dear, body
and mind, but making no advance in the
way of income. Lady Ascham has taken
him up ; by that I mean she has added to
his work, and won't let him alone.'

Perhaps she will make his fortune by-and-by,'
said the enthusiastic Janet. ' He
is sure to succeed, you know, because good
people always do in the end.'

Mrs, Glanville smiled and shook her
head. She had, however, plenty to do in
replying to Janet's questions, who heard
some interesting details of people she
inquired about. The other ladies were
dying to see her, so she did not remain
long at No 1, but rushed off to the other
five small abodes. She found all their

inmates indoors, except Miss Vigors, who,
both mentally and corporeally, was strong,
and was never kept at home by weather,
however cold. And that Christmas had
come in with a will was apparent in the
flocks of birds, large and small, that were
fluttering about the Cottages.

Janet startled a crowd of robins, thrushes,
and sparrows that were assembled under
the verandah, picking up the crumbs strewn
from one end to the other; while she
noticed that on the lawn, blackbirds, starlings,
and rooks were disputing over crusts
and even grain, scattered here and thereon
the frost-bound grass.

Oh ! my dear, they would starve but
for us !' said Miss Short, who was watching
them from her window, when Janet entered.
You are like Mr. Gerard, my dear ! I
can't pay you a greater compliment,' said
the old lady, examining her through her
spectacles.

Impossible. I would rather be like

Cousin Gerard than anyone in the world
returned Janet. ' And you used to say my
mother was like him and Aunt Glanville.
So I must be a Gerard and not an Aspenelel.
I am so glad.'

^My dear!' ejaculated Miss Short, reprovingly;
but Janet stayed to hear no
more.

She found Bruce with Miss Lilyton, to
whom he had taken a fancy. He did not
like Mrs. Glanville.

We are all glad to see you again, I am
sure. Miss Janet,' said Miss Lilyton. ' I
hope you have made as great progress in
your studies as dear Miss Aspenelel. She
has been a sunbeam in our path ever since
Mr. Aspenelel allowed her to come to us. I
hope he is satisfied with her. You are
doubtless much more accomplished. You
are , but I must not flatter you.'

Papa says she is uncommonly handsome
; I heard him. But mamma doesn't
think so,' interrupted Bruce.

Miss Lilyton cougliecl, and Janet seized
Bruce by the arm, and bade him hold his
tongue.

A peep at Mrs. Lucy sufficed, and then
Janet and Bruce awaited Edith in Miss
Lome's silent parlour. There was no fire,
and the cold and stillness were oppressive.
They crept out and listened at the bedroom
door. They heard Edith's voice.
She was reading a prayer, to which the
faithful Rebecca said ^ Amen.'

I don't like it. Let's come away,' said
Bruce ; and Janet felt awestruck at finding
herself so near the ' valley and shadow of
death.'

The door opened and Edith appeared.
She looked even whiter than usual, and had
tears in her eyes. Rebecca came out for a
moment, and spoke to Janet, whose question
respecting ' the faithful blacksmith ' died
away on her lips.

She has long been ready to go, miss,'

whispered the old servant, stealing back
to her mistress's room.

From the Cottages the trio proceeded
to the Rectory, which we have not yet
visited. It was a pretty, picturesque
house, not far from the church. They
found Mr. Austen at home. He was a
good and kindly man, and fond of young
people, which resulted in young people
being fond of him. Gerard and he were
great allies, and might even be called confidential
friends, for each submitted to the
other such events as befel him.

What has become of the gipsies, Mr.
Austen ?' asked Janet, when greetings
were over. ' Edith gave me part of their
history.'

Mr. Austen glanced at Bruce, and answered,
discreetly,

They have gone into winter quarters.
The children came regularly to school,
thanks to Fan, till they all decamped ;

and the Tigress has, I hear, given up
fortune-telling, thanks to Gerard. I think
and hope we were of some service to them.'

Did Fan continue the lollipops ?' asked
Janet.

^ If so, she did not confide in me,' replied
Mr. Austen, with a sly twinkle in his eye.

Let us go and ask her,' said Janet,
rising.

I won't go to Hoplands,' declared
Bruce, with decision.

Afraid of the cane, Bruce ?' asked the
rector, and the boy nodded.

So Edith and Bruce left Janet at the
garden-gate, and returned to the Park.
Janet met Fan and her dogs at the door.
Forgetful of all distinctions, whether of
caste or propriety. Fan gave Janet the
heartiest hug she had experienced since
her return.

You have grown a beauty. Miss Janet.
I used to envy Miss Aspenelel, but you are

grander than she. Come and see Sir :
come quick, before Tom makes his appearance.
Oh ! Miss Janet, I can't live with
Tom.'

Not live with Tom !' repeated Janet,
following to the dining-room, where Mr.
Harton was surrounded, as usual, by his
books.

His polite greeting distressed and offended
Janet. She forgot that she was now a
grown-up young lady, and that he was a
proud man, not on the best of terms with
her father. There ensued unusual restraint.

What is the matter. Sir ? Aren't you
glad to see Miss Janet ? Hasn't she grown
into a beautiful young lady?' said Fan,
who had herself developed into something
between a Spaniard and Asiatic.

'Very. But I may as well tell her at
once that possibly Mr. Aspenelel may not
wish her to come here.'

This was Janet's first rebuff. She had

a spirit of her own, and drew herself up
accordingly. 'Why, Mr. Harton?' she asked.

Because your father and I have split
on most points, and scarcely speak when
we meet. Gipsies, rents, tithes, charities
come between us. He never visits me nor
I him. Although we are neighbours, weare
not friends. He suspects and dislikes
Fan, and would be annoyed at your familiarity
with her. Miss Aspenelel is as wise
as she is good, and does not come here ;
perhaps you had better follow her example,
Miss Janet.'

But Mr. Tom comes to the Park, Mr.
Harton !' said Janet, indignantly.

Tom does what he likes. He is independent
of me, and he is your brother's
tutor,' was the dry answer.

Tom makes everybody like him, except
me and all the servants,' put in Fan. ' We
can't bear him, and wish he would go
away again.'

You are very complimentary. I hope
Miss Janet Aspenelel will pronounce a more
favourable opinion,' said some one from
the doorway ; and, to the general confusion,
Tom Harton came in.

Listeners never hear any good of themselves,'
cried Fan, running off nth a
defiant look at him, and a nod to Janet.

'What have you done to Fan, Tom?'
asked Mr. Harton.

Nothing, but reprove her for her wandering
habits ; but gipsy blood circulates
rapidly, and I suppose she can't help them.'

Janet began to feel awkward, and to
realise that perhaps she ought not to be
making a call on Mr. Harton and his agreeable,
handsome son ; so she rose to go.
Mr. Harton's stiff manner relaxed, and he
begged her to forgive an old man for
speaking plainly. But her pride was
roused, and her farewell commensurately
cold. She walked out of the room erect
and magnificent. Mr. Tom accompanied

VOL. II. D

her to the gate, and seemed about to go
further, but she wished him good-morning
with an air so determined that he changed
his mind.

She knows what she's about, if Miss
Aspenelel doesn't,' he muttered, as he watched
her disappear at the turning of the road.

CHAPTER III.

FAN IN TROUBLE.

I MUST speak to you, Miss Janet. No one
will see us here,' greeted Janet, when she
reached the side gate leading to the Park,
through which she had always been in the
habit of escaping to Hoplands.

It was Fan, who was crouching within
the shadow of the park wall, concealed by
trees and bracken. Janet paused. She
had been walking so rapidly that she was
out of breath, and was not sorry to be
arrested by Fan.

He is not coming ! Did you leave him
at home?' began Fan.

d2

'Yes, if you mean Mr. Tom,' replied
Janet.

He is a snake in the grass. Don't trust
him, Miss Janet. You used to love him
as I loved Jack ; but, oh ! they are as different
as — Mr. Aspenelel and Sir. I can't
live with him any longer ; indeed I can't.
He hates me and twits me for my gipsy
origin, and tries to run down the gipsies.
Ha ! ha ! Sir and Mr. Gerard and I circumvented
him and Mr. Aspenelel, and they
stopped on the common as long as they
liked. Sir paid the children's schooling
and I gave them lollipops on the sly. They
were just as nice children as the villagers,
and sharper. I taught them on Sundays,
and Miss Aspenelel took my class. Mr.
Gerard went to see them, and preached,
so that some of them became Christians ;
indeed they did. Tom scoffs, and even Sir
laughs, but it's quite true. Mrs. Lee, the
old Tigress, has bought a basket of cottons
and tape and needles and all sorts of things,

and goes about selling them. She says,
Nothing's too hard for the Lord," and
nothing is, Miss Janet, except Mr. Tom.
Don't believe anything he says, and don't
let Miss Aspenelel believe him. Hush ! I
hope the dogs haven't got loose.'

Fan paused to peep round the wall, but
no one was near. Janet begged her to
make haste.

I can't, Miss Janet, for so much depends
on you and Miss Aspenelel being on
your guard. He is what Miss Vigors calls
diplomatic. Poor Miss Vigors ! she has
worked very hard with me, to no purpose :
but Miss Aspenelel is '• a credit to her," as
she says.' Fan laughed. ' Miss Aspenelel
is an angel, but you are more like me. I
mean, you are not as bad as me, of course,
but you are not quite perfect, are you ?'

My dear Fan, I am not nearly as good
as you, for you love your foster-father
better than I do my real one, and teach in
the Sunday-school, and '

Miss Janet, I am very bad indeed, but
I love Sir and Jack as dearly as my life.'

Here Fan broke out into a sort of sobbing
wail wbicli terrified Janet.

^ Oh, Miss Janet, I can't help it, and
Tom is sure to be somewhere listening,'
said Fan, making an effort to calm herself.
Tell Sir how dearly I love him and Jack,
and don't be offended with him because he
spoke out just now. He is very fond of
you. He loves you next to me, but — I
think — he loves me best.'

Here the sobs broke out again, and Fan
could not control them. Janet tried to
soothe her, argued with her that Tom did
not mean to be unkind, assured her that
she was her friend, and that Edith was
fond of her, and that Mrs. Glanville and
Gerard and all the ladies cared for her.

As to the poor and the gipsies, they
adore you, Fan,' she wound up with.

It was all in vain. The sobs increased
and Fan suddenly threw her arms round

Janet, elinor to her for a moment, then
darted across the park in the direction of
the Home Farm.

We must leave Janet to follow her.

The Home Farm was a pleasant, shady
place, situated in the park at some distance
from the great house. It had its
model farmyard, model dairy, and, one
may almost say, model cows, for people
always go in for the models. Mr. Aspenelel
did, and his children Avere especially fond
of a model dairymaid, who gave them fresh
milk and curds-and-whey whenever they
liked. Mr. Aspenelel himself only visited
these, his models, on Sunday afternoon,
when, having been to church in the morning,
he found as many flaws in them and
their expenditure as he possibly could.
Hither came Fan. She, too, was fond of
the dairymaid, whom she had once known
at Hoplands, and who always received her
with delight.

'My dear Fan, what is the matter?'

asked this official, who was in her ornamental
dairy, skimming the last settlement
of cream from the milk in a white, china
milk-dish, for Mr. Aspenelel sold the skim-milk
to the poor, and allowed no cream to
circulate therewith.

Mary, have you seen Mrs. Lee?' panted
Fan.

What ! the old Tigress that have been
converted, and goes about with a basket?
She was here half-an-hour agone, and is
coming back this way. She said she was
going on to the house, for the servants
have took to deal with her, and she sells
'em tracks instead of telling their fortunes.
Many's a time sleeve told mine, and a loto'
things she said come true. But she
have give it all up for " the Lord's sake,"
she says.'

So she has,' said Fan, solemnly, recovering
voice and manner. ' She used to
get as much as a guinea from ladies on the
sly. She understands astrology and palmistry,

and lots of clever things. May I
stay here till she comes back ?'

'To be sure you may,' assented Mary,
proceeding with her work.

Fan had not long to wait. Standing
watching on the threshold of the dairy,
which looked like a temple, she made a
pretty picture. The scarlet feather in her
hat, and the scarlet scarf twisted round her
neck, contrasted with the black hair ;
while the hoar-frost on trees and roofs,
and the cold, clear winter sky surrounded
her. Toiling up a slippery slope appeared
a neatly dressed old woman. She wore
bonnet, apron, and dark plaid shawl, and
was very unlike the Tigress. Yet she it
was. She carried a large basket full of
such wares as itinerants hawk about, and
looked eminently respectable. Fan hastened
to meet her, and insisted on taking
her basket from her, and resting it on the
doorstep of the dairy.

The dairymaid overhauled the goods,

and found that she wanted certain reels of
cotton and tapes ; and, meanwhile, Mrs.
Lee went inside and rested.

Buy a track as well, Mary. Here's one
as is very comforting,' spoke the old
Tigress. ' One as can read spelt it out tome.
But I'm beginning to learn to read
myself. There's nothing too hard for the
Lord, and, under Him, Mrs. Glanville and
her son have converted me. I told the
girls so at the Park, but they laughed.
Tell us our fortunes," they said, but I've
done with that trade, and said so. They
were so surprised that they bought some
tracks, and wouldn't believe that they
wasn't about fortune-telling. If they was,
I should soon have their master down
upon me, and be shut up or fined. I've
told lies enough in my time ; now I'm
going to tell the truth, and spread the
Gospel news so long as I'm alive. And
I'm taking this round out of gratitude to
Mr. Harton and Mr. Austen, who gave us

room to pitch our tents, and let the children
have some learning, God bless 'em !'

Mary stood listening, arms akimbo and
open-mouthed, for she had known the
Tigress for years. Fan also listened.
The afternoon sun looked in upon the
trio through the sparkling trees, the icicles
which he was transmuting to gems ;
and seemed to be listening also.

'Accept salvation through the Lord
Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved,'
burst forth the old woman, rising and
outstretching her hand. ' There's nothing
to do, nothing to pay; it's all without
money and without price.'

Then she took a paper from her basket,
and presented it solemnly to Fan, saying,

*I promised to deliver it myself Do
your duty, child. I don't know what's
wrote within, but, as sure as that sun i&
shining, and Mary's my witness, every
word I've ever said to you is true as this
Holy Gospel.'

She took from her basket a small book,
which contained 'The Gospel according
to St. John.'

You can read, and I'll give it to you,'
she added, placing the booklet in Fan's
gloveless palm. 'The Lord forgive me,
but I was just going to say, " Cross my
hand, and I'll tell your fortune," for the
lines are as clear as the light, as I read
them there, beneath the Truth, in your
small hand. If I could read that blessed
Word as well as I can read those lines, I
should be a happy woman this day. But
I'm forgiven ! I'm forgiven ! Washed in
the blood of the Lamb.'

What ought I to do ? What must I
do ?' cried Fan, who was trembling with a
sort of fear.

Repent and be converted ; then the
Lord will make straight your path,' replied
Mrs. Lee. 'Come not with me, child.
Stay here till I am out of sight.'

She took up her basket, and hastened

away in the direction of one of the lodges.
Fan watched her till she was out of sight,
while the astonished dairymaid poured
forth many questions as to whether ' the
Tigress was really converted, or was she
acting a part ? Was it because she would
be took up for fortune-telling, and wouldn't
for hawking, if she paid her five shillings
a-year regular for her licence ?' etc.

She is converted, Mary,' replied Fan,
emphasising every word.

I wouldn't have nothing to do with
her, any the more for that, if I was you,
Fan,' said Mary, bustling over the white-china
milk-pans.

Fan put the paper carefully in her
pocket, and returned across the park to
Hoplands.

I won't read it till I'm locked into my
room, or Tom will be sure to see me,' she
muttered, as her winged feet trod the frosty
rime.

This dreaded Tom was watching for her

near the kennel where she had shut up the
barking, yelping, impatient dogs. He
knew that she would let them loose, and
was pacing the yard expectant. She did,
in fact, go there first, and opened the kennel
without perceiving the enemy. She
was startled by his approach, and the
severely-spoken words,

Fan, I wish to speak to you.'

Certainly, Mr. Tom,' she answered,
defiantly.

Come into my study. We shall not be
interrupted there.'

They went by the back entrance into
the room appropriated to Tom. It looked
out at the side of the house upon a portion
of the copse, through which he had
watched the disappearance of Wandering
Will. His studentship was apparent in
the bookshelves and scattered volumes and
papers that filled the room.

Sit down. Fan.'

With pleasure Mr. Tom. How quiet
your room is.'

May I ask, Fan, what you meant by
speaking of me as you did to Miss Janet
Aspenelel.'

I only said that the servants and I wish
sou would go away again, and so we do.'

Why ?'

Because you go contrary to us, Mr.
Tom. You know you can't bear me, and
want to get rid of me. But Sir doesn't.'

Then our feelings are reciprocal, Fan.
You say you can't bear me, and I can't
bear you. These are your words, and,
as you are no longer an inconsequent child,
I suppose they mean something.'

I don't know what you mean, Mr. Tom.
AVhat's "inconsequent ?" '

Well, you understand the consequences
that must follow on certain premises.'

'Indeed I do not. I only understand
that you and I don't get on together, and

if this is the consequence of my being a
born gipsy, as you are always saying, I
don't know how to alter it

By staying indoors, and not wandering
all over the country at unseemly hours ;
by avoiding contact with your clansmen
and women ; by not bribing gipsy-children
to go to school, and so keeping a set of
vagabonds in this neighbourhood \ by not
running after people above your own rank ;
and, finally, by avoiding all allusion to me.'

Then I must put chains on my feet and
hands and tongue. I could never do that,
Mr. Tom;

Fan laughed, and displayed two rows of
ivory so small and white, set in such a
coral box, that even Tom was fain to admire
them ; to say nothing of the sparkling
eyes and red-rose cheeks. He was the
only man who could resist Fan's fascinations.


You harbour all sorts of vagrants either
in the kitchen or woods. Twice I have

seen a suspicious character lurking about ^
once in your presence, once, I believe,
waiting for you. You are often in company
with that old humbug, the Tigress.
You resist Miss Vigors' efforts for your
good ; even my father and Mr. Austen — '

*Stop, stop, Mr. Tom,' shouted Fan,
putting her fingers in her ears. ' I won't
listen to a word more, for you are beginning
to tell lies. Neither Sir nor Mr.
Austen ever said a Avoid against me. The
Tigress is not a humbug, but a Christian
woman who has given up making lots of
money upon principle, and become a respectable
hawker. You may laugh, Mr.
Tom; but she's converted, and Mrs. Glanville
has done it, as sure as Fan's Fan. I
wonder whether you would give up the
hope of a grand match and a grand fortune
to go a-hawking.'

Tom's face darkened, as he replied,
Not the Tigress's kind of hawking, certainly.
But, what is more to the purpose,

VOL. 11. K

will you give up your haunts and associates
and do your duty to my father, who has
done so much for you ?'

I would do anything in the world for
him, and you know it, Mr. Tom. Oh, how
I wish Jack were here !'

The recollection of Jack was the last
strain on Fan's overwrought feelings. She
broke into passionate, almost hysterical
sobs. Tom had never seen her so affected
since his mother's funeral, when the women-servants
were obliged to withdraw her
from the grave. Being human, he was
himself touched.

I did not mean to pain you so much,
only to advise you, Fan,' he said.

I don't care what you meant. You are
cold and cruel,' she cried, restraining her
sobs, and moving towards the door. ' But
you shall not reproach me any more.
Everybody in this house has been kind tome
but you. I love Sir, and Jack dearly
^deai^ly. Oh, if Jack were here ! And

mother ! I love her still with all my
heart. But you ! you, Mr. Tom ! No : I
won't hate you, for that's wicked, but I — I
never want to see you again as long as
I live;

She opened the door, banged it after
her, and left Tom Harton in a state of
some uncertainty.

I did not mean to raise such a whirlwind,'
he muttered ; ' but I think she will
not again prejudice the Miss Aspenels
against me. She is so shrewd, that one
knows not where she may stop.'

He sat down, took up a book, and began
his studies.

CHAPTER IV.

NO FAN.

The next morning there was great consternation
at Hoplands, for Fan was missing.
She did not appear as usual at
breakfast, and even Tom was obliged to
acknowledge that everything looked disconsolate
without her. The kettle did not
sing, the tea was unmade, the toast was
cold, the bacon greasy, the eggs unsoiled.
As a rule. Fan saw to all this, and saw toit
with seeing eyes. It was a bitterly cold
morning, and frost had glazed all the 
and half-congealed the blood in
Tom's veins, as he rubbed his hands over

the smoky fire. There were no dogs on
the hearth rug, and no sound anywhere.

'These are her gipsy ways. She is revenging
herself on me,' muttered Tom.
She is mistaken if she thinks she will have
any effect. I can wait.*

He took up a newspaper and pretended
to read.

Where's Fan ? Bless me, something
must have happened. Breakfast isn't
ready, and the room's like an ice-house.
Fan ! Fan !' cried Mr. Harton, coming in.

The latter words were shouted in the
hall, from the bottom of the staircase. No
answer. He rang the bell.

'Where's Fan?' he asked of the servant.

I thought she was here, sir. I'll go
and see.'

The girl went, and returned immediately.


She must have gone for a walk, sir ; for
sleeve took her hat and cloak. She's sure
to be back directly. I lays the breakfast

and never waits for her, for slices
always to the minute.'

She is assented Mr. Harton, while the
servant drew up the fire, boiled the kettle,
and did all she could to compensate for
Fan's non-appearance.

Tom sat over his paper, silent and relentless
; while his father tried to look through
the frosted panes, walked to the hall-door,
shouted ' Fan,* and finally sat down at the
breakfast-table.

She must be mad to go out before
breakfast on such a morning as this,' he
said.

She is mad,' replied Tom. ' But she is
only revenging herself on me for lecturing
her on her improper conduct. She will be
here when she has paid me off.'

She has paid us both off, and that's
hard upon me who have no account
against her,' said Mr. Hartbn. ' What did
you find amiss in her ?'

Principally what she said about me to

Miss Janet Aspenelel ; but also her assignations
with improper characters.'

Pshaw, Tom ! There's no harm in anything
the poor child does. She likes
liberty, that's all.'

Just so, father. Liberty of tongue as
well as action. It is time some of it should
be put a stop to.'

Mr. Harton was an easy-going man, and
never argued with Tom if he could help it ;
so he began his breakfast, grumbling over
weak tea, hard-boiled eggs, and cold bacon
and toast. He was up and down twenty
times during the meal, looking for Fan.

She's paying you off with a vengeance,'
he said. 'She'll take her death of cold.
Send one of the men to look for Fan,' he
added to the maid, who came in with a
relay of steaming rashers.

Tom began upon them, assuring his
father that Fan never took cold.

Back came the maid with the words,
Sam has gone oiF to look for her, and

lias taken Rolf. Hell find her quick
enough.'

Bat neither Sam nor Rolf could meet
with Fan, so Mr. Harton went off in search
himself, and Tom, who was alarmed at her
continued absence, on account of the conversation
of the previous evening, turned
out also.

Mr. Harton went first to the Cottages,
thence to the Rectory, and finally through
the village, but nobody had seen Fan.
The old ladies, the rector, and the villagers
ao-reed in assuring: him that she would
turn up all right,' as they had each met
her in various out-of-the-way places at all
sorts of hours.

Not before breakfast in mid-winter,'
said Mr. Harton.

There was a hue-and-cry after Fan, who
was everybody's friend and favourite, despite
her odd ways. The only person who
gathered certain news of her was Tom.
He inquired at the west lodge of the Park

and heard that she had been seen at the
dairy the previous afternoon. He readily-elicited
from Mary the dairymaid what
had passed in her presence between the
Tigress and Fan, and returned with the
news, elated, to his father. But Mary
had not seen the transmission of the
letter.

She is only playing us a trick, and has
gone off with that old humbug for one of
her gipsy excursions,' he said, reassured
himself, and feeling convinced that he, at
least, had nothing to do With her escapade.
His father, on the contrary, laid
the blame at his door.

It was strange that nothing was disarranged
in Fan's room. She had slept in
her bed, and dressed herself in her ordinary
clothes. Mr. Harton was comforted when
he learnt that the latter were the warmest
she possessed, and mostly of woollen. She
always wore the thickest of country-made
boots in winter, and hose knitted by some

poor villager, so she was proof against the
frosted roads.

She could not mean to stop out the
night, or she would have taken a night-dress,'
suggested a maid.

Of course not. I never supposed her
absence was intentional,' said irrational Mr.
Harton.

Then why did she leave before breakfast
?' asked irritating Tom. ' Depend on
it she had an assignation with that fellow
who was hanging about here.'

The day wore on, and still no Fan. The
news reached the Park through the dairymaid,
and the servants told Nurse True,
who naturally passed it on to her young
ladies. In spite of her resolutions of the
previous day, impulsive Janet appeared at
Hoplands during the afternoon. She met
Mr. Harton in the lane, walking up and
down in a state of great anxiety.

Is it true about Fan, Mr. Harton ?' she
asked.

She has not come back, Miss Janet,' he
replied.

I daresay she will by-and-by,' returned
Janet. ' I think she was frightened because
she was overheard by Mr. Tom when
she made that speech to me about him.
She ran after me, and seemed very strange.
She cried and sobbed, and said she loved
you and Jack as dearly as her life. She is
afraid of Mr. Tom.'

He is the only one who hasn't spoilt
her,' said Mr. Harton, with a latent sense
of justice. ' It was impossible to control
Fan, and now I don't know Avhat may
have become of her. But I don't think
Mrs. Lee would lead her into harm.
Whether she's converted or not, she's
honest. I've known her off and on ever
since I was a young man, and during my
father's time and mine she and the gipsies-never
stole a chick from us, or rifled a
hedge. We've always harboured 'em.'

She was at the Park yesterday, and

the servants bought cottons and tracts of
her. Nurse True believes that she is
really converted,' said Janet.

Mr. Harton smiled, and said,

If so, Gerard Glanville must be a Sal-rationis.'


Almost as he spoke, Mrs. Glanville appeared.
She had also come to inquire
about Fan. She was surprised to see
Janet alone, and, when she had learnt that
Fan was still absent, said she would walk
with her to the Park. She declined Mr.
Harton's invitation to the house, thinking
that Janet's independent rambles were
almost as doubtful as Fan's. They walked
away together, and were succeeded by a
crowd of eager inquirers, who, however,
all believed that Fan would be home before
nightfall. Among them was Miss Vigors.

Fan may be wild and unteachable, buta
more obedient and tractable girl never
lived,' she said, and went with Mr. Harton
into the house.

She was more strong-minded than Mrs.
Glanville, and volunteered to make tea for
him and Mr. Tom. She contrived to
divert his mind by leading him to talk on
his favourite subjects, and remained with
him so long that the domestics thought
she would never depart. The pair were
tete-a-teie^ since Tom did not come in to
tea. Mild Mr. Harton, and Miss Vigors
laying down the law in a big bonnet and
a large scarlet cross-over — she had thrown
off her cloak — was a sight that would have
delighted Fan. But Fan did not return
to see it.

Thank you heartily for your visit, Miss
Vigors,* said Mr. Harton, when propriety
obliged her to rise. ' Sam shall see you
home.'

I shan't have a wink of sleep to-night,*
she said. ' But Fan is sure to come back
sooner or later.'

But Fan did not come back. Mr. Tom
did, however, and brought the news that

Fan had been seen at the railway-station
nigh to Roselands about nine o'clock that
morning. This was five miles from Headlands,
and Mr. Harton said she had boasted
that she could walk it in a little more than
an hour.

She has gone off to vex me, intending
to return, and has missed the train,' suggested
Tom, who felt sadly uncomfortable.

At any rate, she hasn't destroyed herself
in a fit of anger or perplexity,' returned
his father. ' I daresay she will beat
home tomorrow. Your lecture did for
her, and your long absences from home
prevented your appreciating her virtues.
She has probably gone to see Margaret
Fallon, of whom she is very fond, and, as
you say, lost the train.'

Margaret Fallon was a friend of Fan's
who lived not far from the station at
which she had been. With this crumb of
comfort as meagre support for the night,

Mr. Harton summoned his household to
family worship, and went to bed. Tom,
on the contrary, sat up into the small
hours, striving to study, and thinking all
the while of Fan. Much as he fancied he
disliked her, he was averse to having it
supposed that he was the cause of her
flight. He was selfish, but did not wish
to appear so. Who does ? Moreover, he
only disliked Fan when she was impertinent
and interfered with him. While
vainly trying to fix his attention on a
deep theological book, he seemed to see her
brilliant face, and hear her parting words,
as he had seen and heard them in that
study the previous afternoon : ' I never
want to see you again as long as I live.'
It was a strong expression, and he could
not get it out of his mind. What if she
had followed it up by leaving him and
Hoplands for good?

Another breakfast without Fan. It

was not so cheerless as the previous one,
because the servant did her best to atone
for it by providing for her master's comfort.
But she could not supply Fan's
cheery presence, or make the breakfast-table
ring with her laughter and jests.
Tom poured out the tea, and failed properly
to replenish the pot, upon which
his father commented much to the glorification
of Fan. The dogs were dejected,
and whined for their friend, while the
starving birds pecked at the window-sill
in vain.

She will be back by the first train,
Rolf,' said Mr. Harton, patting the
retriever's curly head. ' I wish you would
go and meet it, Tom, and shoal the poor
child that you bear her no ill-will.'

As Tom wanted to relieve his conscience
somehow, he finished his breakfast and
went. As he passed the Park gates,
Mr. Aspenelel drove out. He stopped his
brougham, and beckoned him in, asking

if he were going to town. Tom explained,
and, as Mr. Aspenelel had heard nothing of
Fan's disappearance, Tom was obliged to
recount it. He did not think it necessary
to tell his own share in the event.

I hope she will never come back,*
said Mr. Aspenelel. ' One pest the less in
the parish. Your father should not encourage
such vagabonds. One has enough
to do to keep going without extraneous
influences.'

You are quite right, Mr. Aspenelel,' said
Tom, who always agreed with the millionaire,
having an eye to the future.

Tom saw Mr. Aspenelel off, and waited
until the London train came in. Being,
like his father, tolerably sure that Fan
would appear, he stood preparing what he
should say to her, and how he should best
temper reproof with expression of pleasure
at her return. He really hoped to see her,
for he dreaded lest his participation in her
absence might get wind.

VOL. II. F

His hopes Avere baseless, for the train
steamed up, and no Fan got out of it.
How could he face his father with the
news ? A thought struck him ; he would
telegraph to Fan's friend, Margaret Fallon,
and wait for an answer. He did so at
once. She lived quite near the station,
and the answer could not be long incoming.
He paid for a return telegram
to expedite it, and addressed it to Miss
Fallon. He had never before spent so long
a quarter-of-an-hour. He paced up and
down in the cold ; he went into the small
waiting-room to warm himself; he made
inquiries of the station-master concerning
Fan ; he questioned the porter ; he got
through the interval somehow. The reply
came at last.

'Not been here. — M. Fallon to T. Harton'
Revulsion of feelings are strange anomalies.
Tom had never before believed in
them. He had a set code of laws and
opinions, which were, in his own estimation,

unchangeable as those of the Modes
and Persians. He had alway's considered
Fan an interloper to be got rid of; now he
would have sacrificed much to get her back
again. How should he go to his father?
Like Rolf, with his tail between his legs,'
he thought, grimly. He met his father,
who was alarmed at his prolonged absence,
and could not rest indoors.

Not come ! AVhat can have happened ?
She will be back by the next train,' said
Mr. Harton.

She is not at the Gallons,' said Tom.

The responsibility is yours. She must
have run away from you, Tom,' remarked
Mr. Harton, despairingly.

Impossible, father. But you will not
allow so unlikely a suspicion to transpire.
I will use every effort to find her, provided
the blame of her disappearance is
not thrust on my shoulders. We have had
these quarrels and disputes ever since I

f2

can remember, and she always held her
own.'

^ I am not likely to befoul my own nest.
The first thing to do is to find the Tigress.
Set about it ; you are younger than I.'

They reached Hoplands, Which they both
entered, hopeless and dispirited.

CHAPTER V.

THE BALL AT THE Park.

Days passed on, and there was no trace of
Fan. Christmas came and went, and the
bright spirit that had done much towards
making it ' happy ' in the past was absent
from Roselands. Everybody lamented and
sought her, but nobody found her. The
young people at the Park were especially
demonstrative in their regrets, and questioned
Tom incessantly about her when he
appeared there. Mrs. Aspenelel, who was
not interested in Fan, declared herself
'sick of the subject,' and at last it was
discontinued in her presence. But not
even Twelfth Night, with its festivities,

could divert it from the minds of Edith
and Janet.

^ I wish it was all over ; I shall have no
pleasure in it,' said Janet, on the eve of
the eventful day. 'Not that poor Fan
would have been here, but she would have
been sharing our amusement in spirit. She
was so unselfish. I feel sure some fancied
idea of right took her away.'

It has to do with the gipsies, and Mrs.
Lee knows more than she allows,' replied
Edith. ' It seems quite wrong to have
this great party and poor Mr. Harton in so
much anxiety about Fan, and dear Miss
Lome just buried.'

'She was nearly a hundred, and what
else could one expect?' said Janet, philosophically.
' Besides, poor old Rebecca
will marry now. But the Ladies have
written to decline — all but Aunt Glanville,
who has promised to come on my account.
I tormented her into it.'

I wish it was all over !' sighed Edith.

I dislike gaiety, and papa is in such
trouble about the expense that he and
Mrs. Aspenelel do nothing but quarrel.'

Between ourselves, Edith, my dislike
to her has turned into pity. I am sure
she is very unhappy, and no one but Tom
Harton and Bruce interest her. She is
fond of you, in a way, and she and I get
on better than I expected ; still, she only
tolerates us, and I am afraid she hates *

Oh, Janet, don't say that. Of course
papa and she are ill-suited, but he is her
husband !'

More's the pity, Edith. I never mean
to marry. One is better off superannuated
at the Cottages ; and if papa is eventually
ruined, as he threatens, I can saint and
teach till I get old, then prevail on some
future owner of the Park, or a remote Lord
Beechton, to nominate me.'

The dresses have arrived from London,
loves, and Mrs. Aspenelel wants you in her
room to try them on,' here broke in Nurse

True. ^ Remember the text, " A meek and
quiet spirit," and don't be carried away by
fine clothes.'

And I've got a new suit of black velvet
and point lace, and black silk stockings,
mammy says,' shouted Bruce, who had
followed Nurse True.

The girls found Mrs. Aspenelel and her
French maid, Pauline, inspecting what appeared
to them a wardrobe of smart clothes.
They had all come from an expensive and
fashionable modiste's, and must have cost a
fortune, if Mr. Aspenelel could be prevailed
upon to pay the bill. There was a crimson
or ' crushed strawberry ' velvet for Mrs.
Aspenelel, the black velvet suit for Bruce,
and there were two elegant, fluffy, be-flowered
and beribboned white dresses for
Edith and Janet. The wild roses with
which they were adorned were chosen as
equally becoming to both sisters. Indifference
to such costumes was not to be expected,
even from a Nurse True, and the

genuine pleasure of Janet and shy admiration
of Edith gratified Mrs. Aspenelel, who
had undertaken the arrangement. She
had even ordered that Janet's roses should
be of the deeper, Edith's of the paler pink,
to suit their respective complexions.

How kind of you, dear Mrs. Aspenelel !'
exclaimed Janet, involuntarily kissing her
step-mother, who smiled rather sadly, for it
was the first time the ' dear ' and the kiss
had ever been spontaneous.

I hope we shall not get you into
trouble,' said Edith, also involuntarily, for
she always looked for results.

'• One must risk something, Edith, and
you shall, at least, be properly introduced.
People shall not say that I keep you back
because I am afraid of being eclipsed.'

We could never eclipse you. We could
only be satellites moving about our primary,
as Mr. Stern, our lecturer, says,'
laughed Janet. ' We will all be gay and
set one another off. I wish madame were

here, and monsieur, and Maximilien. But
this dress will do for Paris, and they will
see me in it if we go there again.'

Janet forgot Fan and all else that day.
She and Bruce roamed from room to room,
enjoying the unusual stir, while Mrs. As-penes
and Edith superintended the floral
sacrifices. Happily, the master of the
mansion was away, and only returned intime
to dress and receive his guests.

He seemed perfectly satisfied with everything,
and looked with unusual satisfaction
on his family. He could scarcely have
encountered anywhere four people better
appointed or handsomer ; and he himself
was got up with an eye to effect. He did
not disdain diamond studs or the very
finest of linen and broadcloth. As his wife
always thought, he Avould have been very
good-looking but for his eyes. For once,
however, they were ' a mutual admiration
society,' and complimented one another on
their personal appearance.

The Park was ablaze with light and astir
with attendants when carriage after carriage,
containing all the county magnates,
arrived. We have neither time nor space
to chronicle them ; suffice it to say that
Edith and Janet were duly introduced to
all, and were evidently regarded with much
admiration, the sparkling younger sister
especially. The dinner was all that could
be desired by the most fastidious, and Mrs.
Aspenelel, with Lord Beechton at her side
was in her element. Her husband also
forgot his argosies for the space allotted to
eating and drinking, and made a good
host. But dinners, be they large or small
recJiercJie or prosaic, are unromantic affairs
and Mrs. Aspenelel's was no exception.

Still, it was accounted a ' success,' and
she desired nothing more. She was determined
not to see any sword of Damocles
hanging over the feast. Edith looked shy
and perplexed beneath the fire of commonplaces
poured upon her by Mr. Launceston,

Lord Beecliton's eldest son ; but
Janet was quite at lier ease between Sir
Thomas Carney and young Preston, the
son of the richest banker in England. The
rector was the only member of the village
coterie invited to the dinner, and Edith, at
least, was longing to take refuge with Mrs.
Glanville and Gerard.

Her wish was gratified as soon as the
repast was over, for they, Tom Harton,
and innumerable other guests, came for
the subsequent dance. The large drawing-room
had been dismantled for this, and
duly prepared with linoleum and proper
accessories. Musicians had arrived from
town, and nothing: was wanting; to the
introduction into society of the Miss As-penes.
Bruce was permitted to stay up
for an hour or so, and was much fooled
by ready flatterers. Poor Nurse True was
the only one who had time to think or ask
herself, ' What is the good of all this ?'

Naturally, Edith and Janet were the

belles of the ball-room, and sought for by
all the beaux. Mrs. Aspenelel was such an
admirable hostess, however, that she contrived
they should not monopolise partners,
but that less attractive damsels should
have their share.

Let me introduce you to So-and-so,' she
said to Tom Harton, who was her obedient
slave, shrugged his shoulders, and danced
with whomsoever she commanded.

But he managed to secure Edith and
Janet during the course of the evening,
responding to their questions concerning
Fan by a melancholy shake of the head.
Mrs. Glanville and her son were amongst
the most distinguished-looking people present,
and Mrs. Aspenelel did not fail to
victimise Gerard as well as Harton. But
dances, like dinners, are all more or less
alike, and too often leave behind them
both an indigestion and a sense of disappointment.
If Janet was disappointed,
however, it was not for lack of partners or

admiration. Mr. Aspenelel was charmed to
see that not only the ' son of the richest
banker in London,' but the heir of all the
Beechtons was devoted to her. She certainly
looked magnificently handsome, and
what with her touch of coquetry and irrepressible
vivacity was almost irresistible.

Still, Edith was, perhaps, the happier,
for she fled to Mrs. Glanville whenever she
could, and Gerard hovered over her like a
brother or some protecting friend.

Why do you not come more forward,
Edith, like your sister? She carries all
before her,' startled her in her father's
voice, words whispered into her ear, but
intelligible enough.

Why did he glance suspiciously at Gerard
Glanville, who was biding his time for a
dance with her?

Lady Cheveron wishes to know you,'
added Mr. Aspenelel aloud, taking her off
to a portly dowager with several sons and
daughters.

The glance was quite intelligible both
to Gerard and his mother, who regretted
that they had not adhered to their original
resolution of declining the invitation. But
Edith did not understand it, and was much
distressed when she looked about her for
her friends to find they had left the room.
They had, indeed, quitted the gay scene
for good, and with them flitted off the
pleasure of the evening for Edith Aspenelel.

It, or more properly the morning, ended
all too soon for Janet, who was the ' admired
of all admirers.' Mrs. Aspenelel, too,
regretted when it was over, for she was
delighted to be once more in the vortex
of the society to which she was accustomed.
She and Janet, lovers of excitement,
were drawn together by this brief
interlude, while Edith seemed somehow
farther away from them than before. She
felt that her father's eyes were on her,
and that he expected more from her than
she could give. Once again he spoke to

her, and asked, rather satirically, if she
were enjoying her ' coming out,' since she
did nothing but look about her.

I am wondering what has become of
Mrs. Glanville,' she replied.

Oh ! she has left with her son. You
are too intimate with them, Edith. It is
time to give up your intercourse with the
poor ladies of the Aspenelel Homes.'

These words grated sadly upon Edith,
and she was glad when her period of probation,
or 'introduction,' was over. Nevertheless,
she was interested in watching
Janet, even while doing her best to be
agreeable to the various partners who
presented themselves.

You have scored a success, at any rate,
Janet,' said Mr. Aspenelel, as the last carriage
drove off. ' Edith is nowhere beside
you.'

Edith was much admired,' spoke up
Mrs. Aspenelel.

And a pretty penny to pay,' concluded

the father, glancing round him, as he retired
to rest.

You have made a conquest of Mr.
Launceston, Janet,' said Mrs. Aspenelel,
but the " richest banker in London "
admires Edith most. What made the
Clarvilles leave so early ?'

This was a question that neither girl
could answer, so, after a short discussion
of the successful party, the ladies followed
Mr. Aspenelel's example, and retired. Nurse
True was waiting for her darlings, having
sent their maid to bed, and was prepared
to moralise over the uncertainty of human
pleasures and pains, which Janet resented
by expatiating on the delights of balls and
beaux. But Nurse True's view of things
was soundest, to judge from what happened
that very day.

Mr. Aspenelel breakfasted alone. Even
he was late, and his womankind had not
risen. He looked moody, and even his
beloved red tape and documents failed to

VOL. II. G

interest him. He missed Edith's little
attentions, and was uttering some uncomplimentary
words when she came in, looking
paler than usual. She just touched
his cheek with her lips, and began to
arrange his papers, seeing that he had
finished breakfast.

1 meant to be in time,' she said.

Late hours make everything go wrong,'
he muttered. ' Is the carriage there ?'

Edith glanced from the window and
answered in the affirmative. He prepared
to go.

Remember what I said last night,
Edith. You must withdraw from your
intercourse with the Homes now you are
introduced into the world. It was a mistake
my letting the old ladies teach you,
as was my nominating a connection to the
charity.'

I cannot give them up, papa,' murmured
Edith ; but her father was gone
without hearing the words. 'What am I

to do ? What are we all to do ?' she said,
half aloud. 'Surely Mrs. Glanville and
Gerard are as truly gentlefolks as any who
were here last night.'

Then she sat down to breakfast and pondered
over her vexed life, and the lives of
those with whom she was associated. She
was a woman now, and she would have to
play her part in the world. What was it
to be ? She would strive to do her duty,
but how amid the perplexing elements that
surrounded her? Janet, at least, was safe
for awhile, for she was to return to school
for another twelvemonth, after which she
felt sure she would marry. She thought
with a sort of awe of the admiration she
had excited, and wondered, as girls wonder,
as to the future of this beautiful sister.
She did not dare to think of her own. She
had no desires beyond the limited sphere
of the Park, the village, and the Cottages,
and she trembled as she recalled her father's
commands. She knew that her greatest

g2

happiness was in her visits to her old
friends, and she could never, never give
them up. As to Mrs. Glanville and Gerard
relations as well as friends — it was preposterous.
Poor Edith ! She had, perhaps,
seen over-much of Gerard Glanville.

CHAPTER VI.

LOSS OF PLACE.

Gerard Glanville was at his work when
Mr. Aspenelel reached his office. He was
not surprised at receiving a summons from
his employer, because he was continually
summoning him for one cause or another,
and was looked upon by his co-employed
as a confidential agent. They were, indeed,
slightly jealous of him.

Morning, Glanville,' began Mr. Aspenelel,
who was distant or familiar as the fit took
him. 'I find I must send some one on
whom I can rely as my agent in Australia.
As you know, the American post which
you declined is filled up. If you like to

accept this and five hundred a-year, you
can have it. You must go at once.'

Gerard saw through the meaning of this
offer, as he had seen through the suspicious
look of the previous evening. He was to
be banished from the neighbourhood of
Edith.

If I could not go to America, sir, on
account of my mother, I could scarcely
leave her for a more distant continent ; but
I am not the less obliged to you for the
offer,' he returned, cautiously, but with an
insensible haughtiness.

'Then, as you decline all my proposals
of advancement, perhaps you had better
seek employment elsewhere,' said Mr. As-penes,
frigidly, avoiding Gerard's look.

I was not aware that I had offended
you,' replied Gerard.

That is not the question. 1 offer you
advancement, and have a person ready to
fill your place here, if you accept my offer.

You decline, and are therefore superseded

'That seems arbitrary, sir. I have
served you honestly, and, to the best of
my knowledge, have done nothing to
deserve dismissal.'

'You refuse to oblige me and take an
influential post ; I can no longer oblige
you by retaining sou in this.'

It would scarcely be an obligation,
since I have worked early and late in your
service ; but of course, if you wish to get
rid of me, I have no more to say. The
man Loveridge put this letter into my
hands this morning, with a request that I
would deliver it to you. Am I to consider
myself dismissed from your office ?'

'You are, unless you consent to go to
Australia.'

'Mr. Aspenelel, I am my mother's only
child. I cannot leave her. She is provided
for, thanks to your nomination,
though I had hoped soon to be enabled to

ask her to live with me, so as to open her
present home to another as necessitous as
she was.'

'And how did you expect to manage
this ? Not on two hundred a-year !'

'No, but on three, which I thought it
possible to rise to in your good time.'

There was the slightest breath of sarcasm
in these last words, and Mr. Aspenelel
felt it. He was turning over the letter
Gerard had given him, and wondering
whether the young man contemplated
marrying Edith, and so rising from comparative
penury to affluence. But the
concluding sentence baffled him. Parsimony
and suspicion go hand in hand, and
he could not comprehend Gerard's unselfish
devotion and openness. He put
forth another feeler.

On five hundred a-year you could take
your mother with you to Australia, since
you value her present abode so lightly.
I would advance her passage-money, which

you could repay at your leisure ; yours, of
course, I should defray.'

I could not put the bait before her, sir,
because I know she would swallow it, if
she thought it was for my good. Had I
only myself to consider, I would not hesitate
— for it matters little to me where I
live — but I could not uproot my mother.'

Mr. Aspenelel frowned, and hastily broke
open the letter, as if touched by what
Gerard said. When he had read it, Gerard
asked if he could be of any further service
as go-between. He did not use that word,
but he added,

The man Loveridge looks in better condition
than when I saw him last, and I
mistook him for a gentleman when he
spoke to me. He said he had changed his
lodgings, but that Wharf Court would still
find him any evening between now and
tomorrow week. After that date he should
probably be out of England, if you consented
to his claim.'

I neither can nor will consent to it,
and, if you see him again, you may tell
him so.'

Mr. Aspenelel struck the table with his
clenched fist, and appeared much exasperated.


I am not likely to see him again, unless
I can be of service to you as your
ambassador. I should be glad to do the
poor fellow a good turn, for I think he is
more his own enemy than any one else's.'

'How have you found that out, Mr.
Glanville ? Have you been tampering with
his secrets ?'

No ; I merely have had a talk with the
inmates of Wharf Court now and again,
and he declared himself anxious to turnover
a ncAv leaf, if he had the chance.
Many a sad reprobate would try to begin
a new life if opportunity offered; and,
thanks to nineteenth-century philanthropy,
it does offer now and then. But I am
taking up your time, sir. Am I to consider

myself dismissed from your service ?
And, if so, how lon^^ may I remain ?'

Until you have secured another situation.
But I advise you to think over my
proposal as regards Australia, and to lay it
before your mother.'

Gerard withdrew, and it would be difficult
to say whether he or Mr. Aspenelel
were the most perplexed by the result of
the interview. Both found their work difficult,
but Gerard's brain was clear, for he
had slept after his unusual dissipation ;
whereas Mr. Aspenelel's was clouded by wine,
sleeplessness, and many of the worries that
grow out of riches.

They did not meet again that day. As
soon as Gerard's work was done, and he
had made himself presentable, he resolved
to go at once to Lady Ascham's. He had
paid her frequent visits since they met in
the train, as recorded in a previous chapter,
and she would have overwhelmed him
with work had he not assured her that he

had already as much as lie could manage.
He had the rare gift of common-sense, and,
while wishful to devote his spare time to
the good of his fellow-creatures, would not
borrow what he could never repay, i.e.^
hours from the future. He never crammed
into one day's work enough for two, and
thus contrived to keep brain manageable
and temper equable.

Gerard found Lady Ascham alone but for
her big Persian cat sleeping on her lap.
She had dined, and welcomed him warmly.
She had taken a fancy to him, and he had
found her ready to sympathise in his plans
while she demanded sympathy in her own.
He was glad of the strong coffee that came
in soon after he did, and which she assured
him would keep him awake, if anything
would.

I always doze after dinner till I drink
it, and then I am able to resume work,' she
said. ' I suppose you were up all night.

I couldn't go to the Aspenelel festivities,
though my friend Mrs. As]Denel offered mea
bed. I am overdone with work, and am
looking for a secretary.'

Will you accept me pro tern., Lady Ascham
? I am about to leave Mr. Aspenelel's
office.'

Lady Ascham looked amazed, inquired,
and Gerard told her what had happened.

Are you wise to throw up your position
and all your prospects ?' she asked.

I scarcely know, but I cannot leave
my mother. She has sacrificed everything
for me, and I would not unsettle her for
the world,' he answered.

It would be zjifra dig. for su ch a young
man as you to be secretary to a faddy old
woman like me ; and I should torment you
out of your life. I want somebody who
^vill manage my personal affairs as well as
my philanthropies, which my friends are
kind enough to say Avill be my ruin. Indeed,

they have got so muddled up that I
scarcely know what belongs to me and
what to the public'

Lady Ascham laughed the genial laugh
that always delighted Gerard.

Perhaps I could disentangle the web
he said, joining in it.

In my person, you would have to be
honorary secretary to a hundred societies ;
patroness of all the hospitals ; canvasser
for elections to homes innumerable ; almoner
to beggars of every denomination ;
visitor to all sorts of outcasts.'

I should like it,' said Gerard, enthusiastically.


You would be asked to take my place
as platform orator, and specified at teas
and suppers ; for, to the scandal of my
relations, I have come before the public
in that line. After all, it is more honourable
than the line some of them have taken.
I have actually a titled cousin on the stage,
acting for money under a feigned name.

and lots of 'ein singing, and writing, and
painting for gain. I tell 'em that they
take the bread out of the mouths of hundreds
of respectable people, who come tome
for charity because they are superseded
by a crowd of apes. I beg their
pardon for strong language.'

I think I could help you, Lady
Ascham.'

'But my affairs, Mr. Glanville. I haven't
looked into them for ages, and I am afraid
I have overdrawn my account at my
bankers.'

My training at Mr. Aspenelel's, and my
work among the poor might help me to be
of use to you. At any rate, I should be
glad to try until you can get a more suitable
person, and I another post.'

• Agreed. When will you come ? What
is your present salary?'

Two hundred a-year.'

Is that all ? I can manage to continue
it, and, as you will not, I think, be wanted

here all the clay, you may find other work
elsewhere.'

Oh ! Lady Ascham. You have indeed
taken a weight from my mind. I am
truly grateful to you, and so will be my
mother.'

I had a son once,' said Lady Ascham,
holding out her hand to Gerard, ' and it
was to fill my mind, made vacant by his
and my husband's loss, that I undertook
more work than I can manage. You will
help me in all ways.'

Gerard took the offered hand, and
inwardly vowed to do his best to aid and
comfort one who had so nobly striven.

It was late when Gerard got home to his
lodging in the old close. Nevertheless he
was accosted on its doorstep by a man
whom he found to be the Loveridge concerning
whom Mr. Aspenelel appeared to be
in so much perplexity.

Any answer to my missive ?' he asked,
abruptly.

Mr. Aspenelel says he neither can nor
Avill do what you ask,' replied Gerard.
But why do you persecute him ? Can I
be of any use to you ?'

No one can be of use to me but Aspenelel,
and he can and shall. And I know no one
but you to whom I can apply as mediator
said Loveridge.

I fear what chance you had with me is
gone. I am to leave his service shortly,*
returned Gerard.

Not on my account ? Not because you
have taken my letters to him ?' asked the
man, with some agitation.

No. You have nothing to do with it.
But I shall at least see him tomorrow, and
will take another message if you have anything
important to say.'

Tell him that it will be worse for him
and his if he does not comply with my
request. I wonder that he isn't glad to
get rid of me. But, to be sure, he has
been quit of me so often and I have turned

VOL. II. H

sup again, that he is tired of the effort.
One always " returns to one's first love,"
as the French say, ha, ha !'

Are you Wandering Will ?' asked
Gerard, doubtfully.

I am Wandering Loveridge, if you will ;
but I am not acquainted with the gentleman
you mention,' replied Loveridge, whose
clean-shaven face and almost gentlemanlike
dress proved the truth of his words.

Had you not better speak to Mr. As-penes
yourself? I dislike working in the
dark, and shall find a difficulty now even
in delivering your message.'

You see, Mr. Glanville, that wee both
believe in you, because you are honest.
Pity Diogenes hadn't known you ; he
wouldn't have needed his lanthorn. This
is a cool, sequestered spot, ha, ha ! No
chance of bobbies, so I will be here on
Monday night at half-past ten, in case you
should have anything to say.'

Gerard was about to reply, but the man

was gone. He was not sorry, for, brave ashe
was naturally and accustomed to strange
characters, he did not feel at ease with this
nondescript gentleman in that very quiet
corner. The close was well-named, and
always suggested closure to Gerard ; for,
when the great warehouses were shut up,
there was no stir, and, save in his lodging,
neither light nor life. But he liked it, and
was wont to think of the time when it was
probably filled with church dignitaries
instead of bales of goods, waggons, and
carts. At the moment the moon and stars
Avere looking down upon it from a cold,
clear sky, and might have wondered at the
strange peace of this enclosure, in the
great, throbbing, tumultuous heart of
bustling, noisy, awful London.

He had a latch-key, and let himself into
the one inhabited house of the close.
Pottle was a sort of caretaker, and his wife
also took care of sundry ' young gentlemen,'
who lodged or boarded with her, in

H 2

the tall house, once, as she expressed it, ' a
genteel dwelling.'

Among these were Gerard, in whose room
a fire was still alight. He stirred it up,
put on more coal, and sat over it, meditating
on his change of prospects, and unmindful
of the diminished contents of his
scuttle.' It was bitterly cold ; but still
he sat on and on, ruminating. The more
he thought, the more certain he became
that this change was due to Edith Aspenelel.
Would she be henceforth as a stranger to
him, and should he thus lose sight of one
of the lights of his life ? Why, oh why,
had he allowed himself to think so much of
her?

CHAPTER VII.

A MESSAGE FOR EDITH.

The frame of mind in which Mr. Aspenelel
returned to the bosom of his family was
anything but auspicious. He found everything
still topsy-turvy, and, being in a bad
temper, he retired to his own particular
den as soon as he had swallowed his dinner.
He was an inveterate smoker, and, while
Gerard was ruminating in his close, he
was meditating on him, Loveridge, the expenses
of party-giving, Edith, and the
manifold responsibilities of money, cigar in
mouth, and some mixture stronger than
water at his side.

At breakfast the following morning he

appeared unusually brisk, and, instead of
diving into this papers, he entered into
conversation with his wife and daughters.
They discussed the party, and he seemed
interested in the details and results.

Everybody said it was a great success
remarked his wife.

It certainly was, if the flowing of champagne
and the consumption of all the good
things you managed to gather together is
a proof of it,' he replied. ' You won't mind
getting in the bills at once, as I should
like to know how much it all cost.'

'• Certainly,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, who was
expecting this.

It was worth anything to see people
enjoy themselves so thoroughly,' put in
Janet. * Lady Beechton said it was the
most delightful party she was ever at.'

Mr. Aspenelel smiled.

How much longer should Janet remain
at school, Mrs. Aspenelel?' he asked. ' When
are the holidays over ?'

Some little discussion ensued between
Mrs. Aspenelel and Janet, which ended in
Mr. Aspenelel clinching it by expressing his
opinion that one year more would render
Janet quite accomplished, and that she had
better go back to the day.

Oh ! I am quite ready, papa,' said
Janet, cheerfully. ' Then I can have
another season in Paris, and go on with my
painting.'

Then that is settled. So, of course, is
Edith's education. She has quite finished,
and need have no further teaching, Mrs.
Aspenelel. Now she is introduced, she must
give up the village and frequent the neighbourhood.
We will accept those invitations
to Beechton and Ashley Park, and enter
more into society.'

Thank you. We shall all be glad,' said
the Avise, wondering what was the secret of
these concessions.

Oh, papa ! I dislike gaiety and new
people,' said Edith, involuntarily.

You must overcome your dislike. You
must mix with people in your own rank
of life. You have been allowed too much
liberty.'

Poor Edith looked distressed, but said
nothing ; Mrs. Aspenelel spoke for her. She
said that hitherto she had been restricted
to the immediate neighbours, but that she
would soon get accustomed to other society.
Edith was sure she never should,
but she did not venture to say so.

what does it all mean ?' she asked, asher
father left the room, and descended
the grand staircase.

That Janet is to be the future Lady
Beechton, and that you are to find some
other embryo lord as soon as it can be
managed,' replied her step-mother.

These " good intentions " make papa
quite agreeable,' laughed Janet, watching
him as he got into his brougham.

He did not feel as agreeable as he
seemed, and soon relapsed into his usual

contemplative condition. Inward, not outward,
contemplation was his normal state,
and in those precincts which he devoted to
this abstraction were gathered at the moment
Gerard, Loveridge, Wandering Will,
and others, to say nothing of the family
party he left behind. But the masculine
element prevailed over the feminine, and
he began to wonder what he should do
without Gerard, in more ways than one.
He was obliged to confess that he was a
most valuable aid to him. His ambition
was, however, more important than his
clerk, and he had resolved that his girls
should make grand matches, and not run
the chance of losing their hearts to inferior
people. He could not be rid of Loveridge
so easily ; and his mind darkened when he
thought of him.

He did not see Gerard for some hours
after he reached town. He was too proud
or too weak to summon him, and had a
sort of hope that he would see his way to

fortune by going to Australia. But he
was disabused when Gerard came to his
office and began the subject so near both
their hearts.

'You were so good as to say, sir, that I
might remain in my present position until
I was assured of another,' he said. 'Lady
Ascham has been so kind as to offer me
the post of secretary, and I have accepted
it. I shall be ready to leave you whenever
you think fit.'

Mr. Aspenelel uttered an exclamation not
very complimentary to Lady Ascham, and
inquired if Gerard had not enough old
women already, to jet and be petted by,
without adding another to the list.

I have no choice, sir. You fill my
place, because I cannot fall in with your
wish that I should go to Australia ; and
Lady Ascham proposes that I should work
for her. I look on this as a Divine interposition.'


Nonsense. Are you to live with her?'

That has not been mooted. I suppose
I shall continue my present routine, which
is what I most wish.'

Aspenelel felt utterly circumvented. He
would lose Gerard, and still not be rid of
him.

I thought you had higher aspirations
than to submit to the whims of a woman.
Private secretary to a Lady Ascham means
that you will be a drudge to every philanthropic
movement — as they call it — in and
out of London.'

I shall at least be of some use.'

'You will be able to preach and pray to
your heart's content. You will have all
the vagabonds of London at your feet.
What of Loveridge ?'

This sudden transition stayed an irritable
rejoinder on Gerard's lips, and caused
him to deliver the man's message as calmly
as he could. It had not so salutary an

effect on Aspenelel. He used some strong
language before he resumed, and was evidently
in a passion when he said,

Tell him to come to me tomorrow at
ten. I see I must settle him myself You
say he looks respectable ?'

'Yes. I thought him a gentleman.
His manner is good, and his language
that of a man of education.'

He is a consummate fool — a ne'er-do-well
in whom I was interested years ago,
and who won't let me alone. Did he
confide in you ?'

No ; I know nothing of him.'

You have come in for two of my hetes-
noires — Wandering Will and this Love-ridge.
You will, perhaps, keep your interviews
with them secret, as one doesn't
care to have one's charities talked about,
you know.'

Gerard restrained an expression of amused
surprise, and promised secrecy. Then

he inquired when it would suit Mr. Aspenelel
to let him leave.

*Not at present : certainly not at present
; though your successor will begin, as
you did, at a nominal salary. What does
Lady Ascham give you ?'

What I receive from you, sir. Two
hundred a-year.'

'And you might have five, if you had
any courage, and were not witch-ridden.'

Gerard thought of his mother and Edith
and felt that the strong term was not
altogether inapplicable, for he was certainly
bewitched.'

• I will stay here till Lady Ascham wants
me,' he said ; and, not liking the expression
of Aspen el's face, devoutly hoped it
would be soon.

That evening, being Saturday, he was
with his mother. He had not written to
her, preferring to keep the events of the
last few days for verbal repetition. She

was naturally alarmed at first by his disclosures
; but when lie learnt that she was
not to lose him, but that he would probably
be more with her under the new than
the old regime she was consoled. He told
her all, and she tried to urge him to accept
the Australian post, but, in doing so, broke
down.

Do not fear that I shall ever leave you,
dearest mother,' he said. ' We have enough
for our daily wants ; let it suffice.'

He has led us hitherto, and will lead us
on,' said Mrs. Glanville, looking up ; ^ but
I fear there is trial before you, Gerard.'

You mean Edith, dear mother. I have
never said a word to her that her father
might not have heard. Still, there was no
mistaking his look and manner. She had
only taken refuge with you, mother, like a
white mouse, as Janet calls her ; and I
know not what she will think of my leaving
without the dance she promised me.
But it is best for her. The man must bea

villain indeed who would cause her pain.'

Mrs. Glanville looked at her son. They
were, as usual, side by side on the small
couch, which was drawn up to the fire, and
the extreme cold of the outer world was
excluded as much as possible from the
small room by thick curtains, and such
contrivances of Gerard's as could protect
her from the frosty atmosphere.

'You love her,' she said, taking his
hand.

'Yes, mother. I have loved her long,
and always known it was hopeless,' he
replied.

They were silent. His secret, if it were
one, was the only one that existed between
them, and, now it was revealed, no cloud
obscured their perfect confidence.

This, like all the events of our lives, is
in safer hands than ours,' she said at last.

I know it, mother, and leave it to
God's guidance. I can bear so long as she
is happy; and she will not suspect the

reason of her father's change or why I
must henceforth be all but a stranger to
her. It was apparent on that hateful evening
that she and Janet may command the
county. How despicable is this craze for
wealth ! I am glad that I am to be taken
from the contemplation of Mr. Aspenelel's
millions to Lady Ascham's treasury for the
poor.

But not in bitterness of spirit, my son,'
said Mrs. Glanville, as Gerard's fine face was
shadowed.

I hope not, mother ; I will do my very
best. Has anything been heard of Fan ?'

Mrs. Glanville understood the sudden
change of subject. Not even she could
entirely share the feelings of one suddenly
brought face to face with love, ambition,
and avarice. She told him that poor Fan
was still a mystery, and that Mr. Harton
was in a state of great anger and excitement
about her. He attributed her disappearance
to his son Tom's animosity, and

offered all he possessed to anyone who
should find her. But Mrs. Glanville was
of opinion that there was some romance
at the bottom of the girl's flight, though
what she could not imagine, since no one
gave her credit for caring for anyone but
her friend Jack.

Mother and son talked on, discussing
many things, until it was time for Gerard
to go to the rectory, where a room was
always kept prepared for him. The embrace
and the ' God bless you !' were even
more emphatic than usual, for an involuntary
depression over-shadowed them.
But Mr. Austen's warm, fatherly welcome
roused Gerard to present duties, and he
was soon involved in parish gossip. He
and the vicar sat up late, but he had not
the courage to mention the change in his
circumstances.

Sunday dawned brightly on a frost-bound
world. His spirits revived in the exhilarating
country atmosphere, and when he

VOL. II. I

looked out upon the icicles pendant from
eaves and trees, and the glorious sun shining
through them and transforming them
into jewels, his hopes rose with the changes
of nature. The coldest, hardest world
revives beneath the sunshine, and the
coldest, hardest heart melts beneath God's
love. He breakfasted with Mr. Austen,
and accompanied him to the school. Edith
was there, and Janet was taking Fan's
class. He did not himself teach, but waited
while the vicar opened the school with
the customary prayer, then left it with him
and went to his mother. He fancied that
Edith smiled at him as he passed her class
but had no opportunity of speaking to her.

So best,' he thought, with a sigh of regret
and mortification. Janet — beautiful,
resolute Janet — nodded, and arrested him
a moment to say she wanted to speak to
him.

I will come in after church,' she said.

She did so, and poured out a flood of
reproaches as rapidly as possible.

Why did you run away the other evening,
Gerard? It was most unkind, and weare
all offended. If Aunt Glanville was
bored, you might have remained. I am
sure Edith was hurt, for she told me you
were engaged to dance with her, and you
left without even an apology.'

Your father carried her off, Janet,'
broke in Mrs. Glanville, for Gerard said
nothing.

• But he ought to have waited, aunt. /
shouldn't have cared, but Edith did. Anyone
mays neglect me, but it is wicked to be
unkind to Edith, for she never asserts herself.
When I come home for good I shall
be of some use, for I mean to fight her
battles as well as my own. May I take
her a message from you, Gerard ?'

You may say that it was not my fault
that I left so abruptly, and I am sure she

i2

will believe me said Gerard, as if measuring
his words.

You are as cold as the outside frost ;
and yet you are the most warm-hearted of
cousins,' cried Janet. * Can't you send a
kinder message than that ? You, who
have known Edith so long, and must love
her almost as well as Nurse True and I do.
I wonder if all men are as provoking as
papa, you, and Mr. Tom Harton. What if
Edith were to run away, like Fan ? If
all the men in the world were to lecture
me, I shouldn't mind.'

Bravo, Janet ! When you come to
these straits, I will be your champion. But
has anyone been lecturing you — or — or
Miss Aspenelel ?'

papa has been bothering Edith. He
tells her that she must make new acquaintances
and give up the old, and she is
miserable. Why, she would rather potter
about here at the Cottages than visit all
the lords and ladies from England to the

Zenanas. But I must go. Do give me a
kind message for Edith ! Send lier your
love, or something.'

His love ! Poor fellow, he would gladly
have sent that, though not through Janet,
but he knew that duty forbade all interchange
of sentiment. His mother, looking
from him to Janet, spoke for him.

Dear child, there are circumstances in
life which forbid heart speaking to heart,
or even the free interchange of friendship.
I am sure there is no one that Gerard esteems
more highly than Edith, and this you may
venture to tell her ; but your father has
his reasons for what he has said to her, and
we are in no condition to gainsay them.
Take care that the same restrictions are
not laid on you.'

I should break through them. What
is the good of growing up if we are to
throw off all we love, and dress ourselves
up in all we hate. I shall give Edith
aunt's message verbatim, Gerard ; only I

shall change that awful word "esteem,"
into the more natural one 'love." Mr.
Austen has just said in his sermon that we
should all " Love one another," and I am
sure no one listened more profoundly than
papa ; and I know he wasn't asleep. Goodbye.'


Janet !^ Janet !' exclaimed Mrs. Glanville
and Gerard, but the light-spirited, warmhearted
girl was gone.

CHAPTER VIII.

A QUARREL.

This is absolute ruin ! What fortune
could stand this ? Hundreds and thousands
squandered to no purpose. A hundred
and fifty pounds for a milliner's bill ;
chef band, champagne, claret, waiters, carpenters,
red cloth, linoleum, incandescent
lights, flowers, ice, travelling expenses,
fish, poultry, every kind of kickshaw
French and English, butcher's bill, baker's,
enormous expenditure of cream and butter,
and all to introduce two daughters !
Then, servants' wages, and general household
expenses, school bill, horses — new
riding horse for Edith — tutor, repair of

Homes — Lord B. shall do that — glasshouses,
gardens, lodges, etc., etc., etc., all
on the shoulders of one man ! I can't pay,
and I won't.'

Thus soliloquised Mr. Aspenelel, seated in
his private room, with a shower of bills
covering the table before him. He got up,
paced the room, ran his fingers through his
hair, and resumed :

These enormous losses, too, will ruin
me ! All the clerks to be paid in town,
and no one to be depended upon since
Glanville left. All the farce of charity,
just to seem well with the world. Anxieties
at home and abroad ; everything
depreciating ; Funds low, trade ruined, the
mercantile world going to destruction ;
earthquakes here, explosions there, collisions
of ships everywhere. Turn which
way I will, I am attacked. The forces of
nature are against me, and I have no one
who cares whether I am ruined or not —
not even my wife — no one but, perhaps,

Edith. Yet I am reckoned one of the
richest men in the world. A mistake that;
I am far behind some of those Americans ;
but I shall be farther still if this goes
on

He rang the bell violently, and, when it
was answered, told the man to ask Mrs.
Aspenelel if she would be so good as to spare
him a few minutes' conversation. He was
always particular not to let his domestics
into his secrets, public or private. He sat
down again, and suddenly remembered that
he had left Tom Harton with his wife and
Edith, and wished he had not summoned
Mrs. Aspenelel. But she came, almost before
the wish had expired. He rose and placed
a chair for her. He was, or tried to be,
scrupulously polite.

I have been looking over these accounts,
Mrs. Aspenelel,' he began, in his driest manner,
' and I find them preposterous. There
are many — the milliner's bills especially —
that I positively decline to pay.'

Then I fear they must remain unpaid,'
replied his wife, for * neither I nor your
daughters have the money. I merely
ordered such things as were necessary for
the occasion, and I believe you requested
that no expense should be spared.'

In [moderation, Mrs. Aspenelel. This is
immoderate, and you will not understand
that I am on the verge of ruin.' He spoke
impressively.

You have been on the verge ever since
I knew you ; I wonder you haven't lost your
equilibrium,' she said, with her most provoking
manner.

And she could be provoking. She had
been bracing up her mind for this discussion,
which she expected, and had
resolved neither to be frightened nor yielding.
It had taken some time to get in all
the bills, but she had not submitted them
piecemeal to her husband, lest she should
have to go through multiplied reproaches.
During the interim, winter was vanishing

beneath the green skirts of spring, and
Janet had again left home for school.

If you will kindly draw nearer me, and
give me your attention. I can show you
what I mean by impending ruin he said,
mastering temper.

She obeyed, and they sat side-beside,
the bills outspread before them. She knew
very well that she had far exceeded the
absolute necessities of an entertainment,
but she had been so long kept down that
she had rebelled, and ignored consequences.
As he went through item after item of the
complicated accounts with iron will and
steel-cold voice, she acknowledged to herself
that had he been an ordinary mortal
she should have considered them rather
excessive ; but, as he was a millionaire, a
few hundreds more or less could not matter.
Besides, she had taken a naughty
pleasure in heaping up the items. Not
only before but since the party she had
taken carte blanche, and filled in the white

sheet according to her fancy. Edith and
Nurse True had looked on in terror ; Janet
had rejoiced. Indeed, Janet's high spirits
and the effect she had produced in the
neighbourhood encouraged her step-mother
in her efforts at emancipation. Without
being absolutely in collusion, they worked
together to enjoy the passing moment.

One cannot introduce two singularly
attractive girls into society and keep up
the ball without flagging, as we have done,
and not pay for it, Mr. Aspenelel,' she said,
as he pointed to the milliner's bills. ' The
same dresses cannot reappear at different
places, and, as you know, we have been
inundated with invitations. I never saw
a girl make such a success as Janet, and,
if she is to finish up by a grand match,
one cannot consider pounds, shillings, and
pence.'

One must, Mrs. Aspenelel,' he rejoined ;
but he smiled with a sort of grim satisfaction
at the mention of Janet's successes.

He knew very well that all her fascinations
and Edith's gentler charms would
have been displayed in vain but for the
probable golden accompaniments ; that is
to say, would have made no effect upon the
multitude.

Everyone remarks upon the good looks
of the children,' she said, presuming on
the smile. ' As to Bruce, people think him
like you ; but I cannot see it. He resembles
my family.'

Married people are said to grow alike,'
he rejoined, with a sarcastic inflection of
voice.

I hope not,' was on her lips, but she
restrained it.

Time would be lost were we to recapitulate
all that passed between this ill-assorted
pair ; but Mrs. Aspenelel's determination to
hold her own only incensed her husband,
and they quarrelled as they had never
done before. His temper was violent, hers
was also hot, recrimination succeeded to

anger, abuse to recrimination. Such scenes
are awful in themselves, and best un-chronicled.
When men and women lose
self-control and become indifferent to results,
humanity is degraded to brutality ;
and this not only in the uneducated and
unrefined, but in the cultured and outwardly
polished. That root of all evil,
money, is, in one way or another, frequently
the cause of such degradation,
and those who worship it must not complain
if the relish of life is tainted by
metallic flavour.

The lesson was effectually learnt in that
oak-ceiled room, near the paper-strewn
table. The clenched fist and set features
of the gold worshipper frightened his wife,
who got up in terror and went to the door.
He followed her, infuriated, and what the
demon within him might have done, had
she not succeeded in opening the door and
escaping, neither he nor she ever knew.

While this domestic drama was being:

played, Edith and Tom Harton were left
alone. He did his best to amuse and interest
her, as he had the gift of doing, but,
as time sped on, Edith grew alarmed.

Something must be wrong,' she said.

Probably only a little money difference,'
he suggested. 'When I left Mr. Aspenelel
this afternoon, his table was covered with
bills.'

Papa always looks into his accounts on
Saturdays, when he comes home early,' she
replied, not liking the allusion which had
escaped him.

A few minutes afterwards Mrs. Aspenelel
came in. She had paused a moment to
recover herself, and had so far mastered
her terror as to enable her to apologise for
her lengthened absence. But she looked
so pale, stern, and angry that it was evident
the words ' money difference ' were
not far wrong. Edith was frightened ;
Tom Harton wished good-night.

If I can be of any use, you will command

me,' he said to Mrs. Aspenelel, in a
low, confidential tone, and to Edith — 'I
shall not fail to bring you that song.' To
himself he muttered in the hall, ' Climax
at last.'

'What is the matter? What has happened?'
asked Edith, when they were left
alone.

Come to my room and I will tell you.
Your father !' was all Mrs. Aspenelel could
say.

She ran upstairs, Edith after her. When
they reached her room, she locked the
door, and fell, half-fainting, on a couch ;
then went into hysterics.

Edith calmed her by degrees. Then
she broke out in passionate exclamations.

It is this odious money. He would
have knocked me down had I not escaped.
He 'still kill me. I will not see him again.
Sacrificed to Moloch. My prospects and
life have been ruined ; and for what ? For
an idea — the fancy that money could buy

happiness. Edith, don't let him sacrifice
you. I have not done my duty by you
and Janet, but I warn you now ; take
example by me. I am the most miserable
woman in the world.'

Can you not look beyond this world,
dear Mrs. Aspenelel?' said Edith. 'We
shall be surely guided if we ask for
guidance.'

I am past that, Edith. But leave me
now, and send Pauline. If your father
asks for me, say I am gone to bed ; say, if
you will, that I will never see him again ;
say that he may keep his own house, pay his
own bills, receive his own guests ; say '

*That you are his wife, dear, and will
talk over these worries tomorrow, or, at
least, Monday,' put in Edith, soothingly.
A quiet Sunday will soften papa, and perhaps
let you see things differently.'

'His wife ! impossible !' exclaimed Mrs.
Aspenelel, breaking out into a strange laugh,
followed by a burst of tears.

VOL. II. K

Eclitli put her arms round her, but failed
to soothe her. There was a tap at the door.

Admit no one but Pauline,' she said.

It was Nurse True, who came to say that
Mr. Aspenelel was inquiring for Edith.

Let Nurse True come in while I go,'
pleaded Edith. 'She will know exactly
what to say and do.'

Without waiting for permission, she
beckoned Mrs. Trueman in and slipped
away. She found her father awaiting her
in the drawing-room.

Where is Mrs. Aspenelel ?' he asked, and
his look was tierce, his voice harsh.

She has gone to bed, papa. She is not
well,' was the gentle reply.

Not well ! She is well enough to be
my ruin. Tell her I must see her at once.'

She has been hysterical, and perhaps
you had better not disturb her to-night.
To-morrow she will be better.'

Edith was much alarmed, for she knew

not whether her father or step-mother
were the more excited. But she knew
that they should not meet in their present
frame of mind. She did what she had
advised Mrs. Aspenelel to do, inwardly
asked for guidance, and then laid her
small hand on her father's arm and said,
very quietly,

It was a pity that so much should have
been spent to so little purpose, but if you
will overlook it, and consider that it was
done with the intention of introducing me
and Janet into what is called society, it
need never occur again. Dear papa, after
all, riches are not everything. Love is
better.'

Love !' almost hissed the millionaire.
Who loves me?'

I do — we all should, if — if it were not
for money. Is not that what is meant by
"the god of this world?'

For a moment his face relaxed, and he

met the sweet eyes of his child with a sort
of shame ; but it was only for a moment.
The next he hardened his heart, and told
her she spoke of a subject of which she
was quite ignorant.

'I only know my own feelings,' she said,
humbly. ' I would far rather have your
love than all the wealth of the world ; and
so, I think, would Mrs. Aspenelel.'

'The first Mrs Aspenelel, your mother,
might, but not her you mean,' he said.

Father and daughter stood in the centre
of the sumptuous apartment, the small
hand of the one still resting on the arm
of the other. Her face was upturned to
his, and its expression was so pure, truthful,
and even heavenly, that he was
touched by it. He had long ceased to
believe in love apart from money, but here
was the precious gift offered to him, that
most unselfish of all love, the filial. Why
did the words, ' Without money and without
price,' come into his mind? Such

phrases were but abstractions to him ; still,
looking down into those eyes, he realised
that there were affections and self-sacrifices
not to be bought with gold. Again his
face softened, and Edith's heart rejoiced
with a new joy, for she had never before
seen a like look on his usually resolute
countenance.

'Thank you, Edith,' he said; then he
turned from her, and left the room.

She stood a moment bewildered. What
was she to do next ? She followed him at
a distance, till she heard him shut his
study-door after him ; then she ran upstairs.
Nurse True met her, telling her
that her step-mother was gone quietly to
bed. She had remained with her until
Pauline arrived, but nothing had passed
beyond the usual routine. They went to
Edith's room, and Nurse True gave out
her opinions, which were usually practical
and sound. There were no secrets between
her and Edith.

You must be wise as the serpent, my
lovey, if you are to do good between man
and wife. I've often-times tried it, in our
homely way, but may say I reaped the
whirlwind. It must be harder work still
in high places. Mrs. Aspenelel's a proud,
high-spirited lady, and won't bear a go-between.
As to your papa, well, you must
pray for God's grace to enter into his soul,
and then, maybe, you may follow. Even
your dear mother, my honoured mistress,
could never go beyond a certain point with
him ; and I believe she was fond of him,
and he of her, in a way. That is your
best chance, deary. You are the pattern
of her, and, if you can bring yourself to
obey him, and never seem to go contrary
to him, you may bring him round. There's
more men caught by soft words than hard.
If you could find out his weak point, and
work your way into it, you might have a
chance.'

'He has none,' sighed Edith. 'But tomorrow

is Sunday, and perhaps a quiet
day of reflection may open both their
hearts.'

Let us pray for it, lovey,' said Nurse
True.

CHAPTER IX.

TOO ILL TO Appear.

The quiet Sunday from which Edith hoped
so much brought only disappointment.
Mrs. Aspenelel remained in her room the
whole day, and refused to see anyone but
Pauline. She sent word that she was too
ill to appear at breakfast, and Mr. Aspenelel
and Edith would have passed it tete-a-tete^
but for Bruce, who breakfasted with his
parents on Sunday, when his father set
aside his accounts, and became, outwardly,
religious. His presence prevented any reference
to the previous evening, though it
did not add much to the cheerfulness of
the meal. Only once Mr. Aspenelel inquired

what was the matter with his wife, to
which Edith replied that she had not seen
her.

The trio went to church as usual, but
everything seemed changed to Edith. The
very sermon, she thought, was unlike Mr.
Austen's usually homely and practical discourses
: and the singing grated upon her.
She was thinking continually of the quarrel
of the night before, and her sky was entirely
clouded. Mr. Harton looked moody,
for he had no Fan to cheer him up ; Tom
glanced at her inquisitively, as if to ask
for results ; and Mrs. Glanville and Gerard,
instead of waiting for her as they once did,
evidently avoided her. Miss Vigors and
Mrs. Lucy, however, remained behind to
inquire for Mrs. Asp en el, and were much
concerned to hear of her indisposition. So
was Tom, who also waited. But Mr. As-penes's
manner was not encouraging, so the
inquirers did not tarry.

After three-o'clock service, at Bruce's

earnest request, Edith took him for a walk
to one of their favourite haunts on the
skirts of the park. This was a tree-backed,
moss carpeted spot, where all the spring
flowers grew. It was a slope from the actual
parkland, and Bruce loved to climb the
hillock and roll down it, as boys will. The
view from it was extensive, and stretched
away even to the sea, a distant strip of which
was visible. It was a bright spring day, and
the sun shone down upon the young
green of the trees, the flower-dotted meadows,
the white swans on the glassy lake,
and, above all, on the brother and sister,
just as if he loved them all. A garden of
primroses grew all over the slope — huge
roots, each a bed in itself, with blossoms
enough to fill a basket ; and, as the roots
climbed up, one after another, they were
met by a phalanx of blue hyacinths, nodding
their fairy bells among the grasses.
This encounter of the flowers looked almost

premeditated, and it was curious to see
that here and there members of one floral
army had penetrated the ranks of the
other, and isolated roots of bluebells grew
among the primrose-garden, and pale primroses
flourished meekly among the hosts of
bluebells.

Edith and Bruce were seated on a felled
tree which divided these rival parterres,
and were listening to the unequalled harmonies
of the myriad choristers above and
around them. Edith was trying to convince
Bruce that the birds knew it was
Sunday, and that they were singing hymns
to the great Creator. She had some
strange fancies bred of solitude, and soul-life
and religion were to her what it should
be to us all, as real as the visible world.
Indeed, the seen and the unseen blended
and harmonised so entirely in her mind
that she scarcely knew where the one
ended and the other began. Yet hers was

no dreamy or mystical faith, but palpable
and practical as the two flower-worlds
beneath her feet.

Do you think the angels call to one
another up in heaven, as the birds do down
here?' asked Bruce, who had been trying
to separate the linked choruses that echoed,
jubilant from wood to wood, till all nature
was alive with song.

I daresay they do. It is a pleasant
thought,' she replied.

You and Nurse True will go to heaven,
but I don't think mammy, or Janet, or I
shall ; and I'm sure papa won't, nor that
old Tom Harton.'

You mustn't say those things, Bruce.
God only knows who are His, and all may
go to Him who have faith in His dear Son.

That's just what Cousin Gerard told
the gipsies. We aren't gipsies, you know,
Edith ; I repose we shan't go the same
way.'

There is only one way for rich and

poor ' began Edith, but Bruce tumbled

down the slope, while she was speaking, at
sight of Mrs. Glanville and Gerard, who
appeared at the moment in a side-path.

Edith recognised them, and followed,
but before she reached them Bruce was
dragging them up the slope. They all met
in slight confusion, for, in spite of their
best efforts, a constraint had arisen; indeed,
Edith and Gerard had not met face to face
since the night of the ball. Mrs. Glanville
kissed Edith affectionately, and a natural
handshake between the young people set
them at their ease.

Come and rest ; there is room for all,'
said Edith, and her voice was so glad that
Gerard's resolution faltered.

She was soon seated between mother and
son, while Bruce climbed on the knees of
Gerard, and at once resumed the abstruse
question he had so lately propounded.

'I say, Cousin Gerard, shall we go to
heaven the same way as the gipsies?

Edith says we shall, and I shouldn't like
that.'

You know who says "I am the Way."
There is no other, Bruce. We must all
tread it together.'

Bruce looked disappointed, but consoled
himself by pouring out inquiries concerning
' that gipsy man ' who beat him, Fan,
and the Tigress. Edith joined in them,
and Gerard had as much as he could do toward
them off, for he was himself uncertain
as to their state and identity. Of
Fan he knew nothing, but of Mrs. Lee and
Wandering Will he had heard from time
to time.

Do you go amongst them as you used
to do ?' asked Edith, timidly ; for she had
heard of his leaving her father, but did
not know the reason, or whether he had
changed his abode with his position.

He told her briefly that he had continued
in his old lodging in order to work

among the people who were accustomed
to him ; that he went easily by rail from
London or Blackfriars Bridge to Victoria ;
and that, as Lady Ascham did not live far
from the latter station, the transit was
speedy. Indeed, he walked more frequently
than not along the Thames Embankment
and down Victoria Street to
Grosvenor Gardens, where Lady Ascham
lived. He said that he had got attached
to his landlady and the quiet close, and,
above all, to certain outcasts of the locality,
and that he could not make up his
mind to leave it. He liked his new work,
but found it much more intricate and
difficult than the more straightforward
labours of Mr. Aspenelel's office. He did
not say that Lady Ascham was a great
fidget, and, like all women in power,
would have her own way ; neither did he
hint at his having become such a favourite
with her ladyship that she would fain

have him always with her. Indeed, she
had proposed his taking up his abode with
her.

The quartette were heart and soul in
Gerard's history when there was a sound
as of some one approaching from behind.
They turned involuntarily, and perceived
Mr. Aspenelel. Gerard was the first to rise
and advance to meet him, treading down
bluebells and primroses as he did so. He
felt intuitively that Mr. Aspenelel would
fancy that he had waylaid Edith, and
therefore took the initiative while that
gentleman and Mrs. Glanville were going
through a ceremonious greeting.

Our meeting Miss Aspenelel and Bruce
was an unexpected pleasure,' he said.
Bruce espied us down below, and dragged
us up here.'

That I did. And Cousin Gerard was
telling us all about the gipsies and Lady
Ascham, and lots of things. But he thinks
the fellow that beat me has quite runaway.

He says we must go to heaven
by the same road as the gipsies. Do you
think he is right, papa ?'

Bruce made this rapid speech while Mr.
Aspenelel was shaking hands frigidly with
Gerard.

Apropos of the gipsies, Mr. Glanville
said Aspenelel, ' I should be glad to ask you
one or two questions about them. Edith,
you had better return to the house.'

We can walk as far as the drive together,'
said Mrs. Glanville, who did not
choose Mr. Aspenelel to suppose she either
feared or suspected him.

Accordingly the ladies and Bruce went
quickly on, and the gentlemen followed
slowly.

Have you seen anything of Wandering
Will — or — or of Lovericlge ?' asked Mr.
Aspenelel. ' You and I have not met since
you left me, after declining my offer of a
post abroad.'

^ I have seen Loveridge once or twice,

VOL. II. L

and I think I once caught sight of Wandering
Will on the Common,' replied Gerard.

Did Loveridge speak to you ? Did he
name me ? What did he say ?'

^ He said he still wanted the money to
emigrate, and must have it by hook or by
crook. He asked me to tell you so, but I
gave him to understand I was no longer
in your employ.'

Were you preaching to the set of
scoundrels that congregate in Wharf Court
and thereabouts ?'

I was at London Bridge, waiting for a
train. He also seemed to be waiting.'

At what hour ?'

Between eve and six. I think you
usually travel by that train — at least, you
did until lately.'

^ I sometimes drive to Charing: Cross.
How did the man look ?'

Very much like a gentleman; that is to
say, his dress was shabby-genteel, but his
manners good.'

And Wandering Will?'

I did not get near enough to him to
accost him.'

Mr. Aspenelel stood still for a few minutes,
his finger on his lip, his eyes cast down, as
if in deep reflection. He was, indeed,
thinking how best he could convey to
Gerard his intentions concerning Edith
He little thought that both Gerard and
his mother fully understood him.

Has Lady Ascham told you that there
is every probability of a match between
the Hon. Mr. Launceston and my daughter
?' he said at last, very abruptly. ' She
is on such intimate terms with Lady Beech-ton
that she is pretty sure to have heard.
After all, it is Miss Aspenelel, not Janet, that
he admires.'

Lady Ascham has not mentioned the
subject to me,' said Gerard, with admirable
self-command.

Oh, indeed !' ejaculated Aspenelel, giving
a furtive glance at Gerard.

l2

He was composed and apparently indifferent,
so the rich man was satisfied.
He bade Gerard a hasty good-day, and
hastened after his children, who had just
parted from Mrs. Glanville. They returned
to the house together, Bruce running on
in front. Mr. Aspenelel put several questions
to Edith about his wife, mainly concerning
her extravagance, but she could
not answer them. He was still in great
wrath, and this real or imaginary nightmare,
ruin, had hold of him.

She has run me up enormous bills
everywhere,' he said ; then, abruptly turning
the conversation, added, ' I suppose
Bruce told the truth just now, and you
did not know you were to meet the
Clarvilles ?'

Certainly the truth. Our meeting was
accidental,' she replied, a slight flush colouring
her white face.

Let me know how Mrs. Aspenelel is,
and whether she means to honour us with

her company at dinner,' he said, when they
reached the house.

But neither Edith nor any one save
Pauline gained admission to Mrs. Aspenelel.
She sent word that she was too ill to see
anyone. Even Bruce was sent away, when
he persistently hammered at the door and
called ' Let me in !' at the top of his voice.
Returning to Nurse True and his tea, he
announced his opinion that his mammy
was not in bed at all, for there was a noise
in her room, and he heard a sound like
drawers and boxes being opened and shut.
There was much speculation in the household
about this sudden indisposition, but
its cause did not transpire. Edith and
Nurse True talked it over, but even they
could not tell whether the hysteria of the
previous night could possibly leave serious
illness behind.

Dinner passed in solemn silence, and
poor Edith thought she had never spent so
miserable a Sunday. At dessert, however,

Bruce again broke the spell, and informed
his father that " mammy wouldn't let even
him into her room. He thought she must
be very cross indeed, and wondered whether
Tom Harton had made her angry.'
Tom was certainly his here-noire.

The following morning Mr. Aspenelel
and Edith again breakfasted alone. Mrs.
Aspenelel sent word that she was too ill to
appear, but her husband sat grimly silent.
He guessed the cause of her malady, and
said within himself, ^ Temper. Let it have
its course,' and turned to his accounts and
his newspapers.

Edith arranged his papers and watched
him off as usual. He made a stiff little
nod from his brougham, and her heart sank
as she thought of Mrs. Aspenelel. Pauline
came at that moment, and said her mistress
would be glad to see her ; so she
went at once.

CHAPTER X.

DEPARTURE OF MRS. Aspen AND BRUCE.

Good-morning, Edith. I am so ill that I
am going for change of air,' began Mrs.
Aspenelel, when Edith entered her room.
I shall take Bruce with me, and have sent
to request Nurse True to see that his things
are packed up. I must have a change or
I shall go out of my mind. You can tell
your father that his conduct on Saturday
night determined me to accept an often-repeated
invitation to visit my friends in
the north. I mean to send telegrams
before me to announce my arrival, and so
to take everyone by surprise. Don't look
alarmed. There is nothing to frighten

you in my going to see my cousins and my
aunts.'

If Edith did look alarmed it was not surprising,
for her step-mother's room was full
of boxes ready packed for her journey, and
she was herself in travelling dress. This
was how the previous day was occupied.

Is not this very sudden ? What will
papa say ?' stammered Edith.

Close the door — bolt it — and we will
talk it over,' answered Mrs. Aspenelel.

This done, they sat down, and she
resumed:

Your father and I will be better apart
for a while, therefore I have resolved to
take my own line. I don't think he will
follow me, for he will be glad of a lull fora
time. We all are. I am going by the
mid-day train, so there is no time to lose.
Pauline and I are ready, and she is now
helping to arrange Bruce's packages.'

'But Nurse True has gone to the wedding.
I insisted on her going,' said terrified

Edith. ' Rebecca and she are such old
friends that it would scarcely have been a
wedding without her.'

I had forgotten the wedding laughed
Mrs. Aspenelel. ' I hope Rebecca will be
happier at sixty than I am at half her age.
I will go and expedite matters myself.
Come with me.'

They went to Bruce's apartments and
found the maids in much confusion, hindering
one another over his wardrobe. He
was with his tutor, who came punctually
at ten. Edith had promised to take him
to see the wedding at eleven if he behaved
exceptionally well. She said so. Her
step-mother replied that he would have to
come with her instead, but that Edith had
better go.

You will at least let me see you off,'
said the bewildered girl: ' How long will
you be away? Where shall I write to
you?'

I would rather you did not come to the

station. We are only going for a visit. I
will write first,' replied Mrs. Aspenelel.
Would you mind going to the study and
preparing Bruce and Mr. Harton for the
important event, while we finish up here:
The carriage is ordered, and there is literally
nothing else to do. You will take my
place for a time, but, as your father and the
housekeeper manage matters between them,
you will fill it easily — better than its lawful
occupant, probably.'

Edith obeyed passively. Bruce jumped
up from his books when she appeared,
with ' Is it time, Edith ?' and Harton
greeted her with his usual studied
civility. She delivered her message.
Bruce was soon consoled for one disappointment
by the prospect of a journey ;
but Harton looked perplexed, and, for him,
excited.

You had better put by your lessons,
Bruce,' he said; then, turning to Edith,
asked, ' Is this consequent on last Saturday

night's — hem ! — misunderstanding ? Had
you not better prevent it? There will
certainly be a scandal.'

There is nothing wrong in visiting one's
friends,' said Edith, stiffly.

Bruce had run oiF while this passed, and
they were alone.

Nothing wrong under ordinary circumstances,
but your domestics always know
everything, if I might be so presumptuous
as to advise, I would counsel you to
go to the church as if nothing had happened
beyond a drive. I will wait and
see Mrs. Aspenelel off, as if by accident, and
the household will suspect nothing. It is
certainly a strong proceeding.'

Edith felt like a shuttlecock tossed
between two battledores, but her mind
rebelled against leaving the house, and she
resolved not to go to the wedding, much
as she wished to be spectator of so long
delayed a ceremony. She returned to
Mrs. Aspenelel, and Harton changed his

mind and went away. He appeared as
much astonished as Edith, but he was a
good actor.

She found her step-mother in her room,
and again entreated to be allowed to see
her off.

'If you must go!' she pleaded. 'But
could you not wait till papa comes back ?'

Impossible. I should not get off at all.
Fortunately I have my quarterly allowance
intact, so am independent of him for
travelling expenses. I shall go first to my
trustee's, Sir James Whalley, and thence
make a round of visits. You look scared,
Edith. One would think that I was running
away under suspicious circumstances.
Here are my keys, such, at least, as you
may want. You have always been good tome,
Edith, but Janet and I could never
get on together — I mean, have not hitherto.'

She thought you so kind when she was
here at Christmas,' pleaded Edith.

One swallow does not make spring ; but

we need not discuss Janet. I have had a
wretched life, and want change. Edith,
do not marry for money, or rank, or anything
but love. I married gold, and it
proves dross ; yet its chains hang about
me and enslave me, so that I cannot emancipate
myself.'

Poor papa ! It is he who needs emancipation.
Perhaps you could free him if
you had patience.*

Mrs. Aspenelel laughed bitterly and
scornfully, and concluded the short argument
by leaving the room. Her plans had
been so well matured, and carried out by
Pauline during the previous day, that she
seemed to have little more to do. At
half-past eleven the carriage was at the
door. The hall was filled with packages,
and Pauline was awaiting her mistress,
dressed for a journey. Edith and Bruce
came downstairs, the former in tears, the
latter in all the excitement of buoyant
childhood.

They went into the breakfast-room,
where Bruce tried to console his sister by
assuring her that he would write to her
and bring her back a present. She, with
a presentiment of evil strong upon her,
could only bid him be a good boy, and
take care of his mother.

When Mrs. Aspenelel joined them, fully
equipped for travelling, and looking very
handsome in a well-bespattered bonnet
and sealskin jacket, she reproached Edith
for her folly in crying for so insignificant
a cause.

One would think we were going away
for ever,' she said, jauntily, while Bruce
clung to Edith with real affection.

It seems so sudden !' sobbed Edith, unable
to control her emotion, and not venturing
to say more, because the door was
open and the servants in the hall.

Mrs. Aspenelel embraced her with more
warmth than usual, took Bruce by the
hand, and hurried to the carriage. She

followed her to the hall-door, and stood, a
solitary figure on the topmost of the broad
flight of steps that terminated in the drive.
She watched the carriage drive off and saw
its occupants kiss their hands to her in a
sort of dream. The sun shone down upon
her slight figure, and turned her fair hair
into golden threads ; the spring breezes
moved the folds of her light dress, and
played among the laces that encircled her
white throat and hands ; and her small,
almost childish form seemed out of place
there, beneath the stone portico of the
great house. Still she remained watching
the carriage till it was out of sight, when
she turned slowly, remounted the broad
oaken staircase, and went to the old schoolroom
which she had shared with Janet and
Bruce. She was, indeed, alone. Not even
a Nurse True was there to comfort and
advise. What could she do in this emergency
? She knelt down, folded her hands,
and prayed.

Meanwhile Mrs. Aspenelel was driving
past the church.

There they are, mammy. Look !'
shouted Bruce.

A sober and almost Quaker-like procession
emerged from the church porch,
walked down the path, and passed under
the loch-gate just as the carriage was
driving by. This was the wedding to
which Nurse True had gone. It will be
remembered that Miss Lome, the oldest
inmate of the Cottages, died a little before
the previous Christmas, leaving her old
and faithful servant Rebecca behind her.
So long as the mistress who had brought
her up lived, Rebecca refused to marry ;
and this was the romance in which Janet
had always been interested; but, when
Miss Lome died, her lover of forty years'
standing would brook no further delay.

Of his own accord, the coachman drew
up to let the bridal-party file past. The
constant blacksmith, with his Rebecca on

his arm, came first. Happiness is happiness,
whether at sixteen or sixty, and they
were made happy at last. They were bride
and bridegroom just as much as if she had
been young and draped in white veil and
satin instead of dark brown silk ; and Mrs.
Aspenelel shuddered as she remembered her
own orange blossoms. Next came .Nurse
True, attired in sober grey, and arm-in-arm
with a respectable tradesman ; then
followed the five handmaidens of the ladies
of the Cottages with suitable partners.
Mrs. Glanville's Miranda was conspicuous
for her smart attire, and her attendant
swain looked proud of her. But the crowning
honour and glory of the occasion was
yet in the background. This was the five
ladies, who had come in a body to the
church to see the faithful Rebecca wed.
They were dressed in their best, and the
now empty cottages were well represented.
'Drive on,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, imperatively.


VOL. II. M

Her heart was not so light as Rebecca's,
and when the church bells pealed out, and
the villagers shouted, it seemed to sink
within her. What a contrast ! Here was
love and constancy rewarded after many
waiting years ; hard-working people about
to end a hard-working life together. And
she !

^ Drive faster ; we shall lose the train,'
she cried. And soon they reached the
station.

There is Mr. Tom Harton ! I hope he
isn't going with us,' exclaimed Bruce.

This is kind,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, as
Harton helped her out of the carriage.

I thought I might be of use,' he said.
I hope you will not be long absent,' he
added, as they stood awaiting the train.

'Qui salt? I do not?' she replied, with
an attempt at careless gaiety.

You will let me know, on Bruce's account
as well as my own. A sudden interruption

to study is ruinous at his age.'
I will keep you au courant. I daresay
we shall soon be back,' she returned, looking
up at his handsome but rather enigmatical
face.

The train arrived, and he saw them off.
He knew that the tickets were taken for
Victoria Station, London, and reflected on
the events of the previous evening.

Nurse True had seen Mrs. Aspenelel,
Bruce, Pauline, and the luggage, and had
wondered, in vulgar parlance, at ' what
was up.' She also missed her dear Edith
from amongst the spectators of the wedding.
That she was left alone at the Park
was evident, and she grew uneasy. Seeing
Mrs. Glanville, she slipped away from
the ^ best man,' and asked that lady if she
would go to the Park, and ascertain what
had happened.

I cannot leave Rebecca just directly,
ma'am,' said Nurse True, ' but, if Miss

m2

Aspenelel should be ill, I should never forgive
myself for coming to the wedding at
all'

^ I will go,' replied Mrs. Glanville ; and
the sedate bridesmaid returned to her
place in the procession.

Mrs. Glanville rejoined her friends, and
they walked towards the Cottages, while
the others went straight to the faithful
blacksmith's comfortable house, where a
sumptuous repast was spread. He had it
all his own way at last.

'I'm glad they're married, poor things,
and hope they'll make the most of their ten
years, at best, of matrimonial bliss. But
what fools people are !' said Miss Vigors, in
her most resolute of voices.

Where can Mrs. Aspenelel be going ? she
had luggage enough for a twelvemonth,'
put in Mrs. Lucy.

Poor Miss Aspenelel has quite deserted
lis of late. I hope she isn't set up by
all this gaiety and grandeur,' said Miss

Lilyton, in her most sentimental voice.

Fiddle-de-dee ! Depend upon it, Mr.
Aspenelel has forbidden her visits,' put in
Miss Short, stumping along with her .
' He hasn't entered into society
for nothing.'

I am glad we have such a glorious day,'
exclaimed Mrs. Glanville, to turn the conversation.


It was a glorious day, and our first
parents, in their paradisaical hymen, could
scarcely have had nature in more ' sweet
accord ' than had the elderly couple who
were just made man and wife. It was
as if the heavens, earth, and distant sea
smiled upon this consummation of love
and constancy. And truly they are gifts
blessed of the Lord.'

Mrs. Glanville found Edith as we left
her. Knowing that she must be alone
somewhere, she told the man that she
would seek her; and went direct to the
whilom school-room, thence to her bedroom.

She felt that something unusual
must have occurred, and used no ceremony.
Dear child, what is the matter ?' she
asked, when a scarcely audible ' Come in !'
answered her tap at the door. 'Nurse
True sent me here.'

Oh, I am glad !' cried Edith, casting
her arms round her friend. ' Everybody
has gone, and I know not what to do or
say.'

Mrs. Glanville soothed her, and with
kindly tact sympathised with her without
exactly knowing on what grounds. They
went into the pretty morning-room, once
the school-room, and sat down side by side
on a couch near the open window, much
as Mrs. Glanville and her son were wont to
sit. Hand in hand they remained a few
moments silent, as if listening to the
choruses of the birds, and gazing on the
cloudless sky. Then Edith regained her
composure, and told her friend as much as
she deemed right of what had occurred.

^ It may be nothing, after all she said ;
but Mrs. Aspenelel has never before left
the Park for more than a few days ; and I
do not know what to say to my father.'

You can only tell him the exact truth,'
returned Mrs. Glanville, who considered
the matter serious, though she did not say
so to Edith. * Your duty is clear. You
can only make the best of it to your father,
and cleave to him.'

Mrs. Glanville knew full well what her
words meant, and the difficulties involved
in them. She did not hesitate to advise
the motherless girl, or to remain with her,
despite Mr. Aspenelel's rather strong hints
that her presence was not desirable at the
Park. She stayed, indeed, to luncheon,
and subsequently to afternoon-tea, comforting
Edith as no one else could. She
spoke naturally, if incidentally, of Gerard,
and did not allow it to appear that any
actual prohibition was laid upon their
friendship ; and she finally took the lonely

girl to her heart, and told her that she
was ready to aid or come to her at a moment's
notice. She only left her when
Nurse True returned, and Mr. Aspenelel was
momentarily expected ; and she left her
strengthened and consoled.

CHAPTER XL

JACK.

Mr. Aspenelel returned late, and hurried at
once to his room. Edith did not, therefore,
see him until a few moments before
dinner.

Where is Mrs. Aspenelel ?' he asked.

She is not coming to dinner. Perhaps
you will not name her absence before the
servants,' stammered Edith.

He took the hint, and they went in to
dinner, at which he both ate and drank
freely. Very few words passed between
them, but when the servants left the room
Edith began her difficult task as simply
and naturally as she could. Before doing

SO, she took a seat at her father's side.

Mrs. Aspenelel has gone on a visit to her
friends in the north,' she began, her voice
trembling slightly.

The north ! When ? How ? '

She left by the mid-day train. She said
she was going first to Sir James Whalley's,
and then on to her other relations. I was
to tell you that '

Tell me ! You ! What right had she
to go without my permission ? How dare
she send a message by you to me ? AVhat
reasons did she give ?'

That she was ill and wanted chancre :
and that what passed between you and heron
Saturday made her resolve to accept an
oft-repeated invitation to her friends.'

As Edith said this as bravely as she
could, she saw that her father's face
assumed an expression of extreme malignancy,
such as she had never witnessed
before, and from which she shrank in
terror. He struck the table heavily, and,

with a sort of remorseless calm, said, with
the addition of what sounded much like
an oath,

She has taken her line ; let her keep toit.
She need never come back again. She
has nearly ruined me, and I hate the sight
of her !'

Oh, papa ! you should not say that T
rejoined Edith, involuntarily.

Why not ? She returns the compliment,'
he said, grimly, laughing as if it
where a good joke. ' Where is Bruce ?'

He has gone with her.'

Now the suppressed passion broke forth.
He rose, stamped his foot, uttered words
not to be transcribed, paced the room,
almost hissed in his fury, and finally
grasped Edith's shoulder so cruelly that
she cried out another 'Oh, papa!' He let
her go, but turned his rage upon her.

Why did you allow her to take Bruce ?
You ought to have withstood her. Where
was Tom Harton? You should have

sent for him, and between you have
detained the boy. Bruce ! my only son
■ — my — my — heir ! No. not that exactly.
I want no heirs. Where was Tom Harton,
I ask ?'

He was here. But he had no power, nor
had L'

^ Here ! What do you all mean ? A
conspiracy ; a plot to rob me. I daresay
you have rifled my drawers, my — my safe.
Ring the bell. We will have Harton here.
Send for Mr. Tom Harton immediately.'

The last clause was to the man who
answered the bell.

No one has robbed you, papa,' interposed
Edith. ' Mrs. Aspenelel said her last
quarter's allowance would suffice for travelling
expenses. Besides, it is easy to
write and recall her.'

I don't want her, but she shall not
have Bruce. The law would forbid. Come
with me and be witness if she has rifled
my drawers — my cash-box.'

She followed him to his study, the scene
of the quarrel. She had recovered her
self-control, and stood by while he examined
drawers and cupboards, which he
found intact. There was a ponderous-looking
safe in one corner of the apartment,
at which Edith had sometimes wondered.
It was really an iron safe, well cased in
mahogany to match the other cupboards.
In trying the lock of this he partially unclosed
its door, which he shut again rapidly
with a bang, but not so instantly as to
prevent Edith's seeing what seemed to hera
lining of gold.

'That will do. I shall examine the
other rooms tomorrow,' he said, casting a
sinister glance at his daughter.

Papa, you cannot believe that I would
rob you,' she said, going towards him with
a courage that was not her own. ' I do
not care for riches. They seem to me
burdens while we live, and chains when we
die.'

Die !' lie exclaimed, as if stung by her
words. ' Who thinks of death ? Go, and
come to me again when I have questioned
Tom Harton.'

She left him, and went to Nurse True.
Tom Harton arrived shortly after, and was
shown into the study, where Aspenelel
awaited him. He had resumed his usual
manner when Harton entered and addressed
him with cold formality.

It is strange that you should have
allowed your pupil to be taken from you
in the midst of his studies without my
consent.'

I took it for granted it was with your
consent, since he accompanied Mrs. As-penes,'
replied Tom, with finished saiig-
froid. ' I even went to see him off, thinking
you would like me to do so. He was
making such progress that I regretted
exceedingly the interruption. But 1 suppose
it will not be for long.'

You will, of course, fill up the term

when he returns ?' said Aspenelel, with an
eye to business, in spite of his wife.

'That depends. You know the workman
is worthy of his hire, and it is not my
fault that he left. However, I leave that
little matter to you. I am surprised that
you were not aware of his holiday.'

Could you declare on your oath that
you knew nothing of this journey ?' asked
Aspenelel, turning his inquisitive little eyes
suddenly on Harton. ' You and Mrs. As-penes
seemed on singularly good terms.'

Positively nothing. How should I,
when it was so sudden that even you seem
taken by surprise ? Mrs. Aspenelel did not
name it when I saw her last on Saturday
night.'

Tom Harton perceived that there was a
lurking suspicion in Aspenelel's mind, and
he set himself to work to dispel it. A
white lie more or less did not weigh on
his conscience, and his aim was to divert
all suspicion from himself.

*Ali! you dined here on Saturday?'
suggested Aspenelel.

Yes; and saw Mrs. Aspenelel just before
I left. She came, I think, from a private
interview with you, and appeared excited.
But she merely wished me good-night, as
usual. I remarked that she was not at
church yesterday, and feared illness. I
take it for granted she was preparing for
her journey, but was surprised at its suddenness
and that she should have taken
Bruce without divino: me notice. I am
still more surprised that you should have
been equally in the dark. But ladies like
to astonish us of the Weaker sex. Man
was created for submission.'

Mr. Aspenelel did not like the tone of
this speech, half wary, half satirical, but
he felt the necessity of maintaining the
friendship, such as it was, that had sprung
up between them. He changed his own
manner from caution to confidence.

'The fact is,' he said, 'that Mrs. Aspenelel

is ruining me by extravagance, and we
had a few words on Saturday when I
spoke to her about it. My losses have
been enormous lately, and I feel that we
must retrench. Yes, retrench ! You look
surprised, but trade is at a standstill. I
suppose Mrs. Aspenelel took offence, and
took herself ois. Her predecessors would
not have thought of such a proceeding.
Number one was too gentle, number two
too proud, but number three has the temper
of a gorgon. Ha, ha ! I wouldn't
advise you to marry more than once.
Three wives are a mistake.'

I am not likely to do so,' replied Harton,
echoing the unnatural laugh, and
shrewdly suspecting that Aspenelel had
drunk too much wine.

Not too much, however, to cloud his
business capacity, for all of a sudden he
proposed to Harton to pay him his salary
up to the morning of Bruce's departure.
But Tom Harton was as shrewd, if not as

VOL. II. N

niggardly as he, and politely declared that
he preferred waiting until the end of the
term, adding that he would take a quarter's
notice from that day, if Mr. Aspenelel
wished to discontinue his services.

It will be better for all parties to let it
be understood that Mrs. Aspenelel has taken
Bruce to see his relations,' he said, diplomatically.
' If I am dismissed, of course
people will say that there is something
amiss.'

but they needn't know it,' put in
Aspenelel.

I should be compelled to make it public,
because 1 must look out for another
tutorship. Besides, we don't reckon by
days, but by terms, in scholastics.'

Hartonhad the best of it, in spite of the
frown on his companion's brow. But he
must dispel this frown at all risks, for he was
far-seeing, and thought a great deal of Mr.
Aspenelel's daughters. He began upon the
gipsies. He said he believed he had seen

Wandering; Will hovering about that very
morning. It was strange that none of the
tribe had appeared since Fan left.

Mr. Aspenelel forgot his other grievances,
and when Tom took his leave he appeared
to be more concerned about getting rid of
his enemies, the Egyptians, than conciliating'
his domestic foes.

Mr. Tom Harton's home-life had not
been rosy since the disappearance of poor
Fan, attributed by his father to his severity.
As he walked towards home beneath
a sky studded by moon and stars, instead
of taking a short-cut, he extended his walk
through the Park, to the principal entrance
opposite the Cottages. But for his
ulterior views, he would have let Mr. As-penes
' pay him up,' and again left home
and his father's reproachful glances. But
Edith and Janet, to say nothing of Mrs.
Aspenelel, were chains of gold, not unlike
those forged by the millionaire. Janet
had loved him, he knew, ever since she

N 2

was a child ; but, in spite of this and her
beauty, he ]referred Edith ; and she was
unapproachable, though gentle and timid
as the white rabbit that suddenly crossed
his path.

Sounds of merriment greeted him as he
got into the road. They proceeded from
members of the wedding-party, and he
stood a few minutes to listen to their
discourse. The five domestics of the Cottages
were bidding good-night to the beaux
who had escorted them home, and were so
hilarious that Tom almost wished he had
been at the wedding.

Which of us '11 be the next, I wonder?'
said one.

Never too late, anyhow,' said another.

Your turn next, Susan. You ain't
nigh so old as Rebecca, and Miss Short a'
got over ten years to come up wi' Miss
Lome,' said a third.

'• I think it'll be Miranda,' whispered a
swain.

^ Who've alone for the old ladies all
day?' said a fourth.

Averse took it by turns, and run to an'
fro, and they've been uncommon o;ood-
natured. But then there was nobody like
Rebecca.'

Dree more cheers for her and George,'
cried a swain ; and Mr. Tom Harton left
them cheering, while he pursued his way,
reflecting on many things.

He found Hoplands exteriorly more
cheerful than usual, for there were lights
flitting about, both upstairs and down.
He heard his father's voice, and it was so
cheery that he took it for granted that
either the rector or Miss Vigors was with
him. He listened, for he did not feel in a
mood for either. However, he went in.
The visitor's back was towards him.

Here's Tom at last,' said his father.

And here's Jack,' shouted the guest,
jumping up, and hugging Tom like a
young bear.

My clear fellow, where did you spring
from ?' asked Tom, as soon as he had regained
his suppressed breath.

I hail from Canada West,' replied Jack,
through his nose.

Shake hands, old boy. I am so glad
you have come home,' cried Tom, half
shaking Jack's hand off; for if there was
anything on earth Tom Harton loved it
was this brother Jack.

And no wonder, for a brighter, manlier,
happier specimen of the Anglo-saxon was
never born into this mongrel country of
ours. Fair curly hair, fair bushy beard,
laughing blue eyes, clear, musical voice,
fine muscular figure, and, above all, a heart
overflowing with love for all mankind, and
you have Jack Harton. If he was wild,
he was not wicked ; if brave, he was no
bully. He had been the light of his
mother's life, the apple of his father's eye.
Mr. Harton forgot rheumatism, and moved
about with the activity of youth, ordering

the servants to bring in every dainty the
house contained, and emptying the sideboard
of all its wrinkles.

You are killing the fatted calf, father,'
said Jack. 'But I haven't been a bad
boy like the prodigal, and I haven't got an
envious brother.'

Then we'll make merry with a good
conscience,' said Mr. Harton, as a steaming
and savoury dish came in.

But Tom's conscience was burdened by
Fan, whom he knew his brother loved as a
sister, and for whom he had not asked.
He was some few years older than Jack,
one brother and a sister, who died young,
having been born between them. But
Jack was twenty-four, and looked older
than his age. He was personally like his
father, and they resembled one another
also in qualities of the heart.

When supper was over, and the trio
drew round the fire, it soon evolved why
Jack had not named Fan. He and his

father took the ' calumet of peace,' but
Tom was no smoker, and thus spake Jack.

I shouldn't have been home so soon
but for Fan. I am come to find her. and,
if she is in Old England, I will. When
your letter came I was dumb foundered, for
I knew something awful must have happened
to make her run away. She hasn't
gone off with a man, take my word for
that. I only waited to set my affairs to
rights, and hear if you had found her; and
here I am. I knew that you were ever so
long before you told me, father, by a slip
you made in one of your letters, and Tom
didn't even mention her. That was cruel,
Tom, for, if you never loved her, I did.
There is only one Fan in the wide world ;
I have never seen anybody like her at
home or abroad : so handsome, so generous,
so affectionate, so unselfish. Have
you, father?'

Never.'

The warm-hearted fellow's voice was

choked by feeling, arid Mr. Harton's 'never'
came out with a resolution that made Tom
start. Indeed, Tom was very uncomfortable,
though Mr. Harton studiously avoided
compromising him with his brother. He
had, however, to listen to questions and
answers concerning Fan until he could
bear it no longer, and said that he would
o^o and look after Jack's room and belongings,
while the others finished up their
pipes and Fan.

CHAPTER Nil

JACK IN LONDON.

Mr. Harton and his son Jack had much
to say to one another. They had been
separated two or three years, and their
joy was great at reunion. Like many
other young men, Jack's mind had been
always bent on emigration, and his father
had helped him to emigrate. He had been
tolerably successful, and, although he was
not yet even on the road to making a fortune,
he was making a livelihood, which
was something. He had worked a year or
more as labourer on other men's estates,
had learnt farming, and had purchased
government land, which he was industriously
clearing.

Any man with health, a will, and a pair
of hands can do this,' he said. ^ But I
expected to do it all at once, and be rich in
no time. It is the loneliness that kills one,
and, when I heard that Fan was missing;, I
was ready to throw it all up in despair.'

Why Fan ?' asked Mr. Harton.

Because I meant to come home and
marry her as soon as I had a hut to put
her in. She was born to be an emigrant's
wife, father, and out in the far Avert
nobody would twit her with her gipsy
origin. She knew nothing of my intentions,
only, I take it, guessed that I loved
her.'

And what was to become of me, Jack,
without Fan ? You young folks never
think of the loneliness of your elders, only
of society for yourselves,' laughed Mr.
Harton.

Well, father, you have Tom and Miss
Vigors !' replied Jack, breaking out into an

honest ' haw-haw,' which delighted his
father.

Miss Vigors has been my only comfort,
you bad boy. If you carry off Fan, I shall
give you a step mother.'

Poor Fan — dear Fan — where shall we
hind her?' asked Jack, his joyous laugh
turned into a sepulchral monotone.

You and Gerard Glanville must put
your heads together, and I have no doubt
you will trace her if she is to be traced.
What her reason for running away was, I
can't imagine. I suppose she had one.'

Mr. Harton was tempted to mention
Tom's share in that inauspicious event,
but refrained, anxious to maintain the
friendship of the brothers. Gerard's name
set Jack on another track, and he soon resolved
to seek him as speedily as possible.
It never entered Mr. Harton's head to
discourage the search because of Jack's
avowed intention to wed Fan if he found
her ; on the contrary, the kind, unconven-

tibial man did his best to encourage his
son, and to bid him Godspeed in a chase
that had brought him from Canada to his
native land.

It is good to be here, father,' said Jack,
when Tom returned and said it was long
past bed-time. ^ Home's home ; yet it
doesn't seem home without Fan.'

A twinge of Tom's elastic conscience
made him hurry his relatives ois to bed.
Tom was a wonderful organiser, and could
manage everybody's affairs, except perhaps
Fan's.

Jack did not allow the grass to grow
under his feet. The following day he was
off to London, and found Gerard's lodging
in the close with some difficulty. The
landlady told him that Gerard was at his
work at Lady Ascham's, and must not be
disturbed. She evidently thought him
one of the many suspicious characters that
inquired for her lodger from time to time.

I am an old friend, ma'am,' said Tom.

^ Why, this can't be London ? It is almost
as quiet as the prairies. But the air isn't
quite as clear and fresh. Would you
oblige me with Mr: Glanville's address?'

Jack's honest face and exuberant manner
conquered Mrs. Pottle, and she gave
the address, warning him, at the same
time, not to intrude on Mr. Glanville.

Her ladyship's a deal more particular
than even Mr. Aspenelel was, and that fussy,
I should say, that she don't like no interruption.
Poor Mr. Glanville a' had enough
to put up with in his situations : but he's
a saint, he is, and I says he ought to be —
what d'ye call it, as they do to saints when
they die?'

Canonised ?' suggested Jack. ' Only he
isn't dead yet.'

'That's the word. Canonised. The
Lord preserve him, I says ; and a-many
morel say the same. But, when I'm canonised,
I'll ask the Pope o' Rome to do it
afore I die.'

So will I. Which is the best way to
Grosvenor Gardens ?' said Jack.

Mrs. Pottle gave him minute directions,
which he followed with some difficulty, reflecting,
en route, that, if the close was
prairie-like, London outside it was certainly
not.

When he reached his destination, having
no card, he scrawled ' Jack Harton ' on a
piece of paper, and sent it to Gerard by
the elegant gentleman who opened the
door to him. The words are not used inadvertently,
for Lady Ascham's footman had
once had some pretensions to gentility, and
had been condescending enough to accept
her situation with the proviso that he should
not appear in livery. Your impecunious
individuals are often difficult to deal with
even by the most philanthropic ; and Lady
Ascham sometimes found her establishment
hard to manage. It was composed
of somewhat heterogeneous individuals
culled from Homes and Refuges.

Jack was at once ushered into one of the
ground-floor sitting-rooms, converted into
an office for Gerard's work. He was there,
surrounded by books and papers, and received
Jack with the utmost cordiality.
They were fond of one another, though
there were several years between them ;
indeed, Gerard had been of use to Jack in
many ways, and was looked up to accordingly
by the younger man. Influence is
one of the mainsprings of life, example
another.

Jack soon told his story, and Gerard
was instantly heart and soul in it. He
was himself fond of Fan, but even his
philanthropy would not have carried him
to Canada in search of her.

We must first hunt down Mrs. Lee.
You remember the old Tigress, Jack?' said
Gerard, who had been long striving to discover
her whereabouts.

I should think I did, and she me, for
we were sworn foes. I used to torment

the life out of her, and her language was
not always the choicest.'

She is, I believe, really a changed
character, and has learnt to " bridle her
tongue." If anyone knows about Fan she
does, though when I once stumbled upon
her by chance she declared she did not.'

Where is she to be found ? Let us goat
once.'

Jack started to his feet. The door
opened, and he was confronted by Lady
Ascham, a bundle of letters in her hand.

Gerard, what am I to do ?' she began,
with a sort of wail ; but perceiving a stranger
she bowed and stood aside.

Lady Ascham, Mr Tom Harton,' said
Gerard. ' A son of Mr. Harton, of whom
you have heard me speak as the friend of
the young girl who disappeared from
Roselands last Christmas.'

Yes, I remember. Have you found
her ?' asked Lady Ascham, holding out
her hand to Jack.

VOL. II. o

I wish we had, with all my heart. I
am come over from Canada to search for
her replied Jack.

Something to do with the gipsies, I
think. Am I right, Gerard ? Oh ! then
we are much interested in Mr. Smith's
efforts to bring them under religious and
educational influences. He has already
done wonders, and will probably succeed
in obtaining an Act of Parliament for their
benefit and that of other outsiders.'

Oh ! Fan don't want an Act of Parliament,
and is sufficiently well educated,'
put in Jack, half offended. * She is like
my sister, you know; and my father looks
on her as a daughter.'

I understand, and I was not alluding
to her as an individual, but to the gipsies
as a class. If I can help to find her, I
shall be only too glad. I know Mr. Smith
personally, and am on the committee. You
must see into it at once, Gerard.'

Gerard smiled. He had such a multitude

of things to see into, that if he had a
hundred eyes he could not have examined
them all. He liked his new work, but
could never get it done ; for no sooner
had he finished one of Lady Ascham's
'- imperative cases,' than fifty others cropped
u]D. However, he felt inspired to new
energy for Jack and Fan, and Lady Ascham
was soon so deeply interested in
them that hopeful Jack delighted her by
his enthusiastic thanks. In short, the whole
gipsy world was to be moved until some
revulsion brought back the truant.

Jack stayed to luncheon, during which
meal Gerard told Lady Ascham that he
had just received a note from Mr. Aspenelel,
requesting him to call at his office.

He wants you back again !' cried her
ladyship, in affright. ' You won't leave me.
I couldn't possibly do without you.'

You are too good to me, and I am too
well-off to wish to change. But what am
I to do as regards this summons? Mr.



Aspenelel asks me to call this afternoon.'
You must go, of course. What can he
want with you? But you must come
back here to dinner, and to talk over that
important committee meeting before I
venture to attend it.'

Gerard acceded to this request. He
had become almost as necessary to Lady
Ascham as to his mother. Was he also a
necessity to Mr. Aspenelel ? This question
was soon answered, for immediately after
luncheon he went to call upon him. He
took Jack with him, telling him to wait
for further orders downstairs. He wanted
to send a parcel and message to his
mother. He found Mr. Aspenelel looking
jaded and ill, to say nothing of stern and
acrimonious.

Thank you for coming,' he said, pointing
to a seat. ' You left of your own freewill.
Have you seen anything of that
fellow Loveridge ? I have been receiving
a sort of well, anonymous letters, since

that last transaction which you managed
for me, and I don't think lie has left the
country as he promised.'

I believe, sir, he only promised on condition
that you came to terms with him,
whatever those terms were,' said Gerard.

Well, if you could manage to see him
and tell him that I agree to those terms, I
should be much obliged to you. I have
no one I can trust ; absolutely no one I
can trust. You made a mistake in leaving
me.'

I could not go abroad, and you filled
up my place here.'

You can resume it if you like.'

This was said with a furtive glance at
Gerard, who was shaken for the moment.
But he could not play at fast-and-loose, if
Aspenelel could.

I fear that would be impossible now,
sir,' he said. ' I am pledged to Lady
Ascham for the present.'

A foolish old woman. You do not

mean to risk your chances of fortune for
her philanthropic extravagances.'

Fortune is too fickle a jade for me to
run after,' replied Gerard, ' but I shall be
happy to run after Loveridge for you, if
he is in his old quarters. There is something
in him that interests me. He looks
like one of the unlucky ones who has been
more sinned against than sinning.'

'What do you mean, sir?' asked Aspenelel,
sharply.

Nothing more than what I say. I will
try to find him and tell him what you say,'
returned Gerard, quietly.

Then would you mind transmitting
him the quarterly payments ? He could
write to you and let you know his whereabouts,
and I should wash my hands of
him.'

I could scarcely promise so much as
this, because I know so little of the man;
but I will try to see him, and find out
exactly what he wants.'

He wants money, money, money. He
wants to bleed me, who am getting everyday
more and more bloodless ; and, because
of this, everybody conspires to ruin
me. Have you heard of Mrs. Aspenelel's
journey to the north ?'

This change of subject surprised Gerard,
but as, fortunately, he had heard nothing
about it, no more was said. Mr. Aspenelel
seemed well pleased with his ignorance.

If you can negotiate this matter with
Loveridge, and finally see him out of the
country, and be assured that he will not
return, I should be happy to give you
something for your trouble,' he said.

I could not receive payment for helping
a fellow-creature,' returned Gerard,
stiffly ; but he felt amused, in spite of his
annoyance, at perceiving that Aspenelel was
relieved by his declaration.

Volunteering to go at once, he took his
leave, picked up Jack, and went his way
towards Wharf Court.

Jack's amazement at the meanness,
squalor, and degradation that they saw as
they walked through the alleys which
Gerard knew how to tread, was great.
Still greater was his astonishment when he
saw how warmly Gerard was welcomed by
many a slatternly woman and half-naked
child, as they neared their destination.
He was now well-known in this locality,
and had the happiness of feeling that
drunkenness and immorality were abating
since he had visited it. He found Lady
Ascham's purse a great aid to his efforts,
and was persuaded that Christian love
could effect all things, if only the Christian
worker could forget self.

Wharf Court looked worse by daylight
than lamplight, because its accessories were
more conspicuous. Rags and tatters, dirt
and misery, were the prevailing features ;
though here and there a flowerpot in a
window and a patch of whitewash gave
promise of better things.

On inquiry, Gerard found that Love-ridge
had left the locality altogether, and
that the owner of the abode where he had
lodged, and who alone knew anything of
him, was absent. He asked a neighbour
to tell the latter that he would return
about ten, and while so engaged a little
crowd gathered, and Jack fancied they
were about to be mobbed and robbed, ashe
afterwards expressed it. But all the
little crowd wanted was a kind word and
shake of the hand from Gerard, and one
or two comforting texts to sustain their
famished souls until he came again.

We've read all your books and passed
them round, please, sir : and we've been to
the mission-room,' they said ; and Gerard
thanked God and took courage.'

He also slipped small coins into a few
hands where he knew they were most
needed, while Jack emptied his pocket,
congratulating himself with the fact that
he had a return-ticket.

Suppose Fan should be reduced to this
sort of thing ?' he said, as he accompanied
Gerard to the close. ' My belief is that
she has found somebody belonging to her.
But why shouldn't she have said so ?'

The more he pondered, the more puzzled
he became, and the more faith he put in
Gerard. If only they could work together
in town and country, he felt sure he should
find her.

Can your landlady give me a room
here when I want one ?' he asked, while
Gerard was doing up his parcel. ^ I could
then look all over London. She's pretty
sure to be here. I'll ask her.'

Before Gerard could remonstrate, Jack
was oiF, had found Mrs. Pottle, and had
secured a small room at the top of her
house.

sit is quiet enough, anyhow,' he reflected
; ' and I shall be on the spot.'

Gerard found it impossible to convince
him that he might live all his life in

London and never stumble on the person
lie wanted to meet, so he let him have his
way, thankful that so cheerful a friend had
been thrust upon him instead of one whom
he might have liked less.

CHAPTER XIII.

NOT AT Halley MANOR.

Morning after morning Edith watched and
waited for her stepmother's letter, but none
came. She had promised to write to her,
and to give her address, but her promise
was unfulfilled. She felt sure, also, that
her father had received no news, and she
was surprised and anxious. At last she
could bear the suspense no longer, and
resolved to speak to him. He had been
even more reserved and unapproachable
than ever since his wife's departure, and
had vented his spleen on his household,
retrenching this expense and complaining
of that, until the servants meditated giving

notice en masse. In vain Nurse True tried to
conciliate and Edith to reassure; discontent
and anger reigned at the Park.

Over a week had elapsed, when Edith
took courage and asked her father if he
had heard from Mrs. Aspenelel. They were
at breakfast, but the post had not yet
come.

I did not expect to hear from her. I
waited for you to give me information,' he
replied, frigidly.

I have had none to give. I have not
heard,' she said.

He frowned and reflected ; then said,

Perhaps you will write to her at Sir
James Whalley's, and say she must send
Bruce home. 1 cannot allow him to lose
more time. I will ask Mr. Tom Harton to
fetch him, so that there shall be no delay
beyond your letter. Mrs. Aspenelel can do
as she likes.'

Perhaps there will be a letter to-days
suggested Edith.

We will see,' he rejoined, and turned
to his accounts ; then suddenly resumed,
looking at her. ' You must take the
management of house and servants into
your hands while I am in town, until Mrs.
Aspenelel sees fit to return. We must draw
in during her absence, and endeavour to
put things on a more economical footing.
You will only have to carry out my
orders.'

The arrival of the post-bag rendered
response unnecessary. There was no letter
from Mrs. Aspenelel or Bruce. Mr. As-penes's
frown deepened, until the lines on
his forehead and between his eyes looked
liked railway cuttings. But he made no
remark. Edith gathered up his papers as
usual, and, when he rose from the breakfast
table, she said,

I am afraid I cannot manage the servants
in their present frame of mind, papa.
Something has annoyed them and they
threaten to leave.'

Let them. There are plenty of others
to be had. Your letter will reach Mrs.
Aspenelel tomorrow evening. You know
Sir James Whalley's address. If she
answers by return of post, you will hear the
following day. If she does not condescend
to write, let her know that Harton, or
some equally trustworthy person, will
fetch Bruce on Friday, bring him home on
Saturday, and so enable him to begin his
studies on Monday. . I cannot afford to
spend money without an equivalent.'

I will write and say what you tell me,
papa,' said Edith.

Thank you. You are at least obedient,'
he returned.

He was so moody that she did not venture
to offer to kiss him as she sometimes
did, but sighed heavily as she watched him
from the window. She sought Nurse True,
her only consoler in that great house,
although all the servants loved her.

What if Mrs. Aspenelel should refuse to

send Bruce back ?' she asked. ^ Imagine
the breach and scandal.'

My deary, matters must come to a head
sooner or later. Your blessed mother bore
her lot like an angel ; Miss Janet's mother
was subdued by sickness, but the present
Mrs. Aspenelel has a spirit of her own, and,
I fear, won't submit any longer. But you
had best advise her to let Bruce come without
resisting, and to return herself as soon
as she conveniently can. You can say that
the servants rebel, and she only can keep
the household together. Say that I will
do my best for Master Bruce — say anything
for peace.'

Edith wrote her letter without delay, and
followed Nurse True's advice. She worded
it as discreetly as possible, and entreated
for an answer by return of post. She was
very restless all that day and could scarcely
fill in her diary for Janet. Doing so,
however, she felt thankful that her sister
was absent, and not, therefore, oppressed

by the anxiety that filled her mind. She
read and re-read Janet's last letters, which
were full of bright and encouraging matter;
but she had not heard from her since Mrs.
Aspenelel's departure, and longed for her
opinion on so uncommon a proceeding. It
was Tuesday, and she almost counted the
hours that must intervene between her
letter and the reply.

She need not have worried her mind,
for no reply came. Three posts and nota
line from Mrs: Aspenelel. On the third
morning her father was furious, but with a
concentrated fury that found no vent.

Tom Harton is only waiting for orders,*
he said, with tone and manner that frightened
Edith. ' He will be here almost immediately,
and is ready to start for his
journey. I have given him his instructions.
He is to bring back Bruce.'

Suppose Mrs. Aspenelel should refuse tolet
him come,' said Edith, timidly.

Refuse ! She dare not. I should send

VOL. II. p

my lawyer.' He left the room and went
to the library, where, as he expected, he
found Tom Harton.

'Can you start immediately?' he began,
in breathless anger. ' I saw your valise
in the hall, and can take you to the station.
You can reach the Manor this evening,
see Mrs. Aspenelel, and bring oiF Bruce
tomorrow. She knows you are coming.
She expects you, in short.'

'Does she acquiesce in your plan?'
asked Tom, who, in his wish to inform himself
concerning Mrs. Aspenelel, had willingly
undertaken the journey.

Of course she does,' replied Aspenelel,
evasively, for he had not told Harton the
whole truth ; he had only intrusted him
with the care of Bruce.

Having his own views, Tom Harton did
not press his inquiries, but set off with
Aspenelel for the station.

Edith was consoled by a long letter
from Janet. It began with 'Hurrah!

So Mrs. Aspenelel has broken loose at last.
The cased lioness has rent her bars, and
taken her cub with her. I hope she will
enjoy herself.' It went on to discuss the
2oros and cons of this event, and contained,
besides, the usual school-gossip. Janet
was working with a will, and meant to
astonish her admirers by her accomplishments
as well as her beauty. She discussed
the return of Jack and the marriage
of Rebecca. ' I would have given all my
pocket-money and jewels — worth, perhaps,
a pound or so — to have seen Rebecca
married,' she said. ' I admire constancy
above anything, though I could never be
constant except to you. Entre nous. Jack
was devoted to Fan, and perhaps he has
come back in search of her.'

How romantic she is,' exclaimed Nurse
True, when Edith read her the letter. ' I
hope she won't commit any folly herself.
I've no opinion of foreign parts, and wish
Lady Ascham had recommended an honest

p2

Englishwoman instead of a French one."
The day wore through. Edith gave her
orders quietly to the servants, backed by
Nurse True, but she seemed to feel a certain
underground rumbling indicative of
an earthquake. Mr. Aspenelel had offended
them all, individually and collectively, by
bringing them to book concerning those
bills which had caused his quarrel with
his wife, and they ' were not forced to stop,
if Mrs. Aspenelel was,' they muttered. He
was particularly aggressive the next day
which was Saturday. He did not go to
town, but amused himself, instead, by
roaming over his premises and parks,
finding fault with everything and everybody.
The burden of his song was that
people were conspiring to ruin him.

Edith did her best to calm and please
him. He was fond of music, so he had a
soul somewhere — 'for melody, if not for
harmony,' as Mrs. Aspenelel once said.
Edith told him at dinner that she had a

new and pretty song, and asked him to
hear it. He complied, and they went
together to the drawings-room. He sat
down not far from the piano, but he was
soon on his feet again extinguishing some
of the lights, which he said were unnecessary
for two people. He left those on the
piano, and the big room looked dark and
sepulchral in its far-off corners. He himself
looked gloomier still, and Edith was
almost frightened by the unrelenting expression
of his face. She had a sweet,
sympathetic voice, and the new song contained
no obnoxious allusions to love or
matrimony, so he listened till his countenance
cleared somewhat. She sang another
and another, when she was surprised by a
sort of groan. Looking round, she saw
that her father had fallen asleep, and the
unpleasant sound proceeded from him.
The tension of his features had relaxed,
and they looked regular and handsome.
She played on softly, accompanied by

occasional muttering from him, until the
door was opened, and Mr. Tom Harton
announced.

Aspenelel started up, Edith moved towards
him.

'Where is Bruce ?' asked the former.

I am very sorry, but he was not at
Whalley Manor. I could not bring him,'
replied Harton, with hesitation for so self-possessed
a man.

not at the Manor ! Where is he then ?
What did Mrs. Aspenelel say ?'

I did not see her. She is not at the
Manor either.'

The hesitation increased, and Aspenelel
exclaimed,

What does all this mean ? Speak out,
man. Do you think anything you can say
will trouble me ?'

Do sit down. You look tired,' put in
Edith, and Harton seated himself near
Edith opposite Aspenelel, the two candles
dimly giving light to the trio.

He did look both tired and worried, but
he rallied himself, and started on his theme
abruptly.

I reached the Manor about seven o'clock
last night. I found that Sir James and
Lady Whalley were from home, and the
house undergoing that abomination, a
spring-cleaning. I inquired for Mrs. As-penes,
and the answer was that she had not
been there. One or two letters had arrived
addressed to her, which had been forwarded
to Lady Whalley, and that was all they
knew about her. I saw the housekeeper,
who had not heard that Mrs. Aspenelel was
expected, but would make inquiries of her
ladyship. In, short I went on a fool's
errand, for neither telegram nor other
announcement had reached the Manor of
Mrs. Aspenelel's visit, and Bruce, whom I
was to fetch away, was unknown even
by name. I got a bed at the " Whalley
Arms " in the village, and made further inquiries,
but all I could get in reply was

that ^ no gentlefolk had been that way for
over a fortnight, for the house was painting
and a-papering.' It was evident that,
as Sir James and Lady Whalley had been
away more than that period, Mrs. Aspenelel
could not have been on a visit to them, so
I thought my only plan was to return
here, and tell you of my unsuccessful
quest.'

When Tom Harton paused in his rapid
speech, he did not venture to look at Mr.
Aspenelel ; but Edith did. He was deadly
pale, and his face was almost diabolical in
its suppressed frenzy. He did not speak ;
he could not apparently, neither could she.
But Harton both could and did. He suggested
that Mrs. Aspenelel had probably gone
to other friends when she found that the
Valleys were absent, and offered his
services again, should anyone be required
to fetch Bruce. But he was overshooting
his mark. His proposal was met
by a curse — short, low, emphatic — which

made Edith start, shuddering, towards her
father, and caused Harton to look the
deceived man in the face at last. There
was not time even for a second glance, for
Aspenelel rose and left the room. He
staggered slightly as he moved, and Edith
followed : but scarcely was she in the
passage leading to his study, when she
heard the door shut with a tremendous
bang, and knew that she was excluded.
She returned to Harton. Whom else
could she consult ? He alone was in the
secret, and through circumstances knew
more than anyone else of the quarrel that
had caused this painful flight, if flight it
was.

What can I do ?' she asked.

'You can write to Lady Whalley and
make inquiries,' he replied. 'But I do
not think Mrs. Aspenelel intends her whereabouts
to be known. We all want a
holiday now and then, and she has managed
hers admirably.'

Edith felt the bitter sarcasm of his tone,
and fancied there was personal pique
beneath. She knew that her step-mother
had made a friend and partial confidant
of him, and judged rightly that he was
annoyed at having been left in the dark.
This did not, however, interfere with his
desire to make himself necessary to Edith.

How can we prevent the scandal — the
gossip ?' she asked, nervously.

They have merely gone on a visit to
friends. There is nothing scandalous in
that,' he replied, cynically.

No. But, if they do not return, that
farce cannot be maintained ; and my father
may resort to extreme measures.'

Extreme measures are expensive. I
scarcely think you need fear that. But I
have some worldly experience, and am at
your service in any way.'

He tried to resume his usual insinuating
manner, but could not get rid of some

sort of under-stream of annoyed humiliation.
He hated to be baffled. It was all
one to him that Mr. Aspenelel should be
infuriated, provided he had not been history.
Edith asked if he had dined, or if
she might order refreshments, or what she
could do to atone for his fruitless errand.
He said he would go home to supper, as
his brother would be looking for him.

Had I better try to see my father T
asked Edith.

I think not. He will be here tomorrow,
and you will see by his manner
what plan to pursue. I will call after
church on some excuse or other. Church I
Whatever happens, we must keep up
appearances, and I daresay Mr. Aspenelel
will. Good-evening.'

Fortunately for Edith, Nurse True was a
better adviser than Tom Harton, and she
counselled her to go to her father. She
went, and knocked at the study-door. The

^ Who's there ?' assured her that nothing
particular had happened.

It is I, papa ; Edith,' she said. ' I
same to ask if I could do anything for
you.'

Nothing, thank you ;' and somehow the
brief reply reassured her.

CHAPTER XIV.

Edith's responsibilities.

Tom Harton was right. Mr. Aspenelel kept
up appearances. He went to church as
usual, and, as far as Edith could discover,
was unmoved by the events of the previous
day. He scarcely spoke at breakfast, and
did not allude to them in the few words he
said. He looked morose and moody enough,
and Edith could not help contrasting his
face as she had seen it in repose the previous
night, with the hard, inflexible face
of that Sunday morning. Although the
sermon was on the text ' God is love,' the
rector's tender address had apparently no
effect on him. After service, to Edith's surprise,

he said he wished to speak to Mrs. Glanville
and her son, and hurried to meet them.
He told Gerard that he wanted a word
with him, and would be obliged if he and
his mother could call at the Park that
afternoon. Edith looked so entreatingly at
them that after a little demur they promised.
The truth was, the gipsies were
again on Hoplands Common, and Gerard
was anxious to visit them ; but he did not
tell Mr. Aspenelel this, for fear of raking up
an old grievance, and stirring up strife
against Wandering Will and his allies. He
and his mother were even more surprised
than Edith at this attempt at renewed intimacy,
though Gerard felt sure that there
was some thought behind, connected with
Loveridge probably, that induced it. Momentary
happiness over-flooded Edith's
sea of troubles, and her face brightened as
she shook hands with her two dear friends.
Her father perceived it, and took care to

tell her that what he wanted with Gerard
was a mere matter of business. ' He will
not like to transact it on Sunday,' thought
Edith ; but she did not venture to say so.

She went to afternoon service, and when
it was over Mrs. Glanville and Gerard
joined her and walked home with her, to
the astonishment of the ' ladies,' who had
been speculating on the estrangement. Mr.
Aspenelel met them and took possession of
Gerard, carrying him off to his study
when they reached the house ; while Edith
and his mother went to a charming room
overlooking the lake, where tea was awaiting
them.

What has happened since I saw you ?'
asked Mrs. Glanville. ' You look so ill,
that you must have had some trouble beyond
the unexpected absence of Mrs. As-penes.
My dear child, can I advise you or
help you ?'

The kind words and manner brought

tears to Edith's eyes. She told Mrs. Glanville
as much as she dared of what had
occurred.

'She will write. She must come back.
The nineteenth-century means of tracing
people are so easy that no one would
meditate flight under pretence of a visit.
She is high-spirited and has taken French
leave.'

Thus Mrs. Orville tried to console
Edith, while a very different sort of conversation
went on between her son and
Mr. Aspenelel. It began with Loveridge,
whom Gerard had seen the previous evening.
He had traced him with some difficulty,
for he had not chosen to meet him
in Wharf Court. After some preliminary
questions and answers, Gerard gave an
account of his interview with him.

I found him in a small but decent lodging
not far from King William Street,' he
began.

'Midway between my office and the

station interposed Mr. Aspenelel. ' He has
bad intentions.'

I think not,' continued Gerard. ' He
looked well, both in face and dress ; more
of a gentleman, even, than heretofore. He
was in a sitting-room, and there were
actually a few flowers on the table. Primroses,
I remarked, and one or two violets.
I noticed some books also — a copy of
Shakespeare and the Bible amongst them.
I did not venture to open them, but when
I glanced at the latter he said, " Fruits of
lectures in Wharf Court ;" whether truthfully
or satirically, I could not tell.'

Satirically, take my word for that,' put
in Aspenelel.

He asked how I found him out, and
then I told him your proposal — or rather
inquired what he would take to leave the
country. He thought it over a few
minutes, and finally said, three hundred a
year.'

Three — hundred — a — year !' repeated

VOL. II. Q

Aspenelel, as if each word were a death-groan.
' Impossible ! Why, I am nearly
ruined as it is.'

I told him that you considered yourself
so, and he laughed heartily. He hasa
very pleasant laugh, and is certainly
handsome,' resumed Gerard, while Aspenelel
scowled ominously. ' He said that he
would emigrate to Canada if he had a
written promise from you, witnessed by
me, of that sum, paid quarterly. He was
so polite as to add that he would receive
it at my hands, because he believed they
were tolerably clean from contact with the
baser metals.'

Gerard smiled, and Aspenelel winced
slightly, exclaiming,

Impudent rascal ! how dare he make
terms with me ? But I will think them
over, and let you know my decision.
Meanwhile will you keep an eye upon him
and not lose his address ?'

I should be glad to be of service both

to him and you, sir ; but I am not a
detective.'

You are the only person I can trust,
and you would leave my service,' emphasising
the ' would.'

The word ' service' grated upon Gerard,
yet it had been service, and was still, for
that much. Besides, he thought of Edith's
white, anxious face, and determined to
serve her father for her sake — and for
Loveridge's. Indeed, he pitied Aspect
sincerely, for with all his wealth he was a
miserable man.

Had the man Loveridge a woman with
him ?' asked Aspenelel, abruptly. ' His demands
increase, which means woman.'

I did not see one,' replied Gerard, who
had himself improvised female taste at
sight of the primroses.

Woman !' repeated Aspenelel, with set
teeth. ' Man's curse and ruin. And you
have tied yourself to an old woman who
won't loosen you. Will you ask your

q2

Lady Ascliam to do something for me?
She is a personal friend of Mrs. Aspenel's^
and is acquainted with all the Whalley
family. Will she, or you as her secretary,
write to Lady Whalley and ascertain
whether she has heard from Mrs. Aspenelel ?'

That would be playing the spy indeed !'
said Gerard.

Not at all You are the only man I
can trust, and, as you will soon learn that
Mrs. Aspenelel has chosen to go off visiting
on false pretences, I may as well confide in
you. She has taken my son, Bruce, with
her. I don't know where they are. I
don't want to employ a lawyer to hunt
them out, because of the scandal, to say
nothing of the expense, which I can't
afford, as you know who are aware of the
claims upon me. I can't afford it.'

Aspenelel paused, and stretched out his
right arm, as if fighting an invisible foe.
It pointed in the direction of the iron safe.
Gerard answered, deliberately,

I will submit your request to Lady
Ascham. I know lie has a treat reixarcl
for Mrs. Aspenelel, and have no doubt she
will make any private inquiry as between
friend and friend.'

Just so. You are the only man I can
trust.'

Gerard was pleasantly astonished by the
discovery that he was considered so trustworthy
by one who had snubbed him and
almost insulted him frequently during his
probation ; but he was not unduly exalted,
knowing his man, and that he could be
uncommonly civil if he wanted to get anything
out of a fellow-creature. Still, he
pitied Aspenelel, and, in his enthusiastic
desire to bring other men to the footstool
of the Most High, inwardly resolved to
lead him there by such cords as Providence
might hold out, were they cords of love or
fear.

Thank you for believing in me, Mr.

Aspenelel,' he said. ' I will help you if I
can, conscience approving.'

And what's to pay ? Stamps, papei\
railway-fare, third-class of course — but you
have a season-ticket ; loss of time, only it's
after hours. Let me know exactly what
you demand.'

Nothing.'

Gerard spoke this one word emphatically,
and Aspenelel instantly contrasted it
with an account that lay before him. Tom
Harton had brought it that morning, albeit
it was Sunday. It contained the various
items of his journey of the previous day,
and the account of the full term for Bruce's
schooling. He probably admired Harton's
shrewdness more than Gerard's generosity ;
but he said nothing.

My mother will be expecting me. Perhaps,
if you have nothing more to explain,
you will allow me to join her,' said Gerard,
when he found that no argument followed
his disclaimer.

Aspenelel accompanied him, and they
found Mrs. Glanville and Edith still in
earnest discourse. Edith rang for fresh
tea, and Mrs. Glanville chained Mr. Aspenelel
by producing a letter she had received
from Janet. It was so amusing and
descriptive that he forgot his grievances
for the moment, and allowed himself to be
beguiled into a discussion as to whether
she should return home, or go to Paris for
the summer vocation. It ended in the
words, ^ Paris, decidedly,' which reached
Edith.

She and Gerard were rejoicing in a brief
interval of happiness. She was at the tea-table
; he on an ottoman, cup in hand.
They talked of the singing-class and
Sunday-school ; they were shy as the most
rustic of lovers ; all was as commonplace as
could be ; but they were near one another
once more, and they were happy.

Mr. Aspenelel chanced to be standing, also
tea-cup in hand, with his back to them,

Mrs. Glanville was reading him passages
from Janet's letter ; so he had to all appearance
forgotten them. But with the ' Paris,
decidedly,' he turned and faced them, and
even he could discover nothing in the least
lover-like between this ' trustworthy ' clerk-secretary
and his daughter, whom he knew
to be equally trustworthy.

When Mrs. Glanville and her son left,
Mr. Aspenelel walked down the drive with
them, and Edith watched them from the
window. What a peaceful scene it was !
Three people sauntering along beneath the
spring foliage ; the swans on the placid
lake ; the line of distant sea sparkling in
the May sunshine. What could be more
descriptive of 'The Sabbath of rest,' of which
she chanced to have read that morning?
Yet there was no real rest at Aspenelel Park,
though she believed that in Mrs. Glanville's
humbler dwelling rest would abide. But
she felt less lonely and depressed than
she had done, because of this unexpected

renewal of intercourse with her friends ;
and when she sought her only earthly-haven
of repose, the old nursery, where
her friend True still reigned, she looked
brighter than she had looked for many
days.

You must put your trust in the Lord,
my dear,' said that good woman. ' There
is no one else who can help in troublous
times. 1 have been holding a levee, as
they call it, of all the servants, and, preach
as I will, I can't quiet them. They're that
obstinate in determining to give notice,
that all I could say at last was, "Well,
you're very unfeeling to Miss Aspenelel," and
this made them say they would bide a day
or two, just to see if the mistress came
back.'

But days crept on, and Mrs. Aspenelel did
not return, neither did she write. Edith
exhausted all her resources in polite letters
to her step-mother's relations, all worded
with the utmost caution, but none of them

had seen her. Lady Ascham, at Gerard's
request, also wrote to Lady Whalley, and
received a letter in reply, intimating that
she had as good as lost sight of Mrs. As-penes
for years, and was astonished to learn
that a strange report was afloat of her
being on a visit to her. She had imagined
that the tide of wealth had swept away
the lesser streams of friendship.

As may be imagined, all this exasperated
Mr. Aspenelel. Not that he showed
exasperation, only increased gloom and
moodiness. He set private inquiries on
foot, employed detectives, and even consulted
his lawyer; but of this not even
Edith knew anything. What she knew
was that his examination of domestic
matters, and his irritating surveillance of
his houshold, induced his servants to carry
out their threat of giving notice, and oneby
one, either to him in extreme irritation
or to Edith with expressions of regret,
the threatened notice was duly served. All

but a kitchen-maid, her own maid, and
Bruce's 'slavey,' as he called her, had resolved
to depart.

What am I to do, papa ?' she asked,
after a final parley with the cook-housekeeper.
' Mrs. Parsons has told me she
will leave at the end of a month. All the
indoor servants have given notice.'

Let them go after their mistress,' replied
Aspenelel, with an addenda not to be
quoted for ears polite.

Edith found that her courage always rose
with the occasion, and circumstances were
making a woman of her ; so she said, with
decision,

But this establishment cannot be
carried on without domestics, and you say
new ones are not to be trusted. What am
I to do ?'

Get charwomen in from the village.
Tell the coachman and gardener they must
help indoors ; make that superannuated
True of some use ; ask Miss Lome's old

Rebecca to come as cook ; we don't want
luxurious living just now, and shall keep no
company until Mrs. Aspenelel thinks proper
to return. If this won't do, we'll shut up all
the house except a living-room or two for
you and me. Your nurse True can do for
us, with the kitchen-maid, who has not yet
given notice. One servant should suffice,
and True has been idle long enough. Servants
are an abomination.'

True is not a servant,' spoke up Edith.
She is a friend. She has had many opportunities
of marrying, or otherwise improving
her condition, but her promise to my
mother never to leave me has kept her
single and constant to us.'

Edith's voice quivered, and her father
rose 'suddenly, with a * Do what you like
for her ; but leave me in peace. I have
enough on my mind without servant worries.
Mrs. Aspenelel must be back soon, for
she will be penniless, and she is too shrewd
to let her son be disinherited. She will

return when lie has spent her money and
her temper. Meanwhile you must help me
to save : do you understand, Edith ? — to
save.'

He waited for no answer, but strode out
of the room, leaving Edith aghast with
the responsibilities suddenly thrust upon
her.

CHAPTER XV.

JACK AND THE TIGRESS.

It was now Jack Harton's turn to frequent
the gipsy-camp. Both openly and secretly
he prosecuted his inquiries for Fan, and
penetrated tent and van while making
them. But he could gain no intelligence.
Indeed, the gipsies themselves asked him as
many questions as he asked them, for they
remembered her many kind acts in previous
years. There were no lollipops and bell's
to lure the unwary children to school,
and the parents, who were beginning to feel
the advantages of education, had more
trouble than enough with them ; and there
were no pence forthcoming this year to pay

the fees ; for, although Mr. Hart on still
tolerated them on his common, Fan's disappearance
had hardened his heart against
them. It was, in short, Fan's influence
and Mr. Aspenelel's hardness that had induced
him to so much generosity the year
before. He still loved to circumvent the
squire, and prevailed on his faithful ally,
Miss Vigors, to undertake Fan's gipsy ,
which she managed with such
resolution and talent that she was almost
as popular as Fan. Indeed, all the ladies,
with Gerard their beloved at their head, became
interested in the gipsies, and they bid
fair to be as much spoilt as they had heretofore
been neglected — for discretion is just
as much the better part of charity, as of
valour. Mr. Austen was always preaching
this, but practising the contrary ; for few
appeals ever came amiss to him. Indeed,
Roselands would have been a hot-bed of indiscretion
but for Mr. Aspenelel.

Summer had galloped, as the seasons are

wont to do, after spring, and, having overtaken
her, had entirely displaced her, so
that Whitsuntide had come in at bride
ahattue. Jack was astir very early on Whit
Monday, having some hazy notion that
Bank Holiday might help him to find Fan.
Her dogs had taken to him just as if they
understood what he had come home for,
and followed him whenever and wherever
he would let them.

We will have a run on the common,
and then return to breakfast,' he said, ashe
strode through the back-yard, up the
copse, now in full leaf, and made for the
encampment.

Its inmates were astir, preparing for
their holiday, which meant work as well as
play. The morning breezes swept the
common, and disported amongst the golden
lights and dreamy shadows that lay on its
broad breast, while gorse and bracken
waved, and harebells and grasses nodded,
as they sported past them, and wandered

away towards the distant, rippling sea.

^ There she is ! there she is !' exclaimed
Jack, following the breezes as hard as he
could tear, the dogs at his heels.

But it was not Fan, only the Tigress.
She was standing in the midst of the encampment,
her grizzled hair floating to
those obstreperous breezes, her old red
cloak inflated by them, her lips apart as if
to drink them in, and her arms outspread,
Sybil like. Some of the tribe were gathered
round her, and as Jack drew near he heard
the words, ' The Lord bless and keep you
all this day — in your goings out and your
comings in — follow Him.' Jack only waited
until the last word was spoken, then ran
towards her, exclaiming :

Where's Fan ?'

She was taken by surprise. She did not
recognise him, and looked slightly alarmed
by his onslaught.

^ Who are you? How should I know?'
she muttered.

VOL. II. R

Come with me and I'll tell you all
about it,' cried excited Jack, seizing herby
the arm.

She shook herself off and looked round
as if for assistance.

'Tis Mr. Jack Hart on,' whispered a bystander.


Then come with me,' she said, authoritatively,
leading the way to an empty
tent.

She entered, and Jack and the dogs
followed. She squatted down on a bed atone
end ; Jack found a rough seat on a
bundle of skewer wood at the other ; the
dogs grouped themselves between them.

I came here for a night's rest and quiet,
and you won't let me alone,' she began,
dreamily. ' I haven't slept for weeks, fora
room and the smoke smother me ; last
night I slept from sundown to sunrise.
But since I'm converted I must do God's
work, both under brick and canvas.
What do you want with me, Mr. Jack

Harton ? Your father's son demands
respect from Israelite, Egyptian, and
Tartar.'

I want Fan, Mrs. Lee, for I hear that's
your real name. I'm come home from
Canada on purpose to find her, and find
her I will.'

What do you want with Fan, sir ? and
what should I know of Fan ? Since I'm
converted I draw no horoscopes, consult
no stars or palms, tell no fortunes. I've
given up my living to serve the Lord
Jesus Christ, who died for me — and I used
to make pounds by telling the fortunes of
fine ladies whose education ought to have
taught them better than to employ me.
Now I'm a hawker of good books, and try
to concert the ignorant, as Mr. Glanville,
with the Lord's blessing, converted me.
Have you passed through the fire of
remorse, and the waters of penitence, and
the sunshine of change of heart, and the
starlight of peace ?'

r2

'I can't say that I have, Mrs. Lee,
though I've seen a great many changes of
climate out in Canada. But what has this
to do with Fan?'

What do you want with Fan, sir?'

I want her for my ife, Mrs. Lee. I
want to find her, and marry her, and take
her back to Canada, where she'll be a sight
freer and happier than in these dirty old
tents. I beg your pardon, and I've no
reason to abuse them, since I've been
thankful enough for their shelter. But
now I've got a house of my own — a log-house,
to be sure, but just what Fan would
like. If you know where she is, tell her
I've come home on purpose to marry her,
and make her mistress of a grand estate,
full of trees and prairies, and all sorts of
fine things, with our little house in the
midst. Will you help me to find her, Mrs.
Lee?'

Shake hands, my dear lad, shake hands.
You're like your father. You don't despise

people because they're not born and bred
exactly like yourself.'

Not a bit of it, my dear Mrs. Lee. If
I did, I shouldn't have got on as well as I
have. Bless your heart, we've men of all
the colours of the rainbow and all the tribes
of Israel, to say nothing of those Egyptians
and Tartars you mentioned ; and our
parson is a converted Chippechouck Indian
converted, I should say — and preaches
like an ancient Briton. If you'll come out
and pay us a visit, I'll introduce you to
him. He's a clergyman of the Church of
England, if that's in his favour ; and nota
bad-looking man, I assure you. He's
yellowish, but not a bit more so than many
a bilious Englishman. Find me Fan, and
come over and see us, and you and he together
will concert all Canada ; and England,
compared to Canada is about what this
encampments in comparison to Hoplands
Common. What do you say, Mrs. Lee ?'

Jack and the Tigress were hand in hand

during this speech. At every fresh sentence
they shook afresh, for Mrs. Lee half
pulled Jack from off the bundle of skewer-wood
in her zeal.

What do I say ? Why, that if you're
downright in earnest I'll see what I can do
for you. I'll look about for Fan, and if I
find her I'll let you know.'

May I come with you ? Why, Mrs.
Lee, with your help I should find her assure
as I'm alive. Shall we set off at
once ?'

That would spoil my search, Mr. Jack.
She might turn up if I was alone. Besides,
I'm just going to dress respectable, and
hawk my books and tracks among the holi-
day-makers. I only put on my old red
cloak for a treat while I'm trying to preach
to my people. They listen better to one of
themselves than to anybody else, except
Mr. Glanville ; and the cloak must 'a been
born with me, and seems part o' me. But
I put it off along with my heathenish ways

when I caiT}^ forth my basket. Tell me
once more what you want to do with
Fan?'

I want to marry her, with my father's
consent, and, if you see her, tell her so, and
she'll come back to me. She'll be as grand
a lady out in Canada as Miss Aspenelel is
at home, and it won't matter there whether
she's fair or dark, a queen or a gipsy. Tell
her I've worked like a cart-horse all for
her. I emigrated for her sake, because out
there people don't ask the number of your
ancestors, but think more of the acres you
have cleared. I shall be happy to receive
any of her relations, and help 'em to an
honest living.'

As to family, sir,' said the Tigress, ' we
can trace ours back to the Patriarch Abraham.
Israelites are we — wanderers allover
the face of the earth ; and I often
compare our ancestress, Hagar, when in
the wilderness, to myself roaming here and
there for food and rest. I have found

mine in the Saviour of the world. No distinction
of race, or clime, or station in His
kingdom. Freedom for all. Life for all.
Love for all.'

She got up in her excitement and went
out of the tent. Jack followed, relieved,
for her eyes flashed and her features worked
in a way he failed to comprehend. The
gipsies were variously engaged ; some
squatted round the big, iron pot, suspended
from its primitive crook over the
fire, eating and drinking ; others preparing
for wandering over the common, and elsewhere,
in search of unwary excursionists ;
and the rest idling about, as if they meant
to take a Bank Holiday. All made place
for Mrs. Lee, who seated herself near the
iron pot.

Good-morning, sir,' she said, meaningly
to Jack. ' Secrecy is our pass word. Tell
your father that we thank him for his
hospitality.'

You are welcome to share our meal in

return, sir said a stalwart man with a
pipe in his mouth.

Thank you. I should like it very-much
if my father wasn't waiting for me,'
returned Jack, nodding to the Tigress and
hurrying off with his dogs.

In spite of the watchword * secrecy,'
he told his father what had passed between
him and Mrs. Lee. Instinctively he
avoided making Tom also a confidant.
Mr. Harton's comments were satisfactory,
for he believed the Tigress knew all about
Fan.

You wouldn't object to my marrying
her, father?' asked Jack.

^ Find her first, and then we'll settle that
matter,' replied Mr. Harton.

After breakfast Jack wandered forth
again. He was too restless to stay indoors,
and Fan must be found somehow. Ao^ain
he went to the common, the encampment
first. It was nearly deserted. Men, boys,
donkeys, Mrs. Lee, and some of the women

had left ; and only the van, an old horse or
two, three women, the younger urchins,
dogs and poultry remained. Hoplands
Common was one of the many Bank
Holiday resorts, but being some way from
London was never crowded. Mr. Aspenelel
would have enclosed it if he could, but
that was beyond his power. Jack forgot
his private affairs in watching the people ;
only when he encountered happy lovers
he wished for Fan. Parents with their
children, elderly couples, schools, solitary
men and women, vendors of cakes and
sweets, passed and repassed him ; and when
he thought that every park, heath, common,
wood, and lake, within reach of the capital,
were visited by crowds that day, he rejoiced
that the sun shone, and that there
was balm and health on the breeze.

At the far end of the common he found
the gipsies and their donkeys. They were
driving a fine trade. For a penny a ride

the children mounted donkeys and merry-go-rounds,
and gipsy men and boys attended
to their own and their customers'
interests.

Where is Mrs. Lee ?' he asked.

Down by the station, a-selling her
tracks,' replied a man with a wink, and his
thumb pointed over his shoulder.

Jack hurried off to the station, and
there, standing by the wayside, he saw a
respectable-looking old woman, in black
gown, checked apron, plaid shawl, and
poked bonnet, with a large open basket
before her. He did not recognise Mrs.
Lee, but she it was.

*This book will suit you, sir,' she said,
taking a pamphlet from her basket and
offering it to him.

I couldn't have believed it,' exclaimed
Jack, taking sixpence from his pocket and
giving it in return. ' I suppose this is
what you mean by conversion.'

It is responded Mrs. Lee, solemnly,
offering her wares to the passers-by.

You will not forget,' he whispered. ^ I
can't rest till I find Fan.'

Patience, young sir. Take a lesson
from Mr. Glanville,' she replied ; and he
could get no more out of her.

But he went off in search of Gerard,
whom he found hard at work in his
mother's little garden. It was thus he
strove to throw off the work and worry of
an arduous life. The trio soon went into
the house, and Jack introduced the one
subject ever present to his mind — the discovery
of Fan. Gerard said that, if Mrs.
Lee had promised to help, there was a
good chance of success, since if anyone
knew anything about her, she did. But
Gerard had his personal anxieties and
worries as well as Jack. He was feeling
the difficulty of serving two masters, or
rather, a master and a mistress, for Lady
Ascham was exigeante, and Mr. Aspenelel

would not let him alone. His ready
sympathy brought him more work than
he bargained for, and from Roselands to
the Close there was a constant strain upon
it. At the former place everyone, from
the rector to Miss Vigors, had something
they wanted him to do ; at the latter he
was beset by applications for help. Jack
was the last and most persistent claimant.
The past two months had tried Gerard's
patience more than any of his previous
life ; and he began to wonder whether a
Mr. Aspenelel or a Lady Ascham were the
easier to serve. With the former he knew
when his day was done, was it late or
early ; with the latter he was never secure
from note or telegram. Then to have
Jack filling up his spare minutes with the
cry of ' I must find Fan,' and hunting
him out of his retreat, was what Mrs.
Pottle called ' the climax.' However,
this promise of help from Mrs. Lee brought
him consolation as well as Jack, and when

that worthy departed he turned again to
his digging and delving, until the next
interruption occurred. This came in the
astonishing announcement from the awestruck
Miranda, of ' Please, sir, here's Mr.
Aspen el.'

CHAPTER XVI.

A BANK HOLIDAY.

These confounded Bank Holidays demoralise
the world,' said Mr. Aspenelel, as Gerard
joined him in the little drawing-room.
Nothing but play. Clerks, shorten,
servants, all alike. The Common swarming
with these human pests who ought to
be at work, while employers are ruined by
the thousand.'

'It is a difficult question,' responded
Gerard, who knew he was expected to say
something.

I came to you instead of asking you to
come to me,' resumed Aspenelel, ' because I
thought we might be safe from listeners

and on-lookers. Since I have reduced my
establishment, or it has reduced itself, I
meet these village helps at every corner,
their ears, I believe, at every door. Are
we safe ?'

He got up, and, opening the door,
glanced down the staircase into the tiny
hall. No sound met him, but he started,
nevertheless, for Mrs. Glanville's big cat
leaped past him into the room.

My mother is out and the servant is
busy in the kitchen. We are safe from
eavesdroppers,' said Gerard.

As|)enel went close to him and began a
whispered conversation.

^ I have had another threatening letter,
and I believe it is from Loveridge,' he said.
You told him that I couldn't possibly
agree to the three hundred a-year?'

Yes, and he said he would not expatriate
himself for less,' returned Gerard.
I also told him that he was quite capable
of managing his own affairs, and that I

wondered at his not transaction them in
person.'

'You did!' shrieked Aspenelel. 'Then
that accounts for the letter. If you give
up, my life isn't safe.'

I have never before done any underhand
work, sir ; and I think you may
trust this man if you deal fairly with him.
He gives me to understand that there is a
secret between you which places you in
each other's power.'

'The fool! Whatright had he to say that?'

'It slipped out-but it is safe with me.
I should be happy to be witness between
you and him, if a meeting, understanding,
reconciliation, could be effected.'

Aspenelel's face grew dark, and he looked
keenly at Gerard.

Have you wormed yourself into his
secrets, sir ?' he asked, savagely.

I know nothing of him, save that he is
desirous to begin a new life either at home
or abroad.'

VOL. II. s

'Do you believe him? Then you are
less shrewd than I take you to be. See
him once more, and tell him my ultimatum
is two hundred a-year. If he won't
take that, let him starve. Let him do his
worst, and I'll do mine.'

He says he would wish to meet you
and make friends with you,' suggested
Gerard, carefully. ' I know I have no
right to interfere, but perhaps, if you saw
him as he now is, you might overlook the
past, whatever that may be. He owns to
having wronged you, and would like forgiveness
as well as money before he leaves
the country for ever.'

Wronged me ! Was that all ?'

He intimated that he had also something
to forgive. He is wonderfully
changed since I first saw him in Wharf
Court, both in manner, person, and
mind.'

Your preaching, I suppose ?' sarcastically.


No, I cannot take that unction to
myself. He makes no profession of religion.'


He is an ungrateful scoundrel, and I
never wish to set eyes on him again as long
as I live.'

Aspenelel uttered his last sentence calmly,
coldly, and deliberately. Then, as if
attacked by a sudden fear, once more
looked out into the passage. Ko one was
to be seen, and a distant culinary chopping
alone was heard. He did not re-seat himself,
but changed the subject, standing
for the moment as if to look out of the
window.

I suppose your mother and the other
annuitants don't want money spent on
their palace,' he said, hoarsely. ' If so, I
am too poor to spend it. They may believe
it now that they see how I have been
compelled to reduce my establishment.
A^^oman's work. Have nothing to do with
the sex. How can you put up with Lady

s2

Ascham ? Has she heard anything of Mrs.
Aspenelel?'

Nothing.'

'What does the world say?'

Gerard could not help laughing at this
abrupt question, and thinking of the old
game of ' Consequences,' which wound up
up with ' What the world said about it.'
He merely shook his head in intimation
that he had not heard Mrs. Grundy's
opinion, and Aspenelel looked offended.

I A\ill try to see Loveridge tomorrow
and bring him to a decision ; after which,
perhaps, I may be excused from further
interference,' said Gerard, cautiously.

I shall be glad to refund any money
you may have disbursed on my account,'
said Aspenelel, more cautiously still.

You used to say "Time is money," sir ;
and, although I cannot agree with you as
regards myself, 1 do as regards Lady
Ascham and her clients.'

Ha, ha ! her ladyship turns an honest

penny out of her charities. I always said
nobody would undertake them for nothing.
A percentage, I suppose?'

Yes. She has found a wonderful investment,
and looks upon me as her
broker. That is why I mentioned Time
as so necessary to manage all the affairs.'

^ A wonderful investment ? What ?
Where ?'

Mr. Aspenelel clutched Gerard's arm and
gazed eagerly into his face. The young
man, fearing to offend or annoy him,
changed his tone, which had been that of
slight banter, never understood by the
elder.

I spoke metaphorically, as Rowland
Hill is said to have done. Lady Ascham
has literally invested all she possesses
where the securities are safe. I mean in
the Treasury of the Kingdom of Heaven.'

Cant ! verbiage ! hypocrisy !' muttered
Aspenelel, averting his face from Gerard's.
Good-day. When you have seen Love-ridge,

come to my office ; not to the Park
not to the Park.'

Gerard's face flushed, and an irritable
reply rose to his lips, but he suppressed
it.

It must be my last interview, for, as
I said, my time is now Lady Ascham's,'
he returned, rather haughtily, and accompanied
Aspenelel to the door.

He watched him hurry through the
enclosure, and thought of Edith. All his
irritation vanished, and for the hundredth
time he resolved to do what he could,
honestly, for the father, for the sake of the
daughter. Nearly two months had elapsed
since he and his mother paid their last visit
to the Park, on an occasion named in a
former chapter. Rumour had been busy,
and he knew that Edith must have a difficult
part to play. Mrs. Aspenelel and Bruce
were still absent, and the general belief was
that the wife had left the husband with no
intention of returning. The servants lady

for the most part, resigned and departed ;
and the village-helps who supplied their
place gossiped furiously. This was all
that Gerard knew for a certainty, and this
was enough. His mother sometimes met
Nurse True, who was singularly reticent,
and learned from her that Edith was welland
received good accounts of Janet, and
that they would like to see Mrs. Glanville.
But neither she nor Gerard chose to frequent
the Park uninvited by its master.

A summons to tea put an end to Gerard's
temporary sentiment, after which the
customary walk with his mother, and
domiciliary visits to friends, brought his
luxurious Bank Holiday to a close. Mrs.
Lucy was absent on a visit, and her rooms
were placed at his service, so he had
arranged to sleep there instead of at the
rectory, which chanced to be unusually
occupied by Mr. Austen's friends.

It was j)^st ten o'clock, and he was
wishing his mother good-night, when there

was a modest tap at the hall-door. Miranda
had gone to bed, so Gerard answered it.
He was confronted by the man Loveridge.

May I have a word with you in private,
sir ?' he said, breathlessly. ' It will save
your time and mine.'

Gerard bade him wait a few moments
while he spoke to his mother. Mrs. Glanville
was not a nervous woman, but such
a visitor at such an hour terrified her.
Gerard's acquaintance with him was known
to her only in part, for he had not betrayed
Mr. Aspenelel's confidence, even to her.
However, she proposed that while Gerard
spoke to him she would warn Mrs. Lucy's
little maid that he might be late. She
accordingly waited in her bed-room while
he brought Loveridge upstairs, then she
slipped out and returned, but she did not
attempt to retire to rest. She was only
alarmed by the lateness of the hour, for
she knew her son to be strong; and brave.

Neither you nor Mrs. Glanville need fear

me began Loveridge. ' But I had business
in this neighbourhood, and being, as you
know, one of the workers, I took my Bank
Holiday with my fellow toilers. I couldn't
call on you in broad daylight because of
our mutual friend, the autocrat of the
Park ; so I took the liberty of doing so at
this hour, when " the owls do sing, ty whit
tywhoo." I have been listening to the
nightingales. What a concert they are
giving us !'

Their marvellous song was indeed waking
up the silent night as Loveridge
spoke.

Gerard could not help smiling ; but he
asked his loquacious friend what his business
was, as the nightingales reminded him
of the hour.

I am in a terrible fix. I want money,'
he replied. ' I must have money if I am to
maintain my role of respectability. You see,
I took those gorgeous rooms on the understanding
that our miser-millionaire would

come down with the needful. I mean, I
located myself in them for certain reasons
which you shall know as soon as our
business is settled. I am ready to start
for Canada on receiving the first instalment
of my little annuity ; but, while
the respectable donor has been haggling
over the amount, I have been eating my
able en lierhe^ as our light-hearted friends
across the channel say. 1 have got myself
up ; I have " dwelt in marble halls ;" I have
begun a new life ; and I have — spent all
my money. I must have more. Aspenelel
wants to be rid of me ; why doesn't he
promise me that modest three hundred a-
year — a grain of sand in his heaps of gold-dust
?'

He offers you two hundred. He will
promise no more.'

It won't do ! I can't reform under
three.'

Then you are moved by mammon, not
change of heart.'

God forbid. One of us is sacrifice

enough '

Lovericlge paused, and Gerard wondered
what he meant. He argued with him, and
persuaded him to accept the offered sum,
which seemed to him handsome, saying
that it was the amount of his own income.
But the man remained firm.

Circumstances have occurred which
make an increase of my income absolutely
necessary,' he persisted. ' Tell him that I
cannot set up for a gentleman under three
hundred a-year. I might take ois a percentage
for ready-money if he were not so
enormously rich, but I can't sacrifice
country, home, kindred, society, amusements,
art, popular actors, and, above all,
popular preachers, for nothing.'

He bowed to Gerard, put himself in an
attitude, and burst out laughing. Gerard
joined in spite of his efforts to be serious.
What was there between this man and

Aspenelel ? What tie between the money-jobber
and the spendthrift? What had
Aspenelel done to place him in the power of
two men who seemed to haunt him like
spectres ? This latter thought recalled to
his memory the struggle he had witnessed
between him and Wandering Will, and he
hazarded a question.

Perhaps, while I am negotiating between
you and Mr. Aspenelel, you might
help us here at Roselands. We aise in
search of a young girl supposed to be
decoyed away by a gipsy-fellow known as
Wandering Will. Have you ever seen or
heard of him ?'

I seem to know the name. What is he
like?'

Gerard described Wandering Will as
minutely as he could, examining Love-ridge's
face the while. He fancied there
was a smile at the corners of his mouth,
but he could discover no symptom of consciousness
of previous acquaintanceship.

^ There are so many fellows answering
your description,' he said, the smile broadening
into a laugh, ' that it would be
difficult to spot your man. But I will be
on the look-out both for him and the
young lady. What is she like ?'

Gerard described Fan, adding that her
friends would spare no money to discover
her. Loveridge listened attentively, but
instantly appeared to forget her in himself
He resumed the subject of money,
asking how he was to live while Aspenelel
was making up his mind.

I have not a sou to pay for a night's
lodging. I could get one in the village if
sou would advance me a few shillings.
You see it costs money to grow good all
of a sudden, and my transformation is all
but complete. A pound or so would finish
me up. On the honour of a gentleman
you shall have it back as soon as I receive
my first quarter, and you will have the
pleasure of testing my reformation.*

Gerard emptied this pocket of the few
silver coins it contained, saying that lie
was heartily welcome to them. Loveridge
grasped the hand that gave them, and
declared that the donor's unselfish love for
his fellow-men had done more to make a
believer of him than all the sermons he had
ever heard.

And 1 have tried to listen to many in
my time,' he added, with a laugh. ' But
you and your mother will be glad to get
rid of me. Good-night. Tell your squire
that if he doesn't have a care I will do my
worst. Fear will go farther with him than
persuasion.'

He put the money into his pocket
and hurried off. Gerard hastily wished
his mother good-night, and followed his
example.

He found Mrs. Lucy's little maid half
asleep, and went to bed, wondering what
his feelings would have been if she had

tumbled into the fire and set the Cottages
ablaze.

He fell asleep himself with this idea in
his mind, the warbling of the nightingales
in his ears, and the stars in their courses
looking in upon him. He drew up his
blind that he might awake with the sun,
and, as the sleeping apartments of the
Cottages looked due east, there would be
no difficulty on the present occasion.

He slept heavily for several hours, when
he was aroused by what seemed a flood of
sunlight. He thought he must have overslept
himself, and quickly jumped out of
bed. But the strange light bewildered
him, as it flickered and wandered about
the room. He looked out of the
window towards the eastern sky. No sun
appeared. He gazed round his restricted
world, through the tall elms and stalwart
oaks, up the avenue and parkland to the
great house. A part of it was always

visible, as it stood on its eminence, to the
gazer from the humbler Cottages. It was
unusually visible at the moment, for from
the roof issued jets of flame. Aspenelel Park
was on fire.

CHAPTER Xxi.

FIRE AT THE PARK.

Gerard dressed as quickly as terror would
let him, bewildered by thoughts of Love-ridge,
Aspenelel, and, above all, Edith. He
ran to his mother's cottage. She had also
been aroused by the unusual stream of
light, and had discovered its cause. She
was in the act of opening the front door
just as he was about to knock.

Rouse up everyone and spread the
alarm, while I go to the house,' he said.
Send to the village and Hoplands. I will
wake up Simmons at the lodge. Stir up
all the ladies and let them help.'

Even as he spoke, they heard a distant

VOL. II. T

cry of ' Fire ! Fire !' so it must have been
discovered in the village. Mrs. Glanville
was more self-possessed than Gerard, and,
while he hurried away, proceeded to arouse
her neighbours. He knocked up the people
at the lodge, and bade the keeper go to the
church and see after the fire-engine ; but,
while they were parleying, the church bell
began to toll, and this warning of fire resounded
far and near. But he was the
first to reach the house. None of the
inmates seemed to have been aroused, and
the flames were spreading rapidly, somewhere
at the back or side of the building.
He knocked and rang frantically at the
hall bell, and was rewarded by hearing a
sash thrown up, and seeing a head thrust
out, followed by a ' Who's there ?' in Mr.
Aspenelel's voice.

Fire ! Fire ! the house is on fire !'
shouted Gerard.

His cry Alas echoed from within, and
in another moment Aspenelel opened the

hall door, shouting 'Where is it?' He
had not stopped to put on any outer
garment.

On the west side or at the back,' cried
(jcrard, darting past him, and running up
the staircase to the corridor, where he
knew Edith's apartments were.

He knocked at every door until he was
answered by Nurse True. He saw the
flames through the window at the end of
the corridor. Shouts were arising on all
sides, so he knew that everyone was awakened,
and there could be no danger of loss
of life, if only people chose to save themselves.


For God's sake come out ! Tell Miss
Aspenelel to come at once. The fire is
spreading, and it is on this side. There is
not a moment to lose,' he cried, as Nurse
True appeared in some costume improvised
at the moment.

Crash went the window at the end of
the corridor, and in leaped the flames.

T 2

what is the matter?' asked a gentle
voice, and Edith came from her room,
her fair hair falling: over a loose dressings



gown.

The flame seemed to pm^sue her up the
passage, and Gerard caught her in his
arms, bidding Nurse True follow.

My father — where is my father T asked
the astonished girl.

I have just seen him. He is safe,'
replied Gerard, while Edith's maid, the
sole other occupant of the corridor, appeared,
aroused by Nurse True. She had
a birdcage in her hand.

I cannot leave the house. Cousin
Gerard,' said Edith, struggling to free herself
from his hold.

You must,' returned Gerard, running
down the long wide passage to the head of
the stairs, followed by the half-clad, terrified
women, and pursued by the tongues of
flame that threatened to lick them all into
the jaws of the fire.

I will see to tlieni, lovey. Save her,
Mr. Gerard, for God's sake,' cried Nurse
True, pausing at the foot of the stairs,
where no flames had, as yet, penetrated.

And I have your bullfinch, Miss,*
said the maid, keeping close to Gerard's
heels.

Heedless of Edith's resistance and her
cries for her father, scarcely hearing the
confused noise of voices and the outcry at
the back of the house, passing by the
breathless people who came to help, with
a shout of ' In the west wing,' he bore his
precious burden across the hay to the
lodge, by which he had entered. It was
empty now ; the big gates were thrown
open, and the villagers were making their
way to the house, carrying buckets,
pitchers, or such water-vessels as they first
laid hold of. The dawn was breaking,
and, when they fancied they recognised
Edith, they blessed him for saving her,
and added, ' Make haste back, Mr. Gerard;

make haste back.' Had he saved her ? he
asked himself, for after her vain struggles
she lay passive in his arms. She had
fainted.

In another minute she was with his
mother, her terrified maid by her side ; but
no Nurse True. The neighbours were
there also, and Gerard knew that he left
her with those who loved her. He laid
her on the sofa without a word, and literally
raced back again to the scene of the
fire. As he ran up the drive he saw that
the heavens Avere aglow, and the dawn
was put out by the ever-increasing flames.
The birds were awakened before their time
and were dashing into a half frightened,
half-jubilant chorus ; the cocks were utters:
their shrill clarion-call far and near, as
if aroused to unexpected warfare ; and the
cattle were calling to one another in unusual
amazement. The Hoplands' dogs
and horses barked and neighed as if
rivalling one another, while their master

his sons, and servants were working like
slaves.

Gerard encountered Jack.

'We can't find Aspenelel,' he cried,
breathlessly.

He must be safe. I saw him with my
own eyes,' said Gerard. ' He let me in.
Perhaps he went to his study.'

God forbid. The fire broke out there
is raging there,' shrieked Jack.

Come and see,' shouted Gerard, leading
the way into the hall, still intact,
and thence to the passage which led to
Aspenelel's den. Here they were arrested
by a door, locked or bolted, apparently,
from within. They tried to force it open.

Break it down. Push. Save us. AYe
shall be burnt to death,' sounded from
within, in a voice of agony. ' It is
blocked, and I cannot move.'

It was simply a baize door, and when
the two young men put their backs to it,
and pushed with all their force, the hinges

gave way, and it fell inAvarcl. There was
still an obstacle, but the voice, which Gerard
fancied he recognised as Loveridge's,
said,

Just missed us. Here we are, dead or
alive.'

They stooped and saw what seemed to
them two corpses ; only they knew that
dead men do not speak. To Gerard's horror
and amazement they were Aspen el,
tightly clasped in the arms of his enemy
Loveridge. Both were cruelly burnt, but
whether Aspenelel lived or not it was impossible
to say. One of his hands clutched
Loveridge's arm, the other a handful of
gold.

He would not be saved. Lust is
stronger than death. Bring something to
ease this awful burning,' cried Loveridge.

They dragged them into the hall, and
shouted for help. We spare the reader
a description of the sight— horrors are not
in our line; but Gerard was sure that

Aspen el's lips moved. They brought
buckets of water from the flaming: win or
and dashed over them. It was useless.
The doctor of the Union was on the spot,
and came. Mr. Austen also appeared,
and others of the terrified helpers, all pale
and awestruck.

^ Take them to the rectory,' said Mr.
Austen.

Hoplands is much nearer. The flames
are gaining ground. We are not safe here.
Put them on the baize door and carry
them to Hoplands,' shouted Jack, who
was, perhaps, the most strong-minded of
the party, having already seen fires, and
fires.

At this moment Nurse True came on
the scene, armed with sheets of cotton-wool,
oil, and other appliances. She had
managed to see that all the household was
saved, thanking God that it was so small :
and also to get dressed.

Is my darling safe ?' she asked of Gerard

; and, being satisfied, accompanied the
stretcher which held the two injured men
to Hoplands.

They had succeeded in loosening the
miser's grip of Loveridge, and in laying
them side by side.

I shall see you again,' said Loveridge
to Gerard. ' Our negotiations are brought
to a strange end. God's will is stronger
than man's.'

Only say you had nothing to do with
this,' whispered Gerard, stooping over
him.

Nothing, on my honour as a gentleman,'
replied Loveridge.

Gerard had no time to question either
this strange man or his own preconceived
opinion of him. At first he believed that
he had followed his threat by setting fire to
the Park ; but, if so, he could scarcely have
run the risk of losing his own life by going
right into the flames; unless, indeed, it

were in search of 2:old. He turned from
the melancholy procession to go round to
the place where the fire was raging, where
engines were plying, and men mounting
ladders, and spectators shouting, and wood
and masonry falling, as is usual on such
fearful occasions.

Master must have set the place on fire
himself,' said the coachman. ' I saw a light
in his study as late as twelve o'clock. I
was up with one of the horses.'

'They are safe?' asked Gerard. 'Miss
Aspenelel's mare, that she is so fond of?'

'They're all right, sir. 'Tis a judgment
on the squire, for his goings-on.'

These opinions circulated among the
horror-stricken people, who yet had no time
for calculations, since everyone worked with
a will to stay the course of the flames. The
Harmony, father and sons, were amongst the
foremost, and, thanks to their exertions and
forethought, engines arrived from the

county town, with firemen better used to
their work than were the villagers or the
two policemen.

Gerard was soon mounting a ladder and
aiding as much as he could. He ascertained
that the fire had originated in the
west wing : whether in Mr. Aspenelel's study
or not was uncertain ; but as it vas situated
below the corridors whence he had rescued
Edith, and where the flames had done
their worst, he fancied it had begun thereabouts.
Incendiarism was suggested by
some dio knew how unpopular Aspenelel
was ; but there was little time for speculation,
seeing that minds and bodies were
bent on at least saving part of the grand old
house. So long; as the frontage remained
intact, people dragged forth pictures, furniture,
ornaments, and whatever they
could lay their hands on, all of which
strewed the park and drive ; but the corridors
containing Mrs. Aspenelel's particular
rooms, and those appropriated to the young

people, were soon gutted. Measures were
taken to keep the flames at bay by means
of the engines, and they were not quite
unsuccessful ; still, all save the front portion
of Aspenelel Park was a ruin.

Before the fire was got under, crowds
came from far and near; for the flames
Avere visible at a great distance, the house
standing on an eminence. It was now
that the bystanders began to gossip, and
round about his falling mansion to talk of
the owner and his ways. If they did so
with bated breath, it was because he was
reported as burnt to death, and they had a
superstitious awe at so fearful a calamity.
There was no personal regret for the man,
only horror at his end. The gipsies were
there from the common, but the policemen
sent them off by the assurance that if they
did not have a care they would be had up
for setting the place on fire ; so they returned
to the safety of their tents, and
watched from a distance. If they were

guilty of unholy loot, it was known only to
themselves. The destruction of property
was great enough to satisfy the most determined
enemy ; but, when real affliction
arrives, enemies become friends.

Old Harton exemplified this. He forgot
rheumatism and personal animosity together,
and worked till, as he afterwards
said, all aches, mental and bodily, oozed
out at every pore.

I wish I had shaken hands with him.
I was too stiff-necked,' he said to Gerard.

You may yet have the opportunity.
I am sure he was not dead,' returned Gerard,
with a shudder.

Spared to repent. I pray God he maybe
spared to repent,' said Mr. Austen, who
was near.

Men, women, and children forgot themselves
— forgot their work — forgot their
breakfast ; and we all know that it is only
some special emergency which makes one
oblivious of the cravings of hunger. It

was between nine and ten o'clock when
down came a torrent of rain. This was
more effectual than the engines, and
finally extinguished the fire. Haymakers
suddenly remembered their hay waiting to
be carried ; others their clothes about to
be soaked, their meals ready to be
eaten.

God is good !' they exclaimed. ' He is
stronger than the engines. But the fine
furniture will be spoilt, and what will
Madam Aspenelel do when lie comes home?'
She'll never come back again, take my
word for it. But Miss Edith, and Miss
Janet, and the boy. What's to become of
them T

As the flames subsided, the people
scuttled ofi* to their homes, leaving comparatively
few behind to help and encourage
the firemen, who, as they always
do, had shown heroic courage and self-abnegation.


The Harmony, Mr. Austen, and Gerard

were among those who remained ; that is
to say, Tom Harton and his father, for
Jack did not return.

Where is Miss Aspenelel?' asked Harton,
senior.

with my mother at the Cottages,'
replied Gerard.

'How did she get there?' asked
Tom.

I took her,' returned Gerard ; and Tom
frowned.

Was there ever a calamity whence
jealousy is excluded ?

Edith, meanwhile, lay shivering in Mrs.
Glanville's bed, watched tenderly by that
kind lady. It will be remembered that
Gerard left her in a fainting-fit in his
mother's care. When she revived, she
declared her intention of returning to the
scene of the fire in search of her father ;
but her slight, delicate frame forbade. She
could not stand, and the kind friends who
surrounded her carried her from sofa to

bed, almost as if she were an infant. This
was the culminating point of all her troublous
anxiety, and she burst into passionate
weeping. Mrs. Glanville drew the curtains
and darkened the room, to exclude as much
as possible the reflection of the flames, but
her cry was for her father and True.

'I will go and see after them,' volunteered
Miss Vigors to Mrs. Glanville. ' Mr.
Gerard said her father was safe, but did not
name that infinitely more estimable person
Mrs. Trueman.'

Miss Vigors took Mrs. Glanville's large
gardening-hat from off its peg in the hall,
and started, while Miranda stood shivering
and shaking at the door, watching the
flames.

Shall we be burned, miss — shall we ?'
she asked ; but Miss Vigors did not condescend
to answer. ' She do look funny ;
that she do,' apostrophised the girl, watching
the round, active figure at the gates.

But Miranda was ordered to light the

VOL. II. u

fire, boil the kettle, make tea for Edith, and
otherwise occupy herself during Miss
Vigors' absence; so when that lady returned
she did not see her horror-stricken
face, or discover that the strong-minded
woman had grown weak of a sudden. Mrs.
Glanville stole out of Edith's room.

What is the matter ? What has happened
?' she asked, her own face almost
reflecting her friend's.

'Tell her that her father and Nurse True
are at Hoplands. I saw them going there.
Oh ! a fire is an awful sight. I was never
so near one before,' was all the answer Miss
Vigors gave.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A CONSULTATION OF DOCTORS.

As we have already seen, Miss Vigors was
a woman of action. Xo sooner had she
sent her message to Edith than she marched
off again to Hoplands. She wished to
be of use to her friend, Mr. Harton, and she
said so. She arrived just as Jack was
giving orders to the bewildered maids, who
had just hastened home from the fire. The
stretcher Vvdth its terrible burden had been
carried upstairs, and the burnt and suffering
Loveridge had been laid on Jack's bed,
while the insensible if not absolutely dead
Aspenelel was placed on that in the spare
room. Nurse True was with the latter ;

u2

Miss Vigors assumed for the moment the
superintendence of the former. The doctor
had as much as he could do between
them. Jack was beside himself, and, having
been the ao;ent in thus burdening: his
father, knew not what to do with those he
had helped to rescue. But Mr. Harton and
Gerard soon came, and the former took the
matter into his own hands.

We must telegraph for other medical
men,' he said. the responsibility is
awful.'

I will telegraph,' said Gerard. * I must
send a telegram to Lady Ascham as I cannot
possibly go to-day. I will just see the
doctor first.'

He strode upstairs and met Dr. Richards,
who told him that Mr. Aspenelel was alive,
but happily unconscious, and that Love-ridge,
although frightfully burnt, was, he
hoped, not mortally injured. He forbade
his seeing either patient, and Gerard, hearing
Loveridge's fearful groans, was thankful

for the prohibition. He hastened off
to the station, promising to return later on ;
and sent telegrams to Lady Ascham and
two celebrated surgeons, one in London,
the other in the county town. Then he went,
where his heart already was, to inquire for
Edith.

Miranda met him open-mouthed, with
the news that she was as bad as could be,
while Miss Lilyton tripped downstairs with
the announcement that she slept. Which
was he to believe ? His mother did not
appear, for she was watching silently by
Edith. He swallowed a cup of tea at Miss
Lilyton's request, for he was quite exhausted,
then asked Miranda to turn out a
suit of clothes which was kept in a cupboard
in the hall for an exigency, took
them to Mrs. Lucy's, and changed his soaked
garments for dry ones. This done, he returned
to the scene of the fire.

The rain had ceased, and so, virtually,
had the fire, which had raged for five or

six hours. As yet the cause had not been
discovered, but the house was all but a
ruin. The facade, and therewith the principal
front rooms, was not much injured,
but the back and sides were roofless and
gutted. Such furniture as had been
saved was drenched, and the sound of
falling beams and rafters and the occasional
cracking of smouldering embers,
completed the desolation. No lives were
lost ; no accident had happened to anyone
save the owner and his rescuer.

Gerard stood surveying the melancholy
scene. The sun suddenly reappeared and
shone through the trees, turning each
dripping leaf into gold ; a thrush instantly
began a long-drawn warble, which was
taken up by its neighbours, and soon
Nature triumphed again over the aroused
and angry elements.

Are they dead?' were words that startled
Gerard from his reverie.

They were spoken by Tom Harton.

He told him all lie knew, and they went
together to make inquiries elsewhere. All
sorts of reports were already spreading,
and Tom Harton was inclined to believe
that it was the work of an incendiary,
though he allowed that it would have been
impossible for a stranger to penetrate into
Aspenelel's room.

I have seen the locks and bars, and
watched his vigilant eyes,' he said, ' and
nobody could have entered from without.
If those two charred individuals are to
be kept at Hoplands, I shall depart from

it;

There was nothing more to be done, so
the young men walked together to the
lodge, and separated. Gerard was now
met by his mother, who told him that she
feared Edith was really ill, and that he had
better ask Dr. Richards to call and see her.
She was hysterical, and inquiring incessantly
for her father. Gerard suggested that
they should await the arrival of the

medical men, one of whom had attended
at the Park, and they set Miranda to watch
for the first cab from the station to Hop-lands.
But Gerard could not rest, and
wandered forth himself in quest of he
scarcely knew what.

The doctors did not arrive till late in
the afternoon, and he speedily followed
them to Mr. Harton's. He was 'received by
Jack, who made short work of the medical
portion of the history.

They are swathed in cotton-wool, and
oiled all over. You can't see an inch of
'em. Only their eyes and mouths are
visible, like the Laplanders. They look
awful. I bought up all the wadding and oil
in Roselands, and Richards hadn't enough.
That old True's a brick. She sticks to her
master just as if she loved him, and he
only just alive. The other does nothing
but ask for you when he's sensible : but
you should see Miss Vigors ! She manages
him like a baby. She wouldn't make

a bad sort of a step-mother after all.'

My dear Jack, low can you jest at such
a time?' cried Gerard, whose imagination
carried him to the scene upstairs.

No good to cry. Nobody enjoys a joke
like Fan. I wish she were here, if it was
only to console father. He's awfully
concerned.'

Mr. Harton joined them, and declared
himself delighted to see Gerard, who ' had
more sense and feeling than all the rest
put together.'

^ But,' he added, with a chuckle, ' you've
ruined your prospects by sending for two
doctors. If Aspenelel pulls through, he'll
never forgive your extravagance. AVho on
earth is the man who rescued him at the
risk of his own life ? — if rescue it may be
called.'

His name is Loveridge. I have seen
him before,' returned Gerard.

When the consultation of medical men
was over, and they came downstairs, they

had not much to say. As usually happens
in such cases, they said that all had been
done that could be done ; that Loveridge
would probably recover, as all his burns
were superficial, but it was impossible to
decide in the case of Aspenelel. They
feared the fire had reached some vital
part ; but he was conscious, and would
possibly regain the speech, paralysed by
terror. The hand and arm that clutched
the gold were fearfully excoriated, &c., &c.
In short, no verdict could be much
worse.

I am afraid you must wait for your fee,
gentlemen, but you will take some refreshment,*
said Mr. Hart on, leading the way to
the dining-room.

Gerard was called away to j^urse True,
who met him on the landing.

Tell my darling that I will not leave
her father, God granting me strength to
nurse him,' she said. ' She must on no
account come to him yet. It would kill

her, and do no good. Mrs. Glanville will
be a mother to lier, I know. Some one
must write to Miss Janet in Paris ; but she
is best away. My love to my darling.
Take care of her, Mr. Gerard.'

I will,' said Gerard, emphatically.

Fortunately True had not time to inquire
into Edith's state, or she would have
felt her task more difficult than it was.
She was summoned back to the sick-room
by Dr. Richards, who overwhelmed her
with directions ; while Jack came to tell
Gerard that his father insisted on his eating
and drinking. This gave him the
opportunity of requesting one of the
medical men to call and see Edith. At
the same time he inquired if it would be
safe for him to visit Loveridge, who asked
to see him.

Better wait till tomorrow,' said Dr.
Sant.

I shall not be here tomorrow,' returned
Gerard.

Dr. Sant went again to Loveridge before
he left Hoplancls, and told Gerard that he
might visit him for a short time that
evening.

Keep him as quiet as you can ; but in
his case the excitement of expectation is
almost worse than that of saying what he
wants to say he remarked.

Then Gerard spoke of Edith, and related
her rescue and subsequent hysteria, and
he — Dr. Sant — consented to delay his
departure in order to see her. The other
physician hurried off to catch the train.

Event succeeded event so rapidly that
Gerard scarcely knew how either to follow
or accompany them. However, he walked
with the doctor to the Cottages, promising
Mr. Harton and Jack to return as soon as
possible ; but somehow everybody wanted
Gerard.

Mrs. Glanville took Dr. Sant at once to
Edith. She was quite composed, and
declared herself well enough to go to her

father. With the prescience of skill, he
combated her wish quietly.

You will be of more use eventually if
you leave him to his excellent nurse, and
recover your own energy first,' he said ;
sudden shocks prostrate more than illness,
and you must get over yours.'

Will he recover?' asked Edith.

Life is in God's hands, my dear young
lady,' he replied, evasively. ' We must be
thankful that he escaped.'

I am, I am. But he has now no one
but me.'

This idea had taken possession of Edith,
and late events at the Park had tended to
convince her that she was necessary to her
father. But Dr. Sant argued,

In the present emergency, the excellent
woman whom I remember at the Park in
your own mother's time, and who was
your nurse, is a more effectual help than
you could be. You must remain here for
the present.'

I am putting dear Mrs. Glanville to inconvenience
— turning her out of her room
giving trouble to everyone. Isn't it
strange that we should be homeless, and
my father so rich, so rich ! Ah ! I see the
flames! Where is Gerard? Cousin Gerard,
save my father !'

Dr. Sant soon discovered that Edith
was not only hysterical but slightly
delirious. She put her hands before her
eyes as if to shut out the fire, and sobbed
quietly.

He beckoned Mrs. Glanville from the
room, and she, being replaced by Miss
Lilyton, told him that she feared that
Edith had had too much on her mind
since the sudden departure of Mrs.
Aspenelel. She recapitulated all she knew
of Mr. Aspenelel's proceedings during the
past months, and Dr. Sant, who was well
acquainted with him and his penurious
ways, was not slow to perceive that the
fire was the consummation of the delicate

girl's troubles. Dr. Richards arrived while
this was passing, and the two medical
men held a long and anxious consultation
on their three patients in the drawing-room,
Mrs. Glanville returning to Edith.
They found all sorts of cordials and
restoratives in the small apartment, turned
into a surgery and general store-room by
the good ladies of the Homes. They and
their maids had emptied their boxes for
linen, and the Roselands shops for
aitherous medicines, in order to aid Mrs.
Glanville ; and even Miss Short had
stumped into her hall to offer to put up
Edith's maid, who was more hysterical
than her mistress, as maids not unfrequently
are.

The neighbours, high and low, had
swarmed about the tiny abode, and
Miranda had never been so important, or
enjoyed herself so much, since she had
been in Mrs. Glanville's service. It quite
reminded her of London, she said.

Gerard walked to the station with Dr.
Sant. He was anxious to have his real
opinion of his patients, and especially to
learn something of his beloved Edith.
Since he had held her in his arms that
morning, and perhaps saved her life, he
had been in a tumult of varied feelings.
Would she be shy of him, and annoyed
with him for forcibly carrying her away
from her father, and taking her to his
mother ? She had called him by the old
familiar name, caught from Janet, of
Cousin Gerard, and that comforted him ;
still he dreaded her awakening to the
recollection of his flight across the park.
Dr. Sant reassured him as to her bodily
state, and said her mental organisation
was so delicate that the greatest care was
necessary to avert brain-fever. He asked
Gerard to call on him, if possible, on the
morrow, and report the effect of his interview
with Loveridge. He said the man
showed a marvellous courage and endurance,

and he wanted to know more of him.
But Gerard gave him a short sketch of what
was expected of him by Lady Ascham,
which made the doctor laugh heartily, and
say that he might be a medical man, since
he seemed to be at everybody's beck and
call.

This was not far from the truth, for no
sooner was he at home again, and seated
in the hall, enjoying a cup of tea with his
admirer, Miss Lily ton, than Jack arrived,
breathless, declaring that ' there was no
quieting that fellow Loveridge ever since
the doctor had promised him a visit from
Gerard.' So Gerard gulped down his tea
too hot, while Miss Lilyton remonstrated,
and Jack entreated him not to scald himself
to death, since one pair of scorched
fellow-creatures was enough at a time.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.



B3(S5h

V'3

fci^.i

>.•;

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books
are reasons for disciplinary action and may
result in dismissal from the University.
University of Illinois Library

L161— O-1096

VOL III.

BY

ANNE BEALE

AUTHOR OP
FAY ARLINGTON,' 'THE PENNANT FAMILY,'
SQUIRE LISLE'S BEQUEST,' ETC.

Fortune, men say, doth give too much to many ;
But yet she never gave enough to any.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1889.
All Rights Resound.

n;.3.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

MISER AND Spendthrift.

Gerard had found Loveridf2:e, as Jack had
described him, encased in cotton-wool. He
had often visited his poorer brethren in
hospitals, so the siojht was not so strangely
grotesque to him as it was to Jack ; still,
it told of suffering and danger. Loveridge,
however, did not give him time to think
of this, and began in some excitement to
explain himself.

I want to assure you, Mr. Glanville, that

VOL. III. B

I had no more to do with the origin of the
hire than you had. I am afraid my threat
when I left you last night may have led
you to believe that I was an incendiary.
Not so bad as that. God forbid ! I only
wanted to frighten you into frightening
my — Aspenelel to comply with my demands.
That matter is settled without your interference.
When I heard the cry of "Fire
at the Park," I got up and hurried there.
I know the place better than you may
imagine, and I have been more than once
into that awful Gehenna. I felt instinctively
— you would say providence inspired
me — that the fire began there, and I made
for it. I found the hall-door open, and I
got into the passage leading to his den.
It was full of smoke that half suffocated
me. The door was ajar, and I saw — oh,
awful sight! — I saw" him clutching gold
out of what seemed a cupboard. He was
surrounded by flames. I rushed through

them and seized him round the waist. He
gave a fearful cry, and resisted ; but I was
the stronger of the two. Could it be that
greed and gold overpowered the sense of
burning ? I dragged him out ito the passage,
and I should have saved him but for
that door. I stumbled against it with my
ghastly burden. It was open when I went,
and must have swung to after me. AVe
should both have been burnt to tinder but
for you and Jack. As it is — is he — my —
is Aspenelel alive T

He is certainly alive,' put in Gerard.
But what is the secret of such dire enmity
and such unselfish devotion ?'

I cannot tell you without his consent.
We have both sinned grievously; he as
hoarder, I as spendthrift ; but I pray to
God — oh, pray with me and for me, that
he may be spared so that we may meet
and be reconciled. He does not know
that it was I who risked my life to save

b2

him ; but I did, and would do it again and
again. He was not all bad, only so near —
so near. Pray for us as I have heard you
pray for others not so wicked as we two.
Here at my side, so that I may join. I
can move my lips if not my hands.'

Gerard knelt down, and prayed as he
had never prayed before, for those two
injured men. Loveridge followed him,
emphasising every word. Gerard had the
gift of extempore prayer, and spoke as
the spirit gave him utterance.'

Ask for a blessing on the master of this
house, and on all whom he loves,' broke in
Loveridge.

Gerard did so, and then prayed for the
wife and children of the stricken Aspenelel,
his heart full of Edith. For the first time
the recollection of Mrs. Aspenelel and Bruce
flashed upon him, and he silently supplicated
the return of the wanderers. No
one had thought of them during that fearful

day, which seemed to Gerard many
days in one.

spray on, pray on, it eases my heart,'
said Loveridge ; and Gerard poured out
his soul to God.

AVhen he rose from his knees the injured
man was calm. Gerard asked if he could
be of further service.

In two ways,' he said. ' Will you ask
Mr. Harton's son Jack, who helped to save
us, to be with me instead of that lady —
Miss Vigors, I mean — until I can get
away ; and will you try to find Mrs.
Lee whom they call the "Tigress," and
bring her here. I must see her. She was
selling tracts on the common yesterday
morning, and cannot be far off.'

I will do my best,' replied over-weighted
Gerard, who felt as if, for the present, he
could do no more.

Dr. Richards came to see Loveridge,
and broke up the interview. Gerard took

his leave, and asked Richards if he might
see Nurse True. He at once called her
from Aspenelel's room. The good woman
inquired for her darling, and bade Gerard
<2:ive her such comfort as he could.

My master has made an effort to speak
she said, ^ and I think he knows me. Dr.
Sant promised to come again to-night. I
don't think he had any hopes of him this
morning ; but I pray God may spare him
to repent. It is an awful tragedy, and my
mistress nobody knows where. Tell my
darling that her nurse will take care of
her father, and that she need not trouble
about that. Only keep her away till — till
he isn't quite so bad.'

Gerard promised everything, and went
downstairs to where many anxious friends
awaited him. He was glad to see that
Miss Vigors was entertaining Harmony
senior, with some favourite argument, and
that Mr. Austen was talking to his sons.

He whispered Lovericlge's request to Jack,
Who whispered back,

My step-mother has frightened him to
death. She's too strong-minded. He wants
a dull fellow like me. Well, I'm his man,
and I'll go and tell him so.'

He disappeared, and Tom took up the
role.

I was just talking to Mr. Austen
about Mrs. Aspenelel and Bruce. They
must be traced, and I will undertake the
work.'

Mrs. Aspenelel will hear of the fire
through the public papers wherever she
may be,' said Gerard. ' It will probably
bring her back and save you the trouble.'

Tom frowned and left the room, as he
generally did when contradicted. This
gave Gerard an opportunity to ask Mr.
Austen to set on foot an inquiry for Mrs.
Lee, who was somewhere in the neighbourhood.
The rector had been superintending

the replacing of the furniture in the
burnt rooms, and fancied he had seen
her ; but all was such confusion that no
one had clear ideas of any person or thing.
As to poor Mr. Harton, he was quite overpowered,
and declared that he knew not
whether he was at home or abroad, in his
own or a hired house, in the flesh or in the
spirit.

I am entertaining mine enemy unawares.
Will he prove an angel ? Here
is matter for your sermon next Sunday,
Austen. I hope you will put up prayers
for us all,' he said.

'I shall do so,' returned the rector.
If ever we wanted Divine guidance it is
now.'

Nurse True came in summoned and
unannounced.

It must be something extraordinary
to make her forget her manners,' thought
Harton.

My master has suddenly recovered
speech and consciousness she said. ' He
is asking for Mr. Clar\dlle, and will not
be satisfied until he is sent for. Dr.
Richards says he had better not be crossed,
and I am thankful you are still here, Mr.
Gerard.'

I am thankful too, if I can be of any
use,' replied Gerard, following Nurse True
upstairs, and followed by questioning
speeches from his friends.

'Leave us alone,' greeted Gerard, in a
hollow voice.

It was, of course, Mr. Aspenelel who
spoke, and the room was so darkened that
Gerard could not see. He was glad of
this, for he dreaded a repetition of 's
wool-encased frame. He took the
seat vacated by Nurse True at the pillow
of the sufferer.

'I want to know who dragged me
through the fire. Was it you? It was

you who roused me first,' said Aspen el, in
sepulchral tones scarcely audible.

It was Loverid<>;e who saved your life,
sir, not I,' replied Gerard, very quietly and
distinctly.

'How?'

He got into the house after you had
opened the door; penetrated to your study
and rescued you, thanks be to Almighty
God;

Is he alive or dead ?'

Alive, and in this house.'

Bid him come to me at once.'

He cannot. Like you, he is a prisoner.
He is confined to his bed. I have just
seen him.'

'Where arc we?'

At Hoplands. Mr. Harton is glad that
you are here, and is doing all he can for
Loveridge.'

Where is Edith ? Who rescued her ?'

I did. She is with my mother. She

would be here with you, but the doctors
forbid just now, because of the late shock
to her nerves.'

Tell me all. Tell me everything.'

Gerard perceived, from the failure of his
voice, that he could ask no more questions,
so he recounted, as briefly and cautiously
as he could, the course of events. Occasional
groans alone interrupted him, and
whether they were called forth by mental
or bodily anguish he could not discover.
He concluded with — ' No lives are lost,
and the frontage of the house and much
of the furniture are saved. Let us thank
God.'

My life is lost — my gold, my deeds, are
gone,' muttered Aspenelel, almost inaudibly;
then, as if rousing himself, he added, ' Tell
Lady Ascham that I will spare you no
longer. You must now work for me — forme.'


I will do what I can,' said Gerard

feeling that this was no time for contradiction.


tell — tell Loveridge that — I promise
the three hundred,' he gasped. ' Go ; doit
at once.'

Gerard went out upon the landing, and
was met by Dr. Sant, who forbade further
interviews with either patient. Gerard,
thankful for the prohibition, rejoined the
party in the dining-room, who overwhelmed
him with questions that he dared not
answer.

The close of this terrible day was approaching,
and those who had been up
before the dawn were tired out, Gerard
amongst them. The arrangements at Hop-lands
for the night were made by the doctors,
one of whom was to remain. Jack
undertook Loveridge, with the aid of a
female servant, and Miss Vigors returned
to her house ; Nurse True remained with
Aspenelel; Mr. Harton was prevailed upon

to go to bed ; while Tom, who was essentially
selfish, invited himself to the rectory,
upon plea of sacrificing his room to
the doctor.

It was late before all these matters were
settled, and not only Hoplands but the
village was astir till near midnight. Police
patrolled the Park and guarded the ruined
house, while inquisitive strangers came
from afar to look on, for where the hive of
excitement is thither swarm the wasps and
drones. The few servants who were left
at the Park, after the summary notice
given by the upper ones, were quartered
in the village or at the rectory, and by
degrees peace fell on troubled Roselands.

Mr. Austen was the last person to leave
Hoplands, and he went thence to perambulate
the village and the precincts of the
great house in order to see that his parishioners
were honest, and had not purloined
their neighbours' goods. Happily, the

gipsies were in their tents and the police
on the watch.

Gerard was consoled at last by half-an-hour's
talk with his mother. He told her
everything. She foresaw complications for
him on all sides, but she knew that straightforward
conduct was sure to bring a man
through any labyrinth. They settled that
he should go to London on the morrow,
and return in the evening. Edith was
better, though unusually excitable, and
nothing but sudden bodily prostration
kept her from going to her father in. spite
of prohibition. Mrs. Glanville believed
that for her individually the fire was a
rescue from a state of intolerable mental
strain.

Gerard slept well, unconscious even of
the nightingales. He breakfasted with his
mother, who had alternately watched by
Edith and dozed in an easy-chair all night,
and who did not give a satisfactory account

of her patient. But Gerard had no thine
to lose, and was obliged to cut short, not
only this subject that interested him so
deeply, but inquiries from the ladies, who
were watching for him, and from everyone
else whom he met on his way to the
station. He could see the roofs of the
great house in the distance, and it looked
like a house cut in two ; half of it uninjured,
half open to the ' owls and the
bats.' A melancholy sight, truly.

Much to Gerard's relief and surprise, he
found Mrs. Lee with Lady Ascham. Lady
Ascham was going to give a tea to the
gipsies, and Mrs. Lee had promised to recount
to her wandering brethren the
results of her conversion. Others of her
tribe would do the same, but it was anticipated
that none would have the same
effect as the old ' Tigress ' and well-known
fortune-teller. She had come to London
from Eoselands the previous evening, expressly

to see Lady Ascham, whose zeal in
all home missionary works was unbounded.
Her ladyship believed in ' Teas,' followed
by religious addresses ; and knew by experience,
as did Gerard, the good results
often produced at such gatherings by
homely relations of spiritual good received
by individuals present at the entertainment.
The gain of a meal was not large
enough to create the hypocrite, so they jilt
faith in the poor souls benefited. The
treat was to be given the following week,
and arrangements were in progress.

Lady Ascham overwhelmed Gerard with
inquiries about the fire and its consequences,
and he replied as briefly and
clearly as he could. He knew that he
could trust Lady Ascham, so he mentioned
the part Loveridge had played, and, without
naming him, told Mrs. Lee that he had
expressed a wish to sec her.

He seems to know you, for he said you

were on the common selling tracts on
Whit-monday,' he said.

I saw him. He is one to sacrifice himself.
Reckless of life and friends and
character,' exclaimed Mrs. Lee, in much
excitement, rising and spreading forth her
arms.

She had been seated face to face with
Lady Ascham, her hawker's basket at her
feet, a subdued light in her fiery eyes, now
the fierce glance returned, and she was the
Ti ogress ' ao^ain.

I must go to him. Perhaps I shall
get out of him what he refused to tell me
on the common. Shall I go at once ?' she
proceeded.

Come to my lodging at seven o'clock
this evening, and we will decide,' replied
Gerard.

'I cannot wait so long. I can be at
Hoplands and back by then. Starvation,
death, destruction, must be averted. I

VOL. III. c

must go — I must go. My lady, I will beat
the treat; I will relate my conversion,
I will testify for the Lord ; but, if this man
wants me, I must not delay lest he die.
God bless your ladyship, and you, Gerard
Glanville, for spending yourselves for the
like of us.'

She waved her outstretched arms, took
up her basket and hurried away. Gerard
followed her. He led her into his office,
and told her that she must be cautious, as
excitement might injure Loveridge. He
advised her to inquire for Jack — advice
which she seized upon at once. She promised
to do nothing without Jack's consent.
She would appoint a meeting with him,
and send a message to Loveridge, but
there was no time to lose — no time to lose,'
she cried, with all her force of will ; and,
again invoking a blessing on Gerard, she
finally departed.

CHAPTER 11.

ON HER TRAIL.

Jack found his self-imposed task of riurs-
ino' Overdose no sinecure. Awhile his
male friends were sleeping oiF their fatigue
that Tuesday night after the fire, he kept
vigil. Loveridge was a most impatient
patient, and, had he not been so tightly
swathed by the doctors, he would probably
have rid himself of some of the impediments
to movement. He had borne the
torture heroically, but could not bear
the restraint. Fortunately for Jack, Dr.
Richards was in the house, and did not
leave him to bear the burden alone. He

c2

forbade conversation, for fear of increase
of fever, but told Jack to read to him instead.
Jack had two or three numbers of
the Frankly n Square Library at hand, and
began a tale of adventurous emigration,
which soon engrossed Loveridge's attention,
until he at last fell asleep. Jack
followed his example, and between sleeping
and waking, reading and nursing, the
night wore through. When Jack waxed
melancholy, he revived himself by an inward
chuckle at his ' Lap,' as he called his
patient, not inappropriately ; for nothing
of him was to be seen save his eyes,
mouth, nose, and nostrils, barely visible
through the slits made to enable him to
see, smell, and take liquids. A Laplander
could not have been more effectually encased
in skins than Loveridge in cotton-wool.


However, Nurse True's friend Rebecca
came to relieve guard in the morning, and

Jack's temporary self-abnegation ceased
for awhile. *He and his father breakfasted
together, and discussed what was to be
done in this wonderful crisis. They came
to the conclusion that they must let things
take their course, and bear it as philosophically
as possible.

If only Fan were here ! She knows all
about nursing,' sighed Mr. Harton.

It would have been jolly to have her to
help, instead of Rebecca,' moaned Jack.
And now all this bother hinders my search
for her. Will she ever come back ?'

The squire's groans kept me awake
half the night,' broke out ]mr. Harton.
It is an awful visitation. He is no better
this morning; Mrs. Trueman fears the
worst.'

Serve him right,' said Jack, whose
religious zeal was not fervent enough to
overcome his prejudices.

After breakfast he wandered off to the

common, and would have pursued his
search for Fan had he not felt that he was
needed at home. In the afternoon he
resumed his nursing and his reading.
Loveridge was pronounced to be going on
well; but the doctors shook their heads
over Aspenelel.

It was nearly six o'clock when a note
was brought to Jack. He was entertaining
Loveridge with a description of Fan,
to which the sick man listened without
apparent interest.

'Hurrah! Now I shall find her!' he
exclaimed, when he had read the missive.
Old mother Lee promised to help, and
here she is sending for me. I'll be back in
no time.'

Jack was gone and replaced by Rebecca
before Loveridge could reply. The
Tigress had written to say that she was
waiting for Jack in the copse at the
back of Hoplands. He was at her side

in no time. She was seated on a tree-root.


you have found her. Where's Fan?*
he cried.

Not so fast, young gentleman. I
bring you no news of her ; but I want to
see the Mr. Loveridge whom your good
father has taken into Hoplands. Will
you tell him so ? There's no time to
lose.'

He mustn't be excited. But perhaps
you could read him one of your tracts
said Jack, with a twinkle of his eye,
and a glance towards the basket at her
feet.

I'm no scholar, Mr. Jack Harton, but
I'm learning to read. At seventy-six I'm
doing what I should 'a done at seven.
But I can tell him how the Lord tamed
the Tigress, and is ready to make a lamb
of him.'

Bless you, Mrs. Lee, you'll find him ina

fall fleece of ^vool ; why, he was as white
as snow yesterday, but he's getting a bit
soiled rejoined Jack, who could never
resist a joke.

Go !' cried the Tigress, waving her
arms towards the house.

I'll give your message, provided you
help me to find Fan,' he said, resolutely.

I will. I am seeking her,' she said.

No sooner had Jack delivered his
message than Loveridge begged him to
bring Mrs. Lee to him at once, saying she
was the woman of all others he wanted to
see.

What will the maids say ?' asked
Jack.

Tell them I'm wanting good books,
instead of your secular papers,' he replied,
attempting to laugh, but restrained by
sudden anguish. ' Only the burn on my
cheek,' he added, cheerfully.

Jack returned to Mrs. Lee, and conducted

her by the back staircase to Love-ridge's
room. They did, in fact, attract
attention, but Jack told the domestics that
she was going to sell her tracts upstairs
first, and then was coming down to do a
little business with them.

Wait for me in the copse,' she said, as
Jack ushered her into the apartment, and
she closed the door on him.

That's cool !' he muttered, and turned
on his heel.

Still remembering her promise of help,
he went back to the copse and waited.
He, like many others, could do anything
but wait, and it seemed to him the longest
half-hour he had ever spent.

Confound the birds, how they dosing.
It makes a fellow melancholy when
all the world's at sixes-and-sevens.
They've no feeling, or they couldn't be
so cheerful,' he philosophised. ^ And
Fan, who used to feed them in the

winter, gone, nobody knows where. Oh,
Fan, Fan. I wish you would come
back !'

The Tigress returned at last. She looked
fierce and solemn. Jack questioned her
about Loveridge, but she declined to give
any information. All she said was, that
she did not know what would become of
him if he should be maimed for life.

And all for that miser !' she groaned.

And Fan ?' asked Jack.

I will surely find her if you stick to
your promise of marrying her,' she
answered.

Only get us a parson, and I'll marry
her before your eyes. But father Avould
like to have a hand in giving her away, so
perhaps we'd better wait for the rector.'

I'll send you a line soon ; I'm on her
trail'

Oh ! you dear old South American
huntress !' cried Jack, catching hold of her

hand and wringing it. ' If you bring her
to me you shall have a corner of our wigwam
as long as you live.'

Something like a tear moistened her
black eyes, and she took up her basket,
saying, ' God bless you for the kind word,'
and plunged into the copse.

No sooner did Jack reach home than he
was sent off again in search of Gerard. If
he had not returned he Alas to be telegraphed
for, since Mr. Aspenelel would not
be quieted without him. Xurse True and
the doctors agreed that he was essential to
him. Jack found Gerard at tea. He had
but lately arrived, and was about to go to
Hoplands. Edith was in the drawing-room,
with Mrs. Aspenelel and Gerard, and Jack
could not but think what a happy trio she
helped to form. She was better, and declared
herself able to o;o to her father.

Jack called Gerard out to deliver his
message, but her sensitive mind imagined

something vn'ong. Gerard reassured herby
saying that Mr. Aspenelel must be better
since he was able to think of business.
Lady Ascham had bade him forget her and
her charities, and think of nothing but
that greatest of all charities, returning
good for evil. He was to devote himself
to Mr. Aspenelel.

He had spent the day at his old office,
gathering such information as the anxious
clerks and others could give, and furnishing
particulars of the fire to the crowds
that besieged it. Piles of letters were
awaiting Aspenelel, which, after due consideration,
were entrusted to him. All
concerned were aghast at the catastrophe,
not knowing what the end could be. Men,
whether millionaires or not, never anticipate
the sudden strokes of Providence. It
was understood that Gerard knew as much
as anyone of the affairs, and everybody
trusted him, as people do the strictly

truthful, honourable, and straightforward.

Tell papa I am ready to come to him,'
said Edith. ' Ask him what he wishes me
to do, and I will do it.'

Simple obedience. That had been always
her motto, and Gerard knew it. She
looked whiter and more fragile than ever,
as she lay curled up on the sofa, yet none
more resolved than she, where duty called.
He was happy in thinking that the memory
of her escape from the fire was merged in
anxiety for her father. But for this, how
happy she would have been in the peaceful
haven of Mrs. Clar^ille's tiny home !

Gerard found Mr. Aspenelel's mind clear
but excited. The room was still darkened,
and he saw but little of the swathed and
stricken man. His voice was low, but less
sepulchral than the previous day, and the
doctors thought him slightly better. Gerard
told him at once, and without circumlocution,
that Lady Ascham relinquished his-services,

so long as he could be of use to
him, and that he placed himself wholly at
his disposal. The ' Thanks ' that succeeded,
though but one word, sounded
emphatic. Then Gerard related what he
had done at the office and elsewhere, and
alluded cautiously to the heaps of letters.

Read them, and give me a summary of
their contents,' said Aspenelel. ' I must
negotiate through you with clients as well
as lawyers. I can see no one else.'

Miss Aspenelel is anxious to come to you.
She is better,' ventured Gerard.

Not till I am back at the Park. That
must be managed at once. I constitute
you my agent, steward, what you will.
Get workmen and see that what remains
of the house is safe. I can rebuild at leisure
when I get back. See that the ruins
of my study are boarded up, and let
no one meddle with them. AVrite to the
insurance company, " Fire and Flame,

Limited." I shall have a fight with them.'
Gerard knew that they would dispute
his claim, because Aspenelel had himself
been the cause of the fire ; but he did not
venture to say so. Indeed, Nurse True
had warned him not to contradict him.
His best chance was to ease, as much as
possible, his over-burdened mind. He unloaded
it himself by degrees, giving Gerard
commission after commission so rapidly
that at last he begged to be allowed to goto
the window and write them down,
saying that his memory was less retentive
than Mr. Aspenelel's. He managed to let
the light in obliquely, so that its declining
rays fell on him, and not on the bed where
the sufferer lay.

He had always looked on Aspenelel as a
genius ; now he found him to be one of the
most remarkable of his century ; for there
are geniuses and geniuses. A marvellous
memory, an inborn talent for money-getting,

a self-absorbed power of organization,
a vision unbounded by sea or shore ; and is
not that genius as great as is that of any
poet, romancer, or philosopher, who works
for earth, not heaven ? Gerard thought it
was, and washed it had glorified God.
Was it too late ? In spite of the fire and
consequent suffering, the mind — or soul,
or spirit, which was it ? — seemed to grasp
the universe in its flight from the stock-exchange,
bank, office, shipping, at home ;
to argosies, mines, and multitudinous speculations
abroad. Nothing escaped it but
the grim shadow, Death.

How long this essential part of the complex
organization, called man, could have
held out Gerard did not know ; for Nurse
True came in to say that Dr. Sant had
arrived, and wished to sec her master at
once.

Come again,' muttered Aspenelel, as
Gerard left the room.

Jack was waiting for him to request him
to visit Loveridge. He found him quite
animated, for the doctor pronounced him
on the road to recovery.

Time and patience is what they preach
he said, as Gerard approached him. ' I
haven't much of either, for this emigration
scheme hampers me.'

Mr. Asp en el promises the three hundred
a-year,' said Gerard, and the announcement
caused Loveridge to start, and to
utter a cry of pain.

^I could not leave him while he is
in danger. I must see him first,' he
moaned.

He, also, wishes to see you.'

Thank you ; thank God for that, Gerard
Glanville. The Tigress has been, and I
must thank you for that also ; but, more
than all, I thank you for a strange peace
that stole over my soul after your prayers
the other evening. When was it ? Weeks

VOL. III. D

ago, I think. Mrs. Lee calls it the peace
of God, after repentance. Ask Him for
more : for His continual peace.'

Gerard was much affected, and could
scarcely command his voice when he once
more knelt down and asked for help for
this man of whom he knew so little. This
he knew, however, that he was a sinner
needing pardon, who had lately escaped
from the jaws of death ; and that ' there
is joy in Heaven over one such that
repented.'

He obtained permission to look in on
Aspenelel before he left for the night.

*Has anything been heard of Mrs. As-penes
and Bruce ?' asked the melancholy
voice. ' They must be found.'

Tom Harton is searching for them,'
replied Gerard.

'They must be advertised for. He is
not to be trusted. He has his own ends,
and works for gain. Thank old Harton

for his hospitality. That is unselfish.'

Quite,' responded Gerard. ' May I take
a message to Miss Aspenelel ?'

My love, and she must go back to the
Park as soon as it is habitable. Where do
you live?'

Partly with my mother ; but I sleep at
Mrs. Lev's, who is from home.'

Set about the Park. We must return
at once.'

With this concluding order the deep
voice ceased, and Gerard retired.

d2

CHAPTER in.

AN ENCOUNTER IN THE BOIS DE Bourgogne.

During all these startling events, Janet
was in Paris with Monsieur and i\Iadame
de Belleville. They had been there about
a fortnight, in an apartment not far from
the Arc de Triomphe, and Janet was enjoying
herself, as she always did in the queen
of cities. She was pursuing the studies
of painting and pleasure together, and
scarcely knew which she liked best. She
was much admired both by French and
English, and would have been in a fairway
to be spoilt, but for an unforeseen
event which brought her to her senses the

evening before lie had news of the fire
and of her father's condition — on Whit-tuesday,
in fact.

She was walking with Monsieur de
Belleville and his son, Maximilien, in the
Bois de Bologna. They had reached the
lake, and were standing to watch the
swans — a remarkable-looking trio, noticed
by the passers-by. Janet, as we have
already said, invariably attracted attention,
and was not unconscious of it. She
was talking to her friends of Edith's
swans, and forgot herself and her surroundings
for the moment in an animated description
of her sweet, pale sister, and her
snow-white birds. They had often heard
the sketch before, but never tired of anything
Janet had to say.

It was a glorious June evening, and the
clear blue sky, the green woods, the pellucid
lake, with the smiling islands in its
midst, together with the gay crowds that

passed and repassed, roused her spirits-and
therewith her descriptive powers to
their utmost extent. Carriages rolled,
horses pirouttcd, pedestrians footed it to
and fro, to and fro, in giddy maze, while
she and her friends talked and laughed
hilariously. For the time she forgot her
surroundings in their pleasant babble, and
they all gesticulated and chatted as if
they had something important to say. Such
is the way with French people, and Janet
was now half French.

A swan moved majestically towards her,
and she stooped to attract it by a piece
of bread. Suddenly she was pinioned
and almost projected into the lake. Someone
or something had jumped upon her
with a cr}^ half human, half animal.
Which was it ? Human, assuredly, for it
subsided into the word, ' Janet.' As she
struggled to uplift herself, two arms encircled
her neck, kisses echoed upon her

cheek, and she recognised her assaulter.

Bruce ! Bruce ! Is it really you T she
cried, hugging her brother, who had once
been her torment.

^ You have come to fetch us ! I want
to go home,' said the boy, seizing her by
the hand as if afraid she would escape him.
Mammy says she-will go home when weare
fetched.'

^ Where is she ? Take me to her,' said
Janet. Then to Monsieur, 'This is my
brother Bruce.'

Mammy is ill. The wife of the concierge
brought me here to see the swans. They
are just like Edith's swans. Oh, Janet,
let us come home.'

The wife of the concierge came up in
some confusion. ' Madame would be angry,'
she said, 'as she was in retirement, and
wished to remain incognita; she must
take the young gentleman back at once.'

But Bruce clung to Janet, who declared

her intention of accompanying hin wheresoever
he went.

Impossible, mademoiselle. We live at
Neuilly. We go back by tramway. This
is Monsieur Bruce's jour-de-fete^ and I
brought him here to amuse him,' said the
woman.

Neuilly,' mused Janet. ' That is where
Pauline lived ; you are Pauline's mother.'

Pardon, mademoiselle ; but I am not
at liberty to say,' returned the woman. * I
have orders to be back by eight o'clock.
Come, Monsieur Bruce.'

I shall accompany you. Monsieur, you
will also go. Maximilien will return and
explain to Madame,' said Janet, with
decision.

Monsieur knew something of the circumstances
of the case, and assented at once.
He told the woman that he would take all
responsibility on himself, that mademoiselle
was Madame Aspenelel's step-daughter,

and that he would see that no harm should
result to anyone concerned, from this unexpected
meeting. Bruce clenched his
argument by declaring that he would
not leave Janet ; and Madame la Concierge
knew that he had a will of his own.
So had Janet, apparently, for her orders
where obeyed.

They all reached Neuilly by eight
o'clock, and a short walk down a long
boulevard brought them to a tall house,
enclosed in a small garden. Bruce dragged
Janet on so rapidly that they were on
the rez de chasse before their elders were
at the gate. The first person she saw was
Pauline, who was on the look-out for
Bruce. She started at sight of Janet, who
hurried towards her, offered her hand, and
said in French,

You need not be afraid, Pauline. I
will get no one into trouble. I am going
straight to Mrs. Aspenelel with Bruce. I amas

glad to have found her, as you must
have been to have found Jean Jacques.
Bruce says you are to be married soon.'

Oh, mademoiselle ! You cannot mount
to madame's appartement. Impossible ; she
would be furious.'

This way, Janet, this way.' And Janet
followed Bruce au quatrihne^ and was
breathless when she reached the stage.

She had not considered consequences,
and did not wait to do so, when she found
herself on the landing of a small stages and
went with Bruce into an untidy salon
which communicated with a chamhre-a-cou-
crier. She understood it all, and whispered
to Bruce to go in first.

^ Mammy, here's Janet !' shouted the
boy, opening a door and displaying a
light, gauzy-looking curtained fabric in
which lay Mrs. Aspenelel. ' She's come to
fetch us.'

Janet !' shrieked that lady, sitting up.

Yes, dear, you must be surprised,' said
Janet, with all the nonchalance she could
assume. ' I met Bruce in the Bois, and
came here with him. But how ill you
look !'

She kissed Mrs. Aspenelel, who received
her coldly.

T did not know you were in Paris,' she
said.

Nor I that you were here. But we
have found one another, and I am so very
glad,' said Janet, enthusiastically.

Glad ! Why should you be glad to
run me to ground who only want to hide
from your father and all belonging to him ?
I thought I was safe here, but 1 must go
elsewhere, I suppose.'

I will not tell anyone that I have found
you, if you would rather not. I will wait
for your consent. But Edith says that
everything has changed since you left-papa
is more reserved and difficult than

ever ; the servants have nearly all departed;
half the house is shut up ; and poor Edith
left to her own devices.'

Has he struck her ? Has he threatened
her?' asked Mrs. Aspenelel, frigidly.

I do not know ; I hope not. I am not
to return home till I have quite finished
my education ; I have not been back since
our brilliant introduction into society. I
have not completed my conquest of Lord
Beechton's son and heir ; and now I mean
to stay and nurse you. Papa Belleville is
downstairs, and lets me do anything I
like.'

We will all ^o back to the Park ' shouted
Bruce, who had been listening. ^ Janet,
mammy hasn't got enough to eat. Pauline
says so.'

Janet shrewdly suspected that Mrs.
Aspenelel's resources were exhausted. She
looked worn and neglected, and Bruce's
dress was shabby. The apartment also

had a forlorn air, and it was difficult to
recognize the Mrs. Aspenelel of the Parkin
the hopeless-looking invalid before
her.

Why did you leave home, dear ?' asked
Janet, coaxingly. ' I suppose it was the
result of that one great expenditure of all
papa's limited resources. I felt sure his
ruin would be completed ; and, after all, the
game wasn't worth the candle, for nothing
came of it but disappointment. I wish
you would forget what a disagreeable
child I was years ago, and look on meas
— as — a sister, you know, and trust
fine.'

There was something; so winnings in
Janet's half-satirical, half-pathetic manner,
that Mrs. Aspenelel was touched. Bruce,
too, had climbed upon the girl's lap,
and looked entreatingly at his mother,
crying out,

Do let us go home with Janet, mammy.

I want my pony, and Nurse True, and
Edith. And I want to see papa. He will
be good if we beg his pardon. That's what
Tom Harton used to be when he made me
say I was sorry, and I wasn't.'

Mrs. Aspenelel laughed, and said that would
be exactly her case ; then she bade Bruce
o^o and entertain Monsieur de Belleville
while Janet stayed with her. The ruse
succeeded, and step-mother and daughter
were left together. Mrs. Aspenelel told
Janet that she would confide in her, if she
faithfully promised to keep her secret until
permitted to divulge it, and on no account
to let anyone know that she had found
her. To this Janet demurred ; but finally
promised, with a private and somewhat
Machiavellian reservation, that, as monsieur
had found her as well, there was no reason
that he should not betray the place of her
exile, if necessary. Then Mrs. Aspenelel recounted
what we already know of her

husband's treatment after the festivities,
and her subsequent flight.

No one can tell what I have endured
all my married life,' she added. 'But I
bore it because I was too proud to complain.
But when your father struck me,
and cursed me, and would have knocked
me down, I resolved to submit no longer.
I left, as you know, under false pretences
of visiting friends, and came direct here.
The money I brought away with me is
gone, and most of my jewels are sold. I
am maturing plans for a separation, or the
receipt of my jointure ; but I have no one
to advise, and I hate publicity. Your
father would not allow me a penny unless
the law commanded. I sometimes think
of consulting Mr. Tom Harton, but there
are difficulties and complications everywhere.'


'Don't consult him! He isn't true!'
cried Janet, impulsively; and Mrs. As-penes's

sudden confidence relaxed, and she
grew reserved again.

Of course, I must do something, as I
cannot ruin Bruce's prospects,' she said.
But for him I would starve rather than
communicate with your father again.
Neither Edith's mother nor yours endured
as long as I have done ; and I have no wish
to die, as they did, and be a third holocaust
to Blue Beard.'

Janet had nothing* to sav, for she sympathised
entirely vAt\\ Mrs. Aspenelel, and
was not diplomatic enough to use deceit.

Perhaps he might improve if you returned,'
she ventured, after a pause.
Edith says she thinks he has been unhappy
and gloomy ever since you left.'

Mrs. Aspenelel's face softened, for she
would have loved this man if he had let
her. Janet saw her advantage, and proceeded
to recapitulate what she had heard
Nurse True say of the increased expenditure

and liberality at the Park during her
reign, as compared with previous years.

I heartily' pity my predecessors,' said
Mrs. Aspenelel, with one of her old sarcastic
laughs.

]monsieur de Belleville says you must
come home . now, and return here tomorrow,'
broke in Bruce at the moment.
who, thanks to Pauline and a French
bonne, had learnt to speak fluent French
before coming to Paris.

• I will be here the first thing tomorrow,'
cried enthusiastic Janet. ' I have a five-franc
piece which will do for the present ;

but. like you. I am ox^nerallv at the end
< .

of my sous. You mustn't refuse, dear.
You can pay it back when we are all at
the Park aofain.'

She took the silver piece from her purse,
laid it on her bed, kissed her step-mother,
and ran downstairs followed by Bruce.

Mrs. Aspenelel burst into tears. She had

VOL. III. E

been flying from fate or duty — which was
it? — and fate had overtaken her in the
person of this high-spirited, generous-hearted
girl, whom she had done so little
to conciliate in past years. Providence
was stronger than she. The months that
had elapsed since she left her home had
been even more miserable than the years
she had spent in it ; and her small apartment
had been her prison. She had rarely
left it until nightfall, for fear of meeting
some one who might recognise her; for,
although decided and even imperious dien
irritated, she was easily cowed. This was
why she had borne, uncomplainingly, much
that she might otherwise have resisted,
and it was this reticence which had held
her back from letting; her relations know
how she was situated. She had no near
ones, but her uncles and cousins would
stand by her, she thought. Still, what
could a penniless wife do against a rich

and resolute husband ? Nothing, she had
been persuaded, but leave him secretly.
She had done this, and taken her boy with
her.

It was this boy, the heir of untold
wealth, that troubled her. She was even
meditating sending him back surreptitiously
to his father, only she believed the
parting would kill her. She little guessed
that at the moment when he flung himself
into his sister's arms that father was
lying burnt, disabled, all but dead, at the
house of the father of the man to whom
she had thought of confiding her son.
Tom Harton had always understood and
pitied her, and she believed she might
trust him.

This apparition of Janet, however,
changed the current of her thoughts and
plans, and she felt as if suddenly brought
back from death to life. She knew not
which to prefer ; but, when Bruce bounded

e2

,utAO^^

^^''"-^Z^^^

in with all the clelio^htecl exuberance of
childish joy in word and action, she
thought life was best.

Janet has coin to fetch us home,' was
his cry, and when Pauline echoed it she
was half inclined to join.

Too late ! Too late ! There was no
home, and Aspenelel Park was a scene of
desolation ; its owner the miserable wreck
of what had once been the husband who
had purchased her by his gold.

CHAPTER IV.

AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL.

Janet came the following morning to
Reilly with a letter lie had just received.
She was in breathless excitement. She
scarcely allowed herself time to greet Mrs.
Aspenelel before she cried out :

I have had awful news. The Park is

burnt down. Xo lives lost, but — but '

And then the feelings which she had restrained
gave way, and she threw herself
on her step-mother's bed.

Mrs. Aspenelel took the letter and read it.
It was from Mrs. Glanville, written at
Edith's request, and contained the account

of the fire, and of Mr. Aspenelel's condition,
worded as cautiously as possible. Edith
had not rested till this was written, fearing
that Janet might get the news first from
the public journals. The letter concluded
by a request that Janet would not attempt
to leave Paris until she heard again, as.
were she at home, she could be of no use,
since Edith was with Mrs. Clar\dlle and
her father at Hoplands, cared for by Xurse
True. As Mrs. Clare-ille wrote for the
post on AVhitsuu Tuesday, she could give
few particulars, and those she did give
were well veiled.

'Tills is awful !' exclaimed Mrs. Aspenelel.
• I will go back. He may die, and Bruce
away, and I unforgiven !'

She clasped her hands in agony. Janet
took them, and for awhile no more words
came from either.

Monsieur and Madame Belleville say
that we must do nothing rashly,' she said.

at last. ' T\'e must wait for letters and
farther intelligence. But how ? I cannot
bear the suspense.'

Xor I, Janet. Any certainty is better.
"We Anil pack up and be ready to leave at
a moment's notice. I sent Bruce out for a
walk with Pauline : when they return she
shall beo'in.'

To see you unexpectedly after all these
months might kill him outright. Besides,
there is no room for us anywhere, if the
Park is burnt down.' returned Janet.
Darling Edith must be in danger, or she
woidd have written herself. Perhaps they
are all burnt to death, and this is a preparatory
letter.'

Xo ; it is not so bad as that. Janet.
T\'e must await tomorrow's post. I will
get up ; I could not survive the suspense
here in bed.'

Mrs. Aspenelel was suffering more from
mental depression than from physical illness,

and she rose instantly. Janet helped
her to dress, and these two were drawn
together by this common anxiety more
stringently than they had ever been
before. All previous animosity merged in
an awful terror lest the husband and
father should die unconscious, unrepentant,
unforgiven.

And Bruce ; I had no right to take him
from his father. When he grows up he
will hate me for it, and reproach me for
depriving him of a last farewell,' cried Mrs.
Aspenelel, whose self-reproaches overpowered
Janet's terrors. ^ He may have disinherited
him; but that is secondary. I hate, I
abhor the dross for which I sacrificed
my peace and happiness. I will ask for
his forgiveness and relinquish everything.'


Bruce and Pauline came in and turned
the current of distress for a time. They
were astonished to see Mrs. Aspenelel up and

dressed, and Bruce supposed they were to
start at once for home.

lou have none. It is burnt to the
ground,' cried the mother, embracing her
boy, who looked to Janet for explanation.
She was now calm and self-possessed, and
took upon herself to tell Bruce and Pauline
as much as she thought necessary of the
contents of the letter, softening the details
of her father's injuries, by the words, 'All
lives were saved.'

My pony's too ?' inquired Bruce, ruefully
; but no answer was forthcoming.

After much consultation it was decided
that Janet should write to Mrs. Glanville
without mentioning Mrs. Aspenelel. They
came to the conclusion that it would only
add to the general anxiety at Roselands to
hear that she was discovered, and meditated
a return. Madame de Belleville came in
the course of the morning, and was introduced
to Mrs. Aspenelel. There was no

time to consider whether this was prudent
or not. In moments of great emergency,
scheming: is forgotten, and facts are laid
bare. Madame de Belleville was kind,
sympathetic, and devoted to Janet. She
knew most of the circumstances connected
with Mrs. Aspenelel from her friend, Lady
Ascham, and Janet, and she guessed the
rest. She advised her to wait; and there
seemed no other course to pursue, for, on
further consideration, the millionaire's
wife, son, and daughter could not muster
money enough amongst them to return to
England.

The day wore through somehow, and
Janet went back with madame to her
avenue near the Arc for the night. Monsieur
and Maximilien did their best to console
her ; but with little effect.

The next morning she had a few lines
from Gerard, and a letter from Nurse True,
written in her fathers sick-room. These

bade her be patient, and wait till she could
be summoned home without danger of excitement
to Mr. Aspenelel or Edith. Indeed,
such was the horror of the writers at her
father's state that they insisted on her
remaining where she was for the present.
They both hoped his injuries would prove
less dangerous than was at first imagined.

All is in God's hand, my deary,' concluded
Nurse True. ' He can bring good
out of evil. Pray to Him for us all.'

Both Janet and Mrs. Aspenelel realised
that nothing but prayer could avail them
at such a crisis. They spent another day
together, and Janet assured her friends
the De Bellevilles, that but for Mrs. As-penes
she would have gone home at all
risks. That evening, Maximilien came to
fetch her, and brought with him a letter
that had arrived by the late mail. It was
from Edith, and gave them both heart.
She could only write as she heard, and

everybody made the best of her father's
state to her.

You shall come home as soon as
possible, darling,' she ^vrote, ^ At present
there is no place for yon. AVe are billeted
on our friends as it is, and we owe all —
life even — to Cousin Gerard. Although I
am almost well, I cannot write details yet ;
they frighten me. Everyone is kind, but
I am forbidden to see papa, and the doctors
say he must not be excited. Gerard has
seen him. I think much of Mrs. Aspenelel
and Bruce. If she hears of the fire from
the papers, the shock will be terrible. I
wish she would write. Perhaps she may
if she gets the news. She is so generous
and kind-hearted that I am sure she would
condone the past if she realised the state
we are in.'

This paragraph took instant bisect on
Mrs. Aspenelel.

This from Edith ? IIow kind !' she

exclaimed. ' I thou-lit lie would have
condemned me wholly.'

On the contrary, she has tried to trace
you through all your friends, in the hope
of bringing you back,' said Janet. ' Her
diary was full of regrets ; I have it nth
me. I will bring it tomorrow and show
you what she says.'

To-morrow brought a more coherent and
lengthy letter from Edith, still giving details
as she received them, and enlarging
on the fact that she now understood that a
stranger had rescued her father who, with
him, was lying in a precarious state at
Hoplands. Neither Janet nor Mrs. As-penes
could understand how little Edith
really knew of the condition of rescued
and rescuer ; but of Gerard and her own
safety she wrote in no measured terms.

No one can describe the kind consideration
of all our friends and neighbours,' she
said. 'The ladies are indefatigable, and

have undertaken, ^vitli Mr. Austen, to
make a part of the Park habitable, which
poor papa wishes clone at once. Every
order comes through Mr. Glanville, who is
worn out. I pray to be allowed to undertake
the nursing, but ]mr. Harton will not
hear of it. He and Mr. Jack come here
Ashen they can, but they have enough todo.
Xurse True has never left poor papa
night or day. Mr. Tom Harton is absent
gone, his father thinks, to try to find
Mrs. Aspenelel and Bruce.'

This piece of information called forth a
startled exclamation from Mrs. Aspenelel.

Why should he seek us ?' she cried.
• He, of all men, would be the last I should
wish to find me as I am.'

Edith told me it was he whom papa
despatched in search of you, soon after you
left,' replied Janet.

Happily he did not find us. That
Avould have been very humiliating,' replied

Mrs. Aspeiiel, with a touch of her old
irony. ' Still, I almost wish he had, for
then I should, perhaps, have been spared
this tension.'

The next letter was from Gerard, and
contained a message from Mr. Aspenelel to
Janet; was written. indeed, for the purpose
of divino; it.

Your father wishes you to remain where
you are until you can come direct to the
Park. When that may be I cannot tell,
for it is difficult to ascertain how far the
rooms that remain are safe. We have
architects and workmen coming at once.
I write from his room ; almost at his dictation.
He sends his love to you, and bids
me say that he is really ruined at last, and
you must turn your talents to account.
He is certainly better, and his mind is
quite clear. Dear Janet, it is a time of
intense anxiety. Your sister makes light
of her own weakness, but she is still nervous,

and you will understand how her
over-conscientiousness keeps her on a constant
strain. Mr. Aspenelel puts faith in
me, fortunately, and I do what I can. He
has begun to worry about Bruce, and
wishes me to advertise for Mrs. Aspenelel.
I wish she would come back.'

'I will! I will!' interrupted Mrs. As-penes.
' Nothing shall hinder me if Mr.
Glanville says that. He, at least, is honest.
I will write to him for advice. I will return
at all risks. ' I have been resentful,
false, a bad ife, an unkind step-mother — '

Not intentionally. That was my fault,'
put in Janet, throwing herself on the
polished floor at her feet. ' We have made
that up long ago, and now we will all
begin life afresh. We can open a school,
or do a hundred things, if papa is really
ruined.'

The girl laughed, and Mrs. Aspenelel could
not help joining, for both knew that it

would take more than one fire to ruin the
millionaire.

You and Bruce are to come back to
the avenue with me,' said Janet, imperatively.
' Monsieur and Madame expect
you, and Maximilien is dying to make
your acquaintance. // se meurt easily, and
is resuscitated by galvanism, I tell him, at
which he places his hand on his heart and
talks of the galvanism of my eyes.'

This sally aroused Mrs. Aspenelel, who,
after a little hesitation, consented to accompany
Janet to Monsieur de Belleville's.
Bruce was in uproarious spirits at the
prospect, and the trio soon found themselves
in the tram, which went nearly from
door to door. The sky and air were clear,
the boulevards delightful, and beautiful
Paris toujours gai; so they forgot for the
moment that distant spectre which had been
haunting them for the past week. Dejeuner
was awaiting them, and their kind

VOL. III. F

friends received them with effusion. Mrs.
Aspenelel revived under the influence of a
large cheerful apartment and French cordiality,
and the little party began to discuss
ordinary topics almost naturally. They
were just about to sit down to dejeuner
when a servant announced that a gentleman
wished to see Miss Aspenelel.

Without doubt it is Monsieur Hazel-wood,
who is in Paris, en route for the
Antipodes,' said Madame. ' Show him in,
Marie.'

All eyes were turned from the repast
to the door. Janet rose involuntarily,
expecting to see her old friend's brother,
but she was disappointed. So was Mrs.
Aspenelel, though a handsome and more
polished knight-errant could scarcely have
appeared. The visitor was, in fact, Mr.
Tom Harton.

It would be difficult to imagine a more
inauspicious encounter, but Tom Harton

was equal to any occasion. He shook
hands with Mrs. Aspenelel as if he had seen
her yesterday, told Bruce that he must
return to his studies, and informed Janet
that he had merely run over to Paris to
acquaint her with the particulars of the
fire, and to be of use if possible.

The conventionalities of society cover a
multitude of sins, and Mrs. Aspenelel, after
the first surprise, recovered her self-possession
and introduced ' our friends Monsieur
and Madame de Belleville, and their
son Monsieur Maximilien.' Harton spoke
French like a native, and readily accepted
an invitation to an interrupted meal. A
lively conversation ensued, in which all
joined save Mrs. Aspenelel. He gave a
graphic account of the fire, and said Mr.
Aspenelel was recovering from his injuries,
of which he made light. In short, he casta
different colouring; over the late events
from that put in by other hands, and raised

f2

the depressed spirits of Janet, to the infinite
delight of her friends and admirers. He
had not quite so happy an effect on Bruce,
who glanced at him suspiciously from time
to time, between the delicacies heaped upon
his plate by madame, and could not enjoy
them as much as he otherwise would. And
who can describe all the francisco of a
French dejeuner !

What Harton thought was known only
to himself and his biographer. He did not
let it be seen that he was really pained at
the alteration in Mrs. Aspenelel's appearance
and manner, or that he had come to Paris
under the vague impression that she was
somewhere in France with her maid, Pauline.
He kept to himself a certain determination
not to lose sight of her again, and
to have her husband informed of her
whereabouts ; and he also reserved his
admiration of Janet, and his aspirations
after her or Edith, it mattered not which.

He spoke modestly of his own achievements
at the fire, and left the rest to the
imagination of his hearers. But, when the
dejeuner was over, he asked for an interview
with Mrs. Aspenelel, which she reluctantly
granted.

CHAPTER V.

FAN AGAIN.

While the secretive Mr. Tom Harton was
pursuing his schemes in Paris, his open-hearted
brother Jack was very differently
engaged. Their easy-going father had
always let them have their own way, ashe
had done their mother, Fan, and his
belongings generally ; and so people said,
Old Harton had no one to blame but
himself,' whenever the world went wrong
with him. On the occasion of the fire,
however, he certainly could not be called
to account for the difficulties that fell upon
him. But he comfortably shelved them

upon Jack's shoulders, and resumed his
usual habits.

^ My house is turned into an inn, and I
am one of the lodgers,' he said, philosophically,
to his comforter. Miss Vigors.
'I'm thankful that they've left me my
room.'

They're making such way at the Park
that the front rooms will soon be ready,'
said Jack. ' I only hope the patients won't
die first. Mine is getting on, but Gerard's
is less hopeful.'

'Mr. Gerard is worked to death!' exclaimed
Miss Vigors. ' And so we all are,
for that much.'

This passed about ten days after the
fire. While Jack was about to make a
somewhat uncomplimentary remark about
finding work for idle hands, a letter was
brought to him by a servant, with a request
for an answer. He opened it.

Say I'll come at once,' he cried. ' Miss

Vigors, you must take my place with my
patient. He won't like it, but there's nobody
else. Father, I don't know when I
shall be back ; but I must go. I'm off to
town on special business. You shall know
all about it in time. Don't like to raise
your hopes, but I'm after Fan.'

Fan ! If you find Fan, you shall have
my blessing ; for Tom's got the entailed
and much-encumbered property,' laughed
Mr. Harton.

And Jack hurried to the back-yard,
where a gipsy messenger awaited him.
He said he would meet Mrs. Lee at the
station, and then lost no time in picking
up hat and walking-stick, and rushing upstairs
to Loveridge.

I've had a summons from Mother Lee.
You must put up with somebody else for a
few hours,' he said, abruptly.

'AH right. Don't think of me. I
should be well if I could get rid of this

confounded cotton-wool,' replied Love-ridge.


Jack strode off to the station, where he
found the Tigress meekly selling her tracts.
The train arrived almost immediately, and
he followed her and her basket into a
third-class carriage. The compartment
was tolerably full, so they had no conversation,
but she utilised her opportunities
by continuing the sale of her
books, and by preaching to her astonished
fellow-travellers. ' In season and out of
season,' she whispered to Jack, who was
not altogether pleased by her confidence,
and wanted to hear about Fan.

When they reached London Bridge she
took him by omnibus to the entrance of a
small street not far from Mr. Aspen el's
office, where they dismounted and walked
to a decent house, where the windows
were emphasised by the word ' Lodgings.'
They were let in quickly, and she led the

way up three flights of stairs. He followed.
Amved on the landing of the
third story, she paused, and turning to
Jack, said,

I can make nothing of her. See what
you can do ; go in.'

She cautiously opened a door, peeped
in, drew back, and impelled Jack forwards.
Scarcely knowing what he was
doing, he entered a small room and
heard the door close behind him. Standing
at the window, which was open, and
apparently looking out, was the figure of
a girl, the pose of which he recognised at
once.

Fan, Fan !' he cried, in a voice so
jubilant that it startled the watcher into
turning slowly round.

Jack !' she exclaimed, and would
have fallen had not he caught and supported
her. ' Jack !" she repeated, with
frightened eagerness, withdrawing from

him, and gazing at him as if he-were a
spectre.

Yes, Fan, Tm Jack, and no mistake,'
he cried. ' I've come home on purpose to
hind you, and I've found you, my dear ;
and we'll never part again — never.'

Oh, Jack !' she sobbed, falling on her
knees beside a small table, leaning her
elbows on it, covering her face with her
hands, and breaking into sobs.

This will never do. Fan.' he said, laving
his hand on her head, whilst tears filled
his honest eyes. ' You must cheer up,
and come home with me.'

I cannot — I must not,' she sobbed,
seizing the hand, kissing it, and letting her
tears fall upon it.

'You can and must, my dearest Fan,
Get up like a good child, and tell me all
about it.'

She rose and stood beside him with a
sort of shamefaced dicrnitv. He looked at

her, and the expression of his face changed
from joy to sorrow. She was altered ; the
red rose on her brown cheeks had paled ;
the brilliancy of her eyes had fjxdcd ; even
the gloss of her raven locks was dimmed.
She did not look him fearlessly in the face,
as of old ; she did not lay her hands in his
and give him the sisterly kiss as Ashen
they parted ; she only stood and waited
for him to speak.

There was an old couch in the corner of
the room, and he led her to it. She was
trembling and sobbing still. He sat down
beside her, and took her hand kindly.

'AVhat is it. Fan? Tell me all. Have
you done wrong ? Why did you go away ?
Who brought you to this place? I shall
never blame you, whatever has happened.'

Dear Jack, will you promise not to tell,
if I confess everything? Not even to
Sir?'

^ I promise, Fan.'

She was his own old Fan once more.
The face and eyes lighted up, and she
turned and looked at him. In spite of
tears and unnatural gravity, he read that
she was pure, true, and good, as of yore.

Did you really come home to look forme,
all the way from America ?' she asked.

*I did. And, in return, you must tell
me why and with whom you left our
home.'

'My very own father came to fetch
me away, and I dared not refuse,' she
replied, hesitating.

'Hurrah!' shouted Jack, enthusiastically.
But, moderating his delight, he
added, 'Go on. Fan. Why didn't you tell
my father the truth ?'

'It is a mystery. Jack. He would not
let me tell, because he said it would bring
trouble upon him. He is quite like a
gentleman, yet he married my poor mother,
Clorandy, when they were both

young. The Tigress knows all about it,
for she is my grandmother.'

You have a nice lot of relations,' said
Jack, ruefully.

'Yes. But, you know, Jack, I was
always a gipsy. I don't think my father
is one by birth, though he has been mixed
up with us.'

Is he Wandering Will, Fan ?'

Hush ! Nobody but you must know.
He is and he isn't. He is somebody else
as well. I thought he was, when I left
home with him, and since he has turned
into quite a nice person.'

'What was his name, when he became
a " nice person," Fan ? And where is he
now ?'

Fan evaded the first part of the question,
answering the second.

He left me on Whit-monday, and has
not returned since. Mrs. Lee — the Tigress,
you knows — found me out, and said

he would soon be back ; but he hasn't
come. Oh, Jack ! I have been so miserable
! Shut up m this stifling place, with
nobody to speak to, and pining for Hop-lands,
and the common, and Sir. How is
he? Was he very angry when I left?'

Not angry, Fan ; only sorry. How
could you leave him ?'

Because of the Catechism, Jack ; and
my duty to my father, and the commandments.'


But why did you not tell the truth to
my father ? He would not have prevented
your doing your duty according to the
Catechism.'

'Don't laugh, Jack. That is the mystery.
He and the Tigress said I must
choose between my real and my adopted
father ; my duty and my pleasure ; poverty
and riches; but I must not tell anyone
with whom I went away. Oh ! it was
very hard; but the real father was so

poor and lonely that I thought I should
be wicked, if I did not obey him.'

Was it '' honour your father and your
mother " ? Why, Fan, you are quite a
paragon, and all for Wandering Will.'

Jack laughed merrily, and for the first
time Fan showed her white teeth and
dimples.

There's a dear Fan ! You look your
own self once more. Xow go and put on
your bonnet and come home With me.
Ashen a man deserts his wife, she can
have the law of him ; and 'tis the same
with a father. Yours has left you, and
they will take you to the workhouse if he
doesn't come back. Fll have a talk with
the Tigress. Fll be bound she's outside.'

Jack did not wait for Fan's remonstrance,
but went out on the landing, closing the
door after him. Mrs. Lee was seated on
the topmost stair, her basket beside her, industriously
studying a primer, by means of

wbicli lie was learning to read. Jack sat
down by her side, and spoke in a low
tone.

If I take Fan home with me, will you
manage her father? Tell him whatever
you like. I hear you are her grandmother,
and why in the world haven't you said so
all these years ?'

Before I was converted I went wrong.
I thought only of her worldly good, and
not of her duty. When my poor Clorandy
died, I went off to the east, and lost sight
of her and her father.'

Pity you ever sighted 'em again. Mother
Lee. But no good regretting. Will you
manage Wanderings Will, if that's her
father, while I take her home ? Pay
up their rent, anything you like — tell
him '

I have no time to lose, Mr. Jack,' interrupted
the Tigress. ^ Take her home,
and I'll settle the rest. As I look into the

VOL. in. G

future, it is the best thing you can do.
Tell her so. I have to meet Mr. Glanville
at Mr. Aspenelel's office, and may not
tarry.'

But Fan suddenly opened the door.

Come in,' she said. ' I dare not go
unless my father bids me.'

He bids you through me, Fan. He
says you may go to the world's end with
Mr. Jack Harton, and maybe he'll come
with you. I have given up lying to speak
the truth.'

As Mrs. Lee said this she went into the
room, outspread her arms, and in them enfolded
Fan. Poor Jack made a grimace ;
he was not quite reconciled to Fan's
relations.

Go nth him,' said the old woman, imperatively
; and Fan looked appealingly at
Jack.

What will Sir say?' she asked.

That you were a very naughty girl to

run away, and a very good one to come
back,' he replied, with a joyous ring in his
voice.

Your father shall know everything, and
you will soon see him again,' added Mrs.
Lee.

Then I will go,' said Fan, her countenance
changing: to its natural or]eamino;
brightness.

She went into an inner room, and Jack
took the opportunity to give Mrs. Lee
such money as he had, to pay for Fan's
lodging.

You needn't take any unnecessary
trouble to hunt up your worthy son-in-law,'
he said. 'We can manage Fan without
him.'

Do you hold to your word still?' she
asked.

sto marry Fan? Of course I do, if
she'll have me.'

The Tigress gave him a piercing glance,

G 2

held out her hand, and, as if by some old
instinct, looked into the palm he gave in
return.

Honest!' she muttered. Then, letting
it fall, added, ' Superstition again ! The
Lord forgive me.'

Queer old fish !* he exclaimed, as she
left the room. ' Shan't like her for a grandmother
; but one's connections are of no
moment in the far West.'

Fan returned with a little bundle in her
hand, saying, humbly, that she hoped Jack
would not be ashamed of her ; for she had
had no new clothes since she left Hoplands.
Her dress was certainly shabby, but Jack
was not ashamed of her. He took her
bundle and hurried her downstairs, assuring
her that Mother Lee had paid her landlady.
They were not long in reaching
London Bridge, and were on their way to
Roselands in no time. Fan could scarcely
breathe for excitement, and had not a

word to say in answer to Jack's questions,
as they sat side by side in their third-class
carriage.

We would have sone first for grandeur.
but I only saved enough for third,'
laughed Jack, turning his empty pockets
inside out.

Oh, Jack ! you're not a bit improved,'
said Fan.

But you are, Fan, for you used to
stumble over the Commandments, and " I
desire," in the Catechism, and now you
know 'em all by heart.'

It was dusk when they reached Rose-lands,
so Fan managed to elude observation,
slipping past porter and ticket-collector
and out into the road unnoticed.

My heart will burst, I know it will,'
she said, as they took a by-path to Hop-lands.
' What is that ?' she exclaimed,
seeing for the first time in the dim light
the bare rafters of the great house.

There's been a fire at the Park.
We're all in a muddle, for the squire's
at Hoplands. But you'll soon hear all
about it.'

And the Miss Aspenels, and Nurse
True ?'

They're all right. Come along, Fan.
Tom's away, so there will be no one to
lecture you.'

Go in first,' pleaded agitated Fan, when
they reached Hoplands.

We'll go in together. Here she is,
father !' cried exultant Jack, dragging her
into the dining-room.

Fan stood for a moment, irresolute, in
the middle of the room; but before Mr.
Harton realised her presence she was
assailed by three dogs, who leaped upon
her, barking, wagging their tails, and displaying
that canine joy and affection in
which our four-footed friends so infinitely
surpass us.

Rolf, Bess, Fogey,' cried the girl, lier
arms round them all at once. Then bursting
from them she cast those same arms
round her benefactor with the words, ^ Oh,
Sir, dear Sir, Jack made me come home,
and I am so glad, so glad !'

Fan !' was all that Mr. Harton could
say, as he embraced the wild girl whom he
so dearly loved.

CHAPTER VI.

'he is my father!'

I MUST see Fan !' said Loveridge to Jack.
Bring her here directly.'

Jack had left his father, Fan, and the
dogs together, a happy party, and had
run upstairs to look after his patient.
Miss Vigors had departed, and he found
him alone.

Why do you want to see Fan ?' asked
Jack.

Bring her to me and you shall know.
Fan and I are better acquainted than you
fancy.'

Poor Jack ! Where would Fan s friends
come to an end ?

He found her in her accustomed seat at
his father's side, her hand in his, her now
radiant face full of excitement, the dogs
surrounding her.

You must not ask me now, dear Sir,'
she was saying ; ' I will tell you everything
soon.'

'Naughty Fan !' said Mr. Harton, caressingly
; and at the name the dogs wagged
their tails.

Naughty Fan is wanted already. Come
and show yourself,' interrupted Jack.

Fan rose obediently; she had always
done what Jack bade her.

You must moderate your instincts,
Fan, for this is a hospital,' said Jack,
mounting the stairs as quietly as he could.
The squire is in the spare room, Loveridge
in mine.'

Who?' cried Fan, at the top of her voice.

^ Hush, and you shall see.'

Fan dashed into the room, but halted
at sight of Loveridge, still partially enveloped
in cotton-wool ; for, though his burns
were gradually healing, they had not yet
quite healed.

Don't be afraid. Fan. It is I in so
much of the flesh as the flames have left
me. Our friend Jack must know all, for
he is truer than steel.'

Fan hesitated as she approached him,
and looked at Jack, who was close to her.

What does it all mean ?' she asked.

I only know that his name is Love-ridge,
and that he saved Mr. Aspenelel from
the fire, and that they are both here, with
nurses and doctors, ad libitum' he whispered.


He is my father,' murmured Fan.

She went, hesitatingly, towards Love-ridge,
and took his hand. Bewildered,
Jack followed. He noticed that she was

quiet and subdued, and that there was
none of the effusion in her greeting that
there had been when she met his father.
Her manner was rather that of protector
than protected.

I knew something must have happened
to keep you so long away,' she said. ' Xow
you know all. Jack. It was with him —
my father, who married my poor mother
Clorandy — that I left Hoplands. Father,
may I tell Sir?'

Xot yet, Fan ; not until we go oiF to
Canada together — Jack, and you, and I.'

Oh ! that would be beautiful !' cried
Fan, clasping her hands, and looking inquiringly
at Jack.

He was so astonished that he had
nothing to say. Loveridge detailed to
Fan the events of the fire, and told her
that it was something Jack had said to
the Tigress which induced him to send for
her.

He has nursed me so far, Fan ; now
you must do the rest he said. ' Has Mr.
Glanville arrived ? He promised to come
here to-night.'

Ahiiost as he spoke, Gerard entered.
He had come by the last train. The
Tigress had told him that Fan was found,
and that she was the daughter of the man
who had rescued Aspenelel. He went at
once to Fan and welcomed her home
again ; then he asked for an explanation.

Under the seal of secrecy for the present,'
returned Loveridge. ^ Fan, you had
better go back to Mr. Harton, and take
Jack with you, or we shall all be suspected
of conspiracy.'

Jack disliked the familiarity as much as
the parentage, though he had been interested
in Loveridge before. Fan felt this
insensibly.

I could not help it,' she said, pathetically.
' Let us go down to Sir.'

A handsome couple, made for one another
and the colonies,' said Loveridge,
watching them from the room. ' Now,
Mr. Glanville, when am I to see Aspenelel T

Not until he has returned to the Park.
He will not see you here, though he insists
on a meeting before you leave the country.
He says you are identical with the man
who once tried to extort money from him,
and that you have been the bane of his
life, until at last you have saved it. Is it
so?'

Yes. He alone has the power to explain.
I pray God that we may live to
meet. I have been a wild, reckless fellow,
while he has been heaping up gold. I
have ruined myself, and have no excuse. I
lived among the gipsies, and they called
me Wandering Will. I married the beautiful
Clorandy and left her, meaning to
return. But when I came back from
abroad she was dead, and the Tigress gone

oiF to the East. She alone knew about
Fan, and I only learnt a short time ago
that she was my daughter. I determined
to turn over a new leaf, and began the rule
of Loveridge. Your words awakened my
conscience, and your intervention between
Aspenelel and me saved me. Tell him that
now I put myself entirely in his hands,
and want nothing from him but reconciliation.
As to the paltry money, I never
cared for it when we were young, and now
it would seem to me the wages of sin or
intimidation.'

• Am I to tell him this ?' interrupted
Gerard.

Yes. Tell him all you know of me and
Fan ; but not to-night.'

Certainly not to-night,' said Gerard.
^ I should not have come here but for your
message through Mrs. Lee, and am warned
by Mrs. Trueman and the doctor not to
excite him.'

Gerard looked into the dining-room
before he left Hoplands, and had the
pleasure of seeing Mr. Harton, Fan, Jack,
and the dogs surrounding the supper-table.

Fan declares she means to relieve Jack
by nursing that romantic hero, Loveridge,'
cried Mr. Harton. ' Do you think she
ought?'

You should know best, but I daresay
Jack will be glad of a substitute. Now I
am going to spread the glad news that Fan
has come back,' replied Gerard.

Tell Mrs. Glanville and Miss Aspenelel
that I am not so bad as I seem,' said Fan,
with a furtive look at Gerard which cleared
when she read his kind face. ' Say I am
so happy ! Oh, so happy !'

When Gerard reached his mother's small
abode, his first words were, ' Fan is found.
She has come home!' while Mrs. Glanville
and Edith said, almost simultaneously,
Mrs. Aspenelel is found. She is with Janet

in Paris.' These astounding revelations
almost took the breath out of the trio.
Edith's sweet, pale face gleamed with a joy
that had not beautified it since the fire ;
and Gerard, looking at her, trembled lest
it should soon be clouded. The close intimacy
of the last days had intensified his
love for her. and he sometimes hoped, or
feared, as might be, that it was returned.
But no word passed between them ; they
had matter of such moment to think of
that all passing feeling not bearing upon
it was repressed.

Janet had written to Edith, and communicated
the events already detailed.
She had never had a secret from her sister,
and resolved to tell her all, whether Mrs.
Aspenelel and Tom Harton approved or not.
She had told them she should do so, after
their private interview, of the subject of
which she knew nothing. They demurred,
but Janet was resolute. Gerard at once

said she was quite right, and that the
sooner they all returned the better, though
secrecy would be needed for a time. He
was sure Mr. Aspenelel would be relieved of
a terrible burden if his wife and son would
come back, and that the doctors now advised
his being moved to the habitable
portion of his own house. Gerard transacted
all his business, while Xurse True
attended to him. He would see no one
else, and their responsibilities were enormous.
As to Gerard, he was quite worn
out. He nearly lived on the railway ; for
the irritable invalid had no sooner got
through one difficulty than another arose,
and the fate of millions seemed to hang
on the capacity and promptitude of this
young man, who Alas the only one in
whom Aspenelel put implicit faith. Clerks
and clients came to and from Hoplands,
but Aspenelel received them vicariously,
and Gerard was the scapegoat. Strange

VOL. III. H

as it may seem, lie could do no wrong.
The millionaire trusted him who had refused
to be enriched at his hands ; him
who chose love rather than gold, and despised
the unrighteous mammon. The unforeseen
grip of death clears the soul from
darkness, and reveals the hidden mysteries
of eternity.

Edith was well again, and only waiting
permission to nurse her father. Miranda
had vacated her small room, and, to satisfy
Edith, Mrs. Glanville had allowed her to
occupy it, while the maiden of the kitchen
had managed as best she could. Under
great emergencies, people overcome minor
impediments ; and this fire at the Park
seemed to smooth all sorts of asperities.
However, ten days or a fortnight of ' impediments
' try the temper, and Gerard
was doing his best, aided by workmen
from all parts, to obey Mr. Aspenelel's incessant
order ' to have at least rooms prepared

for him, Edith, and Xurse True.'
He also issued a command that the site of
his study should be boarded up, and no
one allowed to touch either ruined floor
or burnt rafter until he could himself
superintend it. He never seemed to realise
the possibility of his own incapacity. But
he was so reserved, that it was difficult to
discover what he did or did not realise.

I think it would be quite safe to go
home at once,' said Edith, when the amazing
news of the unexpected turning up of
lost friends had been discussed, and Gerard
was preparing to go to his dormitory at
Mrs. Lucy's. ' I have been at the house
all day, and dear Mrs. Glanville has found
us helps for our time of need.'

You !' remonstrated Gerard. ' We cannot
afford to have you ill.'

My maid has helped me, and we have
turned the breakfast-room into a bed-room
for papa, and I can occupy the morning



room that opens into it. Fortunately, the
front doors are uninjured ; but papa will
be best on the ground-floor; so said Dr.
Roberts.'

Mother, do you think she is equal to
this ?' asked Gerard.

Certainly,' replied Mrs. Glanville, cheerfully.
' She will probably be all the better
forwarder rooms and her old surroundings.'

You want to get rid of me. I do not
wonder,' said Edith, with a voice between
a smile and a tear. ' But I have been so
peaceful with you that it has seemed like
a new life for me, and, but for poor papa,
I should have been very, very happy.'

Mrs. Glanville saw her son's eD.£!:ev ^-lance,
and knew what dangerous ground these,
her dear ones, were treading ; so, to avoid
further complications, she hurried Gerard
away.

But he was not permitted to go to Xo.
4, for Jack Harton was waiting for him.

The squire won't rest till he has seen
you,' he began. ' Unfortunately, he heard
your voice and the unusual commotion of
Fan's return — the dear girl can never be
undemonstrative — and is sure something-fresh
has happened. That wonderful phenomenon,
Mrs. True, says you had better
come, if possible, and the respectable Love-ridge,
my future father-in-law, is of opinion
that he had better be told all about Fan.
What the squire and Fan can have todo
with one another nobody knows ; but
there's no end to the mysteries.'

There certainly is not,' said weary
Gerard, retracing his steps towards Hop-lands.


He found Mr. Aspenelel much excited.
Nurse True was afraid of fever, and consequent
delirium.

glanville, why did you not come tome?'
he began. 'There is something
wrong. Has a vessel foundered, or a

lOS

Mrs. Aspenelel may hear oi lii m- ^
return unexpectedly said Gerard, i.^-
piously.

saved mee -~ ' ' - ^ '

worst. A 1 - :: : v^

smell ca: ~ Ait did yoairant

with Lot .

sto gire him a message ficom <Jd sirs.
Lee, the gipsy.'

'About his wife, cr— :r— 1:^1 child?
The fool, to marry s Li " 3f

them?"

'The wife is de: i ? ^ >

still alive

Does he mean to heap her on my hack
as another burden?'

'L -^

'I think not. n : t:^- "- ^'
to Canada with

Thank you T l-l do. Tell him

what I say, an i I iii defcennined to

return tr the F : : e day after tomorrow.

I must have an interview with
Harton before I leave, and thank him
for his kindness. I, who never acknowledged
a favour to mortal man, and owe
everything to my own exertions, must eat
humble-pie at last. As True says, " God is
strong-er than man." Good-night and
thank you.'

CHAPTER VII.

BACK AT THE PARK.

]mr. Aspenelel's orders and wishes were fulfilled
to the letter. On the evening of the
day he appointed he was conveyed to the
Park. He chose the hour when he could
best be concealed from view, and, accompanied
by Gerard and Nurse True, was
borne to his carriage on a mattress, placed
in it, and removed to his half-dismantled
house. He had previously had a short
interview with Mr. Harton, which had
tended to soften some of the prejudices of
that good man's mind. They had not seen
one another, for Aspenelel insisted on a

darkened room to the last ; and was so
enveloped when carried downstairs that no
portion of him was visible. He had, evidently,
a nervous horror of being seen,
and bade the doctors abstain from pronouncing
on his case, either to himself or
others. No one but they and Nurse
True knew the amount of injury he had
sustained, and she, fearing to trouble her
dear Edith, was silent thereupon. She
and Gerard managed everything between
them, from the closed blinds of his carriage
to the darkened windows of the breakfast-room
to which he was conveyed.

Here Edith awaited him, but she did not
venture to make her presence known to
him until he was placed on the bed prepared
for him, and signified to Nurse True
his wish to see her. Gerard was by her
side encouraging her. As soon as he had
helped the afflicted father, his first thought
had been for the trembling daughter.

They stood together a few moments alone,
at one end of the large airy room. It had
been hastily arranged as a sleeping apartment,
and, but for the bed at the further
end, looked much as it used to look when
Edith partook of those dreary breakfasts,
and arranged the papers, etc., when they
were over.

Bring Edith and leave us alone,' said
Mr. Aspenelel to Nurse True.

Hearing these words, Edith advanced
and was received in Nurse True's motherly
arms, as she passed towards her father.

God help you, my darling,' prayed that
good woman ; and a similar petition rose
from Gerard's heart, as they silently left
the room.

Your unworthy father,' were the words
that greeted Edith when she reached the
bed.

She knelt down and took the hand
that lay on the coverlet. It was the left.

She kissed it, and her tears fell upon it.

My dear papa,' was all she could say.
Words come slowly at such times.

She could not see him, happily, for
Nurse True had so arranged his bandages
that they were hidden by curtains [and
semi-darkness.

Only you, Nurse True, and Gerard
Glanville will come near me until I express
other wishes,' he said, in a strangely
muffled voice.

'No, dear papa. Thank you for admitting
me,' she replied, repressing her
feelings.

You have been a i^ood dau;:^bter. Is
the man who saved my life here?'

Not yet. I understand he promises to
come tomorrow. Bruce's study has been
prepared for him.'

Ah, Bruce ! If you hear anything of
him or — his mother — let them come home.
Home, indeed ! Oh, that awful fire ! But

for — for the man Loveridge I should have
been burnt to death. And you ?'

^ Mr. Gerard Glanville saved me, by the
Divine guidance.'

To what cause is the fire ascribed ?'

They say it originated in your study
dear papa.'

My study. Ha ! This unworthy hand.
Was it Cranmer who thrust an " unworthy
hand " into the flames?'

Now we are together again, we will try
to forget the flames, dear papa. They
have haunted me, but they are gradually
fading from my imagination.'

'They will never fade from mine. Your
]pious Nurse True says I must look beyond
and above them, but while I feel them that
is impossible.'

Edith felt how unequal she was to the
task of combating horrors such as these,
and remained silent.

Have you nothing to say to comfort

me, or give me hope, or ease the terrors of
my soul?' he asked, irritably. 'Do you
know that ruin stares us in the face, and that
I lost a fortune with this house? Do j^ou
know that I have worked my way up to
fabulous wealth, only to be foiled by an
element — by fire. It is preposterous.'

God's ways are so mysterious,' hazarded
Edith, in a voice nearly inaudible. ' Perhaps
He may work p^ood out of all this
evil.'

Aspenelel was silent, and Edith prayed for
strength for the work before her. Suddenly
her father began again about the flames,
and she feared he was wandering in his
mind.

I think you had better try to rest after
the exertion of coming here,' she said,
quietly. ^I will send Nurse True and
come again.'

He made no objection, and she left him.
The doctor had just arrived, and went with

Nurse True to Aspenelel, while she and
Gerard were again, for a few minutes,
alone. He saw how agitated she was, and
sought to reassure her.

Dr. Sant has taken upon himself to
order a first-rate nurse from London to
relieve Nurse True,' he said.

He will not endure her presence, I am
sure of that,' she replied. 'We must wait
on him between us. Dear Mrs. Glanville
offers to come, and I believe, if there is
anyone whom he would consent to see, it
is she. Besides, Mrs. Aspenelel and Janet
will be back, and perhaps he may see them.
If there is any difficulty, Mr. Austen has
placed the rectory at our disposal. I hinted
to him that we might want additional
rooms, and he offered them at once. Everyone
is so kind ; so kind !'

The repressed tears gave way, and rolled
slowly down her cheek. She turned towards
the open window near which they

were standing to conceal them ; but, in
spite of the gathering darkness, he felt
that she wept. The night was still, save
for the nightingale's song, which floated
through the waves of air with a rich, mysterious
rapture.

My mother and I would do anything
in the world to help you,' half-whispered
Gerard.

'I know! I know!' returned Edith.
'You are our best and dearest friends.
Do you — do the doctors — think he will
die?'

This abrupt question was instantly
partially answered by Dr. Sant himself,
who joined them. Candles were brought
in, and dispelled Edith's temporary depression.


The move has been, as I feared, rather
too much for him,' said the doctor. * He
is in great excitement. He will have no
one near him but Mrs. Trueman and Miss

Aspenelel, and the one is already knocked
up — the other will soon be incapable.'

I am stronger than you think,' said
Edith, returning; the inquiring glance reassuringly.


My mother will help her, and I could
sit up with him, if necessary,' added
Gerard.

I shall remain here to-night. Mrs.
Trueman must have rest ; and, if Mrs.
Glanville where at hand, perhaps we might
manage,' rejoined Dr. Sant.

Gerard said he would go and fetch his
mother, and Edith was left alone with
the doctor. She repeated her question as
to whether her father must die, which was
answered with the usual medical diplomacy.
Quiet and freedom from excitement
would do much, but it was difficult to
allay the fever of the mind, etc., which,
fortunately, left Edith in a state of uncertainty.
However, she had not much time

VOL. III. I

for reflection. At Dr. Sant's request, she
called Nurse True from her father's room
while he returned to it. She was horrified
at seeing how ill and worn her dear old
friend looked. She had been in attendance
unaided for ten days and nights, and
it was no wonder.

'You are to go to bed at once,' said
Edith, with the gentle imperativeness she
was wont to use with Nurse True when she
wanted to help that good woman. 'Mrs.
Glanville is coming, and she and I can
manage between us, with Dr. Sant.'

I will lie down awhile, my deary. I
will dress and refresh myself, but I will
not leave you to nurse poor Mr. Aspenelel
alone. I am not spent yet ; when I am
will be time enough to give in. God fits
the nurse to the patient, as well as the
back to the burden.'

This was all the concession Edith could
obtain, and she gave Nurse True into the

care of her friend Rebecca, who was one
of the helps found in the emergency. Mrs.
Glanville arrived soon after, and Edith felt
that she had the support she needed in
her and Gerard. But the doctor gave Mr.
Aspenelel a sleeping-draught which took
effect almost immediately, and Edith's first
night of watching passed without disturbance.
Mrs. Glanville was in the adjoining
room, but was not required. All this was
providential, since Nurse True slept all
through the night without once awakening.
Her distress of mind was great when she
became aware of it in the morning ; but
she was comforted when she found her
patient still asleep, and Edith curled up in
an easy-chair at his side, also folded in
sleep like a white dove. She left them
thus, in order to see after the strangely
disorganised household.

She found it better than she expected,
for one or two of the old servants, who

i2

were still out of place, had volunteered to
return, 'to oblige Miss Aspenelel,' and they
had improvised a kitchen and other apartments
in such part of the mansion as had
remained intact. It was a bewildering
scene, and everybody was running over
everybody else ; while workmen were
swarming in all parts, repairing and
making safe what seemed insecure, under
orders from the master himself, given
through Gerard. The sudden catastrophe
aroused good feelings in the neighbourhood
which had never existed before, and
enemies became friends of him whom they
had hated in times past.

As matters seem more hopeful this
morning I will go on to Hoplands,' said
Dr. Sant to Mrs. Glanville. ' One must
eat, and I would rather breakfast there
than here. Keep him quiet, and let him
sleep till doomsday if he will. I never
had such an awful patient before, or saw

SO devoted a nurse as that old True. Certainly
we don't all get our deserts in this
world. The man who saved this poor
wreck of manhood is by far the best of the
two.'

Dr. Sant found the party at Hoplands
very cheerful, and greatly relieved by the
absence of Aspenelel. Still they inquired
anxiously for him.

Fan was at her post at the breakfast-table,
all fun and frolic, as of old : her
slave, Mr. Hart on. Jack, and the dogs were
all waiting upon her. The doctor sat down
gleefully amongst them, declaring that he
had made a good choice between two
stools, and would not be likely to fall to
the ground.

I mean to carry up his breakfast, Fan,'
said Jack. ^ He hasn't a bad appetite,
considering, doctor. I don't mean in spite
of the doctors, but considering his burns
and blains. Two slices of bacon and two

eggs, Fan. What do you think of that,
Dr. Sant?'

'Let him lay in as much as he can while
lie's here. Short commons over there, just
at present,' replied the doctor, pointing in
the direction of the Park.

After breakfast the doctor visited Love-ridge,
and while with him Gerard arrived
with an imperative message from Aspen
The trio consulted together.

Mr. Aspenelel insists on your coming at
once to the Park,' said Gerard to Love-ridge.
' As soon as he awoke he inquired
for you, and bade me go and tell you that
he could not rest until he had seen his
deliverer. He was much excited. He
ordered the carriage to be sent for you at
eleven o'clock, and would not hear of a
later hour.'

You had better go,' said the doctor.
'He owes his life to you, and the best
chance of prolonging it is by humouring

him in all things. I am glad he has some
gratitude, poor wretch. Reports are abroad
that his affairs are in confusion, and that
he is not as rich as he was reported ; but
sou know best, Mr. Glanville.'

His mind is clear, and he only confides
in me what is absolutely necessary,' replied
Gerard, evasively, ' He requests me to go
with you to the Park,' he added to Overdose.
' One of the state drawing-rooms
has been hastily prepared for you, and you
will be near him.'

I shall be grander in my latter end
than my beginning,' laughed Loveridge.
What shall I look like in a state drawing-room
? I should like to see my benefactor
first — I mean your friend, Mr. Harton ; for
sou are all my benefactors.'

Gerard and Dr. Sant left and sent up
Mr. Harton. He had not yet been apprised
of the relationship between Fan and
Loveridge. When the greetings were over.

and Harton was seated, he suddenly exclaimed,


'Surely I have seen you before? You
are my old friend Wanderings Will.'

At your service.' replied Loveridge,
who was never abashed by any kind of
discovery ' Whatever my other alias, I
am always Wandering Will, and shall be
to the end of the chapter. Before leaving
your truly hospitable mansion, I want to
thank you for more benefits than you
know of. First, for taking me in when I
was half dead, and bringing me to life
again; secondly, for housing, clothing, and
feeding my only child.'

His voice faltered, and he nearly gave
way.

*Your only child! Not Fan?' said
Harton.

Yes, sir ; Fan. Your son Jack will tell
you all about it, for I cannot.'

Here the strange man fairly broke down.

Harbor let him recover himself, and then
asked, severely for him, why he had forsaken
her.

I — I — did not forsake her,' sobbed Love-ridge.
' I did not know where she was.
Her mother, my ^vife, Clorandy, must have
left her at sour gate, meaning to return.
I was in foreign parts, and all I know is
that she was taken suddenly ill and died,
just as the van was moving from place
to place. Whether she left the child of
malice prepense will never be known ; but
you will receive my eternal gratitude for
taking her in, and making of her the Fan
she is. It was with me, her father, she
left your house, and to me she has returned,
at my request.

'And you mean to deprive me of
her?'

That shall be as you see fit. Wandering
Will is nothing if not grateful. You
have rescued my girl, and you only shall

dispose of her. I resign my right in her
to you

Mr. Harton's severity relaxed.

You and I Avere young men when you
used to flit over the common like a will-o'-the-wisp,'
he said. ' Xow we are elderly,
if not exactly old. How have you spent
the interval?'

It would take hours to tell you, and I
must prepare for the most wonderful of all
my adventures — a visit to Aspenelel Park
by invitation of its owner. Perhaps when
that is over I may tell you more. Meanwhile
I pray God to bless and reward you
as I never can.'

Fan came in at this moment, and said
Mr. Aspenelel's carriage had arrived.

And so, Fan, you have found your
real either. I know all,' said Mr. Harton,
kindly, but with a little choke in his
voice.

Yes, dear Sir. Is it not strange ?' she

replied, looking down as if she had done
wrong.

^ You couldn't help it, Fan. Give me a
kiss, and let us all be friends.'

Fan flung her arms round Mr. Harton ;
and poor Loveridge, looking on, shook his
head, sighed, and repented.

CHAPTER VIII.

A CURIOUS MEDLEY.

I WILL see him alone first ; then you
and Gerard Glanville will come when summoned,'
said Mr. Aspenelel to Edith.

A few moments after the door closed on
Loveridge, and he stood hesitating in the
semi-darkness of the obscure and curtained
room.

'■ Is it you, Will ?' came from the bed.

It is I, Henry,' from the trembling
Loveridge.

Come here,' moaned Aspenelel ; and the
other went.

Silence ensued.

You have saved my life. Can you
forgive me ?' at last from Aspenelel.

Yes. Can you forgive me ?' from Love-ridge.


The left hand moved uneasily on the
counterpane, and Loveridge took it and
sat down. Another silence long-er than
the first. At last Loveridge spoke.

Then we are friends. I want no money,
Henry.'

A groan from the bed was the reply.

All the old love came back when you
were in danger ; all the greed and anger
vanished. I remembered our mother. She
has been with me ever since.'

Our mother !' with another groan from
the bed.

She loved us both. She forgave you,
Harry.'

She could not. What did she say?'

She said, " It is not Harry, it is mammon
: it is the devil. He was a good lad." '

Mother was right. I sold myself to
the devil for gold. Purified as by fire —
by fire — says Nurse True. Can the burnings
of the body save the soul ?'

If they can't, Christ can ; so preaches
and prays Gerard Glanville. But are you
so very bad, Harry?'

Aspenelel groaned again, but did not
answer.

Tears were rollins: down Overdose's
cheeks. His voice was strangely pathetic
when he spoke next.

^ We have both been great sinners, and
wasted our lives ; you in hoarding, I in
squandering. You have been too ambitious,
I too grovelling. We have both left
our proper sphere ; sou to rise higher, I
to sink lower. We have forgotten the
Lord that bou^i^ht us.'

You turned preacher !' muttered As-penes.


Not preacher, but penitent. Let us

begin again. Let us lead new lives.*

'Too late! too late !'

Aspenelel spoke those words, as so many
have done, in an agony of remorse, and
Loveridge had no words of comfort ready ;
so there was silence again.

Perhaps if our father had been different
we might have been different,' spoke
Loveridge at last, wishing to make excuses
for Aspenelel, if not for himself.

Then my sins must be visited on my
boy,' groaned Aspenelel.

Not if you give him good guardians
and teachers.'

'But I know not what has become of
him. All hope is taken from me. I am
wrecked body and soul — wrecked and
ruined. Do you know that the mines are
shut up, and — and '

Here a tremor shook the bed, and Love-ridge
found that the grip of the old enemy
was on him still.

What matters ?' lie said. ' We must
leave it all behind us. I have nothing to
leave. Yes — I forgot I have my child.
Clorandy is dead, but my child lives.'

Your child ? What of her ?'

1 cannot tell you now. But you have
also children, and must struggle up again
for their sakes and your wife's.'

Maimed — disfigured — ruined ! Never !
Never !'

Oh ! don't say that !' cried Loveridge,
affecting cheerfulness. ' We are friends,
and I mean never to offend you again. I
am going off to Canada, and, you know,
'' 'Tis distance lends enchantment to the
view," so we shall learn to admire and love
one another, and I shall be out of the way.
I'm heartily sorry for all the threats I've
used to extort money from you, and be
you sure I ^nll never repeat them. But
you held a tight rein, Harry.'

I did. It was pride as well avarice. I

could not dear to see your degradation. I,
who was — But what am I now ? All buta
charred and mutilated corpse.'

My dear Harry, your mind is wandering.
AVhat can 1 do for you ?'

Overdose rose and tried to look through
the closed curtains upon the form within.
But nothing was visible. He could bear
the strain of the broken conversation no
longer, and asked in a constrained, anxious
voice whether Aspenelel really wished to see
his daughter and Glanville.

Yes, call them in,' he replied.

Loveridge had left them in the adjoining
room, and, opening the door which
communicated with it, saw that they were
there still. He beckoned them in. They
were scarcely seated — Edith on the side of
the bed opposite Loveridge, Gerard at its
foot — when Aspenelel said, in a hollow voice,
and dragging out the words one by one,

This man — Loveridge — who has risked

VOL. III. K

his life to save mine — is — my — brother!'
He did not see the astonished start of
the trio ; for Loveridge was as much
surprised by the sudden disclosure as the
others by its strangeness. Still, he felt it ;
for he added,

You are amazed. Xo wonder. william,
tell them our history. All — all.
They, and they alone, must know the
whole. Conceal nothing.'

There is not much to tell,' began Love-ridge,
in a nervous, constrained way. ' Our
father was a goldsmith, who made his own
fortune. His name was Brand. Our
mother was a good woman, who was once
his housekeeper. They gave us a first-class
education. We were sent to schools
and colleges enough for a dozen young
goldsmiths. I was intended for the church ;
my brother, the eldest, for merchandise.
I was always a scapegrace ; he had a genius
for business, like my father. I soon declared

that I would not take orders, and
offended my father. ^Yhen he died he left
the business to my brother, and a certain
portion to me, provided I turned over a
new leaf. He was an odd man, and left
our mother to our joint care, not providing
specially for her.'

Here Aspen el groaned.

Harry turned the business to good account,
and grew richer and richer and
richer. He changed his name to Aspenelel.
I did not reform, and grew poorer and
poorer and poorer, and changed my name
to Loveridge, an old gipsy name, as good
as Aspenelel for that much. He stuck to
his merchandise, and rose ; I to my 
and sank. As honors our mother
lived, I strove to maintain her ; when she
died, I became Wild AVill, 'wandering Will,
and all sorts of characters.'

I let our mother starve,' groaned
Aspenelel.

k2

You offered to maintain her if she
would leave me and live in retirement ;
but she declined. You said you would
abide by the terms of the will and give mea
share of the business if I reformed, and
I declined. We kept one another in terrorem.
I extracted money from you by
threatening to disclose your origin, name,
history, and our brotherhood ; and you
kept me silent by declaring that if I did
so I should never have another penny.
It was tit-for-tat.'

^ I was hard, cruel, relentless,' broke in
Aspenelel.

'I was reckless, selfish, obstinate,' continued
Loveridge. ' We tried to hate one
another, and succeeded but too well. Yet
we loved one another when we were little
children and went hand in hand. How is
that, Gerard Glanville? A mystery — a
mystery — like life and death. Yea, verily,
it was death that opened up the springs of

life. But for that fire, I might have been
a Cain. God only knows, for I have been
fearfully malignant. But for you, Gerard
Glanville, I had perhaps been a murderer.'

And I !' came with anguish from the
bed. ' Go on — finish quickly.'

'After mother's death I went off and
wandered all over the world, returning
from time to time to extract money from
one who willed to keep it. I married a
gipsy, and he knew it, and it angered him
more and more. We were married in
church, so he had nothing to say on that
head. Forgive me, Harry ; I am forgetting
your presence. There is no more to tell
that I know of, except that, having found
my daughter, I was beginning to be respectable,
and had some claim on the portion
promised to the reformed prodigal.
This was being negotiated by you, Mr.
Glanville; but we both stood out as to the
sum required. Xow dread of death has

conquered us both. He ^vill give everything
; I Avill take nothing. I have my
child. "We will begin life together.'

\A"ho is your child ?' murmured As-penes.


Fan.'

At this name Edith rose with an involuntary
exclamation, checked, however, by
her father.

^ Fan ! I knew it, for she has crossed my
path,' he said. 'You also now know all ^
Gerard and Edith. Listen and decide.
I must have some one to manage for me
bound to me by strong ties ; some one who
can be secret as well as faithful. You
have both worked for me without greed.
Will you continue to do so ? I constitute
you my stewards, and give my consent to
your marriage.'

At this wonderful and unexpected announcement,
Edith, humbled and dismayed,
left the room. What did her father mean ?

Word of love bad never passed between
ber and Gerard.

I shall never be able to speak to bini
again,' sbe thought, as, unperceived by
all but him, she glided away.

You misunderstand, sir,' began Gerard,
in undisguised agitation. ' You have
imagined what has never occurred. Miss
Aspenelel and I are — are — only friends. I
will do all I can for you, but she must not
be trammelled.'

You saved her life,' murmured Aspenelel.
'You must now avert my ruin. I have
no faith in anyone but you. Call Edith
call Nurse True. I think I am dying.
Send for Mr. Austen ; bring back my wife
and son. Let Janet come. I must makepeace
— peace.'

Gerard had witnessed one or two similar
outbreaks of remorse and fear, and signed
to Loveridge to withdraw, whispering him
to send the nurse. She came, and between

them they soothed the patient. Edith
crept back, and Gerard immediately withdrew.
Here was a complication as perplexing
as those which had preceded it.
He went with Loveridge — as we must still
call him — to the sumptuous drawing-room
prepared for his reception. Here Love-ridge's
natural manner returned. He
shook Gerard heartily by the hand,
exclaiming,

The murder's out, and you know all. If
we were but shrewd enough to understand,
we should acknowledge that all the world's
akin. Millionaires and outcasts — fine
ladies and gipsies — petits and penitents,
here we are all jumbled together in this
fine house, and all related or about to
be. You will be my nephew, and Fan

your cousin by marriage, while ' He

paused ; then added, ' I suppose you don't
mean to refuse the fortune thrust upon
you ? I know you are a dreamer, and

above the lust of riches ; but here is an
opportunity of serving your fellow-creatures
which even you dare not lose. Still,
never marry for money, or for anything
but a love likely to last. I married for a
passionate admiration of beauty, and I
soon tired of my poor Clorandy and left
her. She was Fan without Fan's education,
and I was, if a scamp, at least a
sort of a gentleman. But you and Miss

Aspenelel '

Hush !' broke in Gerard. ' If you have
any love for me, as you say you have, you
will keep that scene secret and sacred as
long as you live. You saw her leave the
room at the strange proposal made by her
father, and I felt as if I should shrink into
nothing. His mind was wandering, and
he will not remember what he said tomorrow.
But your strange tale we shall
never forget. What remains for us todo
is to keep your poor brother's resolution

alive, so that lie may do you tardy
justice.'

I want none of this money,' interrupted
Overdose.

But a portion of it is your due, if you
begin a new life. And you have Fan to
think of Fan ! That is the strangest
episode of all. And Jack ! Unselfish, truehearted
Jack.'

It is a curious medley, Mr. Gerard,
and all its complications due, more or
less, to my poor brother, God help him.
I hope 3'ou pray for him as you did forme.'


I have prayed for him long, and so have
others. But I have work to do for him.
I must be off to town on his business, for,
now that he is back in his own house, he
means to have his lawyers down to make a
new will, as I understand him. His brain
is over-active, and the doctors say he will

go out of his mind if he is not humoured.
His sufferings are still awful.'

Perhaps I should have done better
to let him alone,' said Loveridge, reflectively.


^ And lose his soul !' added Gerard, ^vith
unusual austerity.

Ah ! I forgot that portion of our complex
being. I always have ignored it,
but I mean to redeem the past. Thank
you, Gerard Glanville, for helping me.'

They shook hands again, and Gerard
hastened away. He was soon replaced
by Edith. She came in looking very white
and terrified. She had watched Gerard
leave the house first.

Papa is better,' she began. ' He wishes
you to know that he was not really dying.
I cannot quite understand what has just
passed. It took me by surprise. Will
you kindly explain ? Are you really my

father's brother? Is Fan my — my —
cousin ?'

She trembled perceptibly, and Loveridge
placed a chair for her. He could not quite
realise that the fair, refined girl before him
was so nearly related to him and his wild,
impetuous child. He recapitulated calmly
what he had said in her father's sick-room,
with such additions as he thought mio;ht
interest her. His manners became those
of a gentleman, and she gradually perceived
the results of early education not
quite eradicated by a wild life.

Your father and I once loved one
another,' he said, pathetically, when he
had concluded his narrative.

That I understand. You could not
have risked your life to save his, had you
not loved him,' she returned; and she
thought, simultaneously, of how Gerard
had saved hers.

But with the thought came a grave

regret for what her father had so lately
proposed. She put it aside, however, and
continued to question her newly-found
uncle. She asked if she had any other
relations on her father's side, and he replied,
with an amused smile, that he knew
of none. He said their early history, if
they ever had one, had been long blotted
out of all heraldic books, and had recommenced
under the name of Aspenelel. Then
he enlarged upon Gerard's tact and kindness,
until she fancied he referred to her
father's late disclosure, and she nervously
turned the conversation upon Fan. She
said that everybody liked Fan, particularly
Janet, who would be glad of the kinship.
She could not say, truthfully, that she
herself rejoiced at it ; and this the shrewd
Loveridge was not slow to perceive.

Do you think she would like to come
here?' she asked.

Certainly not,' he replied. ' One interloper

is enough, and I am made that unwelcome
spectre by King Circumstance.
You see, having been a strolling player in
my time, I became poetical, and no sooner
do I resolve to be reformed than I think
of publishing my poems.'

Loveridge was about to begin a rhodomontade,
with a view to clearing ois the
clouds on her fair brow — so he put it to
himself — when Xurse True came in to say
Mr. Aspenelel particularly wanted to see him,
and, with a studied and somewhat theatrical
bow and smile, he left Edith to her
very troubled meditations.

CHAPTER IX.

HUSBAND AND WIFE.

There was life at the Park once more.
No sooner was its owner back than affairs
began to resume their old aspect. The
country was scoured for workmen to expedite
the repairs, and for servants to fill
such places as were still habitable. Mr.
Aspenelel appeared suddenly to have lost
sight of economy, and to be running into
almost unnecessary extravagance.

On the third day after his return, Mrs.
Aspenelel, Janet, and Bruce arrived, chaperoned
by their cavaliers servants Tom Harton.
They had been made acquainted

with events as they had happened, so,
when the carriage met them at the station,
they had all to see, but not much to learn.
Mrs. Aspenelel's heart sank as she espied
the blackened rafters and roofless turrets
of the grand house of which she had formerly
been mistress, and excitable Janet
was ready to jump from the carriage in
dismay. Tom Harton soothed them by
the trite assurance that it might have been
much worse, and, when they dropped him
at the point nearest Hoplands, he pressed
their hands expressively, and hoped they
would also find Mr. Aspenelel better than
they expected.

Does he hope it ?' asked Janet of herself.


'I'm glad he's gone. Oh, mammy, isn't
it horrid?' cried Bruce.

It is horrid, Bruce,' replied Mrs. As-penes,
while slow tears rolled down her
cheeks, and she thought of the day when

she left the Park of her own free will,
meaning' never to return.

The clay was hot, close, and misty, and
the travellers felt a strange depression in
the atmosphere, which re-acted upon them,
even upon Bruce, who exclaimed, again
and again,

Isn't it horrid ? Has the fire frightened
away the birds ? Where is the sun ? It
is as hot as it was in Paris.'

When they approached the house, however,
they were re-assured by its unchanged
frontage, and, when Edith and Nurse True
met them in the hall, it seemed as if nothing
could have happened. But, as Mrs.
Aspenelel stood a moment aside to watch
the embraces of the others, she felt as if
her return were truly a penance for her
sins. It was but for a moment, for Edith's
loving heart soon turned to her, and her
words, ' Oh, I am so glad you have come
home,' brought tears to her eyes. Nurse

VOL. III. L

Tr lie's greeting also showed earnest joy,
and Bruce's delighted capering from one
to the other proved that lie alone had
rejoiced in her temporary absence.

How is lie — low is Mr. Aspenelel ?' she
asked, with an emotion she had never
thought to experience.

Better, ma'am, I hope,' replied Xurse
True. ' He has passed a better night.'

And he is very anxious to see you,'
whispered Edith.

They went into the drawing-room which
Loveridge had vacated. He had prevailed
on Jack to get him an invitation to Hop-lands
for that night, at least ; for he had
tact enough to feel that his presence must
be unwelcome at such a time. Accordingly,
this one state apartment was much
as Mrs. Aspenelel lead left it. When she
went upstairs, however, she, as well as
Janet and Bruce, became aware of the inroads
the fire had made. All the old rooms

were destroyed, and such as remained intact
were the ones formerly appropriated
to guests. When she reached the one
prepared for her, Edith alone was with
her.

Edith ! I can never see him. Now I
have come back, I am more terrified than
ever,' she said, sinking into an easy-chair
and covering her face.

He is very quiet. You will not mind,
dear,' said Edith, laying her hand caressingly
on her shoulder.

Mrs. Aspenelel took and held it.

'How thin sou are ! How wasted !' she
exclaimed, thinking for the first time of
the fragile girl who had been obliged to
bear everybody's burden as well as her
own.

She turned to look at her and was
shocked at her appearance. The white
dove was whiter than ever. She drew her
towards her, and the poor child gave way

l2

to much suppressed feeling in her stepmother's
arms.

What love I have wasted ! How selfish
I have been !' murmured Mrs. Aspenelel.
You shall help me to be better for the
future.'

We will all help one another !' sobbed
Edith.

By degrees they grew calm, and talked
over the events that had succeeded each
other rapidly since they parted ; Janet
joined them, asking when she might see
her father. She was succeeded by Bruce,
whose exuberant spirits had to be checked
by Edith ; for Xurse True had been recalled
to her patient. She followed, however,
almost on the footsteps of the boy, with a
message from her master, to the effect that
he would like to see Mrs. Aspenelel as soon
as she was rested.

Rested ! She had had no rest for many
a long day.

May we all go, nurse ?' lie asked,
nervously.

'Master wishes to see you alone, ma'am,'
replied pitiful True.

Mrs. Aspenelel took off her bonnet at
once, and followed to her husband's apartment,
once her own delightful morning-room.


You will come in with me,' she said,
appealingly.

I will go in first, ma'am ; but,
perhaps '

'Of course — of course we must be alone.'

Master is still in a darkened room.
You will not really see one another, and
sou had better not speak of his appearance.
Indeed, he is still covered with
plaister and linen ; you cannot, and must
not, touch him. Only the left hand.'

True unclosed the door gently, and preceded
Mrs. Aspenelel to the bedside.

Here is mistress, sir,' she said.

Let her come — let her come,' he answered.


Mrs. Aspenelel went, trembling all over.
She took the inevitable seat and the hand
always lying on the counterpane. She
could not speak, for words would not come.
He spoke first.

You have come home. Why did you
go away T lie said, irritably ; and she was
thankful for so natural an opening.

I — I — scarcely know. But I am sorry
that I left you,' she returned, as unaffectedly
as she could.

I didn't mean to hurt you ; but you
were so provoking,' he said, with an injured
tone that set her quite at her ease.

I know that I am, but if you will forgive
me I will try to be a better wife in
the future than I have been in the past,'
she returned, forcing doAvn some rebellious
feelings that strove to give the lie to her
words.

Thank you. But you don't know what
you promise. It will be for " worse," and
not for better." Ruin and desperate

suffering if I live ; and if I die ' he

shuddered.

• Forgive my past, and I will undertake
your future,' she said, with a sympathy so
real that she felt him press her hand, and
almost thought she loved him.

After a pause he began to speak excitedly.


It is that cursed gold — those awful
flames — these fearful burnings. You cannot
undertake these,' he groaned. ' Fetch
the doctor — send Nurse True. Let me see
Janet and Bruce, for nov I must be dying.'

She did not know that this was his terrified
cry at every fresh excitement ; and,
frightened herself past restraint, she hastened
to the door.

Stay ! stay !' he cried. 'We must finish
before anyone else comes. I am better.

It Twas a passing agony and fear. You
don't know what it is to be in dread of
death, and, worse still, the after-death
which must come — must come. It is awful.
But I repent, and they tell me — Xurse
True and Gerard and Austen — that it is
never too late to repent. They all say the
same ; even my poor brother. Never too
late. What do you think ?'

Never,' groaned Mrs. Aspenelel, not
knowing what she said.

Cannot you say something to comfort
me? You have said plenty to annoy me,'
he asked, irritably.

1 cannot find words. I will try' to act
better she replied, humbly. ' I am very,
very sorry for your sufferings, and all you
have ozone through.'

If you hadn't left me, it wouldn't have
happened. I believed you had robbed
me, and was counting — counting — always
counting — to find out. All of a sudden I

was surrounded by flames. I don't know
how they began, but they say it was in my
own room. I lost my head. I tried to
save my gold, so hardly won — so hardly
won. I tried to close the safe ; I couldn't.
I know no more. They will tell you about
my rescue.'

I know it all,' put in the agitated wife.

But do you acknowledge that it was
your fault?'

I know I ought not to have left you,
but you should not have suspected me ; I
never robbed you.'

She felt that the old spirit was returning,
and tried to crush it. But to be
accused of originating the fire seemed
beyond endurance.

Never mind that. You married me for
my gold — my gold ! All melted. Glanville
is to see after it in a day or two. You
must oho T^dth him. It Alas an iron fireproof
safe, and perhaps some may be left.

Do you think me a miser ? Xot quite. I
have ^iveii sometimes, and I paid all your
debts though I swore I wouldn't ; and
Bruce's schooling, though Harton cheated
nie. Did you correspond with Tom
Harton ?'

This sudden question startled Mrs. As-penes,
and gave her the chance of turning
the current of his fearful wanderings. She
assured him that she had Written to no
one since she left the Park.

He would have known where to find us
had I been in communication with him,'
she said.

You needn't have gone away at all,' he
repeated ; and she discovered that this was
the grievance.

Both were silent for a time, and perplexing
thoughts harassed her almost more
than his words. Her past life rose before
her in amazing swiftness. Yes ; she knew
that she had married him for his gold ;

that she had neglected his children ; that
she had been ambitious, selfish, aggravating:
; that she had left him because she
hated him ; and that she had never sought
to win him to herself by even the semblance
of affection. Such marriages are awful
mockeries, and she acknowledged the sin
of hers. She did not even seek to palliate
it ; for she believed the Divine vengeance
had fallen upon them both. There, however,
by his side, in the solemn silence and
semi-darkness of the sick-chamber, she
vowed to be a better wife, and, if he were
spared, to atone in some degree for her
past. But what of him ? She shuddered
as she asked herself this question. He
partly answered it.

You will be sorry you came back, for
I shall be always here, if I get about
again. You will never get rid of me. I
mean Edith to marry Gerard Glanville,
and Bruce to go to school ; and Janet — I

haven't made up my mind about her ; but
you will be obliged to be content with
me.'

Why will you talk so strangely? Of
course I shall,' she returned, striving to be
natural, but feeling very uncomfortable.

You are pretty sure to run away again,
for I shall never be able to face the world
as I now am. Perhaps I had better seethe
children. Send them both together.
See them, indeed ! Poor blind, maimed
wretch that I am. Let me get it over at
once.'

His irritation seemed to increase, and
she rose.

^ I may come again ?' she said, gently.

Just as you like,' he replied.

Nurse True was in the next room, and
she went to her master, while Mrs. Aspenelel
summoned Janet and Bruce. They had
been having some refreshment and were
prepared to go to their father. Even Bruce

was struck by the extreme pain of his-mother's
face, and exclaimed,

What is the matter, mammy ? I am
frightened to go.'

He went, nevertheless, hand-in-hand with
Janet, leaving Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith
together. They talked over what had
passed since they parted, until Mrs. As-penes
grew calm, and Janet and Bruce
returned. Poor Janet was weeping and
trembling, and, as to Bruce, he was terribly
frightened, and said, as he clung to
his mother,

I don't believe it is father at all. I
peeped through the curtains and saw
nothing but bed-clothes, and a head
all covered with white. I think it was a
ghost.'

He was very kind,' sobbed Janet ; ' and
I am ashamed of having been so undutiful
and wicked a daughter. What if he had
died, and I had never seen him again?

Edith is the only one who has not to reproach
herself.'

It was truly a melancholy home-coming
for all, and but for Bruce they would have
been most miserable. His irrepressible
spirits roused them, and by degrees they
accustomed themselves to the inevitable.
Mrs. Glanville came, and her presence
always brought comfort. Janet asked for
Gerard, and, to her surprise, Edith left the
room, while Mrs. Aspenelel connected her
disappearance in some way with what her
husband had said. She had not ventured
to allude to it to Edith, knowing how
sensitive she was. In truth, the poor girl
had avoided Gerard since her father's
painful revelation, and the distance between
them seemed more impassable than
ever.

CHAPTER X.

RESTITUTION.

It is altogether past my comprehension,
Miss Janet. I am not a novel-reader, or I
might understand the romance of it,' said
Mr. Harton, senior, a day or two after the
return of the wanderers. ' By "a marvellous
concatenation," as the penny-a-liners say,
we are likely to become connected all
round. If Jack marries Fan, Jack and you
will be a sort of cousins, but what relation
shall I be?'

A paternal cousin, of course,' laughed
Janet, who was recovering her spirits, and
had come to see her new relatives.
Where is Fan ?'

The question was answered by that
damsel bursting into the room, followed by
Jack and the dogs. She drew back when
she saw Janet, and hung her head as if
suddenly abashed. She did not advance
to meet her, but retreated towards Jack,
as if for protection.

What is the matter. Fan ?' exclaimed
Janet, rising, and going towards her.

Oh, Miss Janet !' was all the unconventional
girl could articulate.

Dear Fan, we are real cousins now,
and I am come to welcome you as my
very own relation,' cried Janet, first getting
hold of her hand, and then striving
to kiss her.

And don't you really mind ? Isn't Mrs.
Aspenelel ashamed of me ?' exclaimed Fan,
still irresolute.

'Why, Fan, you know I love you,' said
Janet, half offended.

How kind, how good ! and me, a born

gipsy!' returned Fan, casting her arms
round Janet in a sort of rapturous embrace.


She held her so long and close, while
tears streamed from her eyes, that at last
Jack cried out,

'Fan, you kno^y it will be murder out-and-out
if you stifle Miss Janet.'

And then you'll never marry Jack and
go to Canada,' added Mr. Harton, who was
much moved by the little scene.

So were the dogs, who began to bark
and jump as they were wont at Fan's
vagaries.

'Are you sure you don't naiad?' asked
Fan, releasing her prisoner. ' It won't
matter so much when I'm out of the
way. I wish I weren't a born gipsy,
though now I'm only half-and-half, Jack
says.'

Whatever you are, Fan, we are first
cousins, and I am come to congratulate

VOL. III. M

you, and make acquaintance ^vith your
father, my — my uncle, you know, and
Edith says he is very nice.'

Does she? Does Miss Aspenelel really
acknowledge us?' interrupted Fan, standing
in a dramatic attitude with her hands
clasped and her eyes fixed on Janet.
1 am afraid of Miss Aspenelel, because
she is so fair and pure ; so different tous;


You must come and see her. Fan. You
would love her, if you knew her better.
You know, she is not like me, full of all
sorts of impulses, as Madame says, but
always gentle and good. I am more like
you, and that is why I am so fond of you.'

Dear Miss Janet ! Oh, Sir, isn't she
beautiful !' cried Fan, ecstatically.

Because she is like you?' laughed Mr.
Harton. ' Most vain Fan ! Still I am
bound to endorse your opinion of Miss
Janet,' he added, bowing to the really

lovely girls who had come among them so
kindly.

He did not proclaim what was in his
mind, that she certainly was one of the
handsomest girls he had ever seen. Janet
smiled, and made a graceful little bend in
return. She had already learnt to take
compliments for what they were worth.
She had seated herself in a high-backed
chair of carved mahogany, and Fan sat
down beside her, and took her hand.

I should like to see your father,' she
whispered.

Jack overheard, and disappeared in
search.

A confidential discourse ensued, such as
happens between two girls when one is
engaged to be married. Mr. Harton joined
in it, and clenched what they said by
reasonable explanations.

You see, Miss Janet,' he volunteered,
^ all they have to do now is to marry.'

m2

Let me be bridesmaid broke in Janet.

'They have a fine prospect in Canada,'
he continued. 'They are really "to the
manner born," and Fan's father is at least
"to the manner bred"; so they ^vill go
out under good auspices. I am to be left
to the tender mercies of Tom and the
ladies, for they don't care about me.'

Oh, Sir,' cried Fan, leasing Janet's side
and going to Mr. Harton, 'if only you
would come too ! But he has promised to
go and see Jack's wigwam. He says it is
very comfortable.'

I understand that Mr. Aspenelel wishes
to see me, and perhaps we may make it
more comfortable still between us,' pursued
Harton. ' Your father thinks a deal
too much of my enforced hospitality. As
to Loveridge, I can't get rid of him, can I,
Fan r

Loveridge and Jack came in at the moment.
Fan ran towards them, took the

former by the hand, and led him to Janet.

My father,' she said, with a strange
hesitation.

Alas she ashamed of him, after all?

Janet rose, and they shook hands. It
was an uncomfortable introduction, to say
the least of it, and the usually confident
man stood abashed before the queenly
maiden. She was pleasantly surprised at
his appearance. He was good-looking,
despite a few plaisters which still disfigured
his face, and, when his momentary
shyness passed ofi", she found him well-mannered.
Could this be the Wandering
Will of whom she had heard so much ?

You saved my father's life.' she said,
after a pause. ' We must always be grateful
to you, even if you were not a — a near
relation.'

That has been fors-often so long; that
it had better still remain in oblivion,' he
said, nonchalantly, seeing her hesitation.

I have Fan and Jack. T want no others ,
though my benefactor, Mr. Harton, condescends
to admit me as a future connection.
You see, my dear lady, " all the
world's akin," and this universal relationship
suffices for me. Your father and I
are brothers by consanguinity, but that
does not necessitate further approximation.
Excuse the long word. Hard words are
bad taste, both in conversation and literature.
My friend Jack is a brother of
the accomplished student in the neighbouring
room ; but that literate and your
humble servant will not be united by the
marriage of our relations. We dislike one
another, and my kith-and-kin are those
with whom I have perfect sympathy, or
affinity, as people call it. You perceive I
know all the fashionable slang, just as well
as if I had been an inmate of Aspenelel
Park.'

Janet listened amazed to this rhapsody.

She had heard of the powers of Wandering
Will, but little understood the sort of man
he was.

Isn't he clever !' said Fan to Jack.

He's queer,' returned Jack, annoyed.

So I am. Jack,' laughed Loveridge, who
still inclined to retain that name, rather
than to resume Brand.

I am so queer, Miss Aspenelel, that you
need never fear my introducing myself as
that near relation you mentioned. I
should no more presume to consider you
and that " sweet, pale Margaret " of a sister
of yours as my nieces, than 1 should the
royal princesses. The secret shall die with
the fcAv who know it.'

But we are your nieces, and do not
wish to disavow it,' said Janet, recovering
her natural manner ; ' I am delighted to
have Fan for a cousin, and I think you
and I would soon get on very well. I like
clever people.'

A hearty laugh from Mr. Harton, in
which Jack joined, followed this advance
to friendship.

When I am quite reformed,' he said,
with a somewhat theatrical bow to Janet,
I will acknowledge you as my niece, with
that pride which virtue assumes when conscious
of superiority ; until then we continue
very distant relations.'

My father is your only brother,' pleaded
Janet.

Yes ; I disgraced him, and he disavowed
me. I will never disgrace his children lest
they also send me to Coventry. Will you
kindly tell your father that I will be with
him this evening ?'

Janet rose to go, and they shook hands
again. This time their eyes met, and there
was an interchange of that sympathy of
which he had spoken.

'You arc like our mother,' he said,
gravely ; ' she was the loveliest and

best mother that graceless sons ever
had;

His voice faltered, and that one touch
of genuine feeling drew the hearts of all
those who surrounded him towards him.
Janet said, cordially, that she hoped to
see him again that evening, and to introduce
him to Mrs. Aspenelel. He shook his
head, and assured her that he could not
come near so ^ bright and particular a
star.'

Fan went with her to the gate. Her
sparkling face was overclouded, for she
feared what effect the introduction might
have on Janet.

He isn't like Sir,' she said, humbly ;
'■ but I couldn't help his being my father.'

'Nor I his being my father's brother,'
returned Janet. ' We must make the
best of our relations. Fan; and hold our
tongues about their history. I am afraid
it is not very creditable, but the end maybe

better than the beginning. If papa
recovers, I don't mind.'

Not if you marry a lord ? AVhat will
he say ?' asked Fan.

I have made up my mind never to
marry,' said Janet, with a decision that
Fan did not understand. ' Single people
are the happiest, and can pursue art, or
good works, or a hundred pleasant things
that would be impossible if they had
children.'

Oh, Miss Janet ! Think of the old
ladies !'

1 do, Fan, and consider them the very
nicest and most unobjectionable people I
know. Why, they haven't a care in the
world, and here are we, with all our riches,
as miserable as can be.'

I couldn't live without Jack.' said Fan,
meditatively ; * but then I'm a born
gipsy, and think a log-hut must be like a
palace.'

Janet lauo-hecl, and went off in hiofh
spirits, meditating on other people's prospects.
But the spirits were soon depressed,
for nothing could exceed the gloom of
the Park. Even Bruce was oppressed by
it.

Loveridge came in the evening to see
his brother. He had made Fan the excuse
for his temporary absence, but Mr. Aspenelel
reproached him for it. He was decidedly
better, and the doctors thought his mind
was relieved of some weight that mis^ht
conduce to his recovery. Although he
scarcely allowed it, the return of his wife
and boy was the cause of the amendment.
Nature was recovering some of her rights,
and, as Nurse True said, ' He has his feelings,
like the rest of us.' They displayed
themselves to his brother in a way quite
unexpected. He declared his intention of
making amends for the past, and giving
him the portion promised him by their

father on his reformation. He knew to a
fraction what it would have been. His
memory was like a ledger. He said it was
mere restitution, and not return for saving
his life, or silence-money for concealing the
past.

You don't know that I'm reformed,'
said Loveridge, who misdoubt this act
of justice.

Gerard Glanville says you are, and I
believe him,' was the reply. ' He is the
only man who never told me a lie ; never
cringed for my money ; sacrificed himself
for his mother's sake — (Oh ! Will, if I had
done the same !) — did good works without
ostentation ; practises what he preaches ;
withstands the temptation of riches, and
even yields love to duty. How different
to us, who have merely followed our bent
to the ruin of our souls.'

^ Why, Harry, I verily believe you are
** converted," as the Tigress, my respectable

mother-in-law, says interrupted
Loveridge, who felt uncomfortable at this
unusual speech, and tried to turn its
current.

I wish I were ! I wish I were ! All
hope of this world has departed, and, but
for Nurse True and Glanville, I should
leave it with all my sins upon me. They
bid me cast off the burden, and lay it . . .
but, well, I cannot, I dare not.'

These two brothers, miser and spendthrift,
sat long silent. Solemn thoughts
came to each — thoughts that neither could
express, but which were, doubtless, the
working of that Spirit which wrestles with
the souls of men, even the most vile.
Awful death had been beside them, and,
when the King of Terrors has been realised,
then it is that the world trembles as in an
earthquake, when even foothold loosens,
and some great gulf seems to open. The
elder spoke first.

It is your own money. It is mere
restitution. You shall have it, and the
interest and compound interest it has
gained during all these years, while we
have been keeping one another at bay. I
know that I bought your silence on hard
terms, but, had you told my history, you
would have had nothing.'

And no one would have believed me.
All I wanted was a trifle from time to time
to keep me going.'

Now you will have a fortune. AVhen
do you leave England, that it may be
made over to you before your departure ?'

As soon as my child is married. Oh,
Harry! What years we have lost ! But
we are brothers again — and fathers. It is
all a dream, and, when I try to think, I am
lost. You will strive to be happy again,
Harry. You will consider your wife and
children before mammon. I wish I had
been a better brother to you, but fate was

against us, Harry. Mother always said
you woT:^ld come round, because she always
prayed for you. I laughed at their faith

then, but now '

Aspenelel groaned heavily, and again
silence closed the painful theme.

CHAPTER XI.

INIOLTEN GOLD,

Mrs. Aspenelel came home with the resolution
to obey her husband, if possible, but
his irritability, especially with her, made
her task difficult. When he recurred to
the subject of his ruined study, and requested
her to examine what was left of it,
with Gerard Glanville, her will was all for
resistance, but his proved the stronger of
the two. Some curious cerebral fancy
took possession of him, and he resolved
that she should be the one to see if anything
remained of what, he would have it,
she coveted.

Accordingly she and Gerard made their
way over the fallen rafters and charred
floors of passage and intermediate rooms,
to the spot she had most dreaded in all
that big house. It was now open to the
sky, and, when they reached the place
where the strong door had been, she trembled
as if she were about to enter some
ghostly chamber. A carpenter who accompanied
them removed the temporary substitute
for the door, and she followed
Gerard into what she used to call ' The
Miser's Den.' She need not have been
afraid, for nothing was visible but heaps of
rubbish. It seemed as if the square walls
had been built to contain the debris of all
the rooms that had surmounted it, together
with their roofs and ceilings.

Workmen had been busy with the rest

of the house, and a clearance of fallen

timber and masonry had been effected, for

the furtherance of the rebuilding ; but, by
VOL. in. N

order of its owner, this apartment had
been untouched, and Gerard had presided
over the stopping up of the big gaps,
where windows and doors had been. To
all appearance this was unnecessary, for
no vestige remained of furniture or
fittings ; only a confused mass of wood and
stones.

After all, it was impossible to penetrate
it, and Gerard was compelled to return to
Mr. Aspenelel and to tell him so. In his
excitement at contradiction, he said first
that he did not believe it ; and afterwards
that they must get men to clear a passage,
or empty the room of the rubbish. His
brother was with him and volunteered to
help.

The safe must be intact ; it is fireproof
!' cried Aspenelel, his greed uppermost
again.

Loveridge accompanied Gerard to the
scene and remained there while Gerard

and the carpenter went off in search of
workmen. He had never spoken to Mrs.
Aspenelel, and his usual effrontery forsook
him when he perceived that lady. He
had resolutely avoided the presentation
suggested by Janet, and she had equally
kept aloof from him. Indeed, he could
but feel an interloper.

Mrs. Aspenelel had advanced a pace or
two into the room, and was surveying the
wreck with dismay. She had not left the
front of the house before, since her return,
and had not realised the result of a conflagration.
Now she shuddered as she
recalled her last visit to that spot, and a
vision of her husband rose before her ashe
then was, implacable, vindictive, resolute.
She recalled her own part in the
interview, and wondered whether if she
had been different he would have been less
unnatural. In a moment the fire and its
results thrust out personal feelings, and she

N 2

uttered 11 little cry as imagination conjured
up what might have happened but
for the merciful interposition of Providence.

Turning, she saw in the passage him
who had just arrived in time to avert the
final doom. Overwrought as she was, she
fancied she knew not what, and stumbled
amongst the rafters on which she was
standing. He caught her just in time to
prevent her falling, and placed her with
some difficulty in safety — if safety there
Avere, where crumbling mortar, loosened
stones, and charred wood gave way beneath
the feet at every moment.

Mrs. Aspenelel, I think,' said Loveridge,
removing his hat and bowing profoundly.

He Alas never at a loss, and his self-possession
stood him in good stead.

My — my — husband's brother, I believe
she returned, recovering her usual manner.

We meet under strange circumstances,
and In an odd sort of confusion,' he said,

carelessly ; ' but we live in an odd world,
and no one will ever succeed in making; it
even.'

Before she could reply, Gerard and a
number of workmen came stumbling in.
Almost simultaneously the boarding was
removed from without from the casement-less
windows, and the desolation was complete.
The workmen began immediately
to cast the debris out of the windows, and
so to clear a passage to the spot indicated
by Gerard, who had received instructions
from Mr. Aspenelel.

^ It was there I found him,' whispered
Loveridge to Gerard, and pointed to the
exact place where the safe had been.

Mrs. Aspenelel remained in her corner,
trembling as she looked on.

At last the safe was reached, and Gerard
dismissed the men before they were aware
of its contents. He, Mrs. Aspenelel, and
Loveridge made their way to it. There it

stood, unscathed ainid the wreck of all else,
for was it not fire-proof? But the door
had been left open, and on the floor lay a
heap of molten gold, which must have
poured from its mouth like the lava from
a burning mountain. That door had been
opened by the owner himself, and remained
ajar. A yellow coating covered the top
shelf of the safe ; a yellow seam ran down
it. In the bottom shelf were the embers
of many papers, and the crumpled leaves
of parchments — all of which must have
represented tens of thousands of those
golden playthings so ruthlessly made sport
of by the flames. It was an awful sight,
and might have convinced any gainsayer
of the weakness of human ingenuity.
Gerard knew that it was only a tithe of
the wealth scattered here and there equally
insecurely, and wondered what the end
would be.

The trio looked at one another. Mrs.

AspeneVs face was white, her lips compressed.


After all, it is best to spend, even in a
worldly point of view,' ejaculated Love-ridge.
' Poor Harry was sadly mistaken.
I always told him so, but he wouldn't
believe me. I think you have done your
duty, madam, and may gracefully retire
from the scene.'

And I married for this !' muttered Mrs.
Aspenelel, glancing at Gerard, and looking
as if about to faint.

Take her away. I will mount guard,'
said Loveridge.

Gerard helped her back through the
dangerous passage and gave her into
Janet's care. Then he went to Mr. As-penes.
He found Edith with him. She
instantly left the room, as she always did
when he appeared. He could only form
one opinion of this result of her father's
strange overtures, which was that she did

not love him, and that he had been a vain
man when he almost fancied 'she did. He
mastered a sharp pang when he took the
seat she vacated, and told the poor wretch
who had brought such misery on himself
the result of the investigation.

Bullion still. It must be re-cast,' he
said. ' You will see to it for the children's
sake and your own. Xow, listen to me.
You must take up your abode entirely
in London. I shall never go there
again. I am morally certain that I
shall never more enter the office where I
have made my wealth, or any of the places
that have received it. I constitute you my
substitute. No disclaimer! I have no
one else that will see honestly to the interest
of my children, and you will be one of
them soon.'

Once more, sir,' began Gerard, excitedly,
' you must put that out of the question.
Miss Aspenelel has avoided me ever

since you opened it, and I can undertake
nothing if I am trammelled.'

'Avoided you, has she? I must set
that to rights.'

I will throw up all your work, Mr. As-penes,
and return to Lady Ascham, if you
mention that subject again,' said Gerard.
*Your daughter and I were good friends
until you made that proposal ; now she
barely speaks to me. I beg you will leave
us to ourselves.'

I have no one that I can trust. As my
son-in-law, I could make you partner and
identify you with myself; but I could
scarcely do this under any other circumstances.'


Gerard's heart beat quick, and he felt
that ambition of power and position which
is inherent in most of us. ^liat could he
not do if Mr. Aspenelel's words could be
verified? But he struggled with the
momentary temptation and conquered it.

He said that he would do his best to manage
to disentangle the complicated affairs
with the help of solicitors and other agents,
but that he was incompetent to undertake
what Mr. Aspenelel mentioned.

Go and consult your mother ; ask her
if she will live with you in London, and
help you. I have no one else ; no one
else.'

The despairing tone of Aspenelel's voice
touched Gerard. The doctors said he
was better, but gave no hope of absolute
recovery. His actual state was concealed
at his own particular request, and even
Nurse True was bound over to secrecy.
Gerard was sorely perplexed, and could
not see where his own path of duty lay.
Still, where so much was involved, he
prayed not to let personal feeling stand in
his way.

I know my mother will be ready to help
you and yours, sir,' he said, after some

hesitation. ' As manager, trustee-trustee

! Then you think I must die,'
groaned Aspenelel. And ' the terrors of a
troubled mind' returned, which Gerard
was impotent to quell

He called for Mr. Austen, the doctors,
Nurse True, all who could advise either
spiritually or corporeally, and bade Gerard
leave him, since he would not accede to
his request.

Gerard went straight to his mother, and
told her what had passed. She was at
once comforter and counsellor. She had
not ventured to interfere between him
and Edith, though she fancied she knew
where the difficulty lay ; but she now advised
him strenuously to accept whatever
post Aspenelel proposed for him. She knew
his probity, and that his own mind would
not be warped by good fortune, come to him
as it would. She saw what an immense
field of usefulness might be opening before

him, and that he had no right to refuse to
work in it.

I will go and live with you in London,
or do anything to help you,' she said.
*You may be sure Mr. Aspenelel will give
the means, because he is personally interested
in the result. I think you should
have an explanation with Edith before
making up your mind.'

How can I, when she flies from me as if
I were a scarecrow?' he rejoined, much
aggrieved. ' We were such good friends,
and I never gave her any reason to suppose
I had other feelings than friendship.
She ought to know me better than to
think I would purchase her with her
father's partnership. I am not such a Jew
as that.'

Mrs. Glanville was too wise to argue
this point. Her fiiith was great, and she
believed that whatever was best for her
son would be brought to pass in someway

they could not foresee ; she merely
urged him to do what seemed his present
duty, without looking right or left.

I suppose that is to live in town, and
undertake the management of the business
there,' he said. ' If some disinterested
person does not do it, all will go to
rack and ruin, and he will be bankrupt.'

Gerard did not say this without reason.
In spite of Mr. Aspenelel's enormous wealth,
he was not infallible, and had not cried
wolf so long without some reason. He had
experienced great losses by sea and land,
and, since he had been rendered incapable
by the fire, every unprincipled client and
dependant had taken advantage of his state
to enrich themselves. A company had
failed of which he was director, and he was
involved to an immense extent, while trade
was depressed everywhere. Gerard knew
all this, and would have hesitated to mix
himself up with it, but for the strange

chain of circumstances Avhicli lead wound
round about him and Aspects family.

When he and his mother had talked all
this over, he returned to the Park. He
encountered Mrs. Aspcnel and Janet.
The former had been so upset by the investigation
of the safe that Janet had
prevailed on Lier to go out. They were
fast friends now, to Gerard's great surprise.


What can be done with that awful
nugget?' askedjMrs. Aspenelel.

What can be done with our Avhite
mousey?' asked Janet, with glance at
him so reproachful that Gerard was taken
aback.

A nugget can be reconverted into
specie ; but a lost friendship is hard to
reconstruct,' he replied ; and passed on.

He felt very sore about Edith.

He found her father tranquil again, and
prepared to listen to reason. He told him

what his mother had said, and added that,
if sufficient means were provided, they
would remove to London, and he would
undertake whatever post he might see fit
to place him in.

'I will think it all over and we will
settle it in a few days. Meanwhile, you
must go on as you are. I am expecting
Lawyer Mason to draw up the deeds about
AVill's portion. That must be finished first,
and you and Mrs. Aspenelel must witness
it, and see it carried out. She is a better
woman of business than I thought. If I
don't do it at once, I shall never do it at
all.'

Gerard fully endorsed this speech of
Aspenelel's, and resolved to work night and
day in the interest of his friends loved
ore and Fan.

CHAPTER XII.

TOM Barton S OFFENCE.

It need scarcely be recorded here that
inquiries, both personally and by letter,
poured in upon the Park. Rumour had
been busy with its owner and his family,
but rumour had not told the exact truth :
it rarely does. Still, report had partially
disclosed the brotherhood of Aspenelel and
his rescuer, and the parentage of Fan.
Its many tongues had also been busy with
the reasons of Mrs. Aspenelel's absence and
sudden return, and many were the speculations
upon her husband's condition, and
what he would do if he recovered, or what

would become of her if he died. The heir
of Beechton had called, but had not been
admitted ; indeed, all visitors were refused
upon plea of Mr. Aspenelel's condition ; even
Mr. Tom Harton Alas not received with
the old cordiality. Everybody and everything
seemed changed by that fire, which
had incapacitated the millionaire : but no
one so much as Janet. She was of a
strong, decided nature, and she told Edith
that, having spent nearly a third of her
life in gratifying herself, she meant to
spend the rest of it for others.

She went straight to her point in a
business-like sort of way. ' Nothing shall
go wrong that I can set right,' she thought ;
and she began with Edith. But she found
her more difficult to deal with than she
imagined. She even succeeded better in
her overtures to her step-mother, whose
dislike she had overcome when in Paris.
Edith was shyer and more reserved than

vor. III.

ever, and lie sought in vain to discover
the root of a certain estrangement between
them.

It is Gerard. I am sure it is Gerard,'
she thought, and she tried what she could
do with him. But he was always too busy
to have ' the good talk ' with her that he
promised ; and nothing came of her efforts.
With Bruce she was perfectly successful,
and the boy almost worshipped his beautiful
and fascinating sister. She undertook
his education, and, while the rest of the
disordered household ran hither and thitherto
do the behests of its master, she and
Bruce worked and played by turns.

Rather to their annoyance, Mr. Tom
Harton waylaid them whenever he had
the chance. As Janet went frequently to
Hoplands, to assist Fan in her preparations
for her wedding, and, as she expressed it,
To become better acquainted with her
new uncle,' he seized his opportunities.

As soon as he appeared, Bruce always ran
off, so he frequently met Janet alone, somewhere
between the Park gate and Hop-lands.
He was very inquisitive, and, in
an off-hand way, managed to draw from
Janet the state of affairs at the Park.

A fortnight or so after her return, he
said he had a message for Mrs. Aspenelel,
and, while delivering it, turned, and walked
with Janet into the park, which was unusual.
He had always a certain fascination
for her that he was probably aware
of.

'As I hear Bruce is to be sent to school,
and my services wall be no longer required,
will you kindly tell Mrs. Aspenelel that I
have accepted a travelling tutorship,' he
said, with a keen, inquiring glance at
Janet.

I am very sorry. You will probably
be long away,' she returned, involuntarily,
with a tone of unmistakable regret.

Yes ; unless you bid me remain,' he
said, this deep, dark eyes fixed upon lier.

Janet did not pretend to misunderstand
him. Her friends Maximilien and Wilbra-
ham, and other admirers, had already
taught her the science of admiration, and
had by turns called her coquette, flirt, and
other terms not complimentary ; but she
lead laughed at them all. She had been
heart-whole, in fact. Was she so now?
Let her speak for herself

Unless I bid you remain,' she repeated,
reflectively. ' I could not do that. Your
father would be a more proper person, or
your brother, who would like you to beat
his wedding ; or even Mrs. Aspenelel,
for whom you have sacrificed so much
time.'

There was a slight inflection of voice on
this last sentence.

neither of them would influence my
movements,' he rejoined, carelessly. ' There

is no one in the world but you who could
regulate my steps.'

Her fair face flushed, and she stood a
moment silent before him. They were
inside the Park wall, near the spot where
Fan had poured out her troubles to her,
and had warned her against this man.
She remembered the scene well. She also
remembered the days of her childhood,
when she thought him the most perfect
and delightful of mortals. But she also
remembered that he had been devoted to
Edith and her step-mother, and that he
could, therefore, scarcely mean what he
said to her. She understood him but in
part ; still she misdoubt him.

He took advantage of her hesitation to
pour out a flood of eloquence, rapid and
overwhelming enough to convince any
girl. In short, he declared his love and
made her an ofl"er of marriage. He knew
his power, but he could not read what was

passing through her mind. Indeed, she
could not read it herself. She suddenly
withdrew from him, and, leaning against a
tree, said, decidedly,

I never mean to marry. I have quite
made up my mind to this. I like men best
at a distance, and think women happier
without them. They are all selfish. Even
Monsieur, the best of men, was angry if
his omelette was not to his taste ; and as
to Maximilien ! ma foi ! he was a tp-ant.
I think you are one also ; and as to poor
papa — Avell, he was so rich that he ruled
the world with a golden rod ; and, between
ourselves, I am afraid you are not indifferent
to fortune. Now, confess ! You
would not have made me this flattering
proposal were I not the daughter of a
millionaire. I am much obliged to you
all the same, and am sorry to disappoint
you ; for it must have taken you time and
trouble to make up your mind.'

The provoking girl looked at her admirer
with an arch inquisition, which made him
very angry.

You are not in earnest, Miss Janet,' he
said, restraining his wrath and forcing a
smile. ' I am at liberty to believe as much
as I like of your fanciful resolution. You
are merely trying to pique and annoy me.
You are quite capable of this.'

And of keeping my resolution. Goodbye.
Let us part friends. I daresay we
shall meet at Fan's wedding. AVe are a
sort of connection. The various marriages
of my family and friends tend to make me
averse to matrimony. I shall die an old
maid.'

She held out her hand, but the offended
worshipper of beauty or mammon declined
to take it, and they parted — he in much
indignation, she with regret.

He hurried off to his den at Hoplands,
where he seated himself before a ponderous

volume which he had been reiiclino;
that morning, and reviewed the interview.
Defeat was impossible, he thought, for he
esteemed himself highly. Still he had been
defeated of late, and everything had gone
against him. Usually, success had waited
on him and came at his call ; now fate
seemed against him. He scarcely ventured
to whisper, even to himself, in how many
ways she had turned her back upon him.
He had striven hard to win her, and she
had slipped from him. Is success masculine
or feminine ? Rather neuter ; for it
ignores sex ; so we will change the gender.
It has not been as yet recorded here
that Mr. Tom Harton had already ventured,
as far as prudence would allow, in
making advances towards Edith. But she
had repelled them so decidedly that he
turned his attention to Janet. He was
essentially a schemer and selfish, and it
did not much matter to him how he acquired

those coveted millions, provided he
secured them. His vanity had told him
that he had only to ask and have either
young lady, though he was anything but
sure of the parental consent ; and he had
actually failed in both attempts. His
handsome face grew as fierce as when he
had attacked poor Fan in the same spot ;
and that had been also a failure. He had
only got rid of her to have her return triumphant.
It was altogether very disagreeable,
and as he was not quite the
villain of the piece,' but an ordinary mortal
with selfish ends always in view, he was
utterly disgusted with himself and everybody
around him. He, so good-looking,
agreeable, clever, and generally a favourite,
to fail where he was sure of succeeding !
It was too provoking ! And he was morally
convinced that Janet liked him, and
that neither she nor Edith could have seen
anyone they preferred to him. But he

lead been precipitate with Janet, and
Avould persevere. Nevertheless, he made
up his mind then and there to accept the
travelling tutorship still in abeyance, and.
while yet in hot wrath, took pen and paper
and wrote to Lord Tiiornborough, and
expressed himself ready to accompany his
son on a foreign tour. He should then
escape Jack's wedding, and get breathing-time
to mature other plans of siege.

While he was writing half-a-dozen words
and biting his pen by turns, Janet was recounting
to Edith what had passed.

He must be a very bad man,' said
Edith, ' for he used nearly the same words
to me.'

Her face and manner expressed great
indignation, but Janet merely laughed.

They are all alike. They are dying today
and as lively as butterflies tomorrow.
You should have seen Maximilian ! He
was always audesespoii\ but he managed to

console himself by flitting to some other
flower. As to Wilbraham, a run across
country Avould cure him of a heartache
that he was sure would kill him. And
I could mention a dozen others, but I
forbear.'

I hope you are not a heartless flirt
sighed Edith.

I hope not. I am waiting for a
cousin Gerard, and when he comes I
promise you I will not avoid and torment
him as you do.'

'Pray let that subject alone, Janet. He
is going to live in London, and then you
will perhaps forget it.'

I shall, but you will not ; neither will
he. Hush ! there is somebody in the
passage. I daresay it is Bruce, with his
ear at the keyhole. He would not spare
his venerable tutor if he heard of his
innocent efforts after fortune.'

Whose innocent efforts ?' asked Mrs,

Aspenelel, who was the ' somebody ' in the
passage.

mr. Tom Harton. I am sure you
will not be surprised to hear that he has
just proposed for me, and as good as
proposed for Edith,' replied ruthless Janet,
whose face was flushed and whose eyes
were flashing, despite a manner so careless
that a bystander would have said with
Edith, 'A heartless flirt.'

You should not talk such rhodomontade,
Janet,' said Mrs. Aspenelel, repressing
an exclamation that rose to her lips, and
colouring as if she, also, had been stung
by the wasp. ' I came to say that Mr.
Loverid«:e has brought his daughter here

o o o

at last, to be formally introduced to me,
and I want you both to come downstairs
with me to be present, as I really do not
know what to say.'

'He will find conversation,' laughed
Janet, running down before the others,

and entering the big drawing-room, where
her strange relatives were awaiting the
great lady.

I'm so glad it is you, Miss Janet,'
beo^an Fan. ' I'm frio-tenet to death. I
never spoke to Mrs. Aspenelel in my life
and always used to make her a little bob,
like the school-children, when I met her.
Ought I to do it now? Jack says I
should slide one foot forward, so, and the
other back, so, and bend my body gracefully
between them.'

While Fan was making this unusual
effort at politeness, Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith
came in.

This is Fan,' cried Janet. ' She is
making you her very best curtsey. It is
quite French, though she doesn't know it.
What my maitre de danse called a glissade.'

How do you do ? I am glad to make
your acquaintance,' said Mrs. Aspenel^
holding out her hand.

I nearly fell clown,' whispered abashed
Fan to Janet, who was exploding with
laughter, as was Loveridge. 'Thank you,
ma'am. It is very kind of you to ask me
here. Sir sent his compliments, and hopes
mr. Aspenelel is better.'

Jack had wickedly tutored Fan in this
speech, and she delivered it with proper
effect. Mrs. Aspenelel smiled, and surveyed
her husband's niece ^vith surprise. She
scarcely knew whether she or Janet were
the handsomer, as they stood side by side,
with Loveridge in the background, facing
her and Edith.

Mr. Aspenelel is decidedly better, and
hopes to be up in a day or two,' she
replied, graciously, holding Fan's brown
hand in hers. ' He wishes to see you,
Mr. Loveridge. Will you kindly go to
him ?'

Loveridge went, and left the womankind
together.

Why have you been so long coming to
see me?' asked Mrs. Aspenelel, when they
were seated.

I didn't think you really wanted me,'
returned truthful Fan. ' You are a grand
lady and I am a born gipsy, in spite of
my father and Mr. Aspenelel being brothers.
And you never spoke to me when we used
to meet, so I feared you disliked me very
much. You always turned your eyes away
when I looked at you in church, and I
used to think how different we were, and
that you hated all the gipsies as much as
Mr. Aspenelel did.'

you were mistaken. I am interested
in the race ; and I only turned my eyes
away because yours were so black and
piercing that they seemed to wish to read
my very thoughts.'

How funny !' exclaimed Fan. ' I often
wondered what you were thinking of, and

never could find out. I knew you weren't
thinking of the prayers.'

Mrs. Aspenelel smiled, and secretly wished
she had been more cordial with this strange
o'irl ; but she had neither been nor felt
cordial with anyone until trouble brought
her to her senses. She soon grew interested
in Fan, as everyone did who came in contact
with her, and the quartette was almost
immediately engaged in discussing her
wedding, which was to take place in a few
weeks. She inquired if Mr. Tom Harton
were to be present.

I think he is going away next week.
I heard him tell Sir so, just as we left the
house. He had a letter in his hand, and
I hope — I mean, I suppose — it was to Lord
Thornborough, who wants him. Jack will
be sorry, but I shall be glad.'

He should have been best man,' put in
Edith.

Yes. But now Mr. Gerard will be,' returned

blushing, smiling, handsome Fan ;
and Edith hastily left the room, as she was
wont to do when Gerard's name was
mentioned.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XIII.

FAN S WEDDING.

There was what is called a ' mixed company'
at Fan's wedding ; very mixed indeed.
There was scarcely standing-room in Rose-lands
Church ; for, long before the bridal-party
appeared, it was filled from porch to
chancel. The ladies from the Cottages
occupied distinguished positions as near
the altar as possible, for they came very
early to secure them ; the inhabitants of
the village crowded the pews, and those of
the gipsy-camp all other available space.
As to the gipsies, they had adorned themselves
in various quaint and conspicuous

attire. Red cloaks, parti-coloured shawls,
many-hued ribbons, floral hats, represented
them in every corner. They had come
from far and near to see the daughter of
Wandering Will and the grand-daughter of
the Tigress wed to the son of her benefactor.
Other people of different classes
had also come from far and near to see the
brother and niece of Mr. Aspenelel, who
had been so proud and reserved, appear in
public after their years of mysterious seclusion.
Their story had got wind, and
had created much sensation, particularly
when mixed up with the history of the
fire, and the consequent incapacity of the
millionaire.

This publicity was just what Fan's
friends had sought to avoid. The arrangements
for the wedding had been as simple
as possible, and confined, it was believed, to
the precincts of Hoplands. Even Janet's
desire for wreaths and a flower-lined

p2

church had been decisively checked by Mr.
Harton, and Fan herself had declared that
she would wear neither veil nor typical
orange-blossoms.

What should I do with them in a wigwam
in the backwoods ?' she had asked,
with her frank audacity.

Outside the church, scouts, in the shape
of bare-footed children, were stationed on
the watch, and they excited the expectant
congregation from time to time by running
in and out to their friends with the announcement,
' They're a-comin'' now.' Xot
that the wedding-party was behind time,
but when people are gathered together
half-an-hour beforehand the moments lag.
At Mr. Aspenelel's particular request, they
had adopted the new and convenient
fashion of an afternoon marriage, and two
o'clock was the hour appointed. Before
the auspicious moment, Jack, the ,
and Gerard, his best man,

stood at the altar rails, and Mr. Austen
within them. Ritualism had not yet made
inroad into quiet, simple Roselands Church,
and Mr. Austen-withstood it valiantly ; so
that the marriage ceremonial was not complicated
by change of place or position.
Indeed, the spectators were disappointed in
every way, for when Fan actually appeared,
leaning on Mr. Harton's arm, she was not
in bridal attire, but in 'travelling-dress,' as
it is called. But no one thought of what she
had on when they saw the crimson cheeks
and lips, the flashing, yet liquid black eyes,
and the luxuriant raven tresses. No one
paused to remark upon the autumnal costume
of reddish russet, or the autumnal
branches of hips and haws that adorned
it. Fan was Fan, and she meant to represent
gipsydom and emigrant life, and not
to set up for being a grand lady,' as she
expressed it. Her bouquet was all that was
bridal about her, and this came from the

Park, and was a chef-louvre of Janet's
and the gardener's. 'White camellias,
stephanotis, and maiden-hair fern are de
rigueur. and Jack would never think of
Covent Garden,' said Janet. But Fan
found her bouquet hard to manage, and
held it much awry as she walked up the
church, glancing at her gipsy relations and
smiling at them.

Edith and Janet, her bridesmaids, were
much more discreet ; and even Bruce, who
walked between them, kept his eyes on
Fan's skirts. They were short, so he
could not have acted as page, if he would,
though he was duly attired in black
velvet knickerbockers and black silk stockings,
according to the best authenticated
records of a bygone age. By-the-way, why
are we of this enlightened nineteenth
century retrograding towards the relics of
the past ? The present is much more satisfactory,
and less laborious. So thought

Edith and Janet, for they wore the prevalent
cream-coloured costumes, and should have
been the brides for that much. However,
dress is secondary to address, somebody
says, and no one could have behaved
better than Fan when she took Jack ' for
richer for poorer,' and resolved to make
him the best wife in the world. She said,
Yes,' and ' I Twill,' with all her heart ;
and, as to Jack, it seemed that he could
not utter those solemn words loud
enough.

He'll make her a good husband, '
whispered her gipsy friends, with whom
sound took the place of sense, as it
does in a great many churches besides
Ros elands.

Mr. Harton gave the bride away, though
Loveridge stood close to her. There had
been an amicable dispute on this head, but
Loveridge insisted on yielding precedence
to Harton, whose voice trembled a little

when he had to pronounce his monosyllables.


Everybody had the satisfaction of hearing
Jack kiss Fan when they were man
and wife, and not only the gipsies, but the
villagers, were well convinced that they
were both born and bred for one another.
Had increased conviction been needed,
they would have had it when the happy
pair walked down the church after vestry
preliminaries were over. There were no
tears and no change of any kind. Jack
nodded to all his friends with his usual
genial laugh, or, more properly, smile ;
and Fan's white teeth and dimples were
perceptible as she glanced from one to
another. Edith and Janet were much
more demure as they followed ; the one
leaning on Gerard's arm, the other on
Mr. Harton's. The spectators did not realise
the feelings of Gerard and Edith when
thus involuntarily brought into proximity ;

nor the scarcely concealed delight of Janet
at the arrangement. And nobody realised
the fact that a few moments before Fan
had, for the first and last time in her life,
signed herself Frances Brand, and that her
newly-found relatives had duly witnessed
the signature.

If no floral decorations greeted her when
she walked to her bridal, they were not
absent when she almost danced down the
aisle. All the village children had brought
autumn flowers from their gardens, and
the gipsy urchins had culled the treasures
of common and hedgerow, so that chrysanthemums
and Michaelmas daisies, heath and
traveller's-joy covered the path from altar
to loch-gate. Bruce, not to be outdone,
took the rose from his button-hole and cast
it before the joyous bride, whom he had
much difficulty in recognising as his
cousin. He was walking by the side of
her father.

When this strangely amalgamated 
reached the loch-gate they were
suddenly arrested.

Thanks be to the Lord ! You are lawfully
wed,' greeted the bride and bridegroom
in a loud voice.

It was Mrs. Lee, the old Tigress.

And so we are, Mother Lee cried
Jack, enthusiastically, holding out his
hand which she took in both hers.

Be kind to her, and an old woman's
blessing shall follow you. Clorandy, her
mother, was handsome and pure as she,

but ' here Loveridge stepped forward

and whispered something into her ear.
She paused, and changed the thread of her
discourse. ' I brought you a wedding-gift,'
she continued. ' Keep it as long as
you live.'

She drew forth from beneath her shawl
a handsomely-bound Bible, and put it into
Fan's hand. Poor Fan was overcome for

the first time, and tears filled the black
eyes. She kissed the old woman, and
thanked her. Jack, in the exuberance of
his feelings, invited her to Canada, but
she heeded him not. She raised her arms
and spread them out before the pair, pronouncing,
with solemn emphasis, the
Scriptural benediction :

The Lord bless you and keep you. The
Lord lift up His face upon you and give
you peace.'

She vanished among the crowd almost
before any, save the bridal-party, was
aware of her presence. The bells were
pealing, the people were shouting, and
this little scene was unobserved. But it
solemnised Fan for the moment.

We swill read in it ever' day of our
lives,' she whispered to Jack.

We will, my dear,' he replied. And
we venture to affirm that the promise was
faithfully kept.

They walked away amidst cheers and
food wishes, followed by their friends ;
through the pretty village, down the shady
road, but not on to Hoplands. Somewhat
against their will they stopped at the Park
lodo^e- rates.

1 suppose we must go, Jack ?' whispered
Fan.

I suppose we must,' replied Jack,
ruefully.

The vicar and the ladies came up
breathless.

'We all wish sou joy!' cried Miss Vigors,
who acted as spokeswoman, and Fan was
soon overpowered by the embraces of her
friends.

We are going out to tea, but you must
all come to Hoplands to supper,' said Mr.
Harton. ' I shall want somebody to console
me when they're off.' His voice faltered.

I will do that,' said Janet. ' I'm going
in for village charities.'

Five o'clock, sharp,' said Mr. Harton.

Mrs. Glanville joined Loveridge, who
seemed to be rather out in the cold, and
felt very uneasy. She herself was made
happy by seeing Gerard and Edith once
more together, though they did not appear
to have much to say to one another.

The Park gates were wide open, the
lodge-keeper and her children stood behind
them bowing and curtseying, and the
wedding-party marched through. Mrs. Glanville
went with them, so did the vicar; but
the ladies and a crowd of distant spectators
remained outside the charmed enclosure.

It is very good of you to give up your
own plans for poor papa's sake,' whispered
Janet to Mr. Harton.

No merit of mine, but the force of circumstances.
Miss Janet,' returned Harton.
But for them you would have had my
son Tom as garçon che noces to-day, instead
of an old fellow like me.'

I am quite content, if you are. I
suppose he was obliged to go abroad,'
replied Janet, demurely.

To the surprise of his family, Mr. As-penes
had particularly requested that
the wedding-feast, such as it was, sboifld
be held at the Park. He had now so
many whims and was so irritable over
them, that it was difficult to gratify them
or him. Nurse True and Gerard were
the only people who could manage him,
and they humoured him in most things.
Accordingly, Mrs. Aspen el prepared an
afternoon repast under his orders, which
was ample if not sumptuous. With some
difficulty she had prevailed on him to
order a wedding-cake, but he declined
champagne.

Let us go back and finish up at Hop-lands,'
said Fan to Jack ; for she felt sadly
out of place among her kinsfolk. ' Ask Sir
if we may stay to supper.'

You must call him father now, Fan,'
said Jack.

Oh ! I never could. But I will when I
write,' she replied.

Jack preferred her request to his father,
and he nodded and winked, and performed
various grimaces, to the effect that his
arrangements were made. Mrs. Aspenelel
was a perfect hostess, and she found Mr.
Harton a very agreeable man, albeit she
had fancied him a mere farmer. The bride
and bridegroom were overwhelmed with
civilities, and, in spite of certain awkwardness,
the meal passed off as well as such
things usually do.

CHAPTER XIV,

fan's farewells.

Now I think I am ready. Draw down
the blind at my right. Those at the back
don't signify. I daresay Mrs. Aspenelel
ordered champagne, after all !'

I think not, sir.'

These remarks passed between Mr. As-panel
and Nurse True. The former had
left his bed, and had been moved into a
small boudoir adjoining his wife's ,
which, it will be remembered,
was turned into his sleeping apartment, or
rather sick-chamber, when he returned to
the Park from Hoplands. He was seated

in an easy-chair with all the accessories of
invalidism about him. The strong, resolute
man had become a hypochondriac,
and dreaded a beam or a breath, lest the
one should disclose, the other disturb his
melancholy condition. His mind was clear
for business, but clouded on other points.
Thus on one side of him were ledgers and
papers, on the other all sorts of nostrums.
But conspicuous amongst the former was
a variety of religious books, which were
read aloud to him in the intervals of business
and medical arrangements. If his
household had been bond-servants before,
they were slaves now ; only they were
willing slaves, because they believed him
to be striving against nature in his endeavour
to atone for the past, and in abject
terror of the future. Death was ever before
him ; not as liberator, but as conqueror ;
not as forerunner to a better life, but as
tyrant, conducting to chains and dungeons.

VOL. IK. Q

He had not yet grasped the Hand of
mercy held out to ransom the enslaved.

He was enveloped in an ample dressing-gown,
which concealed such parts of his
body as he chose to hide, though beneath
it he was fully dressed. He wore a large
velvet cap, the tassels of which fell over
one cheek, and the band of which came
down to his eyes. His face was terribly
seamed, but the scars were thus partially
concealed. He was no longer the dapper,
well-kempt, carefully got-up gentleman
that daily left his house for his office in
order to heap up his millions ; but a wreck
of manhood, and of all that makes manhood
worthy. Fear had usurped the seat
of confidence, and a slowly-awakening conscience
was replacing the black chaos of a
soul entrapped in greed. Restitution was
the word ever before his eyes, and the
struggle of his mind between justice and
avarice was like the wrestling of a condemned

criminal with his executioner. It
was to Nurse True and Gerard alone that
he displayed this conflict, and they — the
former especially — strove to allay it with
the all-conquering force of Scripture. She
had a text for every phase of mental
struggle, and happily he believed they
were written expressly for him. The fire
and its consequences were ever before him,
and he was perpetually muttering, * Saved
as by fire,' ' Purified by fire,' and similar
sentences.

'There is nothing more to be done, is
there?* he asked, irritably. 'Then tell
them all to come here. All ? Yes, all.
Why not ? I forgot ; not Bruce, no, not
Bruce. The girl is my niece, and I must
give her a wedding-present. Not the diamonds
I gave the Mrs. Aspenels one after
the other, but something tangible. Make
haste, or I shall change my mind.'

Nurse True left him, and he laid hold of

qa

sealed packet placed on the table at
his left.

A goodly sum, but he is reformed and
saved my life ; and we once loved one
another,' he said, as he clenched the packet
and pressed it to his breast as if it was
something dear to him. At the sound of
approaching footsteps he laid it down
again, and prepared to receive his visitors.
His brother came in first, followed by the
bride and bridegroom. He led them upto
Aspenelel, and, with his customary jaunty
air, introduced them.

^ I wish you both joy,' said Aspenelel,
politely, offering his left hand, which they
took successively. ' I used to know you,
Mr. Jack Harton, before your father and
I disagreed, but I was never presented to
your wife. Is your father here ?'

Mr. Harton advanced, and they shook
hands. Still Aspenelel offered his left.
They all started and shuddered a little at

his appearance, for he looked ghastly with
his white and disfigured face. The rest of
the party took seats at a little distance.
He asked the four nearest him to be seated
also.

Quite serio-comic !' exclaimed the incorrigible
Will. ' Why, Harry, I never
knew you were such an actor. You
have a fine scenic taste. We are all
dressed to order, and are grouped to perfections


This sally caused Aspenelel to smile painfully.
It reminded his brother of Lliomme
qui rit and he grew serious again. But
the diversion had produced its effect, and
Aspenelel spoke more cheerfully and naturally.


'When do you all leave England?' he
asked.

On the twenty-fifth,' replied Loveridge,
who took upon himself the office of spokesman.
' Jack and Fan go off to London tonight,

and on to Liverpool tomorrow. I
join them in a few days.'

You all like the prospect of emigration ?'

We pine for it. Why, my dear Harry,
England is not big enough to hold us.'

No place in the world like the far West
for space and freedom,' put in Jack.

They don't think of me, squire,' sighed
Harton, senior.

He has promised to come out to us, sir,
and help to found a settlement,' said Fan,
whose pent-up voice was clamouring for
an outlet.

Such being the case, I make restitution.
Being reformed, half of my father's
property belongs to my brother, William
Brand, according to my father's will. He
did not leave much, but it has accumulated
since his death, and the account,
together with a copy of the will, is in this
parcel. Mr. Harton, you can go out at
once and begin your settlement.'

He placed the sealed packet in his
brother's hand. He trembled perceptibly
as he did so.

Open it somewhere else. Gerard Glanville
will explain. He witnessed the deed
together with Austen. Is Austen here?'

He remained in the drawing-room with
my mother,' said Gerard, who had drawn
near as if to assist the speaker.

'• Then we are all of one family, or shall
be,' resumed Aspenelel, glancing from those
immediately surrounding him to his wife
and daughters at a little distance. ' I mayas
well speak out. This act of justice will
cripple me, and — cripple me, did I say?
I am crippled already, not only in fortune
but body. I have lost my right arm.
Burnt to the bone whilst seizing the — the
gold. Accursed gold, people call it;
but I don't look on it in that light. But
for you, Will, I should have been burnt to
death.'

Then my end is better than my beginning,
Harry ; and, you know, the " end "
justifies the means,' said irrepressible Love-ridge.
' Glanville would preach us a sermon,
and say we are spared to turn over
new leaves.'

I have lost my right arm !' groaned
Aspenelel.

Then you must turn them over with
the left,' replied his brother, who could
never resist a joke.

I will be your right arm, papa,' came
from a couch on which Edith and Janet
were seated.

Therewith rose the impulsive Janet;
and she came and knelt at her father's
knee. Never before had child of his knelt
there.

You, Janet !' he exclaimed, and extended
the hand involuntarily.

Yes, papa,' she answered, taking it in
both hers. ' Let me be your right arm. I

have never been of use to anyone ; now I
devote myself to you. I give up gaiety,
accomplishments, everything to be your
secretary. Gerard in town, Janet in the
country, and you won't mind your loss so
much. You shall make a business woman
of me, and Mrs. Aspenelel a housekeeper,
and so I shall follow the fashion ; for, you
know, even ladies of quality are beginning
to learn trades. One gets tired of doing
nothing.'

Thank you. It is an age of female excitement,'
said Aspenelel, with that painful
attempt at a smile. ' I signed the deed
with my left hand. It is improving. Eh,
Gerard ?'

Nobody but Gerard had any real influence
with Mr. Aspenelel ; and no one else
knew the exact state of his affairs. To
him he had revealed the sad fact that his
unworthy hand ' and arm were burnt to
the bone, and never could be used again ;

and it had been with his aid that the deed
just given to his brother had been drawn
up. To him he had confided the events
of their early lives, and to him he wished
to give the management of his affairs. To
him he appealed under all circumstances,
and Gerard's duties waxed every day more
and more.

But the ' Eh, Gerard !' turned the minds
of the party from Janet's semi-sensational
proposal to the actual state of the case.
Not even Mrs. Aspenelel knew how entirely
helpless her husband was, and she looked
with unfeigned distress at the maimed and
broken-down man. So did the other spectators,
and Mr. Harton made a move to go.
Meanwhile, Edith, who had been, hitherto,
her father's best help, seemed to be left
out in the cold. Alone on the couch, she
grew whiter and whiter. The scene before
her seemed to be some phantasmagoria,
and she knew that she was feeling faint,

as she did when Gerard bore her from the
fire. She made an effort to rise, and leave
the room. Gerard saw it, if no one else
did. He went to her, while the others
were gathered round Mr. Aspenelel, and
whispered,

Let me help you. You are ill. Come
to my mother.'

He supported her from the room unperceived,
and once more left her in Mrs,
Glanville's care, with the words,

It is too much for her, mother. Too
much for all of them.'

Where is the purse, Glanville?' was the
question asked when he returned. * Give
it to her. Give it to my — my niece. You
know I can't hold it.'

Gerard placed a purse in Fan's hand,
and Mr. Aspenelel muttered something
about a wedding-present ; but his magnanimity
was fast relapsing into selfishness,
and a longer delay with Edith would

have deprived Fan of the golden gift prepared
for her. It is not easy for avarice
to become generosity.

Is this all mine ?' cried Fan, holding up
the purse with a puzzled look. ' What
shall I do with it? I know. Jack, we
will give it to the gipsies.'

Mr. Aspenelel's alarmed negative was cut
short by his brother, who made a little
speech, which he had been preparing ever
since he received the deed.

Thank you, brother,' he said, and his
voice faltered. ' "Let the dead past bury
its dead." Neither Fan, nor Jack, nor I
cares for the money, but we are thankful
for your love and friendship. We rejoice
in your generosity. I take it all as a gift,
not, as you put it, as restitution. I ask
your forgiveness for my faults, and heartily
forgive yours. We thank you all for your
kindness on this auspicious occasion. We
shall be glad to welcome any of you to our

Canadian settlement, and mean to invite
our Egyptian brothers and sisters to join
us there. They will make admirable settlers
in a country where there is plenty of
space.'

This speech took Mr. Aspenelel's breath
away, so that he could not protest. Fan
kissed Mr, Aspenelel's hand — threw her arms
round Janet, and inquired for Edith.

She is not well,' whispered Gerard.
Do not draw attention to her.'

It is nearly five o'clock, and we must
go,' broke in Mr. Harton, and in a few
minutes he, the bride and bridegroom, and
Loveridge were on their way to Hoplands.
Mr. Austen, Gerard, and his mother followed
soon after.

I wish he hadn't given me all this
money,' said Fan. ' I declare there are
twenty pounds.'

Their reception at Hoplands was much
more vociferous than that of the Park, for

Mr. Harton had prepared a feast both in
dining-room and kitchen. In the former
the ladies from the Cottages figured in
their best attire ; in the latter, a contingent
of gipsies and the farm-labourers smoked
the calumet of peace. Healths were drunk
and Jack made a speech ; but Fan was
entirely cast down. She realised at last
that she was about to part with the best
friends, in the world, and she knew not if
ever they should meet again.

Why, it is nothing to cross the herring-pool,'
said genial Mr. Harton. ' You will
soon be here again for a holiday.'

It is the only bit of geography Fan
knows,' said Miss Vigors. ' She was never
tired of travelling to America.'

'And now I am going there with Jack !'
she cried.

This crossing the ocean to another continent
is a serious thing, even in these
days when continents are almost united by

means of steam, and we nearly hop from
one to another. As the moment of separation
approached, Fan began to realise the
distance.

It is just like starting for another
world,' she said to Mr. Harton. ' Only-jack
has been there before.'

Poor Mr. Harton ! This young couple
were the delight of his existence, but no
one thought of him in the excitement of
departure. He was to be left alone. His
heart was brimming over with emotion,
but he put on a cheerful countenance.
Hand-in-hand with Jack, and with Fan's
arms round him, he yet laughed at Fan's
philosophy. But he grew grave when he
suddenly felt her thrust something into
his pocket. It was Mr. Aspenelel's purse of
golden sovereigns. She placed her handover
his mouth and whispered in his ear
that she and Jack wished him to distribute
it amongst the poor, including the gipsies.

It is my thank-oiFerinpj,' she said, with
a sob ; ' and it is my very own.'

Loveridge, who knew what was passing,
put in his ever-ready word. He said that
what was his was theirs, and, although he
had not opened his packet, he knew that
he should be well provided for. Remonstrance
was cut short by friends gathering
close around the two fathers and their
children. Mr. Austen blessed the young
couple audibly, and Mrs. Glanville and
Gerard, with the ladies, uttered an emphatic
'Amen.'

Take care of Sir,' sobbed Fan, appealing
to all her friends at once.

The dogs began to whine pitifully, for
they knew quite well what was happening,
and when she stooped to stroke and kiss,
and bid them good-bye, there was general
lamentation at Hoplands.

When the carriage that was to take
them to the station drove up, out rushed

the kitchen guests. The custom of throwing
old shoes after the bride is said to have
originated with the gipsies ; and anyone
Who has seen a gipsy wedding will readily
believe it. On this occasion Fan's friends
and connections had gathered a miscellaneous
bundle of these typical missiles, and
fired a volley of them after her. We will
not be rude enough to pronounce upon
their condition ; but they were neither
fabricated of satin nor kid. Yet was there
one amongst them of delicate white. This
had been given by Janet to Gerard with
orders to throw it after the carriage. He
did so, and, the maids having completed
the ceremonial by the proper complement
of rice, everybody said that Jack and Fan
were now one.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XV.

JANET S Ruse.

Mr. Aspenelel grew more restless than
usual after the wedding-party left the
Park. He began to repent of his generosity,
or restitution, as he phrased it, and his
mind was much perplexed by going over
the calculations he had already made of
what was due to his brother of his father's
property. He began to wonder whether
Janet, who was really as clever as she was
handsome, had a taste for calculation, and
whether she might not be, as she said, of
some use to him. He could not always
command Gerard, because he was obliged

to be in London more than half his time ;
and Edith, although truly willing, had no
adaptability ; while he could never be half-an-hour
with his wife without raking up
her past offences. But Janet, she was
fresh and amusing, and, as he had spent a
small fortune on her education, she ought
to repay him. He sent for her.

Xurse True found her with Mrs. As-penes
and Edith, talking over Fan and
her father. Mrs. Aspenelel was of opinion
that, since they were all so closely connected,
it was quite providential that
they should be transplanted to another
continent.

My uncle amuses me,' said Janet. ' He
and papa are marvellous contrasts. What,
old True, papa wants me, specially me !'
she added, as True delivered her message.

Xo sooner did she join her father than
he began the subject he had at heart.
He never beat about the bush, and

r2

his old business habits were returning.

You offered to help me, Janet. What
can you do?' he began.

I can read aloud. I can write a decent
hand, and spell remarkably well. I can
speak French like a native, and German
fluently but ungrammatically.'

French and German!' he repeated,
thoughtfully. ' Can you write and read
German characters ?'

^ Of course. I am afraid my painting
will not help you, papa, though I am nota
bad artist. Mr. Holt, our arithmetic
master, used to say I had a fine bump for
mathematics, but it was undeveloped.'

We will develop it, Janet. If you
meant what you have said just now, you
may be of use to me in languages and
figures. Edith is too delicate. Besides,
I mean her to marry Gerard and live in
London. They will be of most use there.
How is this to be managed ?'

By letting them alone. I have tried,
and the more I say the wider grows the
gulf. Gerard won't marry for money, and
Edith won't marry to order. I think they
are right.'

This unintentional thrust went home.
He knew that he had thrice married ' to
order,' or for something like it. But he
was striving to amend his ways, and
perhaps his children might improve upon
them.

you see, Janet, I have had an escape
from death, and that fire was an awful
warning. Nurse True says it was for good.
She is right, I suppose, since it brought
Will to save my poor life. But this arm,
Janet ; this arm !'

Let me replace it,' said Janet, almost
affectionately ; for helplessness, whether in
age or infancy, rouses the sympathy of youth.

You will have hard work. But the
money will be yours amongst you.'

I hate money. I detest the ^vord.
If I nm to work for you, it must be for
love.'

You for love, Gerard for pity, Edith
for duty. Mrs. Aspenelel for what ?' he
laughed his painful laugh.

For all in one, if you will let her.
She is very good-hearted if she is hot-tempered.
We all treated her badly. I
know I did, and am ashamed of myself.
I mean to be like a daughter or a sister to
her for the future. She is very sorry for
you. papa, and when she was in Paris it
was all we could do to prevent her coming
here."

Why did you prevent it ?'

Because we didn't know how you would
receive her, or whether it was prudent for
her to come while you were so ill away
from home.'

She really wished to come back ?'

She certainly did. I think she is sorry
that she ever left you. But one is always
sorry for something or other.'

Mr. Aspenelel grew reflective. He wondered
if he were really sorry for the pastor
only terrified into penitence. This he
]5^new — that he could never again uplift
that right hand either to clutch gold or
strike a woman. He shuddered, and the nervousness
from which he suffered attacked
him. He bade Janet summon Nurse True,
and send his brother and Gerard to him
when they arrived. Then he reversed his
command, and told her to read to him a
certain third chapter of the First of Corinthians
which had seized on his imagination
and frequently haunted it. Whenever
the horrors took hold of him, he instantly
turned to Holy Scripture, and would sometimes
clutch the Bible as he had clutched
the o-old. The terrors of an awakened

conscience are awful to witness, but how
much more awful to experience ! Janet
little knew what she promised, when she
offered to be her father's right arm.

She was frightened when she took the
Bible, but she had much self-command,
and read the chapter clearly and emphatically.
She had the dramatic element
in her nature, and could do nothing without
a slight movement of the body and
change of voice. ' If any man's work shall
be burned, he shall suffer loss ; but he himself
shall be saved; yet so as through fire.'
She had never realised those words before,
and as she read them she paused, and
looked involuntarily at her father. He
seemed to be awaiting them in breathless
anxiety.

through fire! through fire!' he exclaimed.
' Gold, silver, costly stones, wood,
hay, stubble. All burnt, melted, because
I took no heed how I builded thereon.

Buff I may be saved on repentance.
Gerard says so ; Nurse True says so ;
'saved as by fire." '

That is what the Bible says added
Janet, terrified at this sudden excitement.


Finish the chapter, girl. I gloried in
my own craftiness. I calculated and
reasoned in vain. I must become a idol.
That is what I have been. It is too late
too late to grow wise ?'

I believe it is never too late, papa. I
hope not, for I have been very foolish
myself

Janet's assurance was gone, and, as she
watched her father's painfully drawn face
and nervous movement of hand, she felt
frightened and powerless. She was seated
at the table on his left, which was piled
with parchments, the Bible in their midst.
She was young, beautiful, ardent-minded,
and resolute. She had on the bridesmaid's

dress just worn at Fan's wedding. She
felt capable of conquering the world. He
was old before his time, disfigured, maimed,
oppressed, conscience-stricken. Neither
flowery garments nor tasselled head-gear
would conceal the wreck of what was once
the miser-millionaire. They were father
and daughter. They had never before had
an\thino^ in common. Xow a tremendous
pity melted Janet's soul. The Word she
had been reading, the mental suffering she
saw, the mixture of penitence and selfishness,
and. before all, the awakening of
filial feeling, appeared to change her very
nature. She burst into tears. She knelt
down before the stricken man ; she took
the hand that lay on his knee ; she called
him * Father,' for the first time ; she
declared before her Heavenly Father that
she would help him if she could. She
knew not if such sudden emotion would
blossom into reality ; but it was sincere.

'You excite me, Janet : I don't understand
you,' said her father : and she recalled
the cold, precise, unapproachable
parent of the days before the fire.

AVe do not put off our nature like a
garment, though God's grace can change
it bv degrees. Very little served to
repress, but not extinguish, Janet's
ardour.

For a moment she felt offended, and the
bent head arose proudly, the tearful eyes
flashed. Only a moment. That sad wreck
warned off pride and self-assertion, and
produced the humble words,

• I am sorry I excited you, papa. Perhaps
I had better see if they have come
from Hoplands. If not, I will send Xurse
True.'

Thank you. I owe them life and —
wisdom.'

As Janet left the room, her father s eyes
followed her, and he muttered,

Can she, will she keep her promise ?'

She found Gerard and Loveridge ^yiih
Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith. She was in the
mood for self-sacrifice, or some sort of great
achievement ; so she thought to herself,
^ Now, or never !' and said, with much
decision,

Papa wants you, Mr. Loveridge ; and
I think 3'ou should come also, Mrs.
Aspenelel.'

Neither of those summoned waited fora
moment's explanation. They rose at
once ; for Janet looked flurried, and they
knew that the patient brooked no delay.
Loveridge hurried to him.

^ Papa doesn't really want you,' said
Janet to Mrs. Aspenelel, ' but I do. Come
with me, and I will tell you all that has
passed between us. I think I have managed
that little tete-astute with consummate
skill. If they don't hit it off while papa
is in the humour, they never will get

married at all. If I had been Edith, or
rather if Edith had been I, it would have
been settled honos aofo.'

Mrs. Aspenelel smiled and went with
Janet into the hall, where Bruce dashed in
upon them.

I have seen them off,' he cried. ' Xurse
True went with me. She said she wanted
just to wish them good-bye. It was so jolly !
There were a lot of gipsies, and ever so
many other people, and that old woman
that sells the tracts, and old Mr. Harton,
and Gerard, and that funny man who says
he is my uncle. They came the short way,
just after the carriage, and Fan was laughing
and crying ; she kissed me, mammy ;
and Jack was as merry as a grig — what's a
grig? — and when they got into the carriage
everybody shouted, and it was such
fun.'

I wish I had been there,' sighed Janet.

I daresay you'll be married next, Janet.

Mammy, when is Janet going to be
married ?'

As it was impossible to settle this knotty
point, Janet carried Bruce off to prevent
bis intruding on the pair in the drawing-room,
for which stately apartment he was
making.

Meanwhile, the brothers were engaged
in a strange and interesting interview.
Wandering Will was remonstrating with
Heartless Harry upon the amount of fortune
declared to be his own. It amounted
to between ten and twenty thousand
pounds. The three hundred a-year which
he had claimed was much exceeded, and,
if not a millionaire like his brother, he
considered himself a rich man. But he
would not believe that the half of the
business and personalities left by his father
could amount to so large a sum. Moreover,
he declared that he could not be sure
he was reformed, and that he should prefer

beginning life again as an emigrant without
capital, to starting as a man of consequence
The amicable argument lasted a
long time. It interested Mr. Aspenelel,
being about pounds, shillings, and pence,
and he did his best to explain to his
brother how money accumulated when
properly laid out at large and compound
interest. But Will could not, or would
not, take it in.

'Fetch Gerard Glanville,' said Aspenelel
at last, almost angrily.

Loveridge left the room, and encountered
Janet.

I will take the message,' she said ; and
he returned to his brother.

She had been wandering aimlessly about
ever since she had closed the door on
Gerard and Edith; now with Bruce and
Mrs. Aspenelel ; now with Nurse True ; anon
in the hall. The wedding had interfered
with the natural course of meals, and

dinner had been early ; indeed, regularity
had forsaken the Park. It was nearly dark,
and when Janet reached the hall she paused
a moment to consider the situation. Doing
so, she glanced through the glass door,
and saw the round October moon already
risen, and her light dancing fantastically
among the branches of the big elms, and
playing with the shadows on the drive.

How soft and beautiful ! How different
from all this turmoil!' she thought, as
she proceeded to the drawing-room door.
Perhaps I shall interrupt them at the
moment of the eclaircissement. But probably
there has been none. They are so
prosaic, and conscientious, and ultra-unpractical,
that they are sure to have been
talking about any and everything but the
tender passion. Still, I must warn them,
for if they are just coming to an understanding
it would be unkind to burst in
upon them.'

So Janet coughed loudly, made a stampede,
and finally turned the handle of the
door backwards and forwards, until it was
opened for her from within. It was Gerard
who assisted her.

• Papa wants you,' she said.

He passed her by without a word. She
was greatly disheartened, but she went
into the room. Edith was standing in the
moonlight, like a white ghost. Surely she
would not be standing, and he croino; to
open the door if the ruse had succeeded !
Poor Janet ! She was quite cast down.
But Edith ran towards her, and threw her
arms about her, as is usual in cases of
excitement ; at least, so say the story-tellers.
Janet was in despair, for Edith
had certainly been crying. Her eyes were
moist as they glittered in the moonlight.

'What has happened? Why are you
crying? Cousin Gerard isn't such a
brute ' began Janet.

VOL. III. s

No ! no, dear ! 1 am so happy ! so
happy !' replied Edith.

then I was quite right to leave you
together,' said enchanted Janet.

*Yes. We misunderstood one another.
He thought papa was forcing him upon me
against my will ; and I thought I could
never look at him again, after so strange a
proposal.'

Further confidences were arrested by
the entrance of a footman with a light.
Sentiment and moonshine disappeared for
the time, hidden by closed blinds and wax
candles ; but excited Janet carried oiF her
sister to their room, where she drew forth
the story of an attachment as pure and
sincere as it was likely to be lasting.

CHAPTER XVI.

'who is to give her away?'

Novels end where life begins, we are told,
and certainly a wonderful new life began
for most of the actors in this drama, after
the denouement arrived at in the last chapter.
Every person and thing seemed
changed ; Mr. Aspenelel, perhaps, most of
all. He was a long time settling his
affairs, and, while this was proceeding, the
new life hinted at above began and proceeded
also. In a few days after Fan's
wedding, he took leave of his brother.
He and Gerard had managed between
them to convince Wandering Will that

s2

the deed he had received really represented
neither more nor less than the money
due to him from his father's will, and to
be paid 'on his reformation.' This 'reformation'
became a subject of difficulty,
but it was got over by his resolving that
Jack and Fan should sign a paper, when
he received his dividends, to the effect
that he was really ' a reformed character.'
He laughed a great deal when he propounded
this plan, but his more serious
and calculating brother thought it a good
one. If that brother Alas ever pathetic,
it was when they parted. Mr. Aspenelel
had not believed in unselfish devotion
and love until his brother had risked his
life to save him from an awful death. This
made him first wonder if there were not
things more precious than gold.

As to Loveridge, his farewells were as
sensational as his life had been, and he
went from friend to friend, theatrical and

tearful-grateful, and sometimes consequential.
He invited all to his new settlement,
particularly Mr. Harton, who faithfully
promised to come, and he held out
wonderful hopes to such of the gipsies ashe
knew, if they inclined to emigrate. To
Gerard he was confidential, and declared
that he owed all his good fortune to him.

A few days after his departure, his brother
received a letter from him. He and
and his children were on the eve of starting
for Canada, and were in fine spirits.

Mr. Aspenelel, on the contrary, was greatly
depressed.

I have lost the only person who ever
really cared for me,' he sighed, when Janet
read the letter.

We will all care for you, if you will let
us,' she said.

Her way of putting things sounded like
home truths, and had their effect.

It was considered prudent not to mention

to him Gerard and Edith's engagement
until he again broached the subject.
They did not know how he might take it,
when he found it was an accomplished
fact.

What has happened to Edith ? She
looks quite happy. I suppose she thinks
me recovered, as you all do,' he said, after
Janet had read Loveridge's letter.

She has done what you Ravished, papa.
She is engaged to Gerard,' replied Janet,
boldly.

What I wished ! Who said I wished
it?'

You did, frequently. You told them
so. They were only waiting for an opportunity
to tell you they had obeyed
you.'

Janet laughed, but he was offended.
We are often displeased when our wishes
are accomplished without our knowledge.
He sent for Edith. She recounted her

little history simply and naturally, winding
up with —

And now, papa, we will help you as
best we can.'

Help him ! Could he want help, he the
strong, self-reliant, successful man ? Yes,
he wanted help, and he knew that this tie
would bind Gerard to him. He offered his
child no congratulations — he could not ;
but he sent for Mrs. Aspen el. He always
vented his chagrin on her.

Why did you let Glanville and Edith
engage themselves without my consent?
But, since you have done it, the sooner
they are married the better. Let it be
next week.'

^ Impossible !' replied the wife.

Why ? Austen is surrogate, and they
can get a license. I won't have breakfasts
and nonsense. I am in no condition for
such things. I may be dead tomorrow.
You don't realise my state, Mrs. Aspen el.'

Indeed I do. We are all anxious to help
you, and wish to do just what you like.*

'Then get this wedding over.'

I will do my best.'

Mrs. Aspenelel did her best, and, after a
consultation with the parties most concerned,
fixed on the earliest possible period.
When Mr. Aspenelel had seen Gerard, he
became reconciled to some little delay.

I should never have presumed, sir, but
for your great kindness,' he said, truthfully.
' Edith and I Avould have been
estranged for ever but for your consent
and Janet's interference.'

I believe you have been honest. Now,
you can have no objection to being made
my junior partner, and taking the management
of my affairs. I never mean to
speculate again. I have done with accumulating.
I give you permission to wind
up the business as it stands, and to start
afresh on different principles.'

I could not gamble, sir,' said Gerard,
hesitating.

You need not. I have been too near
death to gamble for longer life, when I
find there is a Power stronger than mine
who can ruin my game in a moment.
Henceforth I trust you to play for me.'

Gerard felt overwhelmed by the responsibilities
thus thrust upon him. He had
neither acceptance nor rejection of them
ready; so he was silent.

'You are not satisfied?' resumed As-penes,
irritably. ' I give you part of my
wealth, which will help you to convert the
masses, as they call the people ; I give you
my daughter, who is worth more than
most girls ; I give you unlimited power
and action ; and all because I know you
want nothing and are honest. Yet you
are not satisfied.'

I am afraid,' said Gerard at last. ' The
prospect dazzles me.'

Then you refuse !'

No. I will do what I can, God helping
me.'

^ Then we will begin at once. No time
to lose. There may be another fire, or a
flood, or an earthquake, or a shipwreck.
I have suffered from all these, and want
to insure what is left, if I can. You are
fireproof, and better than an iron safe.'
He smiled grimly. " Has the gold been
cleared off, and have they begun upon my
study?'

Yes, sir. The rebuilding goes on
rapidly.'

When you are gone, I will see to that.
An awful expense ; but I forget. I have
sworn to leave all that in your hands.
Now, if we come to grief, it will be your
fault, not mine. I want Nurse True. She
is as sincere and unselfish as you arc. I
should be lost, body and soul, but for you
two. She has been a devoted servant ;

she has never swerved from her duty
Gerard rang, and Nurse True answered.
Mr. Aspenelel told her that her first care,
Edith, was about to be married, and asked
her where she would best like to live —
whether with her in London, or at the
Park. She hesitated a moment, then said,
cheerfully, that she should desire to be
where she was most wanted, and that, perhaps,
she might divide her time between
the two — supposing that Mrs. Aspenelel did
not object.

Go and come as you like. End your
days in peace; and — pray for me — pray
for me.'

I will, sir ; I do ; we all do. And
surely our prayers have been answered
she replied, simply.

He groaned, and, with the strange
longing for variety that had seized upon
him, said he wanted either his wife or
Janet.

The preparations for the wedding were
expedited at his repeated request; but
he desired that no one outside their immediate
family should be informed of the
day on which it was to take place. As if
to humour his selfishness — for such it
really was — Lady Asch am placed her house
at Gerard and Edith's disposal, while they
took and furnished one for themselves.
She had been ordered abroad for the winter
months, having over worked herself in her
various benevolent schemes ; for people
wear themselves out in more ways than
one. Pleasure, literature, art, business of
all kinds, religion, even charity, muddle
the brain and disorganise the frame-work,
when carried on beyond the design of the
Creator.

It is to be hoped that Gerard may
not follow the fashion of overstepping
the limits of his powers. He has a certain
amount of common-sense, which most of

US have not in these days of steam and
general excitement.

But he had a sensible mother, and weare
told that the best men are those who
have had the best mothers. He Alas certainly
as good as most men, and his mother
had done her best to make him so. She
rejoiced in trembling at the immense
responsibilities before him, and the mother
and son had many serious talks and many
united prayers over his future. Both
placed it under the guidance of the Most
High, and left it in His hands. Both
knew that Edith would be a helpful and
tender wife, and her happiness made all
about her happy. As to her friends, the
ladies of the Cottages, they overpowered
her with congratulations and presents.
But they and everybody else were sadly
distressed that the wedding-day was not
publicly announced.

Certain impediments sorely troubled

Mrs. Aspenelel and Janet. A wedding was
a wedding, and should, at least, be decently
conducted.

I am bridesmaid, Bruce best man,
and you and Mrs. Glanville company,'
laughed Janet. ' But who is to give
her away? The Queen gives her daughters
away, why should not Mrs. Glanville
or you ? But neither of you is
quite her mother. I must have it outwith
papa.'

Janet rushed off, summoned, to her
father's room. She found him alone, walking
up and down. He tottered, and she
offered her arm:

*You are much stronger, papa,' she said,
as they took two or three turns, his left
arm in her right.

I think I am,' he replied.

We have settled everything except the
day and who is to give her away,' she
blurted out.

^ I will give her away, and the day will
be tomorrow,' he said.

His tone and manner were those of the
former Mr. Aspenelel, as known before the
fire. Janet did not venture to make a
comment.

I have arranged it all in my own mind:
The carriage will come at eleven to take
Mrs. Aspenelel, Edith, and you for a drive.
I shall accompany you. One must make
an effort sooner or later. Nurse True will
take Bruce for a walk. Gerard and Mrs.
Glanville will start at the same time ;
we shall meet at the church, where we
shall find Mr. Austen, and the marriage
will take place.'

Janet laughed.

That is very amusing, and quite original,'
she said. * You spoke as if you
were rehearsing a part. Just like Mr.
Loveridge — Uncle Will, I mean; Your
voices are alike sometimes.'

^ I am quite serious. This must not
transpire. You must manage it. We will
come back here to luncheon. The carriage
can take them to the station for the four
o'clock train. Listen, Janet. I have been
married three times. I have seen enough
of presents, and diamonds, and laces, and
wreaths, and champagne, and wedding-breakfasts
generally. I hate the whole
paraphernalia. Besides, it costs a fortune,

and I am really ; but, never mind,

Gerard will see into that. Ruin doesn't
matter so much, when one is maimed and
scarred.'

Everything was carried out according to
Mr. Aspenelel's wishes. If it was difficult
to oppose them when he was in health, it
was impossible now. Gerard's and Edith's
jumped with them. Of all things they
desired a quiet, unobtrusive wedding.

And they certainly had it. Still they
were none the less solemnly pledged to

one another, and, if anything could have
enhanced the solemnity, it was the presence
of Mr. Aspenelel. He looked what he
was, a broken-down but penitent man.
Although he had been thrice wed, the
words of the marriage-service never came
home to him before. How had he kept
the promises he had made ? He had never
given them a thought. He had possibly
hastened the deaths of two wives and
alienated the third. It was no excuse for
him that they had all been married to him
for his money ; he should have performed
his part according to his vow. The terrors
that had taken possession of him after the
fire returned to him as he listened to the
promises and exhortations of the solemn
service. He believed that they were made
and heard reverently and conscientiously
by those who stood before the altar to be
united into one. But what of himself?
He looked at his wife, and her face seemed

VOL. III. T

troubled also. Was she reflecting: on his
conduct, or did conscience prick her-smith
those ofoads against which it is worse than
useless to kick ? Could he atone for the
past, or was it too late ? He glanced at
Nurse True, who was always repeating
that it was ' never too late.' She, who had
been so faithful to her promise, was weeping
as women will weep at such times,
though perfectly happy at her darling's
prospects. Her face was calm, smooth, and
cheerful, for she had done her duty.

His mind grew confused until the
ceremony was concluded, and then he followed
mechanically to the vestry When
all was over, a joyous peal of bells announced
to the neighbours that a weddings
taken place ; but no curious eyes
looked on, for the ringers had been carefully
secreted by Mr. Austen in the belfry.
The bride and bridegroom walked
down the aisle just as Jack and Fan had

done a short time before, but Edith was
clad in white, and veiled. So was Janet.
The only occurrence worthy of note was,
that Mr. Aspenelel offered his arm to his
wife, and they walked together to their
carriage.

t2

CHAPTER XVII.

THE DOXOLOGY.

" There is more joy in the presence of
the angels of God over one sinner that
repented, than over ninety-and-nine just
persons that need no repentance." Read
that again, Janet.'

Janet read it again.

'- If this is true, I begin to understand
your self-sacrifice, child, and my wife's forgiveness
and strange submission. You are
really glad that I have repented, and am
spared to make some reparation. Joy
among the angels ! Oh, Janet.'

Yes, dear papa. It is exceedingly
wonderful.'

The father and daughter were silent
awhile. They were in his study, which
had been rebuilt, together with the rest of
the house. Over a year had passed since
Edith's wedding, and many events had
happened in the interim.

Will you read me that last letter from
my brother ? He has also repented ; but
it is difficult to begin a new life, Janet,
very difficult. One is tempted to extremes.
He is becoming saving, and —
well, I trust all to Gerard. I have no
confidence in myself since that awful
warning.'

Janet took a letter from a case, and read
it. It contained an account of what the
writer called his settlement. He had named
it ' Brand's Welcome,' for he had resumed
his original name. Jack and Fan worked
away in their log-house, while he planned
and laid out a sort of refuge for the destitute.
Some of his old gipsy friends had

already joined him, while Gerard had
helped a few able-bodied labourers and
mechanics to emigrate also. He said that
his scheme answered superbly, and that, if
only Government would follow his example,
people, such as he had been, might
become respectable members of society.
Not that we have much society out here.
Jack, Fan, and the baby constitute mine ;
but they make noise enough for a colony
he wrote.

Harton is really going out,' interrupted
Aspenelel. ' He says he must see his grandchild.'


Yes, papa. Fan writes him an entreaty
almost weekly. She comments on
her baby as if it were a young Sphinx, and
says everybody ought to see it. She gives
me a pressing invitation. But the most
wonderful thing of all is that Mrs. Lee,
the old Tigress, is about to emigrate. She
tells Gerard and Lady Ascham that she

must end her clays where there is plenty of
space and pure air, and that she will
preach to the Indians, and visit Fan as
often as she can.'

What will become of Hoplands while
Harton is away ?'

He says Miss Vigors has undertaken to
superintend it ; but I fancy Mr. Tom Harton
will return from abroad about that
time.'

Who told you that ?'

Mr. Aspenelel's face suddenly resumed its
old expression of suspicion, but Janet's was
open and unclouded. She said that she
had heard it from Nurse True, who had
probably heard it from report.

He will find no opening for his schemes,
if he has any,' said Mr. Aspenelel, with what
Mrs. Aspenelel used to call his ' foxes ' look.

I should think not,' returned Janet,
avoiding his glance. ' Bruce is at school,
so he cannot expect to be his tutor.

Bruce's last letter was wonderfully improved.
Our son and heir will astonish
the county some day.'

The father sighed. It is painful to
think of the glories of one's successor.

Is this stupid ceremonial to take place
to-day ?' he said, irritably. ' How can
they afford tea at the Homes? I suppose
Tou must oro.'

Xot if you want me, papa.'

Janet's voice indicated possible disappointment
if she were ' wanted.'

You are getting tired of me, Janet.
So is Mrs. Aspenelel. Everybody is worn
out except Xurse True.' He took up a
pen. • I shall soon be able to write ^dth
this hand, and then I shall not want you.'

Oh, papa ! I thought you had given up
that idea — I mean, that we are tired of you.
I intend to be your secretary so long as
we both live, and I am sure Mi. Aspenelel
devotes herself entirely to you.'

Is it for what she expects to get,
Janet ? She only thought of my money
when she married me.'

Janet was often pained and disconcerted
by questions such as these, which she
always answered by such an indignant
negative that he did not repeat them.
This was, however, answered by Mrs.
Aspenelel in person. She looked so blight
and handsome ; so well-dressed and attractive,
that he was fain to withdraw it.
The * pity ' which is ' akin to love ' had
usurped the place of resentment in her
bosom, and she did her best to soothe the
irritable, broken-down, but really penitent
man.

If you ^vill spare Janet, I ^vill stay with
you,' she said. • Gerard and Edith are to
be at the Cottages at four, and to return
here to dinner and sleep. This is the last
arrangement.'

You had better both sro. Nurse True

will do all I want he said, fj^lancino: in a
melancholy way from his handsome wife
to his really beautiful daughter. AVhen
he looked at them, he always reproached
himself for what might have been.

Thank you, papa,' said Janet, gaily. ' I
-will tell you all about everything when we
return. Here is the review you were reading,
and here is Gerard's last account,
which you may like to look over against he
comes.'

She left the study with her step-mother,
and they were soon on their way to the
Cottages. The * stupid ceremonial ' alluded
to by Mr. Aspenelel was the celebration of
the centenary of the Homes. The ladies
had invited their neighbours to a festival
in the shape of 'afternoon-tea.' And a
festival it really was, for Mr. Aspenelel had
been so worked upon by Gerard and his
conscience that he had restored the Homes,

and the restoration had just been completed.


Five afternoon-teas all of a row,' cried
Janet ; ' must we imbibe five cups of tea?'

A surprise awaited them. Although it
was full early in the year for out-of-door
festivities, tables were laid on the lawn,
and the ladies were there to receive them.
The Cottages were restored, both inside
and out ; the gardens were embellished by
bedding-out plants from the Park, and all
was spick-and-span as art and nature combined
could make it. Gerard and Edith
had arrived, and were inspecting everything'
with childish o-ke. The were
almost mobbed by the ladies, who hustled
one another in their zeal to display all the
improvements. A tenant for the sixth
cottage had been found, but had not yet
arrived.

Isn't it splendid, miss : isn't it 'heavenly,'

said Miranda to Janet. ' I shan't never
like any other place so well.'

That damsel was about to be married,
and this was as it should be, since Mrs.
glanville had, after much persistent entreaty,
promised to vacate the cottage and
live with her son and daughter in town.
She had been induced to yield, to give up
what she called, laughingly, her ' dependent
independence,' by the representation
that she would make room for some other
lady, and help Gerard, Edith, and Lady
Ascham to level the mountain of poverty,
discontent, and oppression which rose in
their midst. Gerard and Edith had taken
a house not far from Lady Ascham, and
they laboured together to reduce the
colossus aforesaid to a pigmy. Hard, and,
apparently, impossible work ; yet perhaps
to be achieved if everybody's hand was
ready to help.

The family party from the Park was

supplemented by Mr. Austen and Mr.
Harton. All the servants, with the addition
of the faithful Rebecca, were in
attendance, and in the surrounding woods
and overruling skies choristers assembled
to celebrate a centenary, the first year of
which was inaugurated by their remote
ancestors.

Much court was paid to Mrs. Aspenelel,
and she received an ovation of thanks as
the representative of her husband.

I wish he were here !' said Miss Vigors ^
with more politeness than truth.

There was much cheerful and pleasant
talk which it is not needful to record.
The restoration and embellishment of the
Cottages were due to Gerard, and all united
in deluding him, while Janet declared
him a 'Jack of all trades.' He and his
Edith were so happy and prosperous, and
continuing to do so much good both at
home and abroad, that people would have

been afraid of them had they not been so
unaffectedly simple and joyous. As to the
White Dove, she flitted about from friend
to friend just as she used to do, and, as
Miss Lilyton expressed it pathetically, ' It
seemed as if she had never been away.'
And Gerard was carried off by each lady
in turn, to examine some lock, or tap, or
twig that might yet be safer than safe if
only a last touch were given to it. He
was still the Gerard of his boyhood, and
everybody's factotum, though exalted to a
junior partnership with one who had dismissed
him from his service for contumacy.


I mean to be Gerard and Edith in one,'
said Janet, when Mrs. Lucy . pathetically
lamented their loss. ' Now papa is better,
Mrs. Aspenelel and I are going to be uncommonly
gay.'

We all wished to convey to Mr. Aspenelel
our sincere thanks for the renovation of

our homes, and we feel quite renovated
with them,' broke in Miss Vigors, who took
the part of spokeswoman. ' And we also
desire to express our appreciation of your
continued affability and kindness, Mrs.
Aspenelel.'

I hope to see more of you in the future
than I have done in the past,' returned
Mrs. Aspenelel, who knew very well that
those infallible women had made very
pronounced comments on her absence from
her home.

Let bygones be bygones,* said Miss
Vigors, majestically. ewe end our hundredth
year in peace, and begin a new
century in plenty.'

Not quite so old as that, though I am
over four-score,' said Miss Short, who was
as hale as ever.

'Annuitants never die,' whispered Mr.
Harton to Janet.

We're all getting old together. Let us

sing the Doxology said Mr. Austen. ' Lead
it off. Miss Janet.'

And there, beneath the eaves of the
peaceful cottages, they all sang :

Praise God from whom all blessings flow,
Praise Him all creatures here below ;
Praise Him above, ye heavenly host ;
PraiseFather, Son, and Holy Ghost.'

Meanwhile, Mr. Aspenelel felt very lonely.
It was the first time he had been left so
long quite to himself, since the fire. He
took up the review, put it down again. He
tried to master Gerard's account, and
failed. The self-reliant, self-concentrated
man could now do nothing by himself.
The brain of the financial genius had partially
given way, and so long as he lived
he would mainly be dependent upon others,
not only for his beloved calculations and
accumulations, but for such amusement as
was within his reach. He was slowly
learning the lesson we must all learn sooner

or later, that we are, or should be, members
one of another, and depend on each
other.

When his family returned from their
little /^^^, they found him unusually placid,
and, when his wife gave the message sent
by the ladies, he smiled with some degree
of satisfaction, and listened to Janet's
account of the proceedings and graphic
description of the entertainment as if it
interested him. But he soon dismissed
the womankind, and was left alone with
Gerard. He always laid everything before
him, and on this occasion the accounts
were tolerably satisfactory. But, what
with losses of vessels, failures of speculations,
closing of mines, the fire, and innumerable
other causes, the Aspenelel millions
had greatly dwindled down. However,
he was still a very rich man, and the firm
of Aspenelel and Glanville was rising in
public estimation ; for, somehow or other,

VOL. in. u

millionaires and misers are always suspicious
characters in the eyes of the world,
which will inquire,

How did he get it all?'

I shall dine with you to-day. I shall
go for a drive tomorrow,' said Mr. Aspenelel,
when the business matters were concluded.

We shall all be glad. Edith was
hoping you might do so as we came
down,' returned Gerard.

This announcement caused a great commotion,
for he had not dined with his vnfe
since her return, and dinner was laid in
the breakfast-room. He took his seat opposite
her without comment. Janet sat next
to him and helped him. He was tolerably
cheerful, but the others tried in vain to be

gay.

After dinner they adjourned, as of old,
to the bifj drawings-room. He asked for
some music, and they all did their best to
sing; but even Janet felt a curious depression.

Mrs. Aspenelel and Edith remembered
that evening when they last met
there together with Tom Harton.

What was it they sang at the Cottages,
Janet ?' he asked.

The Doxology, papa.'

'Sing it.'

They sang it with voices trembling with
emotion.

I, too, would praise God. There is joy
among the angels. Let us begin a new
life,' he murmured.

They all gathered round him, wondering
at the strange words. He was quite sane.
He meant them. He was not about to die,
as they almost fancied.

We will begin a new life,' said his wife ;
and his children joined in a glad Amen.

THE END.

London : Printed his Duncan Macdonald, Blenheim House.

-a

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW Adores.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

ff

MESSRS. HURST AND Blacker's

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

TO SIAM AND MALAYA in the Duke of Sutherland's
Yacht ' Sans Peur.' By Mrs. Florence Caddy, Author of
Through the Fields with Linnaeus,' &c. With a Portrait of the
Duke of Sutherland. 1 vol. demy 8vo. discontents
.-—Lessepsia— The Red Sea— To the Far East— A Royal Cremation-high
Life in Asia— Young Siam—Ayuthia— Thirty Years' Progress in Siam—
Return to the Nineteenth Century— The Sultan of Johore—Muar— Ceylon—
The Return Voyage— Egypt.

REMINISCENCES OF J. L. Tools, the Comedian.
Related by Himself and Chronicled by Joseph Hatton.
With upwards of Eighty Original Illustrations by Alfred Bryan
and W. H. Margetson. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
The work will, of course, he read by everybody interested in the stage, and

every play-goer will desire to include it among his literary treasures"— G/o6e.

SCOTTISH MOORS AND INDIAN JUNGLES.

Scenes of Sport in the Less and India. By Captain J. T.^
Newall, late Indian Staff Corps. Author of "Eastern Hunters,"
Hog-Hunting in the East," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With twelve
full-page Illustrations. 12s.

BANDOBAST AND KHABAR; Reminiscences op

India. By Colonel Cuthbert Larking. With twelve Illustrations,

from original Drawings by the Author. 1 vol. small 4to. 10s. 6d.

The authors accounts of tiger hunts will be entertaining both to those who

have met and those who desire to meet the king of the Indian fauna in his own

dominions"— Mariti Post.

"Any person contemplating a short trip to India will find in this book some
useful hints with regard to outfit, &c." — Field.

REMINISCENCES OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Rev. C. Alldc Wilkinson, M.A., Author of "Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
Mr. Wilkinson B book is thoroughly fresh and entertaining; it is crammed
full of good stories, and will be a joy to all 'Etonia.ns."— Graphic.

"Mr. Wilkinson has written an exceedingly good book on Eton. It is the work
of a thoroughly enthusiastic Etonian"— Sa^wrrfa?/ Review.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Alfred Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

*c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

Mr. Jeaffreson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he has

been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton

and of Nelson"— G^ofce.

It only remains for us to compliment Mr. Jeaffreson upon the reliable, painstaking,
thorough way in which he has dealt with the story of Lady Hamilton,
without offending the moral sense of his readers." — Academy. i -n •

Mr. Jeaffreson has brought to bear his great mastership of detail and skill in
marshalling facts, and at least a genuine tribute of admiration may be offered to
the author for the discreet and scholarly manner in which he has treated a matter
bristling with dangers to an inexperienced or careless writer"— ifomt'ng Post.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Ernestine Edgcujibk and Lady Mary
^VooD. ^yith illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.
The whole journey is recounted in such a way as to make the narrative
agreeable reading, and to intending travellers in the same track it contains many
useful hints and suggestions'— Qutwj.

"As a whole, the book may be commended as a pleasant and thoroughly English
account of a pastime peculiar to the Anglo-saxon races"— Morning Post.

Shinar SKETCHES : With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
^yith Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

"A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman"— //or^e and Hour d.

"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know'— Scotsman.

•'The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations'— 77k' Field.

*' Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style ; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting"—
Trie World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route, los.

The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell ub."— Daily
Telegraph.

' Through Cyprus ' may be heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel"— ^of swan.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF Hanover. By the Rev, C.
A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.
Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of
the King. 6s.

Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took
precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the
Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly interesting"— .S/iftr/aior.

"An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old king,
in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this
century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom
the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral office"— 5^ James's
Gazette.

"One of the most interesting and amusing books of this season; it abounds in
good and new stories of King Ernest, and also of a perfect host of celebrities, both
English and Germans'— Trul/u

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of ' The County Families,' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels"— Z)aj7i/ Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Z>a i7y News.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IN MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,
Author of " Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. the PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
The story which Dr. Munro has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as interesting." — Spectator.

These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them." — Globe.
'Full of interesting notes on the army and army lile.'"— Graphic.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Roylb,

Barrister at-Law. 2 vols, demy 8vo. "With Maps and Plans. sos.

"ilr. Eoyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe
not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with
it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards
mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Eoyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view, his volumes may be thought
to contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary,
perhaps, in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will unhesitatingly
acquit Mr. Eoyle of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding," —
St. James's Gazette.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.

1 vol. small 4to. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume." — Globe.
Mr. Ashton has produced a volume of light and pleasant character"— Posh.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT m Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 158.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the s\iV]&ct."— Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religious
literature'' — Athenaeum.

These letters are exceptionally graceful and touching, and may be read with
profit' — Graphic.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"
Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy Svo. 12s.
This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier HiGoms.

Vols. 1 and 2, demy Svo. sos.
"The volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, and Poland
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of permanent
value to the students of hiatoTj."— Morning Post.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of "A Sea Queen," "The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. Cb.
Mr. Clark Russell is at his best in 'The Golden Hope-which means that this
book of his is one of the finest books of its kind in our language.' — Academy.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. (Second Edition.)

1 vol. crown Hvo. Gs.
"The sketches of character are hit oft with accuracy of observation and with a
firm and clear outline"— Z)at7y Telegraph.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.
A bright and wholesome story"— 5<. James's Gazette.

A BITTER REPENTANCE. By Lady Virginia

Sanders. 3 vols.
"Lady Virginia Sanders' new novel is told with more than average skill ; the
author has a fertile imagination, which enables her to vary, ad libitum, the situations
in which she places her personages"— J/or/a'ngr Post.

IN WHITE AND GOLD. A Story. By Mrs. F.

H. Williamson. 3 vols.
"Mrs. Williamson has evidently lived among the people whose doings she describes
and whose sayings she records with a natural fidelity which re minds one
of Anthony Trollope. "—H'orW.

ONLY A CORAL GIRL. By Gertrude Forde,

Author of " Driven Before the Storm," &c. 3 vols.
"only a Coral Girl' will delight many readers by the excellent feeling and
healthy purpose with which it is animated." — Athenaeum.

A FAIR CRUSADER; A Story of To-day. By

William Stall, Author of "Larry Lohengrin," "A Queer
Race," &c. 2 vols.
The interest does not halt for a moment in these pages, full of incident and
adventure"— J/orni'nf/ Post.

A BRETON MAIDEN. By A French Lady,

Author of " Till my Wedding-Day." " 3 vols.

"Time and space alike would fail us to note the many fine points of this
admirable novel"— ,lc«</t7Hy.

"The author's local colouring is always good, and she has perfectly caught the
spirit of the time she depicts"— J/orwt«ir Post.

Minette : an Idyll of Provence. By the Author

of ' Vera," Blue Rose-s,' &c. second Edition.) 1 vol. crown 8vo. (33.
"The tale in itself is true to nature and tenderly pathetic"— J/or;jtn</ Post
"This is a particularly well-told story"— C/oit'.

THE LASSES OF LEVERHOUSE. By Jessie

FoTUKKoiLL, Author of 'Kith and Kin,' 'The First Violin,' &c.
1 vol. crown 8vo. (is.
"There is a youthful freshness and heartiness in the author's way of telling her
story which makes the book peculiarly enjoyable"— 5co(iwan.

PUBLISHED BY Hurst & BLACKETT.

RESTITUTION. By Anne Beale, Author of * Fay

Arlington,' ' The Pennant Family,' ' Squire Lisle's Bequest,' &c.
3 vols.

MISTRESS BEATRICE COPE, or Passages in

THE Life OF A Jacobite's DAUGHTER. By M. E. Le Clerc. 2 vols.

THROUGH THE LONG NIGHT. By Mrs. E.

Lynn Linton, Author of 'Patricia Kimball,' ' Pastor Carew,'

lone,' &c. 3 vols.
It is scarcely necessary to sign ' Through the Long Night,' for the practised
pen of Mrs. Lynn Linton stands revealed on every page of it. It is like so many
of its predecessors, hard and bright, full of entertaining reflection and brisk
development of plot." — Saturday Review.

Deronda. By the Countess op Munster. 3 vols.

"We shall await with pleasant expectation further contributions to contemporary
sectional literature from the unquestionably clever author of ' Deronda.' " —
bailie Telegraph.

THE TRACK OF THE STORM : A Novel. By

Dora Russell, Author of ' Footprints in the Snow,' ' The Broken

Seal,' &c. 3 vols.
Miss Russeirs new book has many of the best features of the modem English
novel ; it is precisely the bright freshness which runs through the book that constitutes
its great charm." — Morning Post.

HUGH Warrington. By Gertrude Forde, Author

of ' In the Old Palazzo,' ' Driven before the Storm,' &c. 3 vols.
The story is pleasantly told, and we think it will add to the authoress's popularity."
— Literary World.

THE DEATH SHIP : A Strange Story. By W.

Clark Russell, Author of ' The Wreck of the Grosvenor"' ' The
Golden Hope,' &c. 3 vols.
The best of all the author's novels both in conception and execution"— (Tropic.

THE YOUNGEST MISS GREEN. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of ' Grandmother's Money,' &c. 3 vols.
"The plot of this story is admirably constructed, and its secret so carefully
concealed that the reader most familiar with the surprises of the novelist will be
quite taken aback when he discovers who the real murderer of Brasilia Lincoln
is It is one of the most ' gritty' novels that have been published for a longtime."
— Academy.

A DAUGHTER OF DIVES. By Leith Derwent,

Author of ' Circe's Lovers,' ' King Lazarus,' &c. 3 vols.
"Readers will find Mr. Leith Derwent plot interesting, exciting, and original,
and worked out with considerable acquaintance of peoples and climes"— Piccadilly.

THE DUCHESS. By the Author of ' Molly Sawn,'

Phyllis,' (fee. 1 vol. crown 8vo. Gs.
The author of ' Molly Sawn ' is always interesting and vivacious, and her
story of ' The Duchess ' is one of her most exciting and clover novels"— ^co^smaw.

A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. By

Harry Landor. 3 vols.
"Some of the scenes are pathetic and interesting to a degree, and there la
scarcely a chapter that could be passed over from absence of interest." — The
Society Herald.

A MODERN DELILAH. ByVERECLAVERiNG. .3 v.

"The novel deserves praise for its naturalness and ease of style, and for the
simple force with which its main characters are presented"— 5coto?jan.



LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

Fifty-eight H Edition N FOR 1889.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs.; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. Wo are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject" — SptcteUor:

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Pelt.
