The

Three

Curates

Author o

u

Broken Sunshine.

9?

OF Thou

N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS



W77t
vel

t.

a Nobel

Mrs. G. BIGG-WITHEE,

Author of "Broken Sunshine."

Nothing is new ; we walk where others went ;
There's no vice now but has its precedent."

Her rick.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/threecuratesnove01bigg

THE THREE CURATES

CHAPTER I.

Tex years ago, Langton was a fair-sized
market town, many miles from the metropolis.
It was irregular, as old towns
generally are, and its architecture commonplace
and old-fashioned.

There were only one or two fairly wide
thoroughfares, and these were paved with
-3 clean, wholesome red brick. But generally
the streets were narrow, so that on market
days some skill was required to engineer the
various vehicles, so as to avoid collisions.

There was a large, square market-place,
and behind this the Market Hall, where
the healthy, rosy country-women sold their
vol. i. 1



t



>

butter, eggs and other produce. This
place was clean, cool and draughty and
much frequented.

The town possessed a mayor and town
council, and all the other paraphernalia of
small and important dignity.

It was a loyal town, though at times
party feeling ran high, and this was
especially so between Church and Dissent.
The elite of the town and neighbourhood
were " Church " of rather advanced type,
and generally Tories, while the rank and file
were unmistakable Dissenters and Radicals.

But there were times when the various
factions fused , and this was when they were
threatened with any outside interference or
suggestions from metropolitan authorities
or neighbouring boroughs. Then they
turned with one face to meet the foe.
They neither wanted innovations, improvements
or advice. They were perfectly

satisfied with their own easy-coin£. substantial,
respectable commonplace.

They arranged their affairs with very
little regard to outside opinion. Martinmas,
Candlemas, statute fairs with an assemblage
in the market-place of quack doctors,
cheap-jacks, gingerbread stalls, learned
pigs, fat ladies, travelling circuses, afforded
them interesting landmarks of the various
seasons.

There was a beautiful and stately old
church, which all took pride in, as being
the Town's ! And the Hector, a Canon of
Oswald Minster, was looked up to as a
gentleman and a dignitary, and to be
treated accordingly by his opponents in
faith.

To this Church of St. Just were attached
three curates, of whom more anon.

The houses of Langton were a source of
perpetual surprise to strangers. In the

1*

narrow streets these dwellings were sheer
on to the pathway. There was hardly a
front door worth speaking of; but these
small portals were models of cleanliness.
Their bright brass knockers and door
handles Hashed in the sunlight, while the
one or two small steps vied with each other
in whiteness. It was only when the doors
were opened you saw what possibilities and
capabilities the houses were equal to.
Such lovely vistas of green trees and
exquisite colours greeted the eye. Nearly
all the best rooms in the house opened,
or looked on to charming old gardens,
full of old-fashioned flowers — primroses
and lilac, roses and lilies, sweet peas climbing
in wanton luxury, London pride, and
all the homely old flowers of childhood,
while the mossy turf, and the shady old
trees gave a delicious sense of peace and
repose ; and then you understood why

these houses showed their severely respectable
fronts to the street.

In one of these dwellings, extra neat,
extra polished, lived Mrs. Frostick — the
Mrs. Candour " of Langton. She was a
very well known, if not entirely beloved,
person. She was of uncertain age ; but
anyway, she wore a brown front, severe
and straight, without any illusion, and this
gave to her small, sharp black eyes, her
long, pointed nose and wrinkled face, an
expression of keenness which often merged
into malice. She was rather given to fine
colours in dress, and altogether was a most
inconvenient old woman. She knew everybody's
age — which she was very fond of
proclaiming — likewise their public and
private affairs, and she possessed that very
unpleasant, if honest, habit of calling a
spade a spade. Few people liked her ; no
one thought it advisable to offend her. She

was often, indeed, propitiated with seasonable
gifts. For the rest, her husband had
long since migrated to a better world, and
had left her master of the situation — in
which he had only played a most insignificant
(and, people do say, a not very
comfortable) part. Her house was a model
of exquisite cleanliness, and her old servant,
Betty, a second edition of herself — only
under authority, which her mistress was
not.

A few doors off, lived the Browns, and
of this Mrs. Frostick the Brown girls stood
in perpetual uneasiness. Whenever she
came in contact with them, she always
availed herself of the privilege of an old
friend of showing up their little weaknesses,
and certainly there was much that was
weak in them. There was Matilda, otherwise
Tilly, who posed for five-and-twenty,
and was in point of fact four-and-thirty —

tall, thin, townley about the head, with a
faded face, pale blue eyes, large hands of
the bony type, and with no particular
vices — Harriet, the second Miss Brown, a
year or two younger, a little brighter, a
little fatter, with her hair worn down to
her eyes (which were not bad), and cut
short behind like a boy's. She went in for
the " Bee " style generally. But each of
these young ladies were agreed in one
thing, which was their business in life — a
husband at any cost.

Old David Brown, their father, was a kindhearted,
humble-minded old man, whose
father had been a foreman, whose grandfather
had been a labourer, and he himself
was a retired farmer, with a modest little
competence. These family details he was
never tired of airing ! It was a source of
pride to him, that he could look back with
honest self-respect to the labouring grandfather

and the steadily accumulating
capital, which had centred in him, " all
got, sir, by honest toil and shrewd good
sense." But his daughters by no means
shared this family pride — to them, it was
a source of perpetual mortification. They
only desired to bury their ancestors well
out of sight. But Mrs. Frostick would
never allow this ! On the contrary she
was very fond of pointing a moral with the
aid of the Messrs. Brown deceased.

Mr. Brown was, like Sancho Panza, fond
of good eating aud drinking, and his taste
in this respect was always gratified, for the
virtues of his two daughters in this line
were prominent. They were good housekeepers.
His wife had been dead many
years.

He liked also to smoke his nightly pipe at
the " Queen's Head," and on market days
generally dined at " The Ordinary," where

he weekly met his old friends. Time marched
kindly with him ; he had earned his rest,
and he desired nothing more in life, than to
be " comfortable," and that he most certainly
was.

The Miss Browns were ever struggling
to get into the clique just above themselves,
and cliques in country towns are a
very expressive if unwritten code. Of
course these young ladies figured largely at
tea meetings, bazaars, Sunday school treats,
&c, offered unlimited incense to the
younger clergy, for generally speaking,
there is not much other amusement
provided in country towns, but that well
leavened with the clerical element. And as
long as curates lasted, there was always
hope for Tilly and Harriet Brown.

The beautiful old church was snugly
situated in the heart of the town. Its
bells were sending forth the hour of six !
Evensong was just over. The small congregation,
mostly feminine, were filing
out, and two of the curates, who were
waiting to see the last petticoat lingeringly
disappear, came out of the vestry.

I wonder why Lanyon didn't turn up
this afternoon ? I quite expected him," said
Percy Blythe the senior. " He is out
of quarantine now. I hope, though, he
isn't in for small-pox ! it would be small
wonder, considering how he has been associating
day after day with those wretched
gipsies. He said he felt seedy this morning."

"It's just as likely he has had another

influx of slippers, or letters. That's enough to
put him out of gear for the rest of the clay,"
replied Mr. Dash wood with a cold smile.

I say Cyril ! suppose we go and hunt
him up, we can let the tennis slide ! or
go on afterwards. It is hot enough to
roast an ox. What say you ? "

Agreed ! "

The young men linked their arms, went
a little way out of the town, and then
turned down a shady lane. Two gentlemanly
young fellows, the senior in rank,
though almost the younger in years, was
the Rev. Percy Blythe. He had been four
years in Langton, was a High Churchman
of rather advanced form, and somewhat
resented the curb the rector put upon too
much zeal in the matter of ritual — the rector
being more famed for his common sense
than enthusiasm, as regards any extreme
views of his curates. Mr. Blythe was a

pleasant, hard-working, genial fellow, much
given to ladies' society, and much made of
generally.

Cyril Dashwood, the second, was a man of
good parts as regards his intellect, no great
qualities of heart, but intensely ambitious.
The son of a man, who had by sheer, hard
struggling, made his way from the ranks
to a fairly good position in life. This, he
thoroughly intended his son should carry
on, by means of a wealthy marriage, or
fortunate church preferment.

The Eev. Cyril Dashwood was by no
means as popular as Percy Blythe, although
in appearance, he far surpassed his confrere,
for while Blythe was fair, slight, tall, with
the kindest of blue eyes, that were always
running over with boyish insouciance, Cyril
Dashwood was well formed, and his clean,
finely cut, if rather severe face, gave the
impression that he was descended from,

at least, a dozen belted earls, instead of
being the son of a Birmingham manufacturer
who had staked much upon this
aristocratic-looking first born.

What a strange fellow Lanyon is ! What
do you think he said this morning ? "

Something oracular, no doubt," said
Mr. Dashwood somewhat coldly. He very
often envied the junior curate.

He said ' If those Brown sdrls sent him
any more of their stupid letters, he would
put every one in the fire without
opening.' "

Quite right, too. Those women are
perfect nuisances."

Old Brown isn't a bad sort."

On the contrary, he is a very good
sort, especially without his daughters."

"I believe Lanyon hates all sorts of
women. Do }^ou know, Cyril, I fancy he
has had some disappointment in that line.

A man does not deliberately dislike women,
unless he has suffered some wrong at their
hands."

He is not likely to enlighten us on the
subject, you may be sure."

No, indeed," replied Percy with a laugh.
I could not stretch my imagination so as
to imagine him discussing such a tender
theme ! "

By this time they had reached the junior
curate's abode. A pretty, rustic, thatched
cottage, with a gay little garden surrounding
it. The door stood wide open. A
beautiful collie, with soft brown eyes, lay
stretched across the threshold, and an old
English mastiff watched them coming
through the gate with grave friendliness.

Halloa, Prince ! Well, Eupert, old
fellow ! " said Percy, as the dogs came forward
to greet him affectionately. " Is your
master at home ? " And, escorted by the

two dogs, the young men proceeded to find
oat this fact for themselves, and knocked
at a side room door.

Come in ! " a voice called out.

As they entered, there lay the extended
form of the junior curate. Found his head
was coiled a wet towel.

Why, Lanyon, what's the matter ? "
said Percy, with kindly interest in his
tone.

Xo thing, only a vile headache. I was
out in the sun without my hat — in fact, it
fell in the water — and the vaccination
combined has touched me up a little. I
knew you could get on without me, so
made myself comfortable here ! "

The Brown girls, I can assure you,
looked quite disappointed. It was bruited
about you would put in an appearance this
evening."

If you have nothing better to discuss

than these two young women, please to ring
the bell, and let us have some tea or something."


As the door opened to admit the portly
form of Mr. Lanyon's housekeeper, he
called out :

"Here, Mrs. Bayliss, bring us in some
sherry and soda water ; tea, or anything
eatable — stay ! Mr. Blythe and Mr. Dash-wood
will remain to dinner — no, no, tea ! "
he corrected, seeing poor Mrs. Bayliss' expression
of blank dismay.

"I told Mrs. Bayliss," he continued,
turning to his friends with a smile, " not
to even suggest dinner, unless she wished to
make me ill — so, tea, and anything else you
like to give us."

"Yes, sir," said the woman, greatly relieved.


The room was low-pitched, but roomy,
and very comfortable, with old latticed

windows, set wide open ; and the jessamine
and honeysuckle came daintily peeping in,
accompanied by a lovely breeze, laden with
the perfume of many sweet scented flowers.
Valuable books were scattered about,
while the handsome cabinets and chairs
hardly tallied with a poor junior curate's
salary. But though their junior in rank, he
was their senior in age. A man with eight
hundred a year, and heir to a baronetcy !
He was a mixture of hauteur and humility,
somewhat cold in manner, and, as we have
heard, not given to women's influence. A
face more conspicuous for power than
beauty; in fact, it was ugly, and only redeemed
by kind, soft, hazel eyes, and crisp,
curling hair, too grey to distinguish what
its original colour had been. Just now his
eyes had a tired, weary look ; indeed, the
whole man showed a weariness of body and
mind.

vol. i. 2

His confreres watched him with interest,
and if they both held him slightly in awe,
and one felt sometimes jealous at what he
considered the unfairness of fickle fortune,
they liked him much. To them he was as
an elder brother. His purse of plenty was
for them as for him, and they would
have pained him by any refusal or false
delicacy. And there existed, as there often
does between men, a sincere and unanimous
friendship.

After tea, you fellows, if you will, can
do me a service ! "

With pleasure, Lanyon. What is
it?"

"Well," he said, pointing with contempt
to a basket, " there are a lot of letters,
feminine ones, I conclude. I want you to
sort them. You know their various handwritings
better than I do Any one that
you think looks fresh, or rather, I should

sa) r , which is not familiar to you, handover
to me. The others please burn."

"Do you mean to say, Lanyon, you
would have us read and destroy your letters
without even having seen their contents ? "

That is exactly my meaning. Women's
letters do not interest me ; indeed I think
there is often a good deal of mischief in
them."

But suppose they are business ones ? "
said Percy, to whom it seemed almost a
sacrilege.

They are not business ones," said the
owner of them coldly. "Anyone who
wishes to see me on business can always do
so, except, of course, during these last few
weeks. Blythe, my dear fellow, there
would not be half so much foolishness
going on in parishes if the women were
not encouraged to make fools of themselves."


9*

Come, Lanyon, that's rather strong,
to say the least of it," said Mr. Dashwood,
with judicial fairness.

I think women quite the nicest half of
creation," said Percy, with a laugh.

"Well, I don't," said Mr. Lanyon incisively.


I think they have their uses," vouchsafed
again Cyril.

Mrs. Bayliss here entering with a substantial
tea, certainly justified Mr. Dash-wood's
kind extenuation in their favour.
Her bright, good-humoured, motherly face
beamed all round.

I hope your head feels better, sir ? I
have made you some real strong tea."

Thank you, Mrs. Bayliss. I am better,
and shall enjoy your tea right well."

That's right, sir. Shall I pour it out,
or will one of the young ' gents ' here ? "

"I'll do it, Mrs. Bayliss," said Percy,

which he did, with deft, practised hands ; and
after it was all over Gerald Lanyon lighted
a pipe, pushed the obnoxious basket over
to his friends, resumed his recumbent
position on the couch, and presently
seemed absorbed in thought. The rustling
and crackling of the letters did not appear
to disturb him in the least.

I say, old fellow, how long, may I ask,
have you had these ? There's a precious
lot of them ! "

I should say, a fortnight's collection."
But suppose they do want answers ? "
*' Look at the handwriting — settle for
yourselves, and go on."

This one— from ' Jessie Crank'? "
Tear it up, and either put it in the
fire-grate or waste-paper basket ; it is immaterial."


And one from Harriet Brown, and
Tilly Brown ? "

"Ditto — ditto, my dear friends."

Oh, by Jove ! here's a pair of slippers,
from — from — I can't make out ; do you
try, Cyril."

From Matilda Alice Brown."

So it is."

Cyril, you can give them away in your
district, it's poor enough."

The two young men laughed.

Suppose Miss Brown comes across
them," said Blythe, " what then? "

If I give her credit for any feelings at
all, she ought to be glad ; they are useful
to an individual who really requires them,
and not to one who does not."

Here is a letter with a crest. The crest
looks like that of Lady Markham."

I will take that. Lady Markham is a
dear old lady. I am sorry her epistle has
been among such . . . frivolous company."


Here's a new ' fist.' I don't recognise it,
and yet I fancy I have seen it before. It
looks like a man's."

"Read it over," said Mr. Lanyon indolently.


Miss Higgins presents her compliments
to the Eev. Gerald Lanyon, and having
been informed he requires larger funds for
the Temporary Small-Pox Hospital, on the
Combe Warren land, encloses a cheque
for £200. Mr. Lanyon need not acknowledge
the cheque either in writing or in
person.

Combe Towers,

"July 7th."

As I do require the funds I shall keep
it, otherwise Miss Higgins might have had
her cheque returned, without thanks."

All the same, Lanyon, it is a good

thing she doesn't require an acknowledgment
— it's ten days old, man ! "

Is this the Miss Higgins I hear Lady
Louisa so full of ? "

Yes ; but you surely know her ? "

I have not that honour."

By-the-by, of course you don't. She
has been in Dresden these last eight months,
and you have been here about seven, and
nearly a month in quarantine from the
civilised world as represented by Langton."

I am still in ignorance as to particulars
beyond the fact that she is ' Miss Higgins,'
of Combe Towers."

Miss Higgins is the only daughter and
heiress of a deceased ' quack pill ' doctor ;
she is disgustingly rich, very plain, and
hates curates."

So that's it," said Mr, Lanyon, with a
laugh. " She hates curates."

She is not quite so bad as Blythe makes

out," said Cyril Dashwood, who had his
own views respecting the heiress. " She
has a good figure and is considered clever."

Is she old or young ? "

About thirty, I believe."

Now little Esme Curtis is a darling, if
you like ! "

Is it a child ? The sex seems doubtful."

"A child ! good gracious ! No ! Miss
Higgins has adopted her, and she is about
nineteen, eh, Cyril ! "

Is she disgustingly rich likewise ? "

No," said Cyril, with a slight blush.

Poor girl ! "

Why ' poor girl ' ? " said Cyril with unreasonable
irritability.

To have the ' disgusting riches ' forever
thrust down her throat."

"No, no! Lanyon," said Blythe warmly,
Miss Higgins is the kindest person to
those she likes, and is the most charitable

imaginable. It is the curates and those
she thinks run after her money that she's
so down upon."

Well, let her rest ! Finish the basket
off." So they steadily ran through the
remainder.

Here's another parcel ! A very handsome
birthday book, with some lovely
illustrations."

"Percy, old fellow, give that to little
Clara Smith, it will amuse her while her
poor little leg is 'setting.' I wonder if she
would like a doll ; or, perhaps, poor little
mite, she has had too many babies to drag
about to care for anything so childish !"

She will think a lot of it if she
knows it comes from you," said Percy
kindly. " But do you know who it comes
from ? "

Not in the least," answered the other
equably.

It is from Adelaide Crater."

Well, then, Miss Craster will do a kind
action to a poor little waif without knowing
it."

"Miss Craster is a nice, lady-like girl.
Lanyon, are you not a bit down on these
girls ? " said Percy.

Blythe, believe me, I am not ! I do not
ask all these young women to write to me
or make me useless presents. On the contrary,
I think the whole thing derogatory
both to them and to myself."

Then I suppose you object to tennis
because you meet all these girls ? "

By no means ; tennis is a game all can
join in. Personally, I prefer cricket; but,
Percy, I think we — nay, I will say you
fellows, are as much to blame as these girls.
How often do you flirt, first with one then
another, often looking, if not actually
saying, more than you ever intend."

Oh ! they like it, bless you," said Blythe,
laughing heartily at the moralising tone of
Mr. Lanyon, " attention sans intention, you
know."

Mr. Lanyon shrugged his shoulders and
said no more. He knew his friends thought
him straight-laced about many things, but
there was so much genuine kindness and
goodness about him that they forgave him
his little crotchets and heartily respected
him.

Well, Lanyon, old man, we're off now
to the Cr asters'. We may be in time for a
game yet. Can we do anything for you ? "

No, thanks, Cyril," said he as he
grasped their hands with warm goodwill.

After the young men had left, he smoked
another pipe, and a dreamy, far-away look
took possession of his face. He was
reviewing a portion of his life, not so very
long past, thinking of the young girl he

had so idolised almost since childhood.
How he had longed and looked forward to
the time when he might claim her for his
wife! How he toiled and worked and
studied ! She was the loadstar that drew
all his energies to their highest point. How
supreme was to be the reward !

And then came the bitter awakening —
the soul dragged down from Elysium to an
abyss of despair. When Lady Laura
Bidden forbade him to think of her
daughter, save as the friend of his youth.
She had other views for her child. Very
soon her mother removed her out of his
reach entirely, by marrying the young
Pauline to a bilious, elderly millionaire,
whose moral character left much to be
desired, but the girl made a beautiful
sacrifice and centrepiece for his wealth.

Gerald Lanyon never saw his love again.
The blow was terrible, crushing in its intensity

r . The best and purest motives of
his life had failed ; his trust was shaken ;
what was there to strive for ? Nothing !
The lamp had gone out, and nothing but
darkness everywhere. There was no one in
life to comfort him ; he was alone with the
apathy of despair.

Then his kind old tutor, who himself had
passed through the furnace, at last gave him
a talisman — to try, in self-sacrifice and devotion
to others, to bring back some peace
to himself, so, at length, mounting higher
and higher, gradually the great burden
rolled down. If he had lost the buoyancy
of youth, with all its beautiful illusions, the
endurance of manhood had taken its place,
and now, from the height of his own climbing,
he could look down with kind indulgence
on the shortcomings of those who
were as yet untried in the warfare of life.
And since he had taken "orders " his time and

thoughts found peace in working for others.
And then, too late for his happiness, came
wealth, and the foretaste of possession. By
the death of a young cousin, he found himself
heir to an aged uncle, and a rent-roll
of ten thousand a year. So he devoted
himself, and the very liberal allowance he
received from Sir Horace Lanyon, to the
service of others. And now, here he was,
this gracious summer evening, curate of
Langton, not unhappy, somewhat self-contained,
but avoiding society as much as
possible.

He rose, shook himself, as if to throw off
this useless retrospection, went into his
room, plunged his head into cold water,
then, calling his dogs, set out with them
for a long tramp through the new-mown
field, scented with fragrant odours, and
delightful with balmy air.

About a mile out of Langton was the
residence of Miss Higgins, " Miss Higgins
of Combe Towers," as she was generally
called. It was an old-fashioned place,
white, low-storeyed, and somewhat straggling,
but capacious and comfortable
inside. Outside, Banksias, magnolias,
honeysuckle, all in their season, making its
old age beautiful, while a few grand old
cedars and copper beeches gave it an
air of stately dignity. The gardens were
perfect, both as to arrangement and in
the admirable way they were kept up ; and
beyond the gardens were cool green
shrubberies planted a century back, affording
sheltered walks and pleasant vistas.
The house door stood wide open, and .the

evening light was soft and tender, for it
had been a golden August day ; and now,
the air was full of sweet odours, and
delicate shadows, cast by the cedars, fell
athwart the lawn.

Miss Higgins stood gazing out, and the
setting sun glinted her dark hair with
warm touches of colour. Her eyes were
of deep grey, and the lashes dark : if her
cheeks had been tinted with the warm
light the sun now gave them, instead of
their ordinary sallow tinge, she might have
been called a good-looking woman, but
there seemed a coldness about her — her
mouth, which, but for its sarcastic expression,
would have been pretty ; the
chin was beautifully moulded, soft, round,
firm, and yet cleft by a lovely little dimple.
Her figure was tall and fine, with a quiet
dignity ; but with it all, there was a certain
something about her which seemed to
vol. i. 3

warn off outsiders, and yet there was often
a pathetic look in the grey eyes, a sort of
yearning after some unknown possibilities
which, as yet, she had not grasped. She
was thirty, and she was still Miss Higgins,
but it was not for want of offers. Once,
indeed, she had nearly loved, but overhearing
some very uncomplimentary
remarks apropos of her father, her own
name, with its want of euphony, and the
candid announcement that it was her
money that was so beautiful in the eye of
her would-be suitor, caused a revulsion of
feeling which had never as yet been reversed,
and all subsequent offers had
seemed to her pained heart but a repetition
of the first ; she had ceased to believe, but
she had courage, and a large-hearted
benevolence. Surely there must be something
to live for in this great world ! So
she accepted her life, only, just this quiet

tender evening, with no sound to be heard
but the lowing cattle, or the drowsy hum
of insects, there did seem an emptiness, a
void, in her heart as she stood with her
hands idly clasped before her. Then she
seemed to throw off these oppressions ; for
coming down the two or three steps, she
called out in clear, rich tones :

Esme ! Esme ! Where are you, child ?
Ah," as a smile passed over her face, "in
her hammock, of course, wise little
maiden'

So gathering her long black lace train

CD O D

over her arm, with light, firm steps, she
threaded her way in and out the shady
plantation, stopping here and there to
gather a flower or a dainty fern, till at last
she came to a group of trees, and thereunder
their shade, with little flecks of pink
tinted sunshine dancing about her, was
Esme, comfortably reclining in her swings*



ing nest, but not alone, for beside her
stood Cyril Daslrwood. She made a most
dainty and lovely picture. Her sunny hair
plaited round a shapely little head, with eyes
like turquoise, the eyebrows slightly arched,
gave an air of sweet surprise to a baby
mignon face, with its peach-like fairness.

"What a picture you are, Esme," said
the young man, with passionate, eager ej'es,
and holding her hand in a tight grasp.

Do you think so ? " she answered, with
a happy little laugh. " So do other
people, mon bean monsieur! There was a
German student at Dresden used to follow
me like a shadow, till Hester packed him
off."

But you must have encouraged him ! "
said Cyril, with some heat.

"What is the good of being pretty if
you don't make other people feel it?
Besides, you forget," she continued, dropping

her light tone, " I owe allegiance to
no one but dear Hester, and she lets me

do whatever I please," but there was an
undercurrent of meaning in her voice
which was not lost upon Mr. Dashwood.

For months — nay, for over a year — had
he been paying her the most devoted
attention — in private. He did love her
deeply, as far as his selfish, calculating
nature would allow, and yet it was not her
he intended to marry, for he could not
make up his mind to sacrifice all his
ambitious future ; but so contradictory was
his temperament that he was wildly jealous
of any other man near her.

And then, Cyril! Why do you love me
so much when we are alone, and behave so
coldly and ceremoniously when you meet
me in society ? It does pain me so. I can't
understand it ; it seems as — as if you were
ashamed of loving me ! "

You fancy this, Esme ! " he answered,
with some confusion.

She shook her head — for this problem
poor little Esme was always trying
to solve.

When Miss Higgins saw the two her face
hardened with contempt, and she quickly
turned and made her way back to the
house and threw herself wearily down on
one of the many low easy chairs by the
open French window.

'what a wretched set those curates are!
Always dilly-dallying after some woman or
another ! I believe that's all they are fit
for."

And her lips curled scornfully as these
thoughts flew through her mind.
My poor little Esme ! "

Presently the sounds of footsteps on the
gravel outside caused her to look up, and
there was Esme, with a delicious little flush

like a rose-leaf on her cheek, while Cyril
Dashwood had a satisfied smile on his
handsome face that made Hester feel she
almost hated him.

Hester, I have brought Mr. Dashwood
in. He saw me under the elm-trees and he
wishes to see you."

For a moment her heart stood still.
Was this man, then, going to ask for her
ewe lamb " ? Then she rose coldly and
shook hands, but Mr. Dashwood was not to
be daunted by her hauteur. The prize he
had in view was too valuable not to require
a good deal of patience, besides, he was a
man whom to overcome obstacles was a
pleasure. So, in softly modulated accents,
he told her he came with a message from
the Eector, as Lady Louisa could not come
over herself.

Thank you ; I heard from Lady Louisa
this moraine."

Indeed! The Rector could hardly have
known that."

She made no reply, so he began again :

But he does want you to become one
of the lady patronesses at the cottage
flower show."

Is it money you require, Mr. Dash-wood
? " she asked coldly.

Well, not exactly that, though I daresay
we could do with some more, but it
is your presence we want, and Miss Curtis.
And there is to be a gigantic tea ; will you
undertake something in that way ? "

No, I dislike ' teas,' " she replied incisively.


I think they are rather fun, Hester."

Well, dear, you can join the tea affair
if you like."

I know the Eector would be so pleased if
you would alter your mind and come to the
tea. He is anxious all the ladies of influence

should be there — Mrs. Grantley will be, and

Lady Louisa will preside ! "

Lady Louisa is the Hector's wife, and it
is quite suitable she should be en evidence,
and Mrs. Grantley is the Mayor's sister. I
do not intend coming to the tea."

She rose and went to her davenport, and
presently returned. " Here is a cheque,
Mr. Dashwood, for £25 for prizes; and
Hawkins shall send what flowers and
fruits you require from the greenhouses."


He thanked her effusively. " You are
generosity itself ! But you will come, won't
you, Miss Higgins ? " and he leaned over
towards her chair, with a persuasive
smile.

;t I shall come to the Flower Show. Yes."

And as that was all he could crew out of
her, he had to remain satisfied. And as she
gave him no encouragement to prolong his

visit, lie reluctantly rose to leave. " Ah ! I
see fresh fruits of your travels ! " and he
pointed to some exquisite paintings on porcelain,
large in size, and framed in ebony.

"It is the story of 'Undine.' We
brought them from Dresden. They excel
in those arts."

And in music ? "

Yes ; the music is divine. I think we
shall return there soon."

But surely not this year ? You have
hardly returned, as it were."

Probably in the autumn," she answered,
in a cold, level voice.

And it was now August. He said " Goodbye
" at last, and, as warmly as he dared,
pressed her hand, gave a friendly adieu to
Esme, and left them.

Why can't you like him, Hester ? " said
Esme, impulsively. u It is so evident you
don't."

11 1 do not like him."

"But lie is so handsome, dear."

Undeniably so ; but that is no recommendation
in my eyes. Esme, has he asked
you to be his wife ? "

Xo " came hesitatingly from the

young lips.

Then why does he not ? You love him,
darling."

Ah, yes, Hester ; indeed, I do ! Perhaps
he will." And yet there was a sad depression
at the loving heart.

If he does not, he is using you very
badly."

Oh, Hester ; I can't help thinking "

"Thinking what, dearest child?" And
Miss Higgins drew the young girl towards
her, and with loving, protecting
touch, placed her arms round the slender,
supple waist. "Thinking what, my little
woman ? "

That — that he loves you better than
me ! "

Loves me ! Then, indeed, if he does,
it's my money bags and my balance at the
bank. My dear Esme, do yon think my
wits are wool-gathering ? Can you suppose
any man would seek me for myself? Come
now, look in that mirror ! At my ugly
yellow face ! and yours, like a newly-opened
rose ! Esme, God is more just than men.
To you He has given the Divine power of
beauty ; to me, in compensation, He has
given wealth. I may buy homage ; but
you, darling, can command it. Beauty is
an exquisite gift ! "

"Hester!" said Esme, with a loving
smile, " You are not ugly. Sometimes,
when you are moved, your true self shines
out. Then you are beautiful ! Your colour
comes and goes, and then sometimes
remains. Your eves look dark — as dark as

the pool where the water-lilies grow! I

remember once observing you at the
theatre at Vienna. Something in the play

deeply interested you ; and I thought, ' if

others could only see you as I do, they

would no longer say my Hester was plain ! '

You are a most poetical, loving, little
flatterer, and therefore your evidence
can't be taken."

Ah, Hester, if you only had someone
to love you, you would be like the statue
Pygmalion called to life! "

"That is not very likely to happen.
Xow Esme, listen to me. It is my intention
if any man honestly woos you to settle
three hundred a year on you ; but I make
this proviso, you are not to tell the individual,
without my permission ; let him
love you, dear, for your sweet self. You
will promise me this, dear ? "

Oh, Hester ! what a noble, loving

heart you have ! I don't deserve so much
care."

My dear one, but for you I should
become as hard as my own gold. You are
the soft spot of my heart. I have neither
father, mother, kith, nor kin. You know,
dear, how often I have been deceived, in
the men who professed so much for me.
And it is this, perhaps, which makes
your love for me so precious. If your
Cyril is worthy of } t ou, he won't lose by
it ; but do not set too much store by his
handsome face, it is not always the index
of a noble mind."

Hester," said Esme after a pause, when
each was thinking out her own thoughts,
there is such an iiGflv curate at St. Just.
A woman hater ! "

Probably I should prefer him to the
others ; but do not let us discuss such an
unprofitable and uninteresting topic. Let

us rather fly to our music. Play me that
sunny Italian Symphony of Mendelssohn's,
or something of Chopin's. These friends
never disappoint us, Esme."
■" So Esme sat down, and under her skilful
fingers Mendelssohn's delicious, sparkling
music brought the bright Italian sky and
the lovely Campagna to their thoughts.
Esme's one talent was music, and this had
been carefully cultivated at Dresden. She
played with no ordinary skill, and Hester
felt its softening influence. It was like
David's harp, exorcising all the hard
feelings tugging at her heart, and filling it

C C CD CD ' O

with tender emotions.

Years ago — when Esme was a lonely little
orphan, at the same school as the opulent
heiress — had Miss Virgins constituted

CO

herself friend, elder sister, guardian to the
sweet little thing. And as time grew on,
the child's natural guardians were perfectly

willing to resign her to the care of the
wealthy young person who seemed to have
set her heart on this motherless lamb. So
the love had grown between these two,
Esme slightly selfish, but so bewitching
in her selfishness that one forgave her,
while Hester was touching in her abnegation
to the sometimes capricious little
beauty. But the love between them was
deep. Both were orphans, and so clung
together. They had lived mostly abroad,
at Rome, Dresden, Paris, and it was not
often they came to Combe Towers. This
place had been purchased by the Doctor
from an impoverished family, whose dower
house it had been. He had given a
handsome price for it, and spent a good
deal more on what he called improvement,
such as drainage, hot-houses, and other
matters. Part of the old furniture had
been bong 1 t. But all the beautiful

additions had been made by the cultivated
taste of Hester — of contributions from many
lands, objects of art and value, some almost
priceless.

The old doctor, who had amassed this
large fortune by trading on the good-natured
credulity of the British public — at
least, that part of it who liked sensational
medicine — considerately departed this life,
leaving all his wealth to his clever daughter,
of whom he stood in awe. But being perfectly
certain she would be a safe custodian
of all the good things he had gathered
together, and of which he was as proud as
old David Brown, he had much wished
his daughter to carry on his business, but
this she declined to do.

Xo, father ! Let it be ended. I shall
have more than enough for myself and
others."

But why, Hester ? Why should you
vol. i. 4

not carry it on ? There's nothing I know
pays like it."

Oh, father ! I think we have made
enough out of the public," and a warm
colour came over her face.

Do you think I've cheated them, eh ?
Did you ever know any one who died of
my pills ? My dear, they were as harmless
as a piece of paste ! It was the faith in
them ! did all the cure. And do you know
any reason why people shouldn't get well
through faith ? And the lovely advertisements
! they were the study of my life !
All true and original ! And look at the
enormous good I've done to the artist trade
by giving 'em orders for illustrations ! My
dear, I've been a public benefactor ? " And
he slapped himself in weak approval, over
the region of his heart, for at this time he
was near the end of his pilgrimage. " Oh,
Hester, if you'd only been a boy ! You

wouldn't have been so keen about getting
rid of a fortune. Perhaps you might marry
and have a son ? think of that, my lass — look
to the future."

No, father dear ! Let us be satisfied
that we are rich, and, as far as you know,
nobody has died." And so it ended, and he
likewise — for, leaving everything he possessed
to his daughter, he changed his comparable
house for a very grand tomb he had
built for himself during his life time, and on
which he carried out his ruling passion,
for he drew up his own epitaph ; and it was
one of the small consolations of his later
life to see this grand panegyric of himself
as a public benefactor in letters of (highly
paid for) gold !

To his daughter this vain egotism was
inexpressibly painful, and yet she loved
the fond, foolish old man, and tended him
with childlike devotion. She felt glad her



young mother, who had died so many years
ago, long before the pills meant money,
and was buried in a humble grave in some
Kentish churchyard, did not share this
gorgeous mausoleum.

And now Miss Higgins was " a personage,"
rich, eccentric, not always over agreeable.
But she gave liberally whenever money
was wanted and therefore merited much
consideration at the hands of the town and
neighbourhood of Langton.

eg

In a very charming boudoir in a well
appointed house near Eaton Square, sat
a very pretty young woman. At least
she would have been, but for an expression
of utter weariness, discontent
and unhappiness. She impatiently tapped
her pretty slippered foot, as she listened,,
or rather did her best not to listen, to the
somewhat vehement outpourings of wrath
and expostulation, that fell from the lips
of a well-preserved woman of fifty, but
with this wrath was mingled much
anxiety.

It's no use, mamma ! you can't make
things any better. I am sick of it all —
sick of nearly everything! — of Mr. Cohen
and his odious City friends, who I have

to dress up for ! and, if it were not for
Charlie Vere, I should go mad, or do
something dreadful. I disliked Mr. Cohen
when I married him, now I almost hate
him ! with his cold pompous ways ! As if
his money was everything ! I think I am
told every week I am a pauper — it is too
much ! "

Pauline ! The money is a great deal !
What can we do without it ? You know
what our life was before your marriage, the
misery of it all — the scraping, the effort to
keep up appearances, and I did try to save
you from it all. I must say you are ungrateful,
and a most unloving wife ! "

"Mother! If you wished me to be
loving and grateful, you should have let me
marry Gerald Lanyon. I did love him ! "

Gerald Lanyon was too poor to keep a
wife. And he had no position."

Well, he's rich now — directly old Sir

Horace dies, lie will be Sir Gerald, with
ten thousand a year I

How could I tell poor young Lanyon
would die ? " said her mother irritably.

Of course you could not, but the fact
remains."

Lady Laura answered nothing to this, it
was too true, and — it vexed her, to think —
too late. And her one anxiety now was
to try and induce her daughter to make the
best of an uncongenial marriage. She had
to admit that Mr. Cohen, as a husband,
left much to be desired. While his house
overflowed with lavish wealth, his wife
never possessed one penny she could call
her own. She might order what she pleased
and run up what bills she pleased — and
she did please herself in this last item.

Mr. Cohen had seen perfectly through
Lady Laura's tactics. He knew she had
sold her daughter. But he was determined

his mother-in-law should not benefit by the
transaction. He had bought Pauline, like
everything else he coveted.

She looked thoroughbred, she was exceedingly
pretty, and dainty in her ways.
He also found his wife's heart was a commodity
that declined to be thrown into the
bargain. After his marriage, of course,
there were plenty of people to acquaint him
with his wife's first love affair. But he
consoled himself with the fact that she
never saw her old love again.

In point of fact, Pauline was never worth
the deep true love of such a nature as Gerald
Any on's. He had idealised her. She was
vain, coquettish, and capricious, perfectly
incapable of any depth of feeling ; but when
happy, she was a charming little personage.
But, as she was anything but happy, her
charms were absent.

Youno- Yere had been Mr. Cohen's ward

during his minority, and still made his
home, almost entirely, at Eaton Place.
Wealthy, kind-hearted, not troubled with
too many brains, and, considering all things,
not many vices, he was the ami intime
of the house. Mr. Cohen had a real affection
for the lad he had had the charge of
for so many years. In fact, he looked upon
him as a sort of " watch-dog," never dreaming
that Charlie's heart could, by any
chance, become influenced by his capricious,
discontented wife. And this was exactly what
Lady Laura's sharp eyes had discovered.
These two young people, thrown every day
in each other's society, were drifting fast
on a perilous rock. Young Vere was the
daily recipient of Pauline's worries and
vexations— some of them deeply irritating
to a proud, passionate, nature. And pity
was fast merging into love.

Pauline, dear ! " said her mother, affectionately,

"don't have Charlie Ye re too
much about you ! People will begin to
notice it, and talk ! "

But, mother ! He is his master's watchdog
! and, having an affectionate nature, he
naturally loves his mistress ! " And the
idea pleased Pauline, for she laughed pleasantly.


Don't joke about it, Line dear, it is too

serious. "

Mamma, pray let me get some amusement
out of my life. It is like a prison
house with a hateful jailor."

Pauline ! for God's sake do try and
bear it ; it wilt become less hard, if
you only would. Oh ! if your baby had
lived ! "

I am thankful it did not — now. It
would only have been a source of unhappiness
for me. It is better as it is." And
for a moment the vouncf face softened.

The dark eyes were humid with unshed
tears, that could at times be so soft and
joyous.

Oh, mother ! I found out something
dreadful about Mr. Cohen. See ! here it
is!" And she pulled out from her pocket
a much crumpled letter. And her face
hardened, as she handed it to her mother.
"Oh, it is hateful! But let me tell you
how it came into my possession. I am
ordered by my husband to get all my
dresses made at Madame Stephanie's, and
when I was there arranging about one,
a fortnight ago, the young person who
attended on me (a very handsome girl,
mother) had occasion to go to her pocket
for a measure, and out fell this letter, and
dropped close to me. I picked it up to
give it her, when I caught sight of my
husband's handwriting. Fancy that ! So
instead of returning it to her, I put it in

my pocket. Not very honourable, was it ? "
she said, grimly ; " but all is fair in love
and war. And this is war ! And there is
nothing like being au courant with your
husband's affairs. What do you think of
your son-in-law ? " as she saw a trace of
colour pass over her mother's face as
she read the letter.

Pauline, it is all dreadful. And yet,
dear, hard as my advice must seem to you,
I say bear it. In all these dubious battles
with the world, the woman is always
worsted ; for even if she is innocent,
Society ' does not stop to judicially examine.
It simply hears of a divorce, or a
separation. ' No doubt the woman was in
fault.' You know in France they always
say, ' cherchez la femme! "

Mother, I don't care what the world
says. I shall go my own way now."

Just then the door opened, and Cerise,

Pauline's French maid, announced " Mr.
Vere."

Ah, Charlie, there you are ! welcome
as the sunshine." And Mrs. Cohen impulsively
rose, and held out two little white
hands, which were eagerly grasped by the
young fellow.

The bright dancing eyes, the crisp, curly
hair, almost yellow, the pleasant, cheery,
sunshiny face, looked the embodiment of
animal health and spirits. Small wonder
Mrs. Cohen called him her " sunshine."

c Mamma and I are in the dismal ; do
take us somewhere, Charlie ! "

But where do you want to go,
Madamina ? "

Oh, anywhere, as long as it is somewhere,"
said the young lady inconsequently.
Where do you say, mother ? "

Let us have some tea first, Pauline. But
is it quite convenient to Mr. Vere ? "

Pauline was highly amused at this idea.
Of course it is ! As if anything I

wanted could be inconvenient ! What do
you say, Charlie ? "

Your wishes are my law," answered the
young man, with \*hat Lady Laura considered
unnecessary warmth.

"Charlie, just tell Cerise we will have
tea at once." Then Pauline went over to
her mother, took the letter, and transferred
it to her own pocket again, and put her
finger on her lips.

Pauline, I beseech you, be careful," whispered
her mother, in deep, anxious tones.
It ought to be sent back."

As young Yere entered, Mrs. Cohen asked
him if there would be time to drive to Richmond,
and yet be back for the theatre.
"We might dine there, you know."

But, Pauline, consider your husband ! "
exclaimed Lady Laura.

"I don't think lie is the least likely to beat
home ; it is the last week of the session,
and he will be at the House, doing his duty
to his constituents, who I hope like him
better than his wife does."

Oh ! Pauline. Pray remember what
you are saying. It is most painful."

Well, mother, don't let's discuss him,
then ! "

Then the tea, with its etc's, came in, and
the carriage was ordered for half-past four.

Lady Laura felt it was useless making any
further protest. She could only trust that
her presence with her daughter and young
Vere might lend some degree of respectability
to the proceedings. But, nevertheless,
she felt sure that they would, had they
been so minded, have Gone all the same.
She saw furthermore that Pauline was
getting day by day more intolerant of her
husband. Lady Laura sighed sadly ; for

she had laid the train herself, and who
could says how and when the match
would be applied ? They seemed living over
a mine, which might explode any day.
Should she surest a word to Mr Cohen as

CO

to the extreme danger of always having
young Vere, like a tame cat, hanging about
the place? It would bring matters to a
crisis ! And Pauline would suffer in someway.
No ; she felt helpless and hopeless ;
affairs must arrange themselves.

Lady Laura had a hard, worldly heart —
which a long life of fighting with adverse
circumstances had not made any the
sweeter, or the advice and snubbing of
high-born relations any the more agreeable.
But to-day, there was an unwonted tenderness
in her manner to Pauline. She seemed
now to realize to what a servitude she had
condemned her daughter ! She had taken
all her joy from her, robbed her, as it were,

of the love of her girlhood, and given her in
exchange chains which she loathed. And
this came home to her now with exceeding
bitterness. She had intended so much for
her child — to place her out of the weary
turmoil that springs from lack of means ;
forgetting that the young wife's heart
required a tenderer nourishment than only
gold could give. She was but three-and-twenty
now ; and she had been married four
years ! Oh, the dreary time ! Lady Laura
had made every inquiry as to Mr. Cohen's
wealth, but very little as to his private
character ; and now the discovery of this
damaging letter had added to the complications.
All these sombre thoughts chased
each other through Lady Laura's anxious
brain. As she watched, almost unconsciously,
Mrs. Cohen and young Yere
amusing themselves in a distant conservatory,
like two idle children, she could hear
vol. i. 5

Pauline's light laughter, as she threw a
handful of rose-leaves at the head of
young Vere, which stuck among the wavy
curls of his light hair.

Her daughter came in again. " Mother,
dear, I am going to put on my things, it's
just time." And as she passed out of the
room for this purpose, Lady Laura rose
from her chair, and quickly went over to
where Charlie was standing.

Mr. Vere," she said, laying her hand on
his arm, " Take care of my child."

Take care of her, Lady Laura ! I
should think so, indeed !"'

"Not only from bodily danger. She is
young, thoughtless, and unhappy. Act the
part of a brother." And she emphasised
the word.

A quick, hot blush spread over his face,
he understood her meaning.

I will try ! " he answered presently.

"Thank you."

Pauline came in looking brighter, and
her dark eyes smiling with expectant pleasure.


Ready, mother ? "

Put in plenty of wraps, Cerise, and tell
your master Mrs. Cohen, Lady Laura and
myself have driven down to Richmond."

"Yes, sir. Will Madame be back to
dinner?"

Oh, dear no, Cerise ! We are going to
dine there," said her mistress.

Oh, the utter blindness — or was it indifference?
of the husband, to throw such
temptation in the way of these two young
people ! Lady Laura knew her son-in-law
disliked her, and she had seen little of her
daughter lately. But events were marching
very quickly now. Here was this young
man arranging her daughter's movements,
taking upon himself the regulation of her

5*

domestic affairs. What would be the end
of it all ?

"Charlie," whispered Pauline, "I don't
think mamma can be well. I believe Mr.
Cohen acts as a nightmare, and weighs
heavily upon her soul. She certainly
seems quite distraite and out of sorts, or
perhaps, poor dear, she is bothered about
money affairs. We always were, you know.
And to think I haven't a penny. Isn't it
too bad ? "

"It is," he answered indignantly, "everything
is so unfairly divided. Here am I
with several thousands lying idle. I wish
they were yours, Pauline."

Never mind, Charlie, the wish is something.
Heigh ho ! "

The carriage is at the door, Madame ! "

The Mayor of Langton at this time was a
gentleman — a Doctor Lewis — as may be
imagined, lie was a retired one — with
ample means, and a widower, a man about
fifty, genial and kind-hearted. What little
practice he had now was almost entirely
among the poorer townspeople. During
this year of his mayoralty his sister, Mrs.
Grantley, had come to stay with him. To
speak correctly, she was his step-sister — a
widow of about four and thirty, tall,
striking, not so much on account of her
beauty — and she had a fair share of it — as
for the bright intelligence displayed in her
face. She had very clear, luminous, grey
eyes, that expressed every thought and feeling.
She was naturally gay and vivacious,

independent in thought, word, and deed.
As may be supposed, her admirers were
many. But between her brother and herself
there was a warm attachment. She
generally lived in London, but had given
herself up this year to Dr. Lewis.

The Bed House, the residence of Dr.
Lewis, was a handsome, substantial redbrick
building, lying back from the road,
with a charming old garden in the rear.
Dinner was over, and they were sitting out
on the lawn enjoying the delicious summer
evening.

There was the Doctor, Mrs. Grantley,
Percy Blythe, Miss Higgins, Esme Curtis,
and Cyril Dash wood.

Dr. Lewis was blowing little graceful
clouds from his cigarette, but he was not
taking much part in the conversation.

Mrs. Grantley was, and somewhat energetically
fanning herself meanwhile. " Indeed

I much prefer men to women," she
was saying, " not on account of their being
especially of the masculine gender, but for
their larger and more onerous mind ; for
their greater capacity for fairness. "Women
generally are small minded. They move
in a groove, in a flock, like the ' Brebis de
Panurge.' ' In Society ' with them is an
unwritten code, stronger than that of the
Modes and Persians. I am speaking generally,
of course, not individually, for I have
known some lovely characters of my own
sex ! They stand out from the common
herd like stars on a summer night. But
take your every-day woman ! She belongs
to a certain set. People who live in large
houses, bien entendu. It is the house she
visits, not so much its inmates, because you
hear her so freely pull them to pieces ! Now
would a man care one whit whether his
friend lived in a mansion or in a small den

in a back street ? Or would lie all but cut
him, or give him a cool nod, because lie was
not exactly moving in the same sphere ?
Not he ! but a woman would ! "

Mrs. Grantley ! Are you not hard
upon your sex? " said Percy Blythe deprecatingly.


No, Mr. Blythe, I am not. I will just
give you a case in point. Some years
back — you will remember Edward? " she
said, turning to her brother, " my father
was able to be of great service in an election
— never mind where. The successful
candidate owed a good deal to him, which
he loyally felt. After the election was
over and my father's friend could add the
magic M.P. to his name, he was very
anxious to show some little attention to
my sister and myself, so he desired his wife
to call. She did call, and afterwards we
were invited to a great omnium gathered

at their house, and then — and there it all
ended. The member's wife £rew to be so
short-sighted that we girls often wondered
she did not take to spectacles. We were
only lawyer's daughters ! you know. Her
husband was always the same. He would
send us game in the season, or any little
delicate compliment he thought would
please us and our dear old father. After
some year or two I married a gentleman
well known in the London world ; a great
scholar — a person gratia everywhere. I
happened to meet the wife of the member

for at a large 'at home.' She came

forward with some empressement, ' I think
I have met you before, Mrs. Grant-ley ? ' "

' I have not the honour of your acquaintance,
madam,' I replied, and continued my
conversation with a dear gentle old lady
who had known me in my insignificant
girlish days."

All ! I do remember that I " said her
brother with a laugh.

So now you see why I generally prefer
men to women ! "

Perhaps this was an unfortunate selection
? " said Mr. Blythe, differing as much
as he dared from his goddess.

"It was no selection, it was simply an
incident," she answered calmly.

I think there are a great many sweet
women in the world," said Miss Higgins.
I fancy, perhaps, I have found more than
men."

I can agree with you in this, without
contradicting my experience. These are
the ' exceptions,' — which you may meet in
all grades of life, from Lady Louisa, who
is the truest gentlewoman I know, to the
wife of an artisan, who dusts the chair for you
to sit upon, as she thanks you for your visit."

"But it is not every woman who can

afford to have the courage of her opinion,"
said Mr. Dashwood, who had his own ideas
of the duties of society.

I quite agree with you, and that is
why I prefer your sex. Xot perhaps so
much individually, as collectively," she
replied, demurely. " Did not dear old
Sir Peter Teazle thoroughly understand
the act of malice, when he declined to
have his character dissected by the
clique at Lady Speedwell's ? "

Yes, but there were at least three menin
that coterie'' said Miss Higgins.

Oh, my dear Miss Higgins, do you call
those creatures men ? To my idea, they are
sexless. As a woman, I repudiate their mean,
contemptible truckling to our worst faults.

" Xor do they trust their tongues alone,
But speak a language of their own ;

Can read a nod, a shrug, a look,
Far better than a printed book !

Convey a libel in a frown,

And wink a reputation down ! ' "

There's no arguing with you, Mrs.
Grantley," said Percy Blythe laughingly.

No ; a woman convinced, you know — "

What is the point of conviction ? " said
the Eector, who had just entered.

Only the superiority of your sex,"
answered Mrs Grantley, with mischief in
her bright defiant eves.

That is a gracious admission from the

o

lips of Mrs Grantley," said the Eector,
making a courtly, old-fashioned bow.

Why, dear Eector ! Did you ever hear
me abuse them ? "

No ! But I did not know you admired
them."

I do, very sincerely."

Then in the name of all my sex, let
me humbly thank you, and say —

' woman ! lovely woman ! Nature made thee to
temper man : we had been brutes without you.' "

Well, upon my word, Harry, I could

not believe my ears. You quoting poetry,
and what not! What is it all about?"
said Lady Louisa, joining the group.

"The Eector is saying something nice
about our sex, Lady Louisa," said Miss
Higgins, making room for the Hector's wife

DO ' O

beside her.

"I am sure I am glad to hear it, because
he has often said to me :

'" Been have many faults ; poor women have but two —
There's nothing good they say, and nothing right
they do.' "

Oh, my dear Louisa! that must have
been years ago ! "

"Well, it was," said his wife, with a
good-tempered smile. " And I am so
pleased to think our sex has improved
since then."

During this discussion Cyril Dashwood
had paired off with Esme under the shady
trees, which prevented them being much

noticed from the drawing-room where the
party had returned. But Hester saw it,
and a vexed look crossed her face and the
resentful feeling against Cyril filled her
heart, and she was not sorry where an hour
later the Rector and Lady Louisa rose to
leave, having to attend a meeting elsewhere,
and asked the Eector to order her carriage
under the plea of a headache ; but she felt
a pang of remorse when she saw the tender
light fade out of Esme's blue eyes and one
of regret take its place.

I shall take her away to Paris," she
thought — " there will be no rest for us
here."

The day of the fete had arrived. It was
one of those lovely golden days of clear,
bright, sunny August. All the Langton
world was expected. The Eector, his
curates and his wife, were early on the
ground to see that every arrangement was
as perfect as could be — and it might be as
well to say a few words about Lady Louisa,
who was a most kind-hearted, good-natured,
though important personage, giving herself
no airs on the strength of being an
earl's daughter, and rather in opposition to
her sister, Lady Laura Eidden, who gave
herself a great many and not always agreeable
ones — for Lady Laura was a disappointed
woman, while Lady Louisa, being
plain and good-tempered, had received a

great deal more than she ever expected. Her
husband was kind, considerate, and fond of
her. And if he had no particular opinion
of her mental capabilities, he had great
ones of her heart, for she was one of the
kindest and simplest of her sex, and as
much liked by the world outside her husband's
parish as she was beloved by those
in the fold. She was greatly attached to
Gerald Lanyon, and equally loved by
Hester Higgins. Lady Louisa was one of
those rather rare women whose happiness
in life consists of little kindly actions to their
fellow creatures. She was the very beau
ideal of a rector's wife. Without fussiness,
devoid of pride, with a heart full of sympathy
— both for sorrow and joy — a true
friend, a thorough woman.

Louisa, my dear," said the Eector, who
had been fussing about for some time.
tc Have you been into the tea tent ? I have

been thinking —suppose it rains ! Dear
me ! Is it water-tight, think you ? "

It is not going to rain, Harry, I feel
sure. I have not a trace of neuralgia, and
you know I always have it before rain !"

I am glad to hear it, my dear ! Let us
trust your neuralgia will ' bide a wee.' What
a splendid show of fruit and flowers have
come from Combe Towers ! Miss Higgins
is a Lady Bountiful ! "

Dear Hester is sure to do her best."

Miss Higgins gave me carte blanche to
select what I thought fit from the hothouses,
and I am glad you approve of them. Lady
Louisa," said Mr. Dash wood with some
importance.

The Eector and his wife smiled, and then
continued their tour of inspection, and found
everything in order.

Nearly everyone had contributed something.
The poor, with honest pride, had sent
vol. i. G

their very best. There were to be prizes
in money, and articles of vertu for the
more opulent. The ground was gay with
bunting. Under the trees, the gingerbread
and gingerbread stalls would do a lively
trade. And the band of the local volunteers
would discourse such music as they were
capable of.

Now the company began to arrive. The
Mayor and Mrs. Grantley, who was looking
bright and charming, and the only person
who dared to brave Mrs. Frostick. Mrs.
Grantley was at once the centre of an
admiring throng, the most loyal of her
following being the Eev. Percy Blythe, who
was generally called her shadow.

I'm afraid we are dreadfully early ; but
the doctor said if he didn't come now, he
couldn't come at all, as he has a meeting
at the Town Hall at four o'clock. Who is
here, Mr. Blythe ? "

The Rector, Lady Louisa, the Craters.
There are the Brown girls and their father
coming in at the gate, and there is Mrs.
Frostick in the rear. Lady Laura Hidden
is expected, also Sir John Carruthers, from
Leigh Marsh."

Will Miss Twins be here ? "

Yes, I think so. Is not that her carriage
coming over the hill ? "

So it is ! Come and let us see some of
the flowers and things before the crush.
Where is the Doctor ? Oh, there he is,
with Lady Louisa, in safe company. Where
is your woman-hater ? "

Oh, he's somewhere about," said Percy,
laughing. " Look ! here come some of his
foes ! " and Matilda Brown, in a pale green
dress with a long train, a yellow silk handkerchief
loosely knotted round her thin
throat, a sort of green-hued ' beef eater ' hat
with yellow roses, followed by Harriet, in a

G*

white dress, gathered and drawn, and
puckered, like a child's, with a pale yellow
sash and quilted bonnet with a baby's cap
inside, came up with effusion to shake
hands with Mrs. Grantley and Mr. Blythe.

So glad to see you, Mrs. Grantley. Isn't
it an awfully fine day, Mr. Blythe ? I hope
Mr. Lanyon is going to favour us with his
company ? " asked Miss Brown with some
anxiety.

I believe so, Miss Brown. Here is a
friend of yours coming up in full sail," he
answered, with laughing malice, as Mrs.
Frostick was seen slowly making her way
to where they all stood. It was enough for
the Brown girls. They firmly believed indiscretion
being the better part of valour.
So Tillie Brown, passing her arm through
her sister's, said : " I think, Mrs. Grantley,
we will go and see the show. We can do it
without crushing now."

We shall see you again, Mrs. Grantley,"
said Harriet. " Good-bye for the present."

Mrs. Grantley nodded and laughed, her
grey eyes, and saucy little nose, looked the
embodiment of mischief.

I am afraid there won't be a battle after
all ! "

"For shame ! Mrs. Grantley," said Percy
with a laugh. 'attention! Here is our
friend, the enemy."

"Did you ever see such fools as yon
lasses ! Look at them ! " said Mrs. Frolicks
she recovered her breath, and found
herself beside the two. " Look at that long
rag Tillie's got on ! And Harriet, with a
gown that would do for a four-year old
bairn ! "

But they are happy, Mrs. Frostick, and
it's a free country," said Mrs. Grantley with
a twinkle in her eye. " I daresay you liked
to look pretty in your young days."

Pretty ! And you call } T on pretty ? "

It's their idea of prettiness ! Besides,
aesthetic dress is really worn in
town."

Mrs. Frostick snorted derisively. " It
beats all to see what a soft old fool is
David Brown. Why, Tillie's thirty-five,
come Michaelmas ! "

Mrs. Frostick ! do let me put your
front ' straight ; it's all awry, and spoils
the effect of your toilet," said Mrs. Grant-ley
sweetly.

Mrs. Frostick darted a look of deadly
anger at the Mayoress, and with a snort,
and a severe clutch at the offending wig,
turned abruptly away.

How could you, Mrs. Grantley? '' said
Mr. Blythe, convulsed with laughter.

"My dear young friend, you should
always hit your enemy in his or her
weakest spot. Mrs. Frostick's weakest spot

is her false brown front. Here comes Lady
Louisa."

How are you, Mrs. Grantley ? But I
need not ask ! Haven't we a lovely day ?
Nothing could be better. I do hope everybody
will enjoy themselves, especially the
children ! Their little shining faces are a
sight to see. Mr. Lanyon is my especial
aide-de-camp for the day, so, Mrs. Grantley
I give you due warning — you are not to
requisition him."

Xow Lady Louisa ! That is not fair !
Did you ever know Mr. Lanyon desert your
colours for mine ? "

Well, no ! I will say he is generally
faithful. But you are radiant to-day, and
armed for conquest ; so I tremble for my
squire."

Lady Louisa ! Mrs. Grantley has had
her first round with Mrs. Frostick, and I am
bound to say came off conqueror."

The Rector's wife laughed and shook her
head. " Ah ! here comes Hester Higgins ;
I must go and welcome her," but the Ev.
Cyril Dashwood was much before her ladyship,
for he was ready at the gate to receive
the heiress and Esme as they alighted.
Mrs. Grantley's eyes followed them, and
an amused smile flitted over her face.

Which is he after, Percy Blythe ?— the
substance or the shadow ? "

But Percy only shook his head. " I
don't tell tales out of school, Mrs.
Grantley."

Then you do know ! " said she looking
at him keenly.

Have ycu been to call on Mrs. Ned
Carter, as I asked you ? " he asked, instead
of answering her question.

I have, Mr. Blythe ! And a very funny
person I found her ; she asked me to come
and ' set ' with her as if we were two old

hens who wanted to clack ! Besides, her
whole conversation was on vermin ! "

On vermin ? What can you mean,
Mrs. Grantley ? ''

"Exactly what I say! Mrs. Carter
complained that her house was overrun
with mice, and other odious black creatures.
So I faithfully promised — in your name — a
cat and a hedgehog ! "

How could you ? Where am I to get a
hedgehog ? "

I have not the faintest idea. But I
wil suggest this much, if you want me to
look her up you really must provide her,
every now and then, with some fresh
topic of conversation, for I came away
creepy to a degree. Xow let us go and
see those orchids of Sir John Carruthers' ; I
hear they are wonderful."

In Lie meantime Miss Higgins and Esme
were walking about with Lady Louisa,
Cyril Dashwood firmly . attaching himself to
Hester, and hardly noticing the young girl
so much as by a look ; indeed, he seemed
almost studiously to avoid her. And yet
Esme had hardly looked fairer — so dainty
and fresh was she — in her soft pale dress of
blue and her damask roses. She tried to
put a bold face on this cold desertion, but
her heart was wounded to a degree. So
she turned her pretty face to Sir Ernest
Belon, who had just joined the group. A
wel-to do young country squire, whom they
had known abroad. And was only too
happy for Esme's attention at any price, ashe
was wildly in love with her.

Miss Curtis ! do let me escort you

through some of the tents. They are quite
worth a visit."

I shall be very pleased to go I Where
shall we find you, Hester ? "

Never mind, dear, just for an hour. I
shall be sure and see your blue frock and
your red roses," said Hester, only too glad
to have her dear child away from the
torment she knew she was suffering. So
Esme, without one glance at Cyril Dash-wood,
passed out of sight with her handsome
young squire.

Come with me first into the tea tent,
Hester, dear. I think Mr. Lanyon is there.
You will not mind if he is not particularly
polite or attentive. In fact he dislikes
ladies' society. But he is such a kind, good
fellow. If you only could know what he
has been to those poor wretched gipsies !
They are down with smallpox, and have
given no end of trouble. He has managed

to get a temporary hospital for the poor
creatures — it is only a rough wooden affair,
but contains a good many comforts for
them. And really until he took up the
thing it was most serious. The Town
Council feared they would bring infection
into the town. But, however, he, and
Dr. Macartney from London, between them,
have done wonders. Absolutely got them
to have their children vaccinated. He has
arranged for provisions being conveyed to
them. So they, on the whole, are really
getting better now, thanks to his noble self-denial.
His own vaccination has made him
wretchedly ill. You haven't met him at all,
my dear? Gerald Lanyon is not the least
good-looking, though I hear the young ladies
would make a lot of him if he would only
let them. The fact is, dear, he is very well
off," said her Ladyship, slyly, "for a
curate,"

Mr. Cyril Dashwood, finding His company
almost ignored by the two ladies, took
himself off, and rather regretted he had not
paid more attention to Esme. However,
there she was, walking about, apparently
enjoying herself, with Sir Ernest Belton.
While he was wandering aimlessly about,
with something like a scowl on his handsome
face, he was waylaid by Miss Matilda
Brown ! It was all in vain he pleaded
anxiety to find the Eector. She knew " the
exact spot where the Eector was located."
Inwardly he anathematised her ; but it was
all no good. Miss Brown was not to be
parted with. She was impervious to his
cold, abrupt answers. She had found an
escort, and did not mean to let him <?o.

In the meantime Lady Louisa and her
companion had reached the largest tent on
the ground, gaily decorated with flags.
Several children were running in and out.

Oh, children ! children ! You audit
not to be here till tea time, and it's not
near that ! "

If you please, my lady, we ain't
touched nothing. Mr. Lanyon said we
might, if we didn't meddle with anything,
and we haven't, my lady."

Very well," said my lady, good-naturedly.
They were the children of her
own Sunday school class, and somewhat
spoilt.

Lady Louisa ! you must scold me,"
said Mr. Lanyon, coming through the opening
and answering for himself. " I told
them they might stay, and they have
been helping me to put some flowers
about that Mrs. Bayliss has just sent in !
And now you can run away, youngsters,"
he said, turning to the children.

Lear Hester ! will you let me introduce
Mr. Lanyon to yon, and make acquainted

two dear and valued friends ? " Nothing
could be happier than Lady Louisa's
manner, to make it, as it were, a
personal favour to herself, that they
should be good friends. She knew the
bristling crotchets on both sides.

Mr. Lanyon came forth and shook hands.

Miss Higgins, I have to thank you very
deeply for your kindness to some rather
unhappy friends of mine at Combe
Warren."

Pray do not thank me, I am only too
glad to be of any service. And they are
on my land ! Besides, I consider it part
of a debt I owe."

He looked inquiringly at her.

I mean," she answered with almost a
defiant blush, " that as most of my money
comes from the public, it is but fair they
should have some of it back again."

Any way, it has been most useful,"

he replied simply ; " it enabled me to
engage another nurse, and other requirements."


I am so glad of that, do please draw on
me for anything you want ; food, comforts
of any kind. You will, will you not ? "
she asked eagerly, her face lighting up with
earnestness.

Indeed I will, and at once claim your
kind help. First, will you let your housekeeper
make a good quantity of strong
beef-tea, and any other kitchen physic you
will suggest. And if one of your men will
leave it twice a week at Combe Hill, by
the sign post, some one from our borderland
shall come and fetch it ; and if you
would send it in some old jars which need
not be returned, your servants will stand
in no fear of infection. It will be a great
help to us."

It shall be done, and at once, and

I will send word directly the first consignment
is ready."

I thank you much, and I trust it will
not be for long, so many are convalescent ;
but it is just they who require the more
help, to get quite well."

Do you not run some risk yourself ? "

Just a little perhaps, but I have been
vaccinated and gone through the process
of quarantine, and now, with the extra
nurse and Dr. Macartney, I am going to
give to myself a holiday and look after
them at a distance ; and independently of
all this, I have neither father, mother or
wife, so you see my health is of no serious
importance to anyone."

Gerald, you are ungrateful to say so,"
said Lady Louisa, reproachfully.

« Forgive me ! dear friend," he said
quickly, turning towards her. " I am ungrateful."


vol. i. 7

Miss Higgins looked at him with some
interest — at the square, rugged face, over
which flitted the softening shadows of
kindly feeling. No, he was not like the
curates it had been her luck to come across.
There was no effeminacy about him — he
seemed always to have mixed with the
strong, and to have retained their strength.

On his part, he was surprised; he was
not prepared for this earnest, refined woman.
This was no purse-proud heiress, but a
human being full of kindly sympathies.
And most certainly she was not plain !
Plain ! What a strange delusion ! With
those beautiful deep grey eyes, and that
changing expression.

Just then, Cyril Dash wood entered, none
too pleased to observe the friendly intimacy
that seemed to have sprung up
between Miss Higgins and Lanyon ; he
likewise noted the eager animated face of

Hester, it had never beamed upon him
like that, it positively made her decent-looking
! And then — when she turned and
saw who was the intruder, her face resumed
its usual cold sarcastic hauteur.

Lady Louisa ! they are seeking you
everywhere. Lady Laura has arrived ! "

Lady Laura ! " mechanically exclaimed
Gerald L any on.

Oh, Gerald, dear ! I forget to tell you
she was coming, but you need not see her."

He made no remark, but his face was
pale and stern.

Lady Louisa turned to the others.

Well, I suppose I must go, but it is
very pleasant here. Will you come, Hester,
or remain here till I come again ? "

I will remain — it is quiet and cool."

I will rejoin you, Miss Higgins, in a
few moments," said Mr. Dashwood, reluctantly
leaving them.

7*

Miss Higgins vouchsafed no reply. But
she had marked the quick look of pain on
Mr. Lanyon's face, and turned to address
some observation to the children, who
were again at the tent door, and so left
him to recover himself.

Then Mrs. Grantley put her bright
face in.

Ah, there you are, Miss Higgins !
Miss Curtis was looking for you. But,
I may add, she is well cared for, Sir
Ernest Beldon is showing her all the lions
of the show'

I am so pleased to hear that," said
Hester.

I hope I have not scared Mr. Lanyon
away, but, even while I was speaking to
you, he glided past me, like a substantial
ghost," said Mrs. Grantley.

I expect he is required in a good many
places."

What a pity he is so churlish ! "

Now, Miss Higgins, will you make the
tour of the grounds under my guidance? "
said Mr. Dashwood, who had just returned,
breathlessly anxious to give no quarter to
Gerald Lanyon. " I consider myself the
master of the ceremonies, to a certain
extent."

Thanks. — Xo ! Mr. Dashwood. I have
seen a good deal already, and am comfortable
here," and she spoke with such provoking
coldness, that he almost hated her,
while Mrs. Grantley's demure face was a
study.

Do please come, Miss Higgins ! I want
you to see Hawkins' contribution, on } T our
behalf."

Very well. Come, Mrs. Grantley, shall
we start then."

With pleasure," answered that lady,
with a little twinkle of her eve. She knew

this was the last thing Cyril wanted ; so she
just whispered in his ear : " Two's company,
three's none, eh, Mr. Dash wood ? "

He frowned angrily, but said nothing.

So presently his tormentor said : " Find me
Percy Blythe — I'll be bound he is not very
far off — or the Doctor. Xo ! not the Doctor !
he will want to be going, and I mean to

stay and see all the fun ! It's no good,

believe me, dear Mr. Dashwood ! "

Cyril reddened angrily, but he knew it
was useless fWhtino; with Mrs. Granted.
In the first place she would not care, and
would rather enjoy it, and on the whole she
was too nice to quarrel with. Presently,
to his great relief, he saw Percy Blythe
ahead of them.

Here, Blythe ! Mrs. Granted has been
wanting; you these last ten minutes. Do
come and make yourself useful ! "

Mrs. Granted only shook her head,

while Cyril profited by the diversion to walk
on in front with Miss Higgins.

"My dear Percy, Cyril Dash wood has
been in agonies. He wanted to get rid of
me a quarter of an hour ago. It was a bad
quarter, you may guess. And to think he
is throwing all the pearls of his eloquence
away on the lady ! See ! she doesn't even
listen to him. Why don't you tell him he
is playing a losing game ? He is sacrificing
Esme, who is soft enough to care for him,
for Hester Higgins, who despises him down
to the ground. Why don't you say something
? " she asked impatiently. " Are you
dumb ? "

Dear Mrs. Grantley, please don't be
hard on me. A man should be loyal to his
friend. And would my interference be
judicious? On the contrary, it would be
almost impertinence."

You are right, Percy, forgive me !" and

she put out a dainty little gloved hand,
which he warmly grasped.

Under his pleasant, debonair exterior, he
had a loyal, upright heart. Mrs Grantley
was to him a woman among women. No
girl would ever appear so charming, and
yet he knew she would never love him.
No ! as far as he was concerned, she was
unattainable. She might tease, command,
vex him — all which she did within the
twelve hours of the day — but still, he would
rather have her friendship than another
woman's love.

Mr. Lanyon had disappeared. Lady
Laura Bidden and her sister were walking
about absorbed in earnest conversation.

Laura ! if you ask Gerald Lanyon to
undertake such a task, it would be right
down cruelty ; nay, it would be bad taste.
You have embittered his life almost past

recovery. Can't you leave him alone
now ? "

"Louie! drowning men catch at straws.
So that I could save Pauline, I would not
care who was sacrificed. What is Gerald
Lanyon to me, that I should consider him,
if he can serve my turn? It is useless now
to say : ' Why did I not let her marry
him years ago ? ' How was I to tell young
Horace Lanyon would be killed on a
Swiss mountain ? I wish now, withall
my heart, she had married him, but
wishes will do no good," and Lady
Laura sighed deeply. " Pauline told
me plainly yesterday, if Charlie Vere
would take her away, she would elope
with him. I have absolutely nothing but
young Yere's honour to cling to, for she has
found out some things about Mr. Cohen's
private life, and now she is reckless!"

"It is terrible, Laura dear," said her

sister, with a world of sympathy in her
tones.

Well, don't let us talk any more now,"
said Lady Laura abruptly. " People will
think we are plotting. Who is that rather
distingue looking woman walking across
there, with one of your curates — in black
and amber ? "

Miss Higgins."

What ! that old quack's daughter ?

"Yes."

Good gracious ! What a pity I have
no son, or that yours is a boy at Eton. She
is so rich ! "

My dear Laura, Hester Higgins is much
too good to be sacrificed to anybody. I
have both great love and great respect for
her. She is not a woman to be easily won.
I am much attached to her."

My dear Louisa ! You always have
been attaching yourself to somebody or

something all your life ! I believe a harmless
snake would not come amiss ! "

Lady Louisa was not in the least disturbed
by these sarcasms. Had she not
endured them for many years. of her life ?

I daresay you are right, Laura ; I don't
profess to be as clever as you, dear. But
with regard to Hester I know and feel there
is something good and great in her, and if
she does marry I hope it will be to some
good man, who will love and value her for
herself, not her money — she is far above
rubies."

My dear Louie, you are getting poetical?
I am practical! Introduce me to
your paragon."

"As soon as they come this way I will."

Are those some of your local ' celebrities
? ' " asked Lady Laura, putting on her
eyeglass and carefully examining Tilly and
Harriet Brown, who happened to cross her

ladyship's point of sight, in eager chase of
Mr. Blythe, whom they eventually caught
up. And he, far too gentlemanly and kindhearted
to cause them mortification, stayed
and chatted with them ; and this too in the
sight of Mrs. Frostick !

They are two Miss Browns, and they
have a nice old father."

I see ! He balances the daughters ! "

By this time Hester, attended by the
faithful Cyril, approached the two ladies.

Hester, dear ! My sister would much

like to make your acquaintance."

I shall be very happy, Lady Laura ! I
met your daughter, Mrs. Cohen, last year

at Homburg — "

Did you, really ? "

She was with the Mount chimneys.
They were all staying at the same hotel."

Lady Laura frowned. These same 
were as much her bete noir as

Charlie Vere. Lady Louisa came to the
rescue.

Did you not think my niece very pretty,
Hester?"

Indeed we did ! She was so much
admired at Homburg — "

Then, to his srreat chagrin, Mr. Dash wood
was called away. He liked being associated
with the Eectory party. Nevertheless he
felt he was making but little headway with
the heiress. All he could get out of her
were monosyllables, and she seemed bored
to death. And all this time a hot unreasonable
anger against Esme possessed him,
who appeared to be entirely engrossed by
the 3 r young baronet and forgetful of his
presence. He could not understand that the
young girl, bringing pride to the rescue
of her wounded feelings seemed far more
interested in young Beldon than she really
was, for her heart was very sore. The

whole time she had been there her Cyril had
devoted himself, pointedly and absolutely,
to Miss Higgins. What right had he to
love her (Esme) and then to devote himself
to another woman ? — it was too cruel ! And
it was only with great difficulty she could
restrain the tears from overflowing the
tender blue eyes — they were in her heart.
The afternoon to her had been a miserable
failure. What matter that she looked
lovely, that her dress was beautiful ? Cyril
did not notice it ! Why should she suffer
so ? Ernest Beldon had left her for a
moment to go and procure some ices, when
Hester came and sat beside her.

"Esme, love! Lady Louisa wishes us
to go to the Rectory and spend the evening
there, instead of going back to
dinner."

"Oh, Hester! I wish we were going
home."

"Why, dear? Haven't you enjoyed
yourself ? "

"Don't ask me I" she answered tremulously.


Would you like to go home now,
darling ? " said Hester tenderly.

Oh, Hester ! Would you ? You are
not vexed ? "

Vexed, love ! How could I be ? Shall
we have the carriage ? I do not care to
stay."

Are you quite, quite sure, Hester ? "

Quite, quite sure ! "

Sir Ernest Beldon came up to them with
two plates of ices. " I have one for you
Miss Higgins ! I saw you sit down."

Thank you, Sir Ernest ! And after we
have consumed them, will you kindly order
my carriage ? "

Order your carriage ! Oh, surely you
are not going yet ? " he exclaimed in tones

of such evident disappointment that Hester
felt quite sorry for him.

I think we are both tired, and Esme
has a headache."

I am so sorry ! I fear it is all
my fault" — and he looked anxiously at
Esme, who looked pale and weary —
dragging her about all this broiling-afternoon
! "

Please don't say so ! " said Esme feeling
some reproach, as she saw the kind honest
face of the young man clouded over with
disappointment. " You have been so kind
to me."

Sir Ernest ! I hope you will find your
way over to the ' Towers,' said Miss Higgins
heartily. "Indeed, I shall be glad of
your advice about some land I think of
buying ! "

I shall only be too glad ! " said he,
visibly brightening, and he registered a

vow of mental gratitude to the kind owner
of Combe Towers.

So with these thoughts to cheer him he
went in search of the carriage.

Miss Higgins went to make her excuses
to Lady Louisa, and Cyril Dashwood came
up hastily to Esme.

What is this I hear about your going ? "
said he roughly.

Simply that we are going," she replied
coldly.

What ever for ? I have not spoken to
you all the afternoon ! You have been so
taken up with that idiotic young prig,
Beldon ! " She made no answer.

He felt irritated that Esme, usually so
docile, so submissive to all his selfish
whims, should even by silence resent any
mood he chose to indulge in.

Come Esme ! I suppose you are
offended ? "

VOL. I. 8

Pray, do not think so, Mr. Dashwood ! "

Mr. Dashwood ! So that's it ! "

Then the Eector, Lady Louisa, and Sir
Ernest Beldon came up.

I think you are both most cruel ! " said
her Ladyship to Esme — who looked so sad
and penitent that Lady Louisa stooped
down and kissed her. "However I shall
come over and see you tomorrow."

I see the carriage at the gate ; come
Esme ! " and Hester, with the Eector and his
wife, walked on, while Ernest Beldon kept
close to Esme, notwithstanding that Cyril
Dashwood, with scowling brow, was on the
other side of her ; and as the young baronet
handed her into the carriage he leaned over
and softly whispered (but not so softly
that Cyril's jealous ears caught it) —

I will send for that book as soon as
possible, and bring it over."

Cyril looked inquiringly at Esme, but

she made no sign, and the carriage drove
off.

The Rev. Cyril Dashwood walked apart
by himself, with anger and jealousy tugging
at what did duty for a heart. Esme went
up considerably in his estimation. The
very fact that someone else admired her

sought her " Good heavens ! I have

been a fool this afternoon ! Wasting my
• time on that mass of iron and ice! While

Esme But still ! What is the use of

her, poor little darling ! Sunbeam as she
is ! Without a sou ! No ! I must still
work at that odious fortress of a woman —
how I shall hate her when I do succeed ! "

You see the Rev. Cyril Dashwood had a
profound belief in himself ; he only imagined
it was a work of time with the obdurate,
hard-hearted heiress. Failure, he could not
understand.

Once out of the turmoil, and on the road

8*

home, Esme's self-possession gave way, and
the pent-up tears coursed each other down
her pale cheeks. " What is it, darling ? "
said Hester.

Oh, Hester ! Hester ! I am so unhappy ;
it has been such a wretched afternoon, and
I had so looked forward to it ! "

"Poor child! I think I can guess," said
the elder woman, with infinite tenderness.
Oh, Esme ! what things we women are !
We lavish the precious gold of our affection
on such worthless creatures. There is good,
honest, Ernest Beldon, who worships you,
and yet your eyes are so blinded by that
insufferable, self-seeking, selfish young man,
Cyril Dashwood, that you can't see it ! I
have the most supreme contempt for him."

Hester, I see all his faults, and I see
Ernest Beldon's goodness. And yet I can't
help it. Do we not almost love their faults
when they are part and parcel of the beloved

object ? I love Cyril. Don't despise me,
Hester," said Esme, humbly.

Despise you, my darling ! Not that,
indeed ! How can you help your tender

heart of nineteen P And yet ! The pity

of it "

Have you ever seen Ernest Beldon's
home at Heminglee ? " presently asked Miss
Higgins.

No."

It is such a sweet place ! It is part and
parcel of an old Priory. I remember going
there some years ago when Lady Beldon
was alive. It must be dull for him, poor
fellow, now that his sister has married."

Who did she marry ? " asked Esme
with languid interest.

Sir Percy Willis."

Oh, then we met them last year at Mrs.
]\Iunroe's."

Yes. Do you not remember saying she

was the prettiest and best-dressed woman
there ? "

Yes ! She wore white velvet and
pearls."

And I think she is so like her brother,
with just the same winning expression," said
Hester, with sly unconsciousness of tone.

Hester, did you see Mr. Lanyon ? "

Yes. He was in the lar<?e tea tent."

Well ? "

Well, little curious, for a curate he is
very sensible."

Do you think him so ugly ? "

"I can't say — Xo! — I think he seems
much in earnest."

Was he so very disagreeable ? "

Not in the least."

Oh Hester ! " said Esme, returning to
her own troubles again, " Why did you
keep Cyril all the afternoon ? "

Keep him ! Surely, you cannot imagine

I wanted such an insincere, conceited person
attached to me ! His presence was a perpetual
blister. Any other man but himself
would have had too much tact, too
much dignity, to have persisted in such
attentions. I can only conclude he considers
himself some sort of an official at the
show, and as I was rather a large contributor,
merited large attention ; and if I
ever waste one thought upon him, it is with
regret for you, dear. For myself, I despise
him," and Miss Higgins's face left no doubt

no

of her meaning.

o

My dear, it strikes me, he will soon find
out he can't run with the hare and hunt
with the hounds. Now, here we are ! and
there is old Major barking a welcome.
There's no place like home, is there, Esme ?"

Xo, darling ! And no one like Hester,"
said the girl, giving her a fond hug.

The next day, Lady Louisa and her sister,
Lady Laura, drove over to Combe Towers to
lunch. Lady Laura had no objection whatever
to cultivate the friendship of a rich,
independent young woman ; poor people, in
her eyes, were the greatest of mistakes. She
was charmed and impressed by everything.
The complete, though subdued effect of
wealth, rather felt than seen, the perfectly
appointed household, the gracious, calm,
dignified hostess, clever if sarcastic, but
always well-bred. She remarked almost
with envy, the affection that seemed to
subsist between her homely sister and the
heiress. While to Esme, Lady Laura considered
Miss Higgins's affection absurd.
A companion ! and to be treated more like

a spoilt child ; petted and humoured, and
consulted as if she were a person of consequence.
Even her sister was almost as
bad ; but then, no one ever expected any
sense from Louisa !

What a thing it would be if she could
induce Miss Higgins and her wayward
Pauline to become friends. How might
not that clever, cold, clear-headed woman,
influence the excitable, frivolous, and certainly
unhappy wife of Mr. Cohen ! It was
well worth working out — so she formed
a resolve, but said nothing to her sister
about it.

After luncheon, Lady Louisa asked Hester
if she would drive back to Langton with
her, for about an hour or two.

The fact is, Gerald Lanyon, not satisfied
with his hospital at Combe Warren, is
anxious to try and get up a permanent one
at Langton. A sort of cottage hospital.

You know we have nothing of the kind,
and have to send all our cases to Barrington,
twenty miles off ; but it will be rather uphill
work, and I must say the Eector is not
over keen about it. He says he can't see
where the money is to come from. The
townspeople may take it up, but they are
just as likely to say they have done without
it all these years, and their fathers before
them, and why should they have one
now ? They are most kind and good, but
they are not progressive."

Dear Lady Louisa, I need scarcely says
it will have my warmest sympathies. Indeed,
I think it is one of the privileges
of wealth, to help and succour those who
lack it."

Gerald Lanyon seems to have a craze
on hospitals," said Lady Laura, coldly.
From the time I arrived yesterday, I have
heard of nothing else, except indeed smallpox,

by way of a cheerful variety, I suppose."


Yes, but dear, Gerald thinks so much
suffering might be prevented by timely
attention and care."

Lady Laura shrugged her shoulders ; she
was utterly bored by it all.

Suppose we begin at once," said Miss
Higgins, with some eagerness. "If Lady
Laura will do me the pleasure of remaining
as my guest, during my absence for two or
three hours, Esme will be my representative.
I think the conservatories will repay
a visit."

Numbing will give me greater pleasure.
I am anxious to inspect all your valuable
curiosities, I have heard so much of
them."

They are all at your service, Lady
Laura."

The two friends then drove off.

Hester, I don't think I ever told you
why Gerald Lanyon is so dear to me, almost
as my own son. In the first place, his dead
mother was my earliest and dearest friend,
and, my dear, he has been the victim of my
sister's worldliness. He had grown up
with Pauline, my sister allowed them to
be thrown together with the most perfect
indifference, and, of course, they loved
each other. He passed with high honours
at Cambridge, and was reading for the
Bar, but he was poor, nothing much but
his own brains to rely upon. So things
drifted on, he always loving pretty, foolish
Pauline, until one day, he asked Laura
for her daughter's hand, so soon as he
should have made a start in life. My sister
was amazed, and suddenly making up her
mind, distinctly forbade any such idea —
separated them, by carrying Pauline to
London, and within a wear married her to

Mr. Cohen. Anything more unhappy than
that marriage, can hardly be imagined."

Have they never met since ? "

Never ! It went badly with poor
Gerald, he had brain fever. After many
months, our dear old friend Dr. Burners,
advised him to take orders, with a conviction,
that, in interesting himself in others,
he would forget his own griefs."

And has he done so ? "

I think he has to some extent, but
he is very reserved. I wish he could meet
with some woman who could, and would,
undo the mischief my sister and Pauline
occasioned. He has a noble heart, but I
feel convinced that Pauline would never
have made him happy, she is so trivial,
nay, almost childish, to say nothing of her
caprice. She certainly is a dainty, fascinating
little thing, but a man with a disposition
like Gerald's, with so much craving

after a nobler and higher life, requires
something better than mere prettiness.

Now, it must be confessed that Lady
Louisa, in that commonplace head of hers,
was hatching a scheme, which she, in her
turn, intended to keep to herself, and this
was to raise a feeling of warm friendship
between Hester Higgins and Gerald Lanyon.
She knew they were both people with
corners,' but still, " On gnerit comme on
se console ; on na pas dans le coeur de quoi
toujours pleader, et toujours aimer."

So she trusted in her own diplomacy,
that what began in mutual interest and
friendship, their own hearts would one day
finish. Lady Louisa was aware that
Hester disliked clerics, therefore she merely,
interested her sympathies in " the man " —
not the curate.

"I do not wonder he dislikes womenkind
after that," said Hester after a pause.

My clear, we will drive on to Mr. Lane
cottage, because lie lias all the plans
there." As they drove down the pretty
lane they saw the gentleman in question
about to enter his gate, but hearing the
sound of wheels he turned as the carriage
pulled up. He seemed surprised — Miss
Higgins thought, to see her with Lady
Louisa — and not over pleased.

"We are coming in, Gerald. Miss
Higgins will lend a gracious ear to your
cottage hospital plan — if you take her
while she is in the humour." Hester
smiled, and Gerald held out his hand to
assist the ladies to alight.

Go in, please, Lady Louisa, while I get
my man to put up the ponies," for Lady
Louisa and her friend had dispensed with
that sometimes inconvenient third — a manservant.


What a cosy room, Mr. Lanyon ! "

I am glad you think so, Miss Higgins,
as much of its cosiness comes from my dear
friend here."

I do ' mother ' him occasionally, Hester."
Occasionally ! Always ! dear friend."
Hester thought his face so pleasant as he
turned in animation to the Eector's wife.

Then he and Hester fell to discuss the
plans, and anon a bright eager light came
into the grey eyes, so full of intelligence
and kind womanly feeling, that Gerald
threw off his reserve and plunged into
details con amove. Lady Louisa, placidly
seating herself in a comfortable armchair
near the open window, produced from a
reticule a quantity of homely knitting, and
with a very satisfied expression set to at
her work. The bees came droning in. The
odours from the flowers sent in a fragrant
breeze, the tall sunflowers threw long
shadows, the holyoaks bent gently to the

whisper of the wind ; Prince, and Eupert,
lay stretched in the sunshine, and gradually
Lady Louisa's fingers relaxed ; there came
a gentle murmur of voices from the far end
of the room, and with a pleasant little sigh
the Eector's wife closed her eyes — and then
she slept.

The two talked on. The shadows grew
longer. Mrs. Bayliss brought in some tea.
Lady Louisa opened her eyes ; surely she
must have had a few minutes' doze ? Then
Hester poured out the tea, and Gerald
handed it to her. " I think we see our
way, dear friend," said he. " I cannot
thank Miss Higgins enough."

I am so glad it is in train," said her
Ladyship, with demure quietness, " I
thought your two wise heads would
manage it."

The old housekeeper came in again to
know if the ladies would like any fruit,
vol. i. ( J

and was supremely happy when Lady
Louisa expressed a wish to go and see
her chickens.

Then Gerald produced all his treasures
for Hester's inspection, and she in return
bested him to come over to Combe
Towers and see hers — brought from many
countries. He willingly acquiesced ; indeed
he felt refreshed when he looked into those
clear honest eyes. " I shall come," he
said, and clasped her hand warmly, " and
thank you deeply for your interest in my
work ! "

Shall we say our work, Mr. Lanyon ?
Poor humanity is not exclusive."

Be it so," he answered with a smile.

Lady Louisa entered. " Hester ! Your
ponies are anxious to be off, and the Rector
will be scolding me — he does sometimes,
you know, dear man ! "

Hester felt a strange new feeling of pleasure,

which she could hardly analyse. It
seemed like some wave of gladness that
hitherto had never before visited her. True,
it was only one of her many acts of charity !
And yet, was it a ray of this pleasant evening
sun that was shining in her heart ? She
knew not — but there was a brightness in
everything.

"Well, my dear, will you send Laura
back ? You must let one of your men bring
her home," said Lady Laura, as they drew
up at the Eectory.

Hester started ! " Of course, dear friend,
I will see to Lady Laura's comfort and
convenience. Oh, dear Lady Louisa ! I
have spent such a pleasant afternoon," said
she kissing her friend with all Esme's impulsiveness.
And the Sector's wife said
nothing, but kissed her affectionately in
return. And then her ladyship got down
and watched the carriage drive off with its

0*

solitary but happy occupant. Then she
nodded her head, and a comfortable smile
spread over her face : " Bless the dear
creatures ! They are made for each other !
But I wouldn't have Laura know it for the
world ! "

«*

S ViiTv' is)

Mrs. Cohen and her maid Cerise were in
deep consultation, and the young lady was
pacing restlessly up and down, her pretty
pale blue robe-de-chambre flowing in long
graceful folds round her.

Isn't it time he was here, Cerise ? "

Mais non! Madame ! it wants half-an-hour
yet."

Oh dear ! I wish he would hurry ! Mr.
Cohen may come home any moment, and
the man not clear off." And she stopped

her restless walk to listen eagerly. Then

presently a knock was heard, and Cerise
went out.

It is the young man from ' Storr and
Lazenby,' " whispered Cerise, entering with

a young man, who held a small parcel in
his hand.

We have executed your order, Madam,
and you would hardly know the paste from
the original. Messrs. Storr and Lazenby
have given seven hundred for the necklace,
and the cost of the paste imitation is fifty
pounds. I have the seven hundred with
me and shall require your receipt."

Only seven hundred ! Why it cost a
thousand ! "

Doubtless, Madam ! but buying and
selling are not exactly the same."

So I perceive ; however, I will take that."

Here is the receipt, Madam, if you will
be so good as to sign it — just there. And
here are the notes " (and he took from an
inner pocket a pocket-book and counted
out the fresh crisp notes, and a smaller bag
with sovereigns) " and the gold as you
directed. Will you be pleased to inspect

the paste necklet and see if it meets with
your approbation." And then from the
parcel he produced the sparkling necklace.

Oh that is exact ! isn't it, Cerise ? "

"It is Madam ; it is perfect ! Tiens ! "
she whispered hurriedly — " I hear monsieur
arrive in his dressing-room, he has just
rung his bell ! "

That will do, thank you'' said Pauline,
as she hastily signed the receipt and dismissed
the man. Then she swiftly swept
off the gold and notes into an escritoire,
locked it, and put the necklace into
her jewel box. She had only just accomplished
this, when a knock was heard at her
dressing-room door beyond the boudoir ;
the rooms led out, one into the other.
She rapidly crossed the two rooms and
opened the door — it was her husband !

What ! not dressed yet ! it is nearly
eight o'clock ! "

I shall not be long," said Mrs. Cohen,
with unwonted amiability. " I will ring
for Cerise now."

Pauline ! you will wear your diamonds
to-night,"

I was going to wear pale blue and
pearls."

Weil then, wear something else and
diamonds," with that, he closed the door.

Can he have heard ? " she asked eagerly
of Cerise, who was in the farther room, as
she listened nervously to the departing footsteps
of her husband.

No, no, madame, it is what you call a
coincidence. I saw the young man safely
off, and he came up the other staircase.
Madame can wear her white silk and
lace, the diamonds will do with that — and
look, the lovely roses Monsieur Yere send !"
and she took from a side table a basket of
sweet-scented tea roses, of rich warm colour.

They are nice ; but, Cerise, isn't it a
mercy the paste necklace came home
in time," said Pauline, with nervous
anxiety.

Indeed, Madame, it is so ; but never
mind about it. Madame has the necklace,
and the money ! That must always console
Madame."

Well, it does Cerise, certainly, but make
haste and dress me. What a good thing I
do not require any making up ! "

No ! ' cried Cerise, affectionately.
Madame is jeune et belle, and if Madame
would only not vex herself about so many
small things, she will never be old ; her face
is so mignon."

Cerise really loved her young mistress,
indeed, she was as much a companion as
attendant ; she was likewise perfectly aware
of all the shortcomings of the master of the
household ; but these she did not condemn.

All men were the same, voila ! only it was
lace of Monsieur to let her charming young
mistress be ever without money. Of course,
Madame resented that naturally.

Pauline looked very charming "as she
passed down the softly-carpeted stairs, her
white neck and arms glistening with
diamonds. Her soft trailing dress of shimmering
silk, with its lace draperies, her
brown hair piled up in dainty confusion
where the lovely tea roses nestled, as also
in her dress. Her cheeks were tinned with
the recent excitement. Even her plethoric
husband, who had long since ceased to love
her, looked up with some show of awakened
interest, as she stepped daintily down the
broad stairs.

I think those diamonds suit you, Mrs.
Cohen," said he. "That thousand wasn't
thrown away ; that necklace is worth every
penny of it ; it always represents money.

Mind you are careful of them ; and you too,
Cerise."

Certainly, Monsieur ! "

Charlie Yere stood silently waiting,
holding Pauline's bouquet. He took the
wrap from Cerise, and carefully put it round
her. Then Mr. Cohen said : " Start on first
with Mrs. Cohen, I will join you in a very
few moments. I just want to call at the
club for something. I have a cab here, so
take the carriage. Pauline ! what time is
Lady Carew's reception ? "

Ten. Are you going to that, as well as
the dinner at Lansdown Place ? " asked his
wife, opening her black eyes in amazement.

Yes. I have a particular reason forgoing
there. But don't delay ; it is time
you were off."

Mrs. Cohen showed no particular curiosity
or interest in her husband's " reason. ''
Shall we send the carriage to the club ? "

Yes. He then put on his overcoat and
passed out to his cab.

Oh, Charlie, I have done such a stroke
of business, but I have done it in fear and
trembling."

What is this wonderful ' stroke,' Madonna
?

I have sold the diamond necklace and
have got this paste one in its place. It
looks exactly like the original," she added,
with a nervous laugh.

"How could you be so imprudent?" he
answered, his tone full of grave anxiety.

"It is all very well to say imprudent"
she answered irritably. " But I simply
can't and won't go on any longer without
some proper supply of money that I can
call my own. There is not a woman in
London so abominably treated. Just as
if I were a baby — and a married woman,
too!"

But, Pauline, it is your husband's
property, I fear, you have been selling.
Why did you not ask me ? All I have is
at your command. Nay, my life, if it
would do you any good."

Charlie, kind and good as you are, I
could not take your money."

After a painful silence, he asked her to
whom had she sold the jewels.

To Storr and Lazenby's."

How long ago ? "

About a week."

Promise me that you will never do such
a serious thing again without consulting
me. I am sure it will lead to some terrible
esclandre."

Well, Charlie, I will promise, but I
really can't see what there is to make all
this terrible fuss about. They are my own,
you know. Mr. Cohen gave them to me asa
birthday present the first year of my

marriage. I wanted some money. I sold
them. Voila tout!"

I hope it's not too late, that's all."
Hope what is not ' too late ' ? You are
getting enigmatical, Charlie."

When did you send the necklace ? "
I left it, I told you, a week ago. I got
the money for it to-night. There, that will
do. You are nearly as disagreeable as Mr.
Cohen' and she drew her wrap round her,
and almost hid her face in its fleecy
fur.

Charlie hardly heeded her petulance.
He knew, which Mrs. Cohen did not, that
her husband had been speculating heavily
on the Stock Exchange, and, rumour had it,
losing heavily. Hence he traced an undercurrent
of purpose, in the choice by Mr.
Cohen of his wife's jewels that night. And
Charlie intended the first thing the next
morning to go and get back the necklace at

any cost, before the dangerous transaction
came to the knowledge of Mr. Cohen.

Mr. Cohen did not arrive in time for the
dinner at Lansdown Place, though Pauline
wondered, and young Yere felt a secret
anxiety ; but Mrs. Cohen would not allow
her hostess to delay her dinner, which
progressed gaily. Pauline was a great
favourite, and radiant! — her skeleton for
the nonce buried out of sight. She gave
out her brightness, as her bright eves and
her jewels did their lustre.

The dinner was just over. The ladies
were about to withdraw from the men,
when a servant glided round to Mr. Yere,
and whispered in his ear. Pauline happened
to catch the action, and saw a look
of anxiety pass over the young man's face.

What is it ? " she asked, authoritatively,
of the man. " Is it from Mr.
Cohen ? "

Mr. Cohen's coachman had brought word
that his master had been taken ill with a
fit at the club, and had been driven home
at once. The news caused much sensation.
Pauline, and Mr. Vere, left immediately, to
find their home in a turmoil of excitement
and anxiety, a doctor's carriage at the
door. The servants thought it was an
apoplectic fit or paralysis — they were not
sure which — only he was insensible.
Pauline hastily threw off her costly dress
and her glittering gems, and, putting on a
soft robe-de-chambre, hurried into her
husband's chamber.

There lay the heavy, unconscious form
of Mr. Cohen.

What is it ? Is it very serious ? " she
whispered, with white face, to the physician.


"I will tell you later on," he replied,
with professional vagueness. " I am expecting

Sir William Rowe. We will then
give you our opinion, Mrs. Cohen."

Is there nothing I can do ? "

"Nothing. Reserve yourself," he said
kindly, "in case you are wanted later
on."

She passed out of the room. Mr. Yere
was anxiously waiting on the landing.

"Oh, Charlie, he looks as white as death,
and his face is drawn ! "

Come into your room ; I want to ask
you something."

Don't ask me anything ; I feel stupid
and bewildered. Do as you like."

Well, then, I have telegraphed for
Lady Laura."

For mamma ! Whatever for ? She
cannot do any good, and, besides, lie
detests her."

"He need not see her. It is better for
you, dear. Dear Pauline, do go and lie
vol. i. 10

down for a little while. Your hands are
burning, and you are feverish."

How can you ask me to lie down ? I
have the doctors to see presently.' '

Let me see them for you ?"

No, I will see them myself."

In truth Pauline was thoroughly frightened.
It was her first experience of a
great trouble, and, although there had been
times when she had almost hated her husband,
now that he was stricken down the
better part of her nature asserted itself.

I shall sit up all night with him ; it is
the least thing I can do."

He said no more. They both sat
anxiously awaiting the doctor's verdict.

It seemed as if hours passed. Each
silent —-he, full of anxious forebodings ;
she, of nervous agitation. With him there
was no thought of self, and for the young
wayward wife of his guardian, such chivalrous

love, and regard, as a brother might
render in such an hour of need. Pauline
was not given to much analysis of thought
and feeling. There was a dumb consciousness
of some impending catastrophe, an
overshadowing of some unknown trial, and
as she sat there, a face white and scared, he
thought of the contrast of a few hours
before.

By and-by Cerise came to tell them the
doctors were in the dining-room, and would
see Mrs. Cohen."

Come, Charlie ! "

They went down. Dr. Lechmere and
Sir William Owe came forward.

Kindly tell me the exact truth*"

We fear there is no hope, Mrs. Cohen.
There are complications beside the seizure.
He may last till the morning," said Sir
William kindly, seeing the white face of
the youno- wife.

10*

Dr. Leclimere drew young Vere aside.

Can you not send for any female relation
of Mrs. Cohen?"

I have telegraphed for her mother,
Lady Laura Eidden. I know she will
make every effort to be here to-night."

That is well. Mrs. Cohen is far too
young to be left alone with such an
anxious responsibility. I will come in
again presently. I have procured a nurse
who I know is already at her post, b ut
nothing can be done, he will not rally."

He was very good to me," said the
young man, simply, and somehow the
doctor liked him better for that little unconscious
loyalty to the dying man.

Sir William Owe left, and Pauline
returned to her husband's room. She saw
the nurse at one side of the bed, but she
hardly noticed her presence.

Her (raze was fixed on the large whiteface,

drawn to one side ; the strongly
marked eyebrows, the closely-cut grey hair,
all stood out with solemn distinctness, while
the heavy breathing was all that spoke of
life in the heavy, inert body. Then their
brief, but ill-starred married life, the infidelity
of her husband, her ow r n shortcomings,
her wayward coldness and ill-concealed
dislike. She judged herself
very severely during this solemn vigil ; face
to face with herself, she seemed to see a
light, frivolous, empty creature. The night
passed into the still grey morning. Lady
Laura had arrived, but her daughter did
not 20 to Greet her. She knew kind faithful
Charlie w T ould do that. Cerise brought
her in a cup of coffee, which she insisted
upon her mistress drinking. As the day
dawned she fancied he moved. She leant
over him, and took the nerveless hand.
Oh, Louis ! if you could only make one

sign. She stooped over and kissed the
pale, calm forehead, it seemed cold and
severe. Ah, it was many a long day since
she had kissed him. The fact came home
with some remorse. The doctor had been
in and out noiselessly, several times during
the night, but this time he gently raised
the blind, and the cold grey of the newborn
day lighted the room with sad quiet
light. He looked at the bed, and the
light settled on a grey reflection.

"Let me lead you to your room, Mrs.
Cohen," said the doctor, with firm kindness.


Certainly not ! As long as my husband
lives, my place is here."

He is not here," he said gently.

Oh ! Doctor Lechmere, are you quite,
quite sure ? "

Presently young Vere came in, and
gently moved the quiet cold hand.

After a while, she consented to leave the
room, and Charlie led her to her own
sitting-room, where her mother anxiously
awaited her. She folded her in her arms
with affectionate love, and all she said was
Eest yourself, dear, your work is over."

Cerise then brought her mistress a glass
of wine, for she was chilled by her long
watch, and her nerves were over-wrought.

"Go to rest, madame."

What o'clock is it, mother ? "

Six, dearest ! "

Will Madame please go to bed ? " said
Cerise, with quiet presidency.

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Pauline,
wearily.

"Have you attended to my mother?"

Indeed, she has, and so has Mr. Yere."

Yes, Lady Louisa had to admit Charlie
Yere was a most useful person. He it was,
in all the confusion thought of her, the

tired, weary, anxious traveller, told Cerise
to bring up a dainty little supper, and saw

to her every comfort.
Where is poor Charlie, mother ? "
In the dining-room, in case you require

him."

Cerise, tell him to go to bed."

Certainly ! When Madame is in bed."

How you bother, Cerise," said Pauline,

irritably.

Mais oui ! It is time for Madame to be

in bed, and Miladi also."

Go ! Mamma, dear. You look fagged

out."

Very well ; we will both go."

Cerise would not leave Mrs. Cohen until

she was safely in bed, where very soon a

heavy sleep overtook her — and at last, all

the household were at rest.

When Lady Laura Ridden lay down to
rest, that daybreak so full of solemn events,
her first feeling was one of thankfulness !
Thankfulness that the death of her son-in-law
had removed the greatest of anxieties,
and dissolved in a dignified manner a union

c

that promised to become a punishment to
both parties. Mr. Cohen, in Lady Laura's
opinion, had atoned for much, nay, for
everything, by dying just when he did. It
was the one clear way out of many bristling
difficulties. Yes ; she was thankful ; for
in her way, she did love her child dearly,
and that child had been on the brink of
an abyss, and by this unlooked-for release
she had been saved. In the privacy of her
own chamber Lady Laura planned many

things for the future, but unfortunately for
her calculation her daughter was an " unknown
quantity." The mother might build
and scheme, but Mrs. Cohen had a way of
doing exactly the opposite of what was
expected of her, and Lady Laura could not
let events settle themselves — which they
often do ; much better, in the long run,
than anything she might have arranged.

After the funeral, when the will was
read, instead of Mr. Cohen being the
wealthy millionaire, it was generally supposed,
it was discovered, that, owing to
unlucky speculations, and the unexpected
failure of a great American firm, in which
he was greatly involved, the once princely
fortune was reduced to a few thousands.
However, with the sale of the lavishly furnished
house and her marriage settlement,
Pauline would find herself the possessor of
no mean income ; and, so far as she was

concerned, there was no acute sorrow.
She had never professed to love her husband
; nay, it must be confessed there was
a sense of liberty at the bottom of everything.
She would be mistress of an income
which seemed, in her inexperienced eyes, a
small fortune. She would have no trouble
whatever. Charlie was one of the trustees ;
he would take care she was not bothered.

So she settled to go on the Continent.

It was a dull November evening when
Charlie saw the two ladies off — gloomy and
foggy, but it did not seem to affect
Pauline ; on the contrary, her pretty piquant
face looked charming under her widow's
weeds. It was in vain Lady Laura behaved
herself with extra regard to the most
thorough conventional proprieties ; there
was a mutinous wilfulness about her
daughter that was not to be suppressed,
and she only looked what she felt. No

prisoner could be expected to envelope
himself in sackcloth and ashes if the
governor of his prison happened to expire.
All the more if the prisoner's time of service
was up, and he started again with the
blessed privileges of freedom. And for
the first time in her life Pauline felt free,
and she meant to realise this freedom. She
was amply supplied with money. This
pleasant change of their lives, was to be no
expense to her mother, and this thought
alone was pleasant. The poor dear mother
who had been struggling and striving
bravely for years, should now have a fine
time, without having to suffer for it afterwards.


Don't be long before you join us,
Charlie,' ' said Pauline just as the train was
steaming out of the station. "We shall
want you in Paris ; I mean to see a lot ! "

"I will, Mrs. Cohen! But you see the

other trustee can't get along without me just
at present ; I shall be over soon, though, as
I shall want your signature to some papers."
"The sooner the better, Charlie."
Lady Laura could not help giving expression
to her vexation, at always having young
Vere tacked on to them. Was this young
man for ever to be an appanage of her
daughter's establishment."

c

Cannot you really do without Mr. Vere
for even two or three months ? " said Lady
Laura when they were once on their way.

;i Xo, I really cannot, mamma !" said
Pauline with pleasant alacrity. " I have
been so used to him nearly every day for
five years, so of course I can't do without
him. He is mixed up with everything. I
could as soon do without Cerise — by-the-bye,
I wonder if she is quite handy in the
next carriage ? It is a second class, isn't it
mother ? " And Mrs. Cohen, without waiting

for her mother's answer, put her head
out of her own window. " Well, I really
can't see at the rate we are going at, so it is
no good speculating ! "

Pauline ! " said her mother, bringing
back the conversation, she had interrupted
in her own irrelevant fashion, to the point.
"You must remember you are a young
widow, good-looking,' passably rich. It
really does not look commeilfaut to see that
young fellow always dangling about you."

"For the matter of that he won't be
always dangling after me, because I shall
probably marry him, he suits me so well,"
said Mrs. Cohen composedly.

Perhaps he may not wish to marry
you," said her mother drily.

Oh, there is no fear of that ! " said
Pauline with airy confidence.

"Pauline, do you remember Gerald
Lanvon ? "

Perfectly ! "

Would you like to see him again ? "
"I don't mind one way or the other,"
said the younger woman with honest indifference.
" He ista parson now — I don't like
parsons."

I hear nothing but o-ood of him."
That is just it ! He would be much too
good, and bore me frightfully. Charlie
never bores me. On the contrary, when I
feel a fit of what our ancestors called ' the
vapours,' he always acts as a stimulant and
does me good."

Pauline saw through her mother's lightly
veiled diplomacy, but she meant to enjoy
her future life in her own way, and that
way included Air. Yere's companionship.
As far as her^volatile nature allowed, she
had loved Gerald Lanyon, but that was so
long ago ; it was all dead and buried, and
the grass growing greenly over that grave.

Mother ! do you know Charlie and I
have settled and rearranged your money
affairs ! When you have your bank book
made up next time you will find a snug
little balance to the good, and you can snap
your fingers at that disagreeable old aunt
Caroline and the Framptons generally."

Pauline ! "

It is a fact, dear ! It was no use saying
one word until it was done. Do you think
I am going to enjoy all sorts of luxuries
while you are striving and pinching, and
accepting doles from those nasty stuck-up
Framptons ! Stingy old things ! My lord
can keep his money."

61 Oh, Pauline, how can I accept such a
thing — your money, too ! "

"That's just it, Massy. It is because
it is mine ! Wouldn't you ? Nay ! you did
your very best for me years ago, trying to
turn me out well, and often going without

things essential to your position ; and now
we need not say a word about it again —
it's a, fait accompli."

The tears stood in Lady Laura's e} r es.
She had not given her daughter credit for
so much affection or thought, and she felt
deeply touched. Pauline kissed her mother,
and it was the dawn of happier times to
them both.

VOL. I. 11

Lady Louisa and Gerald Lanyon paid their

promised visit to the Towers, and if Gerald

had been so agreeably disappointed at

finding an intelligent, cultivated woman, in

the person of Miss Higgins, he was still

more surprised when he saw her in her own

home — the house with its many charming

details, its grounds, its refined interior. No

wonder time flew ! And so it came to pass,

that instead of the junior curate foreseeing

the company of all feminine, as was his

wont, he was loth to leave when the time

came to say good-bye, but Lady Louisa

was peremptory, and dragged him away.

My dear Gerald, you can come again
you know. The Hector will rebel if I am
too long away."

To be sure. How selfish. I am."

Not a bit ! it is enchanted ground. I
always find great difficulty in getting away.
It is such a restful place, Gerald ; there is
such a quiet, calm dignity about it all. I
think Hester is such a very charming
woman, and really not at all plain, as some
people say''

Plain ! " said Gerald, warmly. ' ; Far
from that. There is something so womanly
and o'ood about her, and so generous. There
are some natures so meanly dowered, that if
they were asked for five pounds out of their
store of plenty, they would deny the gift
or loan."

I think that is by no means an uncommon
phase of character, especially
in people blessed with wealth. They
are so afraid of reducing their store
by driblets, often forgetting the large
sums they will spend upon some hobby,

11*

which is entirely for their own gratification."


Miss Higgins is a wise steward, and
deserves happiness," said Mr. Anyone

hope, with all my heart," said her
ladyship, affectionately, "she will marry
some day, and find a husband worthy of
her. Gerald ! did you hear of the sad death
of Mr. Cohen ? "

Yes ; Lady Laura wrote and told me."

Lady Laura ! and when ? "

About three weeks ago."

Lady Louisa was silent a few moments.
She was mentally reviewing the situation ;
but she thought she had checkmated her
sister, none too soon though.

It was a sad termination to such an
ambitious marriage," said Gerald Lanyon
presently, but Lady Louisa observed he
said it with quiet indifference ; and he
almost felt surprised himself, at the absence

of all disturbance, which, a few months
back, would have certainly followed the
details of this strange and sudden collapse
of Lady Laura Eidden's plans. He felt
interested in another woman. Yes, he
admitted so much ; but most certainly he
was not in love with her. Oh, no ! he felt
convinced, although he no longer felt the
very faintest trace of love for his once
idolised Pauline, he certainly had no idea
of loving anyone else. But it was a very
pleasant thing in life to meet with a good
woman, and one who was his equal
mentally, perhaps his superior. He did
feel grateful to his old friend, Lady Louisa,
for after all, he argued, a man does require,
as a stimulant, the society of an intelligent
agreeable woman.

II est coax de voir ses amis par gout et
par estime ; il est sensible de les cultiver par
interest, best solliciter."

Yes, it was from taste and esteem, that
her society gave him pleasure, and from no
other motive.

Two or three months had passed, the
quaint old gardens in the town had donned
their autumn garb, the holyoaks had given
place to the chrysanthemums, the leaves
from the old trees were softly falling in
golden showers, but life went quietly on
with each change. Miss Higgins and Esme
were still at the Towers. She had discovered
a fresh interest in life. And
Gerald Lanyon was now a constant visitor.
He was no longer a curate, to be kept at a
distance, but a true and valued friend — a
man who found life a very earnest thing,
who, after a sharp struggle with sorrow,
found his eyes cleared, and was able to
measure the distance he hoped to travel
without any deceitful mirage to distract
him, whose self-reliant strength, was a

source of comfort to those who relied upon
him.

His patients and friends at Combe
Warren had left their encampment, taking
with them many substantial tokens of his
kindness. A large fire of gorse and underwood
signalised their departure. The
temporary hospital had been cleared away,
and nothing but the blackened space
showed where the wandering people had
lived^and suffered. Even their old caravans
had been burned, and new ones built
at their generous friend's expense.

Mr. Dashwood was still the model curate
at St. Just, leaving nothing undone that
could be done effectively and well. Never
were the services so well appointed as when
Mr. Dashwood was in command. He was
still as indefatigable as ever in his siege to
Combe Towers, but the chariot-wheels of
this portion of his work dragged heavily,

and lie fancied Esme's e} T es were not as
friendly as of yore. But lie persevered ;
the end would crown the work !

Whatever Percy Blythe did had a very
honest ring about it ; but he was apt to be
forgetful — Cyril Dashwood never forgot !
But if the Eector had been asked in confidence
which of his curates he preferred,
he would undoubtedly have answered,
Blythe." "When the little vexations, and
sometimes the big ones, bothered him more
than usual, it was to Percy he would come
for help or sympathy. Blythe was the
one to smooth over the little difficulties, or
to suggest a pleasant Dens ex Machine out
of the big ones. There was something so
human in him and so indulgent towards all
creation generally. But there was one thing
few knew about, or how much self-denial it
involved, how often it compelled him to
wear his clothes till they almost remonstrated

with their owner by their shining
seams, but little extra comforts found their
way to the beloved and widowed mother,
and the little delicate sister. These little
transactions were in strict confidence with
himself.

Mrs. Frostick was as busy as ever with
her own and other people's affairs, the Miss
Brown's especially ; also Mrs. Grantley
came in for her share of notice from the
town gossip, but in this case she counted
without her host.

At one of the tea-drinking afternoons, so
dear to the elderly female heart, Mrs.
Frostick, with many mysterious winks and
nods, had given out in solemn tones the
forthcoming marriage of Mrs. Grantley and
Mr. Blythe ! Dearie me ! Laws now ! You
don't say so ! and such like, fell from many
lips — all eager to be the first to impart the
wonderful news elsewhere ; it rolled like a

snowball, gathering force and volume as it
flew onwards, till at last it reached the
Sector's ears.

I say, Lewis, is it true your sister,
Mrs. Grantley, is about to marry my
curate, Blythe ? Everyone has it so ! "

My sister Edith marry young Blythe !
Preposterous ! My dear Eector, where did
you get that from ? Ha ! ha ! it is really too
absurd."

Well, I was rather surprised myself ! "

"Oh, I must tell Edith that! What a strange
place a country town is for ' cards.' "

But Edith took the matter very calmly.
I know where that comes from ! from Mrs.
Stick ! I don't mind betting five pounds !
The old cat ! Can't you go and frighten her
Edward ? It would be a charity all round,
and pay off lots of old scores for other
people."

But are we quite sure dear, it is her ? "

My dear Edward, I am positive ! Ah,
it's the ' Wig ' asserting itself! "

The what ? My dear Edith ! "

Oh, never mind, Edward, get yourself
up, and take the carriage and pair, the two
men servants, and just drive down in style
to the old witch's house ! Ask to see her
in the most amiable manner, and then let
fly the vials of your wrath. Excuse the
expression, it is not elegant, but it conveys
my feelings."

Dr. Lewis shook his head. " I don't care
for the errand, Die."

My dear Edward, it is so simple ! Express
your severe disapprobation at her
presuming, &c., &c, to discuss my affairs."

The Mayor set out on his mission, and
when the well-appointed carriage drew up
abruptly at Mrs. Frostick's door, that lady
was in a flutter of excitement. " Betty,
surely they are going to invite me to some

grand gala ! Ask the Mayor into the best
front parlour." The Mayor did not sit
down as requested, but began at once.

Mrs. Frostick ! by what authority did
you spread the report of Mrs. Grantley's
engagement to one of the youn curates ? '!

I heard it reported."

By whom ? I shall be obliged by the
author's name." Mrs. Frostick shuffled her
feet, and twisted her thumbs, but no help
came ; there stood the Mayor, glaring at
her through his spectacles.

If you cannot produce your authority,
there is only one conclusion to come to, that
you and you alone spread these reports concerning
my sister. And, therefore, you will
be so good as to contradict them at once,
and by the same means that you spread
them. Good morning ! " and he marched
off to his carriage, without another word.
Lack-a-day ! Well, to be sure ! "

Well, mistress, and what did his worship
say? Is it a dinner, or a party? " cried
Betty, rushing in.

Hold your tongue, and wait till you're
spoken to," replied her mistress angrily.

Lord save us ! " and then Betty wisely
concluded the Mayor's visit could not have
been so very pleasant, for her mistress's
front ' was viciously pulled over her forehead,
and her cap pushed back. To say
that she was angry and mortified, was only
a portion of the truth. She felt sure she
would not be asked to the first winter reception,
which would be coming off within
three weeks, and it meant a public humiliation
to her, not to be seen with all the
others. Her prestige as an important
person would be gone. She had been
weighed in the balance against Mrs.
Grantley, and found herself considerably
wanting.

While she was in this unenviable frame
of mind, one of her principal cronies, seeing
the Mayor's carriage had just started on its
return journey, rushed in to hear the
wonderful news.

What did the Mayor want of you, Mrs.
Frostick? It must have been something
particular. He never brings yon carriage
unless it's something important. What is it,
neighbour ? "

Only some private affair the Mayor had
to tell me. Oh, I find Mrs. Grantley isn't
to marry yon curate after all ? "

Isn't to marry him ! Why they say the
wedding was to be next month, and I do
hear the presents are something wonderful !
It's too bad folks changing their minds like
that ! Who's to know what's what ? "

To all this Mrs. Frostick said nothing.
She knew the ' town ' would consider itself
defrauded, and she had been responsible.

However, she meant to show a bold
front.

Well, Mrs. Hughes, I am real busy today.
We are just cleaning up for Christmas."


"Aye, to be sure ! ours is just over." And
Mrs. Hughes, seeing a fellow housekeeper
with all the severe solemnity of May-day
and Martinmas heavy on her conscience,
appreciated the gravity of the situation, and
considerately departed.

In a fortnight's time came Mrs. Frostick's
punishment. The Brown girls had got cards
for the Mayor and Mayoress's reception,
November the ninth. This was the first
and most exclusive of these receptions.
There was nothing for it. She must be ill!
She chose to have an attack of ' Tic,' it
was safe, and she need not have a doctor !
Betty could not understand it at all, and
her brains not being of the first order

quietly gave it up, only giving her version
of the affair. "The Mayor had indeed,
called to see her mistress, to invite her to a
grand dinner ; but the mistress was a bit
ailing, and so couldn't go." Mrs. Frostick
certainly owed a debt of gratitude to her
faithful Betty, for there was no doubt now,
she had quarrelled with the powers that be,
and had got the worst of it.

And so you have been asked to dinner
with the Mayor, Mrs. Frostick ? " said old
David Brown to his old neighbour.

How folks do talk ! " answered she,
evasively.

Aye ! they do. They've nought else todo.
It's surprising what time idle folks has
for mischief. How is your ' Tic ' to-day,
ma am ?

Better, thank you, Mr Brown!"

The town has been real busy to-day. Dr.
Lewis again Mayor — Aye, he's a good

one. You see, neighbour, when they
choose a tradesman, it takes a lot of their
time up, whereas Dr. Lewis, being a
gentleman with money, as you may say,
and having nothing else to do but catch
beetles, flies, and other vermin, and go
about with them archaeologists, and "

Eh ! David Brown, what are they
folk ? "

Well," said he, scratching his head,
not too sure of his own knowledge. " I
think they be people who go hunting up
old tombs, and burial grounds, and
churches, and old buildings — people with
naught else but ' fads ' — I take it."

<; Aye," and she sniffed contemptuously,
likely enough."

They do say," continued old Brown,

he's mighty clever, and for certain, he's

real good and kind. Bless you ! you

should see how good he's been to that

vol. i. 12

family down by the river, them that had
the ague. He's doctored them, fed them,
and sent them down to the sea ! And Mrs.
Grantley too — she is a real lady to be
sure ! she's mighty kind to my lassies. Says
she, * Tell them to come up and have tea
with me, Mr. Brown.' She's smart, and
clever, no mistake, and as bonnie as she's
high. I can't say I'm a bit sorry she isn't
going to marry Parson Blythe ; not that
I've a word to. say again him, he's as nice
and kind a young fellow as ever walked,
but he ain't to my mind, good enough for
her. Now, Mr. Lanyon is more proud like,
and he will be a great man, I'm told. Now,
if it was lie ! He's older and richer, and,
they do say, knows a thing or two."

She'll have none of him, you may be
sure," snapped Mrs. Frostick. " He isn't
too keen on any woman, he can't abide
'em."

"Well, neighbour Frostick, they all
know their own affairs best — what they
like, and what they don't — and I must say
you might have a worse lot. From the
Eector, and Lady Louisa, bless her ! downwards,
they are as nice and kind a set as I
have ever come across — all real good
gentlefolks."

I don't complain of them, do I ? "
Nay, nay, to be sure not ! Good-day,
neighbour, good-day ! " And old Brown
went out, with the conviction that
his old neighbour was, " uncommon snappish
; but folks is most cross when they
are ill, and, perhaps, she's lonesome like,
and she's no bairns." Kind old man, who
saw so few faults in his own children ; to
him they were always the " Bairns," and
any little kindness shown to them always
won his heart. That there was anything
foolish or ridiculous about them, never

12*

entered his simple old head, and even Mrs.
Frostick was forbearing with him on this
point. They administered to all his wants,
kept his house spotlessly clean — what
more could a man expect from any woman ?
His little amusements could be so cheaply
and happily had at the " Queen's Head " ;
and his daughters could take theirs in
their own way.

One fine afternoon, towards the end of
November, one of those exhilarating days
that do sometimes shine out as golden in
that usually dreary month, when the sense
of living is a pleasure — the crisp frosty air
tinctured with the aroma from the trees.
The sun brilliant and clear, the sky an
exquisite blue, with just a few fleecy
clouds flitting along in airy pursuit of
each other. The few yet uns alien leaves,
still golden, still red, clinging to their bare
branches, as if loth to leave, and sigh
out their own knell as they flutter to earth,
to be absorbed like the thousands before
them.

On such a day Gerald Lanyon walked
over to Combe Towers. He could not

have told you why he felt such an elasticity,
such a gaiety of heart, such a sense of
brightness within and without. He walked
with light, brisk step till he came near to
the house, and then he felt a sudden access
of shyness. He had come on an errand on
which hung his whole life. At last he
realised that he was no longer heart free.
The love of his youth had faded away like
a beautiful dreamy mist that eludes the
touch and the thoughts. But this love of
his manhood was grand, real — a power to
his whole being. How would it be with
him this day ? He reached the gate, and
Hester was just coming through with her
dog.

Whither away ? "

Only for a walk through the plantation.
The scent of the trees is so delicious.
It reminds me of the pine forests abroad."

May I come with you ? I have something

to ask you, some great favour at your
hands."

Nay ! you have only to command ; you
know that''

"Is it so, I wonder?" he answered,
looking at her keenly. " Come, let us goon,
then !

Miss Higgins, some years ago there
was a young fellow without fame, without
fortune. Perhaps I may say his birth was
good, but that was an accident. He had
been associated day by day, year by year
(for they both lived in the same village), in
intimate friendship with a family that
was very dear to him. A fair young girl
grew up with him, and became as the
apple of his eye. All his future was
bounded by her, all his present tinged by
her. She was fresh and dainty as a young
rose. At length he ventured to lay his
hopes before her mother. I will briefly

add his dreams were brutally crushed.
The mother coldly told him she had other
views for her daughter. They henceforth
passed out of his life, leaving him shipwrecked,
starving for one drop of consolation.
The mvl afterwards married a rich
man twice her age They can be dismissed.
An illness to the man followed.
He became hard, cynical, almost unendurable.
A friend, who had been his tutor, at
last roused him to nobler things than the
miserable study of his disappointments.
He became a worker for a Master who
deals more mercifully than man, and at
last he found peace. After some few years
another woman came across his path, a
woman nobly planned, born to comfort
and command. Once more his heart has
gone forth with a stronger grasp. For on
this woman depends his happiness; in her
hand lies his fate ! "

He turned abruptly round, his face working
with strong emotion. " Hester, what
is to be your answer ? "

Her eyes were full of tender tears. She
placed both her hands in his.

If I am worthy of this honour, then
indeed I am yours."

He needed no more, but clasped her in
his arms. And then, as he looked into her
face, there came into it a new and beautiful
light, such as Esme had partially seen. As
if Hester's world had suddenly become
radiant, the possibilities so longed after had
become absolute realities ! Heart to heart,
soul to soul — both had been tried in the
fire. Hester's inner beauty had been hidden
from the world. To them her face had
been dull and cold and severe. Now — now
the grey eyes had a depth, and the cheeks
a lovely flush — love had beautified it, and
henceforth took possession !

Hester ! what a beautiful face is yours ! "

"Ah, no ! Your love makes you blind."

On the contrary, it has opened my
eyes ! It is a good thing to have that love
that casteth out fear and is clothed with
mutual trust. Ah, love ! love, I have been
so fearful ! "

Of what ? " said she with beaming eyes.

Can you not guess ? Suppose you had
said ' No ' ! "

Did it dawn upon you that I might
love, too ? — though there is so little about
me to attract," she said with great humility.

Hester, I will not allow you to depreciate
yourself," said he with loving authority,
taking her hand and putting it
through his arm. "You cannot know what
I think of you, my queen ; but, please God,
my life shall show."

They wandered on, they hardly realized
the afternoon had deepened into twilight,

that evening was just upon them, that the
stars were coming out one by one. Old
Major, soberly walking beside Hester, every
now and again, rubbed his cold soft nose
against her hand. No, she never heeded
him, though she realized he was there. It
seemed as if this hour of glorious happiness
atoned for her long life of heart hunger.
It required the deep clang of the dressing
bell from Combe Towers, which pealed
forth protestingly to its absent mistress, to
bring them back to earth.

Oh, how late it is ! It is the first bell.
Gerald, you will come in and dine with us ?
Ah, do ! " And she laid her hand entreatingly
on his arm as he shook his head.

No ! sweetheart ! I must be back — and
in haste too ; but I shall go on wings. I
have so much to make up — I mean such
arrears of happiness. I shall see you safely
to your door. Kiss me once more, love J

We shall speedily meet again." And so
they parted at the outer gate.

Hester ! Hester ! We were getting
quite anxious about you," cried Esme, as
she flew down the broad stairs, her soft
white draperies floating behind her.

Where have you been, dear ? The first
bell was rung some time ago ! Why, what a
lovely colour you have ! but your eyelashes
are wet, dear! "

For the lamp, so daintily held, on the first
landing, by a graceful bronze figure of an
Egyptian maiden, threw its full, soft light
on the tear-stained but happy face of Hester.

"It is the dew, love ! or perhaps a
soupcon of frost ! " she answered with a gay
smile.

"Mrs. Grantley, Mr. Blythe, and Sir
Ernest Beldon have just come, but the
D doctor hasn't turned up yet."

I won't be five minutes, Esme, send
Justine to my room at once. And then
go into the drawing-room, and entertain
our guests, until I come."

"Justine is already in your room,
dear!"

And there Hester found her, amazed,
but too discreet to make any observation
at the unusual absence of her mistress. " I
have put out Mademoiselle's black lace
with crimson ! "

That will do, Justine, only be as quick
as you can, I am late."

Justine's busy fingers rapidly completed
the change in her mistress's toilet.

A very short time elapsed, and Hester
joined her guests ; she looked stately and
handsome, as she made her apologies.

Mrs. Grantley instantly noticed the soft
colour still visible, and the unwonted light
in the grey eyes.

"There's a man in the case ! I am
sure ! Now who can it be ? " thought
the little lady sagaciously.

Lady Louisa, with all discreetness, had
held her peace. No one in fact knew anything
of the intimacy between Gerald
Lanyon and the inmates of " Combe Towers."
He would be the last person suspected of
even the faintest tendresse for any woman.

I don't see the Doctor ! " said Hester.

I expect him every moment ! some of
his especial patients," said his step-sister
with a laugh, " sent for him just as we
were about to start, so Mr. Biythe escorted
me instead, and my brother will ride."

The dinner bell has not rung yet, so
he will be in good time after all," said
Miss Hio-o-ins.

DO

And as she spoke, Dr. Lewis was
announced.

How bright and cheery the room

looks, Miss Higgins ! One may say, with
fair Portia :

The light we see, is burning in my Hall,
How far that little candle throws his beams

I quite pitied the man whom I met
coming from, instead of coming to it ! "

Who was he ? " asked Mrs. Grantley,
promptly.

Gerald Lanyon ! "

So ! thais it," thought she, and a
little amused smile flitted over her face.

Why, Lanyon has a meeting on at
his house to-night ! about his hospital ; a
lot of big-wigs are to be there," said Mr.
Blythe.

Well ! I suppose he was hurrying toit,
for he seemed to be walking with seven-leagued
boots ! He hardly spoke to me,
he was in such haste "

To Hester's great thankfulness, the

butler announced the dinner, and so saved
her further embarrassment.

« * ^ #

Never, in all the years of her life, had
Hester tasted such exquisite happiness as
she felt this night. She longed for the
solitude of her own chamber, that she
might at length realise it. As it was,
there was an infectious brightness about
her. She seemed to convey some of the
gladsomeness of her own heart to her
guests. There was some subtle influence
about her, that they could not analyze,
only it affected them.

She felt greatly pleased to see the
little merry interchange of badinage between
Sir Ernest and Esme. Esme had by
no means given up her love for handsome
Cyril Dashwood, but it was gradually, and
surely wearing itself out. And Hester left
affairs to arrange themselves ; but she saw

with thankfulness that the cloud on the
soft young face was gently dispersing, and
sunshine taking its place.

Just as the guests were departing, Sir
Ernest came up-quietly to Hester, and
whispered — " Do you think I ever shall
succeed with her ? "

And with a smile, Hester answered
him :

Hope is a lover's staff, walk hence with that,
And manage it against despairing thoughts."

Good-night, dear friend, and take that
for your comfort. It is good advice."

I will," said he, hopeful at once.

When Hester retired to her own chamber
that night, she seemed to feel, nay, to
look younger ! Happiness, and love, are
the most perfect cosmetics that have ever
been fashioned in this world — nothing less
than a divine spark from above. And it
was herself ! not her wealth ! that was the
vol. i. 13

joy with her. She felt thankful that the

man she loved had, and would have,

ample means. In this alone, Fortune had

been good to her, for if her lover had been

poor, then her own wealth would have

been a frightful barrier, for Mr. Lanyon

would have been far too proud to have

married any woman dowered with such

wealth as hers. But he was her equal,

nay, in her humbleness, she said her

superior.

And to think what we shall have —

and to spare — for those that need ! If I

have waited long for it, Happiness has

come at last ! Ah, if he had not loved me !

what should I have become ; because I

love him so well! Now there are two of

us, but united —

'All who joy would win

Must share it — happiness was born a twin.' "

As yet, Hester did not tell Esme, her

dear old friend the Rector's wife must bethe
first to hear this great news ; but it
was too new as yet — too sacred— it was her
own to think over, and to cherish ; and
with this last feeling of thankfulness, she
closed her eves.

l:

o*

After his meeting was over, Gerald
Lanyon walked over to the Eectory. He
felt, in spite of the general reserve of his
nature, that he must have the sympathy of
Lady Louisa and the joy of telling her his
beautiful news. He found his old friend
somewhat excited ; an open letter lay
before her.

"Oh, Gerald! there you are, just as I
wanted you. My sister Laura and her
daughter are anxious to come down here
for a month, before they settle in town for
the winter, for it appears Lady Laura's
brother-in-law has died rather suddenly,
but I am thankful to say has left her a nice
little fortune, which, later on, will come to
Pauline. I am so thankful — about the

money I mean! it lias been such a sad
thing for Laura to be always cramped for
means — it will so soften her, poor dear ! "

"I am very glad for her sake," said he,
kindly.

i; But now, Gerald, where can I find
rooms for them, with the servants they will
bring ? "

Wait a little ! I think I can manage
it. First, I have two distinct items of
news to tell you. My dearest friend !
Hester has promised to be my wife."

Gerald ! I am thankful. She is the best
and truest woman I know. You are made
for each other ! God bless you both, my
dears." And she drew down his face to her
own level and affectionately kissed him.
c; I will go over tomorrow and see
her."

; Ah, do ! dear godmother ! Now for my
second item. I heard this evening, from my

uncle's confidential servant, that Sir Horace
has had a fresh attack of illness, which has
weakened him very seriously, and he is very
anxious I should go and see him, and stay
some little time. So, if the Eector will
kindly spare me, I shall set off tomorrow,
and Lady Laura can have the entire use of
my cottage, with Mrs. Bayliss in command.
You know, Lady Louisa, it is the first time
since my poor cousin's death, that my uncle
has even expressed a wish to see me. I
expect he feels lonely, poor old man. I
wall send most of my especial treasures
over to you, or to Hester, and then the
cottage can soon be made shipshape for
your sister and niece, and should I require
a shakedown here, I shall come to you, of
course."

Your arrangement will do admirably,
Gerald. I quite begin to see my
way."

Very well. Till tomorrow, then, goodnight.
I am going home to smoke the
pipe of peace, and think over my newfound
happiness."

My dear Laura," thought Lady Louisa,
as the door closed on Gerald, " you are too
late. The bird is flown, and the nest
empty. Fancy my outwitting Laura ! " said
she, aloud.

What is that about Laura ? " said the
Eector, coming in.

Nothing ; only she wants a house here
until Christopher Eidden's affairs are
settled."

Then she told him about Gerald, of his
uncle's illness, and of his offer of the
cottage, but nothing as yet of Hester.

I expect Sir Horace Lanyon will wish
his nephew to stay with him for good. It
is only natural. He is an old man, and
not likely to live long."

But we shall miss Gerald, and, to put
it mildly, my dear, his money. He has
been most generous with it, and saved the
funds a great deal. And about the Cottage
Hospital ? It is a great responsibility. He
has undertaken so much — he and Miss
Higgins together, I mean — as regards the
money."

Harry, they will be sure and see it
well through. I know them both too well
for that doubt ever to trouble me."

Well, my dear, you always were
romantic, but I trust in this case your
clear common sense will rule this prognostication."


I am sure of it."

Very well, love. When does Lanyon
wish to go ? "

To-morrow."

Of course he must," said the Sector,
with a regretful sigh. "But just think,

Louisa, of losing a curate with ei^lit
hundred a year, who draws no salary, and
works as hard as if he were paid for it'

But you could not expect to keep him
for ever, Harry. Why, he may be a
bishop some day. It is quite on the cards.
They always do, you know, choose men of
position and means."

There was no gainsaying anything Lady
Louisa had put forth. So the Eector
resigned himself to what he could not
possibly alter.

The next morning, Lady Louisa and
Gerald drove over to the Towers. It was
early morning, and the crisp frosty air
was as yet untouched by the sun. Hester
was surprised, but full of interest about
Gerald's intended visit to Buncombe
Manor. It was a fresh page in her new
life. Then he told her about the expected
inmates of his cottage.

Oil, Gerald, it is your old love !" and a
quick blush swept over her face.

Yes, but not my new love, or my truelove.
Will you not trust me, Hester ? "

Oh, yes ! pray forgive me."

Lady Louisa stood by, but they took
little heed of her, beyond including her in
everything that concerned themselves.

My dear, I can answer for his love for
you. Did I not hear his confession last
night ? Pauline Cohen is an unknown
personage, added to which that young
lady has bestowed herself on young Yere,
and is only waiting just a year of decency
to marry him, much to my sister's vexation,
I must say, 5 ' said her ladyship, with
a little laugh.

Dearest Hester," whispered he, " our
time is brief, come into the conservatory,
for a few last words." Esme discreetly
carried off Lady Louisa to show her a new

list of promised subscribers to the forthcoming
cottage hospital.

Hester thinks of taking a house for
six weeks or two months in London, Lady
Louisa."

Well, dear, and a very nice plan too."

Rubinstein and some other great people
are going to have some chamber concerts.
You know we are both rather crazed on
music, and do mean to enjoy it. I am longing
for it."

This plan had been mooted, and
suggested, before Gerald Lanyon and
Hester Higgins had made the great plan
of their lives ; also Hester was actuated by
another motive. She fancied if she withdrew
Esme from the somewhat dangerous
proximity of Mr. Dashwood's neighbourhood,
and gave Sir Ernest Beldon a
standing invite to their house in town, it
might bring matters to a climax.

Little Esme's eyes were sharp, if soft
and pretty. She had her own ideas as
to Hester's secret regard for the ugly
curate, and she watched it maturing with
affectionate interest, but like the wise little
woman she was, like the discreet statue,
she saw everything and said nothing, but
she did not know as yet that her friend's
affairs were settled.

The conference over in the conservatory,
Mr. Lanyon and Miss Higgins returned,
both looking so beaming and radiant, that
they could each say : —

My love doth so approve him,
That even his stubbornness, his checks and frowns,
Have grace and favour in them."

And certainly Mr. Lanyon left with his
heart, and face too, full of grace and favour.

That evening, when the household had
retired, Hester softly entered Esme's room.

The young girl was lying in her cosy nest,
but wide awake, cogitating over her own
affairs. The elder woman came, and sat
at the foot of the bsd.

; Emma, my Pygmalion has arrived at
last ! and your Hester has entered her new
life. Does it surprise you, love ? "

Xo, darling Hester, it does not surprise
me ! but it pleases me greatly. I knew,"
she said, clapping her hands with triumph,
; what it was coming to. My dear ! you
and Mr. Lanyon look a great deal too
happy to deceive anybody ! your humble
servant included. Well, dear old Hester,
you will have your staff to lean on "

Yes, but to make my happiness perfect,
some other dear little personage must
have a staff as well. Think over it,
darling, and God bless you."

Lady Louisa was very happy ; she was

charmed with her own skilful generalship,
that had brought about such a desirable
climax ! And the delightful part of it
was, that no one knew anything about it
(except perhaps little Esme Curtis). She
quite enjoyed this little mystery. When it
was common property, the edge would betaken
off, but as yet it was all her own.

But sooner than she imagined, she was
to have a diplomatic victory.

About a week after Gerald Lanyon's
departure, Lady Laura came down as a
sort of avant courier, for the joint company
of herself, daughter, and as many
servants as the cottage would hold.

The two sisters were comfortably sitting
oyer their afternoon tea, in the pretty
Rectory drawing-room. A log of wood was
hissing and crackling with pleasant vehemence
in the old-fashioned grate, in spite of
the winter sun, shining with feeble, though

genial effulgence into the room, lighting it
up with gentle rays. Lady Louisa was
occupied, as usual, with her knitting, her
pretty white plump hands moving as
swiftly as her thoughts.

Lady Laura altogether looked more
prosperous, and happier, than she had
done for many a long day — she looked
hopeful ! Her sister's cheerful and homely
countenance, bore a look of subdued excitement,
which rather puzzled the elder
lady.

How very nice of Gerald Lanyon to
lend us his cottage ! I hope we shall not
put him about much ! "

Oh no ! I am sure you will not. In fact,
I hardly expect he will want it again ! "

Xot want it again ? "

Xo ! Now Sir Horace has sent for him,
I feel persuaded he will stay there ; the
Hector quite thinks so."

Lady Laura could hardly hide her
chagrin. " I wanted him so to see Pauline,
she is looking so pretty, all her good looks
have come back, and who can say if they
met ! He is in such a different position
now! Sir Horace may die any day, and
then ? "

"Laura, I think you must put Gerald
Lanyon out of all your calculations, matrimonial
ones, certainly."

And why ! may I ask ? replied her
sister coldly "

Because he is already engaged to be
married."

What?"

Yes ! He is engaged to a very charming
woman."

There, that will do ! Who is it ? " asked
Lady Laura abruptly.

Miss Higgins ! "

"Miss HiL r £fins! Then you knew it all

along. I must say, Louisa, it was hardly
sisterly, you allowed me to come clown
under false pretences !" So then in her
vexation Lady Laura divulged all her
schemes, which the Eector's wife had perfectly
seen through, long ago.

"Dear Laura! It was your wish, not
mine, that you should come down to
Langton, though I am always pleased to
have you, and Pauline as well. But with
regard to the cottage, it was quite optional
your taking it."

Well, we certainly shall not require it
for more than three weeks," said her ladyship,
ungraciously. '■ I expect Pauline
will be bored to death as it is, as she cou'd
not understand why I wanted to bury us
both down here."

Laura dear," said her sister affectionately,
laying her kind gentle hand on her
sister's shoulder. " Let Pauline be happy

VOL. I. 14

in her own way, don't scheme any more for
her ; you know she really loves young
Vere. He is well off, true he is not titled,
but what does that signify ? I feel sure
they will be happy. I think so much of
Pauline's future character will depend upon
her happiness. Nay, love," she added, with
a smile, " I fancy she will settle the matter
for herself, just as my pair of lovers have
done."

"It does not seem right, or just," said
Lady Laura, after she had digested the very
unpleasant pill her sister had prepared for
her, " that so much wealth should go together,
it ought to be divided."

"I am sure, Laura, both Miss Higgins
and Ml Lanyon are the best people in
the world to have wealth. They have such
high and noble thoughts. It is quite
delightful to hear them talk."

So, you have been helping on these

affairs," said Lady Laura, sharply. "I
daresay you think you are very clever."

Oh, no, Laura," said her sister, colouring
under the unpleasant scrutiny. " I am
only so glad to think they are happy."

I should have thought at your age you
would have left off romance."

"Yes, dear! But not the pleasure of
seeing others happy."

Then the Eector came in, accompanied
by Mr. Blythe, and nobody could be sulky
in their presence. The Eector with his
cheery, straight-to-the-point pleasant ways,
and Percy Blythe, with his gay, good
humour. So she gradually recovered her
serenity, and began to reconcile herself to
the inevitable marriage, which she knew
would take place with (or without) her
consent. And thus Gerald Lanyon was
relegated to the limbo of forgotten things.
He interested her no more.

14*

"Lady Louisa, when docs Mrs. Grantley
return ? "

"Oh, not just yet, I believe. We ought
not to complain, considering how much
of her time and company she gives to us
country people."

No, indeed," replied Mr. Blytlie, " only
one misses her bright presence and pretty
ways."

She is a dear little woman," said the
Eector.

I can't think whatever her brother
does without her," said his wife.

"I hear he spends most of his time
catching insects or beetles, or something
unpleasant," said Lady Laura.

My dear sister, allow me to tell you
he has a very valuable collection of
moths," corrected the Eector.

Well, I hope he will keep them. I
do not wonder his sister occasionally requiring

to get out of such a stuffy atmosphere
— camphor, and laudanum, and other
poisons, isn't it ? "

"I really can't say," said the Eector,
laughing. " I do not collect or preserve
such things myself, but I daresay it is a
very interesting study."

Very," said her ladyship, sarcastically,
going out at night, teaching the trees,
and armed with a lantern and a net."

I think, my dear, the teaching is done
in the day, ready for the moths at night.
But, as I observed before, I am not sure of
anything."

Mr. Blythe, I hope you will come and
see us when we get settled at the cottage."

I shall be only too pleased, Lady Laura.
Can I help in any way ? "

Well, I should not be surprised !
When you are off duty, you might come
and see."

Most certainly I will ! But as I am on
duty now (there is the even-song bell), I
will say good-bye."

And very soon the Eector went out for
his last round, previous to dinner, but the
Topic ' was no more resumed between
the sisters.

Miss Higgins did take a house in town, and
she with Esme and the household transferred
themselves to Connaught Terrace,
Hyde Park, and the two ladies thoroughly
enjoyed it. Sir Ernest Beldon was their
willing escort to all places of amusement.
They even tempted the Pictor and Lady
Louisa to come up to them for a few days,
and enjoy the pomps and vanities of this
pleasant, if sinful, world. Of Gerald Lanyon,
Hester had almost daily accounts, so that
there was no drawback to her happiness.
All her thoughts were concentrated upon
the question of Esme's. She saw day by
day that Ernest Beldon was gaining ground
but she used no persuasion to her child —
she let things take their course.

Esme ! would you not like to ride in
the Far every now and then ? "

I should, Hester, but I don't think old
Brownie would cut much of a figure in the
Bow."

Xo, indeed ! " said Hester, laughing
heartily, as the fat, plethoric Brownie, comfortably
turned out to grass at home, presented
himself to her mind. " Xo ! we must
have a nice horse for you, dear. I will
speak to Ernest Beldon about it. Men
know all about these things so much better
than women. He will be sure to look in
this morning."

As they were yet speaking of him, he
was announced.

We were just talking about you, Ernest,"
said Hester.

Indeed, Miss Higgins ! It is pleasant
hearing."

Yes. I want Esme to ride, as well as

drive, in the Park. But she must have a
horse. Something very nice, for my little
woman'' And she looked affectionately at
Esme, as she stood gazing out of the
window, and Ernest looked too, with eyes
as much full of love as Hester's — too full,
for Esme turned her head, but not before
Sir Ernest had seen a little tell-tale blush.

"I will look in at Tattersall's, they
are sure to have something suitable
there ; you may depend upon it I will
do my bestir"'

Don't stand out for price, Ernest, let it
be as perfect as can be. I am going this
morning to have her measured for her new
habit."

Well then, by the time the habit is
ready, the steed will be likewise. By the
bye, the Williams are in town, and are
coming to call upon you. Shall you be a
home this afternoon ? "

I will be, certainly ! How is your
sister, Ernest? "

Much better for her German course of
waters. It seems quite a fashionable complaint,
this youthful rheumatism ! Hortense
is not eight-and-twenty. What business has
she, and other young women of her age,
with such an ancient complaint ? I believe
it is nothing in the world but that they want
to have a nice little course of gambling at
the tables, and a slight attack of these ailments
is a convenient peg to hang a journey
upon."

Well, but, Sir Ernest, we have been
there at different times without the
rheumatism, and without the gambling,"
said Esme from her place at the window.

I only said, fair lady, that many young
women do make it a pretence."

Ah ! they have husbands, no doubt,"
said she saucily, " and perhaps they

would not take them otherwise. Some men
like to go alone."

They must be Goths then ! I hate
it ! What commands for to-night, Miss
Higgins ? "

CO

Dinner at seven, ' Ours ' at the Hay-market
at eight-thirty.

Do let us see it all, Hester ! I am
so anxious to see the Bancroft in it! I
would not miss a scrap ! "

"That is why I have ordered dinner
earlier, dear."

Well, ladies, adieu ! no, au revoir until
seven o'clock. I shall go to Tattersall's
now and let you know the result to-night.
Get your habit all ready, Miss Esme, or /
should say under way'

She nodded her head, and he departed.

Put your things on, dear," said Miss
Higgins, " I have ordered the carriage for
twelve, it is ten minutes to now."

Esme left with her little pug " Prince," a
gift of Sir Ernest, hugged in her arms. The
door had hardly closed upon her, and
Hester, for the second time that morning,
was absorbed in a long letter from Gerald
Lanyon. It was a letter that made her
feel the years roll by, and that she was a
young girl again, looking forward with the
perfect conviction that life was a beautiful
reality.

Mr. Dashwood ! " announced the footman.
With a sigh Hester came back to
earth. But being so very happy herself,
she received him with more graciousness
than was her wont.

I did not know you were in-town, Mr.
Dashwood ? "

I had some business on hand, and that
brought me up."

There was none of the usual stiff hauteur
about Miss Higgins, on the contrary,

there was a brightness, a graciousness
which he thought (and hoped) must be in
some way occasioned by himself. So he
felt a fresh wave of confidence. He had
been considered so irresistible, he was so
undeniably handsome ; his clothes the very
perfection of perfect tailoring, and his
figure faultless ! And it would be almost
impossible that he should not succeed with
this cold and haughty personage, though
to-dav she looked almost good-looking !
and certainly more amiable than he had
ever seen her.

Miss Higgins ! I have come on an
errand of deep interest" ("Esme," thought
Hester). " Can you not guess it ? "

I conclude I can, Mr. Dash wood.
But I fancy, you will find — you are — too
late ! "

Too, late ! Dearest Miss Higgins !
nay, let me say at once, dear Hester !

do not use these wretched words" (and
he seized her hand tightly) " You have
been my load-star my — "

Are you referring to me, sir ! by using
this extraordinary language ! " she cried,
struggling angrily to release her hand.

You, and you alone, Hester ! "

Then pray understand, most distinctly,
that I consider your pretensions to my
hand a positive insult ! "

An insult ! Miss Higgins ! " he exclaimed
with rising colour. " If a man
makes an honourable proposal to a woman,
you must excuse me, if I fail to see the
insult."

'nevertheless, I maintain it is an insult
! and a degrading one. For nearly
two years have you, in season and out of
season, been assiduously courting, Miss
Curtis, working on the tender innocent
heart of my young ward, until she loved

you. And now you dare come to me,
with your stereotyped arguments of love,
forsooth. But let me just say, before the
subject of Miss Curtis is dismissed, that I
have every hope that she has, at last,
found an object worthy of her generous
heart."

You are very much mistaken ! " he
answered, perfectly unaware that Esme,
who had just crossed the threshold, stood,
holding back the heavy portiere, in blank
amazement, and at a sign from Hester,
remained there.

''Xo, sir! I am not mistaken! And I
must frankly add, I despise you thoroughly!
And even had my hand been at my own
disposal, which it is not, you can hardly
imagine I should bestow it on one who, to
my own knowledge, has long since given
his heart to another woman ! "

"But, believe me Miss Higgins, it was

only a man's passing fancy, a liking for a
pretty child, for she is but a child still."

Child or no child ! The good, honourable
man who seeks her 'for herself (and
one has I believe already won her heart),
will not receive her empty-handed, for on
the day she marries with my consent, she
receives, as her marriage dot, eight
thousand pounds ! And now, I must
request you to retire. I have an immediate
enlargement." Then she rose to her
full height, and pointed to the door.

Finding her face set against him, immovable,
and severe as a sphinx, there was
nothing left for him, but to pick up his
soft felt hat, and turn to go — worsted in
every way ! — when to his horrified discomfiture,
he saw Esme standing in the
doorway ! pale, and scornful. The soft
face that had always turned with such
looks of love to him, was now stiffened

into disdain. He rushed past her, his
handsome face distorted with rage ; he tore
down the staircase, snatched his umbrella
from the hall-porter, and hardly waited for
that functionary to open the door. He
flew into the street ! " Fool ! fool ! that I
have been ! Pursuing the shadow, and
losing the substance. And Esme has eight
thousand pounds ! " Yes ! there was the
sting ! The girl he had loved in his selfish
way, was not after all, a penniless orphan !
"It is that fiend of a woman! — that
Quack's daughter, who is at the bottom
of all this ! And Esme ! Esme ! I have
lost you, for you must have heard all ! "
And as the Be v. Cyril Dash wood flew
along the road, his face* was not pleasant
to behold.

* * * *

Esme ! Do you see that man in his
true colours, at last? His mean sordid
vol. I. lo

soul ! Oh my dear ! I do feel thankful
that you had not bestowed yourself upon
him. He would always have been hankering
after my riches, if even he had
married you."

"And yet, I think he did love me
once ! "

Doubtless, you think so, but the
person he loved, was the Reverend Cyril
Dashwood."

Yes, I fear so. Well ! " said the girl
with some sadness, " this interview which
I unwillingly assisted at, has opened my
eyes as to his character, and for the future
I shall dismiss him from my thoughts. I
feel sorry Hester ! It is always hard to
take down your gods from the pedestal,
perhaps we put them up too high. Who
knows ? "

Good gracious ! Esme, those poor
horses have been standing twenty minutes !

Old Charles will look untold reproaches !
I must fly, and put my bonnet on."

Miss Higgins' toilets were always rapid,
and in a very few moments the two ladies
were out, on business intent ; and when they
returned, an hour-and-a-half later, Esme
looked as bright and as bonnie as if no
such things as lovers ever troubled her.

After lunch, Hester put her arm round
Esme. " Dearest, put on the pale blue
velvet dress, with the chinchilla trimming,
it suits you so well. I want you to look
very nice this afternoon."

Hester, you are always thinking how 1
look. I shall take you in hand, and see
how you look."

So you shall, dear."

Well, what are you going to wear ? "

Oh, I don't know ! Whatever Justine
puts out."

"That is exactly what I expected."

15*

Well, dear, ugly people should always
dress quietly, and Justine generally puts me
into black, you know, it is so safe."

Safe, indeed ! But you cant blame
Justine. When she does try ' an elegant
confection,' as she calls it, you hardly observe
it ; and put it on with the same
indifference you do those ugly, black
gowns you live in ! Certainly ! I must
take you in hand, dear old Hester !
You do want brightening up. Not
your face, dear, that is sweet, but you
must have some new gowns, which /
shall see about."

So you shall, dear ! whenever you like."
She would have promised anything, seeing
the bright gay face, and manner of the
young girl. She had been fearful, that
that horrid interview in the morning,
might have left lingering pain. But the
fact was, Esme's love for Cyril Dashwood

had died a natural death ; it had died hard
for want of nourishment, but it had died ;
and his barefaced repudiation of her love
that morning, had given it the coup de
grace. And some one else, she would
hardly confess it, even to herself, had already
filled the vacant niche, and another god
reigned in his stead. She was going to
the theatre that night. She was to have a
new habit, and last, but not least, a
beautiful horse. Under all these circumstances,
could any girl be sad ? Certainly
not! and she — she felt happy. So she
tripped up to her room to don the blue
velvet ; and by-and-by came down, looking
so piquant, and so lovely, that Hester
was fain to take the little mignon face
between her hands, and kiss it fondly.

I suppose now I must repair the
ravages of the day, and make myself presentable
? "

That you must, dear ! "

Sir Ernest Beldon ! "

Miss Higgins, you must think I am a
regular Jack-in-the-box, I am for ever
turning up unexpectedly. But I have seen
such a charming horse — suit you down to
the ground, Miss Esme."

"What colour is it?" said Esme,
eagerly.

Chesnut ! and it has a white star on
its forehead."

Has it a name ? "

It has. The ' Duke at your service !
It will come round tomorrow, for you
to see ; it has been ridden by a lady, and is
very gentle, but I shall ride it myself first,
and try it well."

Thanks, dear Ernest, for your trouble,"
said lester, well pleased. " Excuse me for a
few moments, Esme will take care of you ! ''

I wish you only would, Miss Esme,"
said he, turning round as Miss Higgins
closed the door behind her, and looking
eagerly at the lovely face.

Would what ? "

Take care of me ! "

If there is anyone able to take care of
themselves, it is Sir Ernest Beldon."

Indeed not ! I have very serious
thoughts of going out to the Zulu war."

To the wars ? " said she, a trifle pale.

Yes ! You see if I am not wanted in
England, I may be useful out there."

But, who does not want you in England?"


"You, for one! "

Oh, Sir Ernest ! how can you say
so?"

Well, shall I stay ? or go ? "

But it is not for me to decide."

But it is ! It is c ives ' or ' no '— only if I

stay you will have to take charge of me, or
I shall be off, most certainly."

"But I can't decide all in a hurry like
this ! "

"swell! which side will the voting he?
To go or to stay ? "

I suppose — you — must stay ; but I
shall not decide to-day ! " she cried, and
jumping away out of his reach, her face
wreathed in saucy smiles. She knew her
power only too well.

You might put a fellow out of his
misery ! "

No ! I do not at all see the necessity
for that ; it is so good for you morally
not to have everything your own way. I
know when I was a small chit at school,
this admirable precept was well drummed
into my head."

Well I do not mean to have it drummed
into my heart, anyway ! I have been waiting

over a year ! — two years, I know ! — that
is long enough in all conscience."

Sir Ernest, excuse me, that is a
fiction ! "

It is a fact, Miss Esme. Will you promise
without fail to make up your mind tonight
? "

I will try, but really "

Sir Percy and Lady Willis ! "

Ernest ! "

Hortense ! "

Why, Ernest ! we thought you were at
Heminglee."

I was there, my dear sister, but a man
is not a fixture, like a tree ! "

Evidently ! But where is Miss Higgins ?
Oh, here she is ! " as the door opened to
admit Hester. " How well you are looking
! and Miss Curtis, too ; a vast improvement
on what you were w r hen I saw you at
Homer last year ! Do you remember ?

Mr. and Mrs. Cohen and the Mountchesnys
were there? "

Yes, indeed ! There have been changes
since that. I hear the poor man is dead
now, and died quite poor, comparatively
speaking."

; Yes, that American house let him in
for a lot."

I suppose Mrs. Cohen is very badly
off?"

Oh no ! " continued Sir Ernest, " by no
means ; she has a very comfortable little
settlement."

Ernest ! " whispered his sister, " how
did you know we should be calling here
to-day ? "

Because, my dear ! your letter announced
that fact. It was forwarded to
the club, and reached me this morning."

Isn't there some attraction ? Eh !
Erne?"

"Peut-etre"

She will make a lovely Lady Beldon.
I will say that."

Her brother gave her an affectionate
little glance. She was his elder by three
years, and deeply attached to him.

Is it quite settled ? "

No ; but I hope soon to tell you that
it is."

I expect you are glad to be home
again ? " said Hester to Sir Percy, who was
a great, hearty, good-natured man, who
infinitely preferred his turnips and his
stock to all the attractions of foreign travel.

That I am ! It's my lady here who
likes all this racketing, not me. But I amin
time for the hunting — that's one comfort
! "

I tell Percy he is getting too heavy, look
at the weight he will be ! I don't believe
he will have a horse fit to carry him."

Oh yes, my lady ! I have taken care
of that, never fear ! "

You know, Percy ! I did my best
to help you, if you only would have
gone in for a good course of the waters ! "

Beastly mess I was ! well ! why should
I make myself ill ? I'm right enough,"
said he heartily. " And you know, Miss
Higgins, my lady, in spite of the waters,
and looking like a wax doll, can go across
country like a bird."

That she can" said her brother. I
remember where she caught you up ! Eh,
Willis? and half pulled you out of the
brook."

That's true ! " said Sir Percy, laughing
heartily at the recollection. " That beast
of mine pitched me clean overhead, into
the dirtiest quagmire you ever saw, while
my lady took it as neat as a new pin. By-the-by,
I want a fresh mount for your

sister. Have you seen anything likely to
suit Hortense ? "

I saw several this morning at Tatter-sail's.
I am looking out for Miss Higgins,
who is wanting one for Miss Curtis. Come
round there by eleven tomorrow morning,
there's a sale on, and we can look them
over — earlier if you can, I am due hereat
twelve."

Very soon afterwards the friends separated.


And when Esme was dressing for dinner,
a bouquet arrived for her, composed of
delicate roses, but in the centre was a sprig
of white heather, the emblem of good luck.
She knew then her fate was decided, so
with a smile she put the heather in her
dress ! Hester saw it, but made no comment.
She thought things had nearly
reached their happy climax, so she would
wait, it could not be for long.

Dinner is served ! "

"Has Sir Ernest Beldon arrived,
Lloyd?"

Yes, Ma'am. He is "

Here I am, Miss Higgins ! only a
minute behind time ! "

"We are punctual to a minute, you
see."

He eagerly looked at Esme, who rose
from her seat by the fire. Was it the firelight,
or something else, that sent such a
lovely colour over her face ? He saw the
white heather. " Thank you my darling ! "
he stooped and whispered low, and then
gave his arm to Miss Higgins.

Lloyd was stolidly holding the door,
apparently gazing into vacancy, waiting
with decorous patience for his mistress'
pleasure. Did he guess ? — they always
do find out everything. I think so.

The charming little dinner was over,

and the carriage at the door ! Hester
fancied she had forgotten something ! so
left Ernest and Esme in the drawing-room,
he held the soft white wrap, and as he put
it round her, he kissed the soft face. " Ah,
Esme, you are a little tyrant, you have
kept me waiting long enough, but you are
worth the waiting for."

The fact is, I thought on the whole it
would not do to let you go off to the
wars. So if you still think of going, I had
better accompany you ! "

Then I must stay at home, if only to
look after you. Do give me one kiss,
Esme, before we start ! "

Just one, then ! " and she stood on tiptoe,
and daintily raised herself to his
height. He held her prisoner.

Do you really love me, Esme ? "

"Really! Ernest. Yes ! But you are
annihilating my dress ! I shall look like

an old rag bag. Now, sir ! If you will let
me go, I will give you one of my lovely
roses ! "

I would quite as soon have these close
at hand," said he, touching her cheek, and
giving her one more embrace, let her
go. " Now for the white rose, and then
put it in my coat, Esme. Here is Miss
Virgins ! "

Here is one for you Hester ! darling,"
and she pinned one in her friend's dress,
and kissed her with unwonted affection.
And then Hester knew it was accomplished.


Let me speak to you, Ernest, before
you go to-night, after our return from the
play."

•- "I intended to ask your ' Highness ' for
an audience ! " said he to Hester as they
descended the stairs. " I have much to
tell you ! "

I am so glad, dear friend ! for you and
for her ! "

You are the truest friend a man could
ever have," he answered, much moved.

It was late when they came from the
play. They went into the dining-room,
where a cheerful fire awaited them, as
well as some substantial refreshment.

Now, Miss Esme, you will be pleased
to remember your gay wings will very
shortly be clipped. My home wants a
mistress. I will give you two months, nota
moment more."

"But really, dear Ernest, I could not
leave my dear Hester in that hurry !
Indeed, I could not."

"What is that about, Hester ? " said that
lady returning to the room.

"Why it is just this, Miss Higgins.
This small personage, after promising to
vol. i. 16

be my wife, declines to be married, and
does not in the least care how badly I
fare at home."

Oh ! How can you say such things ? "
said Esme, colouring up prettily. " He
insisted upon my having him, Hester —
indeed he did, and yet, how can I
leave you, darling ? "

Esme, dearest, } r ou have made me

perfectly happy. I do think we women

want a staff to lean on. (I believe I

have made that observation before,"

she said, with a merry little aside

to Esme), "and I like your staff

dear." She held out her hand to Ernest,

who warmly grasped it with both his,

and with her other arm she encircled

Esme.

You will cherish my dear child ? "

"That I will," he replied, with affectionate
earnestness.

And who could doubt it ? as they looked
on the kind, honest face, so frank and open,
so true and kind.

And now, if you please, Miss Esme, you
will be so good as to take your supper, and
then retire to bed, not because you have
been naughty, but because you have been
good. I want to talk over a little business
with Ernest. You won't be jealous, eh,
darling ? " said Miss Higgins, laughingly.

Oh, Hester ! you are a teaze ! " So
after the supper things had been removed,
and the dignified Lloyd had placed the
candles outside the dining-room door, in
readiness for their respective owners, and
finally disappeared for the night, Ernest
lighted Esme's candle, and gave her a very
hearty kiss.

Remember, sweetheart, ' The Duke' will
be round at twelve for your inspection, tomorrow."


16*

The bright young face nodded gaily,
and when she reached the first landing,
she detached the flowers from her bodice,
and pelted him gaily. lie carefully collected
all the scattered blossoms, and
placed them reverently in the breast pocket
of his coat.

Oh, love ! young love ! bound in thy rosy band,
Let sage or cynic prattle as he will,
These hours, and only these, redeem life's years
of ill ! "

The Duke " made his appearance at
twelve, accompanied by his attendant, Sir
Ernest Beldon, and Sir Percy Willis. He
was trotted up and down for the inspection
of his future mistress, and both ladies
pronounced him simply charming, which,
indeed, was only his fair due. His glossy
skin shone like satin, his dainty limbs,
nervous, yet strong, while his beautiful
head and soft dark eyes completed his
victory.

That's about as pretty a bit of horseflesh
as I've seen this many a long day,"
said Sir Percy, who had come upstairs
to the ladies. " I have found something ,
for Hortense, but my lady's won't come upto
that, it isn't the same long price, though,
for one thing, not that it's a bad mount —
but Beldon wants to know what you
think of ' The Duke ' ladies."

Oh, he is lovely ! Sir Percy T ," said Esme,
almost trembling with eagerness. "Do
ask Sir Ernest when I can ride him."

To-morrow, young lady " said the
young man, in person, running up the
stairs, to hear what his betrothed had to
say. " How do you like my taste, or
rather choice ? "

Oh, Ernest ! he is simply a darling ! I
long to kiss him."

Kiss me instead ! I can kiss him, afterwards,
it will be all the same ! "

Pardon me ! It will be quite different.
I want to make love to him on
my own account, so that he will love me,
do you see ? "

Well you might just make acquaintance
on the doorstep. They tell me, he
loves little golden pippins, but is particular
about the right sort ! "

I believe we have some left from
dessert ! " And down she ran to find out.

Excuse me, Miss Higgins ! " said Sir
Ernest, as he too disappeared.

Both Sir Percy and Miss Higgins
laughed.

Ernest informs me he is coming round
to our hotel, this afternoon, to tell us some
news ! It strikes me, I can guess it ! "
And Sir Percy chuckled at his own
discernment.

I expect you can. As we are on the
subject, I wish you to be one of Esme's

trustees. I told Ernest I should settle
eight thousand pounds as her marriage
portion."

You are most generous, Miss
Higgins ! "

Her love, has been beyond price. You
cannot understand how lonely a woman
may be, even with wealth."

Well, no. Wealth always seems to me
one of the nicest acquaintances you can
well have. Perhaps, because I have not
seen too much of him."

Here come our ' children,' " said he as
the two young people — breathless, but
happy — came into the room."

"Oh, Hester! He did enjoy the apples.
And I did kiss his soft nose ! Charles quite
appreciates him. He says, he won't be
ashamed to take me out in the park now."

He will not very often have that privilege
! " said Sir Ernest, stiffly.

Charles is a clear old thing ! only
grumpy," said Esme.

Well, Ernest ! are you going back to
lunch with your sister ? or what are your
arrangements ?"

I will go with you. I have told the
man to take ' The Duke ' round to your
stables, Miss Higgins. Old Charles, your
amiable functionary, has condescended to
see to his comfort."

Thank you, Ernest," said Miss Higgins,
with a smile. " We will go round this
afternoon, and hurry the tailor about
Esme's habit. And, Sir Percy ! will you
bring your wife round to lunch with me
tomorrow ? but I want you very early,
because the two impatient young people
will wish to be off for their ride ! And I —
well I want to see them set off, and we
might drive for an hour, if that will be
agreeable."

If my lady has not made any other
engagement, 1 shall be very pleased to
bring her."

1 shall make her break them, if she
has," said the young baronet gaily.

He spoke with the airy confidence of
one who generally has his own way with
women folk, especially his own.

We shall be round, never fear, at
twelve o'clock. A benton cherie"

Good-bye, Ernest, dear."

I can't think which of my pets I
shall love the best, the ' Prince,' or the
'Duke'! " said she. mischievously ignoring
his farewell.

As long as you keep a large supply
for me, you can do as you like about
them. I shall not be jealous."

Oh, Hester! what a dear darling you are.
I am so happy ! My very own mother could
not have been more tender or generous.

Then, I am repaid. Nay, love ! we
have both cause for deep gratitude. Our
lines have been cast in pleasant places."

Now dear, we must really ' to business
there will be all your trousseau to
see about ; we must have Justine into the
conclave, she knows so much. And after
we have been about your habit, we might
begin this afternoon ! "

And, there we will leave them for the
present, deeply intent on the business in
hand.

I cannot help feeling, Ernest, the more
one sees of Miss Higgins the more one
realises her heart is of gold. She is a
noble woman," said his sister, as they sat
chatting after lunch. " I am so glad,
dear boy ! you will be happy. Your Esme
is the sweetest, prettiest little creature I

have ever seen ! and having lived in the
atmosphere of goodness and honour nearly
all her life, she will be free from the hateful
blemishes of the ' society girls,' with their
slang, their forwardness, their 'awfully nice,
don't you know.' They are all made on one
pattern, if there is anything to say in their
favour. They are just a peg higher than
the ' Masters,' for they do say what they
think, and those inane youths of the period
generally cant think, and consequently
have nothing to say."

Upon my word, Hortense , 3 t ou seem
to be qualifying yourself to sit in the seat
of the scornful, and no mistake ! What say
you, Percy? Laying down the law, eh? "

Oh," said Sir Percy, puffing out little
wreaths of smoke from his cigar, " I
always give my lady her head. There's
nothing like it ; after she has let off the
steam, she is as mild as a moonbeam ! "

Don't talk such nonsense, Percy ! I
have heard you say the same thing
yourself! "

Then don't quote me, my dear, let it
be all original matter, when you do hold
forth."

I think it is this," said Sir Ernest,
thoughtfully, " These young fellows are
nearly all young — not cut their wisdom
teeth ! But, I feel sure, if these same boys
were left to rough it, say out in the wilds,
or in the thick of war, all these borrowed
airs and graces would drop off them like a
ranged raiment ! and we should have the

DO

genuine article — the pluck, the endurance,
the making-the-best-of all difficulties, such
as English fellows always show — the
pride and glory of their country! She
has turned them out by hundreds ! thousands
! "

Hear, hear ! " said Sir Percy, " that's

it ! that's what we expect of our boy, eh,
Hortense ? when he grows up ; poor little
chap, he is learning it by doses at the
county Grammar School."

Dear child ! he is just ten now, and so
sweet ! " said his mother.

"Mind he gets out for my wedding,
Hortense ! I should not think it a fait
accompli without Phil."

"He shall come, dear!" said Lady
Willis brightly. " When is the wedding
to be?"

Oh, about February."
Losing no time, youn^f man ! "
Certainly not ! Xow you and Hortense
have forsaken Heminglee — it is
horrible ! and I am not so fond of my own
company as some people. Hortense, do be
in time tomorrow at Connaught Terrace,
I know Miss Higgins wants to show off
Esme on 'The Duke'"

How much did you give for him ? "
asked Sir Percy.

Oh, never mind ! it is a present I mean
to make her."

We will come, dear ! " said his sister
affectionately.

Thanks, Hortense. By-the-bye, when
you write to Phil, give him this tip from
uncle Ernest," and he put a sovereign into
her hand.

Than you, Ernest, for thinking of
Phil. He will be pleased ! "

I should rather think so ! When I was
a boy half-a- crown was considered a very
handsome douceur. Boys and girls are all
spoilt now-a-days," said Sir Percy.

Never mind ! they will take it out in
the next generation ! and if we only live
we shall see our grandchildren marvels of
propriety ! "

I think very proper children are

deceitful," said Lady Willis, in answer to
her brother.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Sir Percy. " Our
boy is rascal enough, I can answer for that.
He certainly is not proper."

END OF VOLUME I.

Belly AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS .

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

3 0112 056547828



Three
Curates

Author op

Broken Sunshine

«ifcTiS?MS?»*Rs;

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


\N77t

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/threecuratesnove02bigg

a Xobel.

Mrs. G. BIGG-WITHEE,

Author of "Broken Sunshine."

Nothing is new ; we walk where others went ;
There's no vice now but has its precedent."

Herrick.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON Street, STEAM).

THE THREE CURATES

CHAPTER I.

Height ! I am getting quite tired of this
place, mother. I never did care for the
country. One requires to have a soul to
the manner born ; and except Aunt Louisa
and Uncle Harry there really is no one
decent to speak to."

There are two of the curates ? "

"Oh! well, yes! They can be thrown
in with the Eectory party — so hardly
count."

"It is unfortunate that Miss Higgins
and Miss Curtis — to say nothing of Mrs.
Grantley — should all be away just now."

"Mother, if you remark, all country
VOL. II. 17

people do go to town for the cattle show
week, as if they didn't see enough of their
animals at home ! Oh ! but they love to
see how fat they can get their poor beasts,
without quite killing them. I do think it's
all horrid ! "

"I do not fancy either Mrs. Grantley or
Miss Higgins or Miss Curtis have gone for
the cattle-show," said Lady Laura, quietly.
"Have you heard Sir Ernest Beldon is
going very shortly to marry that little Miss
Curtis ? "

Xo, mother ! " said Mrs. Cohen, with
awakening interest.

"Your Aunt Louisa told me this morning,
in tones of the most perfect delight."

She is a sweet little thing ! and always
dressed like a little princess. Young Bel-don
was her shadow, at Homburg. I
remember them, and the millionaire, Miss
Higgins — plain, sallow, cold, satirical, but

very clever. She lias such a ricci contralto
voice. She is not really bad."

And she is going to be married ! "

She ! Mother ! Who to ? "

Can you keep a secret, Pauline, for a
little while ? "

I think I have had a good deal of
keeping secrets these last few years. Yes,
I can keep one. What is the particular
one, mother, that there is so much mystery ?"

Gerald Lanyon is going to marry Miss
Higgins."

"Mother!"

"It is a fact."

Mrs. Cohen cogitated a few moments.

u Why, mother ! they are exactly suited.
She is rich, clever, and good. Be is ditto,
ditto, ditto. And they are both — ugly ! *'

Do you not feel sorry to have missed
him, Pauline ? " said her mother, gently.

Xot .In the very least, dear. I am

neither clever nor good, but I am quite
happy in my way, which would not be their
way — small things and small interests amuse
me. Just a comfortable income, dear old
Charlie, and dear old mother ! So you see,
manse dear, my ambition is not great —

The happy have whole days, and those they choose ;
The unhappy have but hours, and those they lose.'

And when we get settled in town, I shall
have all I want, and shall take care not to
lose anything pleasant that comes in my
way."

And so Aunt Louisa is happy over the
matrimonial arrangements of her friends !
She is a dear old thing ! so nice and
homely ! I don't wonder she is their confidant.
It would not be in your way at
all," said Pauline, saucily. " I could not
fancy you having other people's love affairs
on hand."

Certainly not ! " said Lady Laura,

severely. " I have had something else todo
in my life."

"Never mind, mother. You have nothing
now except to be happy. Uncle
Christopher kindly departed this life almost
entirely for your benefit."

Hush, Pauline ! "

But, mother, he was horrid! All these
years he never even gave us a five-pound
note ! Cross-grained, stingy old thing !
Why should I say I care for him? I
don't. His money will be very useful ; but
think how we should have appreciated a
little kindly sympathy, a few little gifts, in
the days gone by ! He knew how badly
we were off. Oh no, mother, you must not
expect me to regret him. On the contrary,
it was the most graceful action of his life to
die when he did, because it makes you
thoroughly independent."

It does not make me forget your love,

Line darling' said her mother, with unwonted
tears in her eyes.

Mother dear ! My ideas may be foolish
and silly ; but I think, if you, and I could
not share our little store when we had the
chance : I should have been unworthy of
your love or Charlie's goodness. It is the
first and simplest of laws : ' Honour thy
father and mother,' etc., etc., etc. At
least, I believe in deeds, not words. Now,
mother, let's go out or do something. Oh, I
know ! Aunt Louie will take us to see Miss
Higgins' pictures, and porcelain paintings,
and other things — the very thing!" And
as Pauline's words were as impulsive and
various as an April sky, her mother agreed
at once, and they walked over to the
Eectory to catch Lady Louisa.

Lady Louisa was quite willing to do
them this little service, and very proud of
the beautiful things collected in her beloved

friend's dwelling. Both Lady Laura and
her daughter were quite able to appreciate
their beauties.

When I have a house again, mother,
everything shall be fresh and bright and
pretty. I must try and pick up a few
lovely things when we go abroad again.
I shall save all my money for that
purpose.' 5

44 Things of beauty that are joys for
joys for ever, Pauline ? " said Aunt Louisa,
kindly.

Yes, Auntie dear ! And they do go to
make up the sum total of happiness."

It was a lovely morning, bright, crisp,
clear. The tailor had not proved himself
a man," for Esme had to don her old
habit. But what did it matter? Duke's
skin shone like satin, and Esme's heart
bounded with joy.

There was the large open carriage at the
door, with Hester and Lady Willis, and Sir
Philip sitting opposite to them. Then down
the steps came Esme, looking like a stray
sunbeam. Sir Ernest helped her to mount,
and then they two rode round the carriage
for the ladies to inspect them at all points ;
but this did not please the Duke, who, having
no vanity himself, preferred to be doing.
So the two young people rode ahead ; and
old Charles, keeping a severe eye on the
advance guard, followed briskly. everybody
enjoyed it. The Eow was full of
equestrians ; and many a glance of approval
was cast at Esme and her escort as they
passed up and down, while the carriage
made the longer circuit of the Park.

"Now the Cattle Show is over there is
nothing worth staving for, and I do not
want to lose a day's hunting. So, if you

can oblige me, my Lady, by being ready
to-morrow, I shall feel grateful."

Very well, Percy. Only write and tell
them what time to meet us at Crosby
tomorrow."

To be sure, I will."

I think after all I shall return to
Combe Towers for Christmas," said Hester.
The arrangement of those two make all
the difference in my plans. I shall like to
have Esme with me at home. Somehow
one never does feel at home in furnished
houses, but always birds of passage. The
truth is, we are such creatures of habit, and
our surroundings influence us unconsciously.

Simply there's no place like home,"
said Sir Percy tersely.

No. I believe that is it. In all our
wanderings it is nice to feel one has a
home — where you need not live always in
company."

Where you can shut the door of
your castle and be as disagreeable as you
please ! " replied Sir Percy. " I believe ina
good storm every now and again. It
clears the atmosphere. What do you say,
my lady ? "

That I prefer a calm, most decidedly."

With a good deal of sunshine," said
Hester.

Yes," said Lady Willis, " exactly."

"It is nearly lunch-time," said Miss
Higgins, looking at her watch ; " and I
think we had better turn homewards, and
I daresay the two will follow us, though it
is delicious enough for anything. Home,
Charles."

And they were half-way through lunch
when the truants returned, flushed, delighted,
and happy.

Both Hester and Esme found the time to
fly, so much had they to do. And Hester

had not the heart to banish Sir Ernest,
who was drawn by an irresistible attraction
to Connaught Terrace; but there really
was a great deal to do in a very short time.
Justine and Hester were indefatigable, and
these two did without Esme as much
as possible, so that the Duke was inconstant
requisition, and the young couple,
duly escorted by Charles, who looked after
them as conscientiously as any chaperon.
[n fact, Ernest looked upon him as an old
nuisance.

Never mind, Ernest ; it won't be for
long. When we are married, we can do
without a groom when we ride."

"Bather! Now, Esme, let us settle
what sort of furniture you would like
for Heminglee. It requires a lot of doing
up and renovating."

First, a good piano and some very nice
pictures," said the future Lady Beldon.

If I am to have a sitting-room of my
own, I should like the walls a very pale
pink, and — shall we ask Hester to go with
us tomorrow, Ernest ? Then we can
choose what we like at Maple's or other
places."

By all means," said the young man.
"It will assist me so much if I only know
what my little lady-love does like. I want
you to love Heminglee ! "

I am sure I do that now. Hester
is going to give me some lovely things.
Bronzes, pictures, some real Persian
carpets, and a necklace of pearls that
belonged to a great princess."

Well, nothing is too good for you ! "
said Sir Ernest, with conviction.

Only Hester is so noble, so generous !
Oh ! she is a darling ! I hope she will be
as happy as I am."

"She is all that. And if she marries

Larson, I think she will be very happy,
Esme."

She deserves it. For she only thinks
of others. Ernest, Old Charles is looking
dinner-time. I know that expression. I
suppose it really is time to go back ; but it
is very delicious, and / do not seem to
require any lunch. Where are we going
to-nisfht ? "

"To see 'The Pink Dominos'"
Somewhat reluctantly the T turned their
horses' heads homewards. But Charles
was a personage accustomed to receive
attention, and his dinner was a very serious
and important business. And although he
was willing to be kindly indulgent to the
lovers, still, there were limits to his
amiability. However, he was in time to
preside with his usual dignity ; and his
mistress, Miss Higgins, was waiting with
some impatience for Esme, who was required

by Madame Stephanie to try on
various garments. Next week they were
all to return to Combe Towers, so much
work had to be got through.

The next day was passed by them all in
shopping. And Ernest found even being
engaged had its drawbacks, for they all
became very tired and fagged out, and were
not sorry when the day came for them all
to return to Langton.

Immediately after Christmas Sir Ernest
was to go to Heminglee and begin arrangements
there. There was much to be done,
and not too much time.

Sir Percy and Lady Willis had returned
to their own home. And Heminglee was
to be given over to the workmen. Ernest
was most anxious his home should be
worthy of the fair young bride.

Then he wanted to have a charming little
pony carriage he had set his heart upon,

for Esme, and to match the ponies was now
a matter of supreme importance. But in
spite of all he was very happy, for his mind
was at rest. Esme was his first and last
love. He was not like so many young
men, whose freshness of feeling and whose
heart had been frittered away in idle flirtations.
For years he had loved the young
girl, little more than a child, as he often
met her, to and fro, as she went to the Conservatoire
to study her music. And it had
been with keen pain he had seen her girlish
love for handsome Cyril Dash wood. But
that was all over, past and done with. He
felt sure of her, and her love, and that he
reigned supreme in her heart. He had
waited, and the reward had come. Hester
had been his true friend throughout, and
he knew he could best repay her by making
the child of her adoption happy, and that
he fully intended.

Far down in the soft Devonian county,
stood Luscombe Manor. It was a stately-old
place. Ancient and grey, beautiful for
situation, built on an eminence overlooking
the Bristol Channel, though a good mile
inland. But from its old mullions
windows could be seen the distant sea,
sometimes grey, sometimes blue, sometimes
sparkling like thousands of diamonds, but
always varying, like the woof of life.
When the wind blew towards the land, it
would bring forth its invigorating odour and
tales of the sea. Its thunder against the
rocks, its contempt for the puny efforts of
man, its rage, its gentle love song, all came
up — with its ever changing, yet ever old
refrain — to the grey house on the hill, that

could look over the wide expanse of water,
and in the faint blue distance discern the
Welsh coast. The soft, humid air, that
made the verdure so exquisitely beautiful,
seemed to have tinged the stonework of the
old " Manor " into delicate greys, and reds,
and russet browns. And the setting sun
would rest on its old windows, with their
stained glass, in loving dalliance ; flooding
the rooms with rich colours, and lighting
up dark corners and crannies, bringing out
the old cunning carvings on sideboard and
mantelpiece, and making the old Canons
stand out from their ancient frames like
living creatures.

These same ancestors in their early days
had gone forth to the Crusades. Many, in
later years, had fought and bled for their
country. None seemed to have lived
entirely for themselves, save a certain Sir
Walter Lanyon, who had lived an evil life
VOL. II. 18

during the latter portion of the eighteenth
century, and contracted many a gambling
debt, which seriously crippled the estate.
Moreover, he was much at court, and
occasionally had the honour of replenishing
the Eoyal purse (at his own expense). So
that between his Eoyal friend and himself,
the old manor of Luscombe suffered
severely. Neither was this particular
Baronet troubled with morality or conscience,
for he enjoyed his brandy and his
other liquors all the more for being
smuggled. How he escaped the clutches of
the law seemed wonderful to many good
and innocent people. And with all his
many bad deeds, that he should die in his
bed, passed their comprehension ! But if
His Eoyal Highness did not pay back in
kind and coin, he did in deed, and somehow
the regis of his questionable protection was
thrown over his quondam friend, who died

as comfortably as an attack of inward gout
would allow him, leaving to his grandson,
Sir Horace Lanyon, an estate charged with
mortgages and debts. And it was only
owing to the loner life of self-denial and
good management, that the old place was
once more beginning to assert its own
dignity, and to resume its former position
in the county. But its owner was old and
mournful and lonely, and the sceptre seemed
almost too heavy for the feeble old hands.
No cheery voice of youth gladdened the old
home — the many closed rooms, the barred
shutters, that the bright sunshine tried in
vain to penetrate, and could only peep in
through cracks and holes.

Sir Horace Lanyon had been stricken
with a severe and wasting illness ; but it
was an illness that had attacked many
before him when hope is gone, and there
seems nothing left but to turn one's face to

18*

the wall and die. Sir Horace had married
late in life, and after two or three years of
such perfect happiness as only comes for a
short period to anyone, the wife of his heart
left him, leaving as her representative an
infant son, who had cost his mother her
life. This terrible blow caused the man of
fifty to become prematurely old, and he had
lived only for his son, and when the young
lad grew to manhood, nearly ready to take
his place in the world, he had begged his
father, to let him make a tour through
Europe. His parent could deny him nothing
that his soul longed for, but it was with a
sad foreboding he saw him set out with his
tutor. And who can tell the agony of the
father, when the lifeless form of the young
gallant lad was brought back to the home
of his ancestors, crushed almost out of recognition,
by a terrible accident on those
stern unyielding snow-clad mountains of

Switzerland, who demand their yearly
insatiable tribute of human life as, the
punishment of man's temerity and rashness.
Then the old man felt that fortune had
done her worst. There was nothing more
left but death, and that would be as an
angel's message.

But as yet it came not. He saw no one
at last. It was his faithful old servant who
brought to his mind that there was yet one
left who bore his name — his honos neglected
nephew — the son of his dead step-brother.
So he desired his lawyer to inform his heir
of his decision to allow him a handsome
yearly income, but he expressed no wish to
see him. Sir Horace could not bring himself
to that yet, and so a year or two passed
by. Then came a very serious illness, and
the old baronet felt his end was near, and
Percival, his friend and servant, persuaded
him at last to send for the young man.

It is not, sir, as if lie were a stranger,
he's our own family, Sir Horace."

True, Percival, I am very sorry though
my nephew is a parson."

Well, sir, it is a bit unfortunate, as all
the Lanyons have been warriors or statesmen
; but I've heard Mr. Gerald is a rare
one for duty. He always was a nice young
gentleman, leastways when he was a boy."

Well, then Percival, we will send for
him."

We will, sir ! " And as old Percival
allowed no grass to grow under his feet,
the heir was sent for, and the day had
come for his arrival.

The old baronet laid back in his chair,
his pale pathetic face refined and sharpened
by suffering of heart and body. His thin,
almost transparent hands lay listlessly over
the arms of his chair, his wasted form carefully
covered over with wraps. The firelight

was bringing out in bold relief the
white head and worn face, the old crimson
hangings over the windows, the old mouldy
books, of bygone days, that lined the walls
of the room, the black oak beams which
ran across the ceiling, the high carved
mantelpiece, all were tinted by the red fire-glow,
and brought into fitful prominence.

Percival ! I think I should like to see
Master Gerald again ! It is many years
since we met. And then he always looked
so much stronger than my poor boy, and
that used to vex me, Percival. My nephew,
too, may have been lonely. He is an
orphan, and his mother was so beautiful,
so beautiful," said the old man dreamily,
and yet, she preferred that pale sickly
brother to me. Ah ! I never thought in
my own selfishness of their lonely little
lad — and perhaps he will resent it now."

Never fear ! Sir Horace. Master

Gerald is not that sort. The pity is we
did not send for him before."

"You are right, Percival. I am much
to blame. Will he be here, think you, tonight
? "

b< For certain, sir ! I have sent Matthew
and the dogcart to the station."

Make up the fire ! Light all the
candles and the lamps — try and make it
look cheerful. The house, alas, is dull !
Almost its light has gone down."

Nay, nay, sir ! We have no right to say
that as long as there is a Lanyon left."
*****
Hark ! Percival ! " And the sounds of
carriage wheels were heard outside. " Go
and greet Mr. Lanyon."

Percival hastily left the room, and very
soon returned, escorting Gerald. He came
with quick bold steps to where his uncle
sat, his face full of sympathetic feeling.

My dear uncle ! I am glad to find you
able to sit up ! it is a great relief ! "

Nephew, you are heartily welcome !
Forgive a selfish old man — his long neglect,
and for keeping you out of your rightful
home."

Dear uncle, there can be no neglect.
I must always appear in your eyes as a
usurper."

Ah, no ! You are my brother Ralph's
son ; henceforth you are mine, and perhaps
Lettice and Ealph will forgive me."

Gerald held both the old man's hands in
his strong ones, almost conveying in the
touch his own firm protecting nature. It
seemed by its very sympathy to revive his
uncle. For there came on the old worn
face a happy smile. Ah Gerald ! you are
like your great-great-grandfather. He had
your rugged strong face. You must see
his picture, the likeness is striking ! Now

Percival, take my nephew to his rooms, and
then to dinner. Afterwards, Gerald, you
will return to me ? "

"Indeed I will!"

Percival accompanied the young man to
his apartments, and after seeing to all his
requirements, addressed him with all the
affectionate interest so far removed from
familiarity — and only to be found in old
servants who have grown grey in the
family's service.

Sir ! I am proud to see you here, and
I do hope, Master Gerald, you won't be forgoing
away again ! Do make your home
here, sir! The master is so lonesome.
You see, sir, we are only two old men
together. I do my best for him, but "

Ah, Percival ! I can see that ! " said
Gerald, grasping the faithful hand. " Has
my uncle suffered much ? "

Not so much in absolute pain like, but

he's run down, sir ! And there seems nothing
to keep him alive. But I do think
sir ! between you and me, he might goon
for long. If we could only make it
worth his while to live ! Something to
interest him ! Something to make him
happy!"

We will make him happy, God helping
us, Percival. This shall be my home.
And not a bad one either ! " said Gerald,
cheerily.

Thank you, sir ! " said old Percival,
greatly comforted. "And now I will just
step back to the master, and return for you
in a few moments ! "

All right, Percival, don't hurry on my
account."

Percival found his master with a
gentle little smile on his face.

I think we shall be happy, Percival ! "

I am sure we shall, Sir Horace ! It is

so pleasant to have a strong man about,
we are getting old, sir ! "

That is true, Percival. My nephew is
tall and strong, as becomes a Lanyon. The
only two exceptions were my brother
Ralph, and my own dear lad."

Now, sir ! If you please, you must take
your medicine," said the old servant
briskly. " And if you could just get a
little nap, while Master Gerald is having
his dinner, you would be ready and fresh
for a nice chat later on."

To be sure ! to be sure ! I will try, and
Percival ! see that my nephew has every
possible attention. In fact ! impress the
servants that he is to be treated precisely
as myself ! "

Certainly Sir Horace." And after
lowering the shades of the candles, the
man softly withdrew.

Mrs. Grantly was sitting alone in her
pretty morning-room, in Cavendish Square.
It may seem strange that she should have
her dwelling among so many of the
Faculty," but so it was. Her kind and
indulgent husband, the late Professor
Grantley, among his other gifts had left her
his comfortable Town house for her sole
use and occupation. And here she sat one
cold December morning. Outside it was
raw and foggy, but inside there was
warmth and pleasant refinement. The fire
burned brightly and cheerily in the grate.
Russian violets and stephanotis diffused a
dainty perfume, while tall plants blossomed
in soft-hued pots, making believe it was
summer.

The owner sat near the fire, her pretty
feet on the fender — the light at her back,
showing the nape of a soft white neck,
and touching up the bronze-coloured hair
piled over her head. Then she moved her
chair from the fire, drew her lone flowing
draperies around her and fell to consider.
Her face was grave, but by no means sad ;
and again she held up a letter which had
lain open on her lap.

After all these years ! It is like a
message from the dead." And she read it
once more.

Edith, by some strange chance, a stray
newspaper (an old Lancet) fell into my
hands (it was in looking over the possessions
of a dead friend of mine), and almost the
first paragraph that caught my eye was
about your late husband ; it was a short
editorial, lamenting his loss in the medical

and scientific world. Oswald Grantley had
been my foe, forgive me speaking thus
strongly. He may have been the worst
husband to you, or the best, I have no
means of judging — all I know was that I
had been defrauded of my bride — my love
of years. Can I forgive the traitor who
did this ? for traitor there must have been.
All these long weary years, I have had
time to think it over. The letter I wrote
to you, you never received, for it was
returned unopened. At first I thought out
of disdain, you would not read it. But it
was so unlike your kind heart, that afterwards,
I felt sure there was some underhand
agency at work. And you must
have thought me false, or dead. And, Oh,
Edith! I heard of your marriage to
Oswald Grantley. It was useless to write
after that. And now from that stray old
newspaper, nearly three years old, I find

you are a widow unless no, I will

not think that, I will not suppose anything.
I shall come straight to England by the
first steamer. I should say, if I catch ' The
Bangalore,' I shall be in the old country
two months from this date. Of course,
I shall send this to your brother, Edward's
club. I have a presentiment we shall meet
again ! and it cheers me beyond all
expression.

Always your faithful friend,

Selwyn Luttrell."

His letter is dated October the eighth,
and this is December the twentieth ! Why he
may be here any day ! if he catches the
mail. How strange it all is ! It is ten
years since I saw him. What an ugly
ducking he was to be sure. I wonder — but
she concluded her thoughts by springing
up, and gazing steadfastly into a little

plush-framed mirror, and there she saw
a very piquant face, a saucy little nose,
bewitching brown eyes, so dark as to
be nearly black, but capable of every
subtlety of expression. A clear pale skin,
while her dark wavy hair had a ruddy
tinge, that gave a warmth to the dark
curls. A charmingly rounded figure —
yes, at thirty-four, Mrs. Grantley need
have no fears of any rivals. She was
bright, witty, clever — a charming woman
in fact. She had an ample income, and
for the last year, she had devoted much
time to her step-brother, occasionally
she came up to her house in Town, and
there she was this dull December da}%
puzzled but expectant.

Of course, he might be in time for
Christmas Day at Langton! Poor old
Selwyn ! he always cared so much more
for me, than I for him. Did I love him

VOL. II. ID

at all? It is so long* ago. I can't remember.
All, Lucy, poor girl, you did him
a bad turn and yourself no. good. Height !
how time flies."

44 Colonel Luttrell ! " announced Mrs.
Grantley's trim parlour-maid.

Selwyn ! "

"Edith!" And Colonel Luttrell held
out his two hands, and eagerly grasped
Mrs. Grantley's. There he stood : A tall,
soldierly figure, bronzed and "rev, of about
forty years ; a face strongly marked — with
energy and determination legibly written
across it. He looked into his companion's
face — as if he would see into her very soul.
And there he saw a little mutinous look, a
kind regard, a souppon of love ; but not
the love he hoped and longed for. Well !
he would wait.

Why, Selwyn ! where have you sprung
from? See! I have only just read your

letter, and, before I can think, here you
are ! But you are very welcome ! " and
.she pressed his hand with kindly
warmth.

I landed in London yesterday, drove
to an hotel, had a bath, some food, went
to Edward's club, got his address, telegraphed
for yours, received it, and — here
I am ! I should have come last night, only
it was so late. I feared you might be from
home or have friends.

Edith ! are you glad to see me?"

"Most glad, Selwyn!"

You are handsomer than ever ! You
always were a lovely, teasing girl ; and
now I find you a beautiful woman — but
with all the old mischief, or else I am very
much mistaken. I do not believe you are
one whit improved ! — and I am not sure
that I should care fcr any improvement."

"Thank you for your kind indulgence,"

19*

said she, shaking her head at him. " And
now, Selwyn, do sit down like a Christian
and tell me all about yourself! Have you
left the army or are you on leave, and
what have you been doing all these long
years ? "

I have not left the army and I have a
year's leave ; I have never been out of India
since I set foot in it ; I have been engaged
in frontier wars mostly ; have had two or
three unimportant wounds. I have, on the
whole, led rather a solitary life — I mean
personally, of course."

And you never married ? "

Married ! certainly not ! Why should
I ?"

Why should you not ? "

"Edith, you are neither fair nor just!
There was only one woman in the world forme
! and she — she was married ! "

Mrs. Grantley was silent.

Tell me ! " he asked with some sternness,
"Who played the traitor with my
letters ? "

My sister Lucy ! "

By Heavens ! I will settle with her ! "
he said grimly.

You cannot ! She is beyond your
reach."

Beyond my reach ! and in what
way ? "

She is dead ! "

"Dead! When did she die?"

Two years ago ! "

Then, after a pause, he asked, " Why
did she behave so wickedly, so cruelly ?
blasting my life, crushing the very heart
out of me. Why did she do so, I say?"
his steel-blue eyes flashing with anger till
they looked almost black.

Selwyn, forgive her ! for she loved you
herself ? She begged your forgiveness

before she died. Do try and think kindly
of her ! "

She is beyond the reach of my forgiveness
now."

There was a long silence. Each was
going over old ground. And Mrs. Grander
was debating with herself — Did she lore
the man now before her in the old days so
very much ? No, she knew she did not.
He worried her into loving him. His ways
were masterful then. They were masterful
now. She would almost be afraid of him.
She was very happy and satisfied ; she did
not want to be in love at all. Why should
she be forced into what would disturb the
pleasant even tenour of her life ? If he
would only be satisfied with her friendship !
He remembered the fair girlish Luc v. Yes.
He could see many traits of love in her
conduct now, which years ago passed
totally unobserved. The little love tokens,

the flowers, the many little thoughts, and
acts, and deeds, all ignored by him, in
the pursuit of the elder sister, with her
bewitching, tantalising tricks — so hard to
win, so elusive. He never felt sure if she
had been won at all. And she was in
nowise altered, he could see that. But she
was one of those women whom one watches,
follows, loves, without trying to resist,
the very pleasure of the pursuit giving a
feverish happiness. While for Lucy Lewis
he felt no remorse. She had come between
himself and happiness.

Tell me about yourself. Have you
been happy," he asked jealously, " all these
years ? "

Yes, Selwyn. Happy ! My husband
was very good to me."

He was twenty years older than you ? "

"Yes."

You have no children ? "

"No."

I am glad of that."

Why ? " she asked, with a laugh.

Because I should have been jealous of
them. They would have been his children. 1 '

« But "

Xo 4 buts ' for me. I see you are as
troublesome as ever, but I mean to make
you love me, sooner or later. I am not
going to be defrauded out of my happiness
for the rest of my life."

Upon my word, Colonel Luttrell ! I
suppose I do not count in this ultimatum ! "

Oh, yes, you do, very considerably.
However, we will leave that now, and please
tell me about Edward."

He is well. His wife died some years
ago. He has been Mayor of Langton, and
has been elected again for another year,
and I " — making him a deep curtsey — " am
the ' mayoress,' at your service."

Upon my word ! Then I suppose 3-011
are a good deal with him ? "

"Yes. We seem to have clung together.
He has always been so good to me. Dear
fellow ! "

"He has given up his practice in London?"

"Oh, yes ; and all he does now is among
the very poor, and those he physics free,
gratis, and for nothing. When he is not
doing that, he is adding to his collection of
insects ' and other vermin,' as an old country
farmer calls them ; he intends writing a
book on natural history. And betweenwhiles
he attends committees, gives away
prizes, subscribes to everything, dedicates,
has a few receptions, at which / figure
largely" she added, her eyes full of mischief.
"And thus — you see us."

Yes, I can see that years have not
tamed you."

I am getting older, Selwyn."

None of us grow younger," said he
coolly.

Selwyn ! allow me to say, you are not
improved in your manners. You always
were a very rude boy."

Living so long out of society does not

O O ml

generally have an ingratiating effect. Do
you remember my sister, Ellen Maitland ? "

Perfectly ! "

She was in India, but hundreds of
miles away from me — her second girl has
had jungle fever, and the doctor thought a
sea trip, and stay in England, would do her
good."

Where is she now, the child, I mean ? "

"At the hotel with me. 'The Lang-ham.'
"

Oh ! how dull for the poor thing !
Why did you not bring her with you ? "

., xl O %l

Edith ! Should you think I was taking
advantage of our boy and girl friendship,

if I were to ask you to take lier in for a
time. You see I feel so strange and
solitary, I find so manage dead, that at
present I seem stranded ! " he said with a
pathetic break in his voice.

Selwyn ! " said she, putting out her
hand, " you silly boy ! As if you need ask !
1 am sure, for her mother's sake, to say
nothing of yours, sir ! she is as welcome
as flowers in May. How old is she ? "

Seventeen ! "

And her name ? "

Sabina."

What a pretty, quaint name ! "

She is as quaint in looks as in name — ■
When can she come ? Will tomorrow be
too soon ? "

Selwyn ! suppose I drive to the hotel,
this afternoon, and bring her here ba and
baggage ? Saturday, I go down to Langton
with you, sir, and Sabina — so just

get all your business done, ready for me to
take you down, both of you. I shall be
quite proud of my prizes ! "

But Edward ? "

Edward, my dear good man ! is the
Mayor, and I am the Mayoress. Doesn't
that convey anything to your benighted
mind ? "

Yes ! A very charming, bewitching
woman."

Very well, then ! " said she, with a
pretty little blush, " we will have a real
old Christmas."

Ah, Edith ! I see your kind warm
heart — "

"And my sharp tongue, eh, Selwyn?"

I used to feel it years ago."

I will be merciful now. But a truce !
Let us bury the hatchet, and have lunch,
in the first place, and then I will bring
back Sabina and you to dinner — she as a

permanency, and you a sort of irregular —
dear old friend."

God bless you, Edith ! You are
good, I don't think you can ever realize
what it is to have that heart hunger,
when you are thousands of miles away
from the old home. And with me it has
been a perpetual yearning after the
unattainable."

She knew what he meant, but she only
said simply and kindly : " Indeed, Selwyn,
I am very glad to see you. I know
Edward will be too."

And I am grateful — It is something to
find you well and happy, and not — "

And not what ? " seeing he paused.

And not married again ! "

Does every woman marry again ? "

Yes generally, I believe, if they get the
chance. But it is you, individually, that
concerns me, not others generally."

Well I Lave not married again, and I
really have had the chance ! " And she
looked down, with a demure propriety that
was quite neutralised by the wicked little
twinkle in her eye. But she gave him no
time for reply, for she immediately rang
the bell."

"Lunch! Watson."

For two, Ma'am ? "

Yes, and as quickly as possible ; and
order the carriage for half-past two."

A very dainty little lunch soon appeared.
Aid after it was over Colonel Luttrell and
Mrs. Grantley drove to the " Bingham."
And there, in one of the private sitting-rooms,
looking the picture of forlornness,
was a pale sickly-looking girl, thin, sallow,
her face only redeemed by a pair of large
pathetic dark eyes ; her long hair was
worn in a pigtail, and it extended more
than half her length. She looked about

fifteen. She was warming her thin, delicate
hands over the blaze, while her arms were
covered with tiny silver bangles, which
glistened and flashed in the firelight.
Directly she saw her uncle, she flew to him
with swift, light step, and threw her arms
round his neck.

Oh, Uncle Selwyn ! At last ! "

Sabina, darling, here is a dear friend of
mine, and she wants you to come and stay
with her."

Are you coming, too, Uncle ? " asked
the young lady in no pleased accents.

I hope, dear, to see a very great deal of
your uncle ; but I trust, dear, you will
learn to love me, because I knew your
mother."

What is your name ? " she asked
abruptly.

Edith Grantley."

I have never heard mother speak of

her," said Sabina, turning her eyes to her
uncle.

Probably not, as Mrs. Grantley, but as
Miss Edith Lewis. But now, my dear, you
must thank Mrs. Grantley for her kindness.
Where is your ayah ? "

There ! " and she pointed to a bundle
of red and yellow squatted down on a mat
at the far end of the room.

He crossed over to the ayah and told her
to get her young lady's things together.

But why can't I stay with you,
Uncle?"

Dear Sabina, do not be unreasonable.
I feel only too grateful to Mrs. Grantley
as it is."

Selwyn, she will soon get accustomed
to me."

And love you too, Edith," he said, with
grateful eyes, for in truth this wayward
niece rather troubled him.

"Selwyn" and "Edith" thought the

young lady, and a jealous pang crossed her
heart. All through the voyage her uncle
had been her very own property — her slave,
to fetch and carry. And who was this
daintily dressed " Edith," whom her uncle
looked at with looks of reverence, or was
it — love ?

Mrs. Grantley saw the unfriendly inspection,
but she pitied the ill-dressed
sickly girl too much to take any heed
of it,

Selwyn, has she any warm clothes or
furs ? You know she must feel the cold so
much. Have you, Sabina ? "

c; Xo ! I have a lot of shawls and wraps.
Mother said I could get what I wanted in
England."

Then, tomorrow, suppose we get some
new winter clothing? I think you will
like that," said Mrs. Grantley, pleasantly.
vol. ii. 20

u All do, Edith. Spend as much as you
like on my behalf."

The ayah entered with Sabina's hat and
cloak ; and the Colonel, Mrs. Grantley, the
girl and the nurse, drove rapidly back to
Cavendish Square.

-:'| ^fe-W |:-

The days passed on at Luscombe Manor,
and the old baronet slowly progressed ; he
gained a little strength, and his doctor
thought he might live for some time longer.

"I believe, Mr. Lanyon, your presence
exercises a most beneficial result — it has
brought my patient fresh thoughts, fresh
ideas."

Then, indeed, you give me pleasure by
saying so," said the young man heartily.

Gerald, my dear boy," said Sir Horace
one day, " I wish you would marry. Is
there any one you fancy ? " asked the old
man timidly. " I should feel so much
obliged. It does not do to wait till one is
old. Ah, no ! we must grow up with our
children."

•SBfis

Well, uncle Horace," said his nephew
cheerily, " I think I can oblige you ! "

'' I am rejoiced to hear you say so ! She
is a lady, of course ? "

Essentially so ! "

If she had a little money it would be a
great thing. But we must not expect too
much ! Only it would do the estate good,
though I have done my best. But still — "

She has wealth, dear uncle ! "

Indeed, is it so ? And her name ? "

Hester."

Hester ! Why that was my wife's
name ! What a happy coincidence ! Per -
civil, come here ! " And the old man was
informed of the joyful intelligence. " We
only want my nephew's wife here, eh, Percival?"


Only that, Sir Horace ! "

Gerald, I think after lunch, if you will
come, I should like to go into the picture

gallery. I want to show you one or two
portraits."

I am ready at any time, and should
much like to see them again. 1 was quite
a youngster when I saw them last."

After lunch the old baronet was wheeled
in his chair to the door of the gallery,
and there uncle and nephew were left by
Percival for an hour to their own resources.

Gerald pushed the chair where his uncle
directed. Several histories were brought
to light.

Who is the unfortunate individual
with nis face to the wall ? for I conclude
the reverse side of the canvas represents
somebody ' ?"

It is that disgrace to our name — Sir
Walter Lanyon ! " said the old man, " I
believe there is no crime he did not
commit. He pleased neither God norman."


Let us look at him! " said Gerald.

Sir Walter was turned round and faced
his descendants. A gay, mocking, sensual
face ; a powdered wig tied with black
ribbon, a dark velvet coat and laced cravat.
Certainly a handsome face. And the eyes
seemed to follow the old baronet with an
amused contempt. Anyway it seemed to
irritate Sir Horace. " Turn it round, turn
it round. I can't bear it."

So Gerald placed the portrait in the
same position that he found it. They
came at length to two more modern ones,
and one of Sir Horace's father. " Do you
know these, nephew ? "

Yes ; that is my father. But the other
surely not my mother ? "

Yes. Ealph and I were both suitors for
your mother's hand — and — she chose Ealph.
I could not forgive him, for I loved her.
See how lovely she was — only eighteen

then ! Ah ! Lettice ! Lettice ! It was many
years before I married, and the strange
thing was that my poor dead boy exactly
resembled your father, while you are just
what I was. Not handsome, Gerald, none
of us Lairyons are that, only here and there.
A strange fair divergence comes out. Your
father was fair, my boy was fair, and both
dead. Can you understand, dear Gerald,
why I must have seemed so harsh to you ?
And your fair young mother died when you
were two years old, and your father some
years after, and yet I left you, Lettice's son,
to struggle on alone. But you will forgive
me," said Sir Horace, holding out his
thin fragile hands beseechingly.

Nay, dear uncle, I will only say — for
my mother's sake love me. Until these
last few months, I have suffered from the
utter loneliness of my life, but now it
seems as if the gentle winds of Heaven were

blowing upon my garden, sending me its
choicest gifts. Let me be to you as a son,
and my wife, that is to be, as a daughter,
and we will make your old age c as a lusty
winter, frosty but kindly.' "

Gerald, I ask nothing better, I am only
too thankful. Ah! there is my good
Percival! He thinks we have been quite
long enough."

Evidently," said Gerald with a smile.

It is time for your medicine, Sir Horace,
and your little nap."

I thought as much, Percival," said the
old man brightly, " but you do look me upto
be sure."

Aye, sir, I do. Master Gerald's going
riding."

Yes, Uncle Horace ! I am going as far
as Ilfracombe, on a tour of discovery."

Ah, do lad. The land wants a master's
eye over it."

Gerald Lanyon rode off — his mind full of
Hester — for lie had that morning received
from London the news of Esme's engagement
to Sir Ernest Beldon. He felt how
pleasantly everything was working, and
there would be no reason for Hester to
delay her own marriage, though he concluded
she would not become his wife until
Esme was safely and happily done for.
What joy these letters of Hester gave him
so true, so loving ! How he would
cherish her ! His own heart was so firm
and loyal, it was that love

11 Which kindles honour into noble acts."

Then he smiled when he thought over
another letter received from his godmother
and friend, Lady Louisa Frampton. In it she
informed him Lady Laura and Mrs. Cohen
had left the cottage and had taken a house
in town ; and when her year of mourning
had expired, Mrs. Cohen was to take Mr.

Yere for better and for worse, and at last
Lady Laura had quite made her mind up,
and they were all very happy. Then his
kind old gossip went on to discuss the
subject nearest her own, and his heart,
namely, Hester. Yes, he could say with
wise old La Buyers :

Eire avec les gens nit on aime, cela suffit :
rever, leur parler, ne lew parler point, pensera
eiLT, penser a des choses ]plus indifference,
mais autres veux tout est legal."

Christmas was drawing on apace. Lady
Louisa and Hester were both anxious he
should spend it with them, but he felt how
impossible it would be to leave his uncle,
now that the old man's life had become
bound up in his own. No ! he must look
forward to next year. Ah ! it was a bright
future as far as human plans could be laid,
and human foresight arrange, but there was
something to look forward to, that was the

great thing. And as he rode along on that
bright December day, almost in its genial
warmth persuading one it was summer, the
air was so soft and dewy, and every now
and then the blue sea was seen sparkling
in the golden sunshine, while the russet
browns and the rich madder tones of the
fresh turned earth, made the beautiful
blue hazy distance delicious, Gerald's heart
and Nature were as one.

Although he had been riding for some
long time, he was still on his uncle's land,
all to be his own one day ; and it was with
honest pride he looked about him. Already
he was known as the " Young Squire," and
many a pleasant nod and cheery greeting
did he exchange with the country people
on the road going and returning. A true
Lanyon they thought him.

The gossips of Langton were very much
exercised. There was the Mayor's carriage
and pair, and there was Miss Higgins' carriage,
both awaiting the down train from
London. If only Mrs. Grantley and her
maid were expected, why had the Mayor's
best " carriage gone to the station ? And
when Dr. Lewis, quietly riding on his old
bay horse, likewise went down to meet the
train, their curiosity became excitement —
Who could be expected ? And at last when
the train did arrive, their patience was
rewarded, for out stepped Mrs. Grantley,
followed by a tall, grey gentleman, a thin
young lady, and an object never before
seen at Langton — a black creature, dressed
in red ! A complete heathen ! Well, to

be sure ! There was the Mayor, almost
cuddling the strange grey gentleman, and
nobody knew who he was. Miss Higgins
and her party were quite overshadowed, by
the burning curiosity displayed as to who
the black woman could be, and what relation
the tall soldierlike man was to anybody.
They all got into the large, roomy carriage,
and Dr. Lewis rode his own horse, and
galloped home, so as to be in readiness to
receive the party at his own door. The
interested spectators concluded the thin
young lady was daughter to the tall gentleman,
as she belonged to nobody they knew,
anyway. It afforded endless speculation.
Mrs. Frostick was as eager as anyone to
hear every detail which Harriet Brown —
having been an eve-witness of the alighting

O J DO

of this distinguished and interesting party —
graphically gave her. The dainty-costumed
Mrs. Grantley, the pale young lady who

did not look particularly pleased at anything,
the black woman with huge earrings,
with a red and yellow wrap which folded
over her head and wound round her body
in some mysterious way, who seemed silent
and inscrutable. Then Mrs. Frostick fell
to speculating if they had ever heard of
any unknown brother or cousin? No, it
was all mysterious ; so they could only
keep a watch on the Mayor's house and
await a denouement.

Miss Higgins and Miss Curtis were met
by Sir Ernest Beldon at the station. I
wonder if he's going to marry one of yon
ladies ? He's very keen after one. I should
much like to know which of them," said
Mrs. Frostick, as she and Harriet Brown
sat over a very cosy tea. (This was Harriet's
reward for bringing up the interesting
news.) Harriet could give no information
on this point.

I thought Mr. Dashwood was going to
marry Miss Curtis, Mrs. Frostick."

Ah ! there's no saying — he's one of
those close ones."

"It does seem a pity Mr. Lanyon has
gone for good, and not married anybody !
I can't think what all our curates are about."

All doctors and clergymen should be
married," said the second Miss Brown, with
thorough conviction in her tone.

Aye ! but they like their wives young
and rich, my dear ; and in these days men
can pick and choose. In times gone by the
men would look for wives as we used to do
for stuffs — see if they would wash and wear.
It was — who made the best housekeeper.
Now it's all changed, and not for the better,
to my mind."

"You know, Mrs. Frostick, the new
curate, Mr. Johnson, preaches on Sunday ?
He got into his lod<nn£s yesterday."

Humph ! I suppose you and Tilly
are going to set your caps at him at
once ? "

I don't know what you mean, Mrs.
Frostick!" said Miss Harriet, tossing her
head. " But, as Father is Churchwarden ! of
course we are bound to show him every
civility.

I dare say ! "

Miss Brown thought her hostess was
getting personal, so, having finished her
tea, rose to take her leave.

I expect Father will be wanting me,
Mrs. Frostick, and Tilly will be crazed to
hear all the news, so I think I will say
good-bye."

Good-bye ! " said Mrs. Frostick, who,
having got all she could in the way of
gossip out of Harriet Brown, had no
further need of her company.

So Miss Brown the younger retired,

certainly with honours. Ever since Mrs.
Frostick's encounter with the keen blade
of Mrs. Granted's superior tactics, the old
woman had kept a careful watch over her
tongue as regards the party at the Need
House. She was second to none incuriosity,
but with this curiosity was now
mixed discretion (as far as the Mayor's
party was concerned), and after Harriet's
departure she summoned Betty to clear
away the tea-things.

Betty, you haven't had Keziah up to
tea for a long time. When you go c down
Town,' if you see her, ask her up ."

Thanked, mum, I will. When I see her
last, which was yesterday, they was all
busy at the Mayor's, getting ready for
company."

Who were there, did you hear ? "

I don't know, missus, beyond they
was ' company.' "

vo: ir. 21

The aforesaid "Keziah," was a sort of
charwoman, who generally helped the
servants when Mrs. Grantley had her receptions.
So Mrs. Frostick felt she had
placed herself in direct communication with
occupants of the Red House, and could
sleep comfortably on that.

Miss Higgins, after al 1 , changed her mind
about spending Christmas in London. She
felt it would probably be the last Christmas
Esme and she would spend together, and
they both felt they would rather it should
be at " The Towers." So they had returned
as we know the Saturday before Christmas-day,
which would be on the Tuesday. Sir
Percy, and Lady Willis, with their only
son, were to arrive at Combe Towers on
Monday night, and stay over Christmastide.
Esme was very anxious to begin some decorations,
" upstairs, and downstairs, and in
my lady's chamber." And early Monday

morning, Sir Ernest and she, with the help
of Hawkins, made the old house, a very
bower of beauty, while Hester drove into
Langton, to assist Lady Louisa in their
doles to their poorer neighbours. Hester's
happiness could never be complete, unless
some of her less favoured sisters and
brothers shared it. Hers was a large and
generous heart, and as, just now, it was
full of great happiness, so it expanded
like the ripples, caused by a stone
thrown in the water, become larger and
larger circles until they are merged in the
whole mass of water, so did she ; in her
endeavour to invest others, with some of
the blessings, a bountiful Providence had
bestowed on her.

01 *



It was early spring, but yet showing
promise of budding leaf and flower, and
it was Saint Valentine's Day ! It conveyed
a good deal to the feminine mind
of Langton, not only on account of
the saint, but because there was to bea
marriage that day at the grand old
church ; and, next to a good old-fashioned
funeral, with feathers and plumes, mutes,
aud a long line of mourning carriages,
and all the appropriate trappings of
woe, so dear to the country mind, there is
nothing better they like than a wedding.
And this was to be a very grand wedding —
for everybody who was anybody had been
asked.

Mrs. Frostick knew for certain, from

private information received, that the
Mayor and Mrs. Grantley, Colonel Luttrell
(they had found out all about him and the
young lady and the black woman), Lady
Laura, Mrs. Cohen, Sir Percy, and Lady
Willis were to be there ; and then in the
evening there was to be a grand gala tea,
with magic lantern and other entertainments,
all provided at the expense of Miss
Higgins, of Combe Towers.

The two Miss Browns were up at
cockcrow decorating the church, assisted
by Percy Blythe, and were perfectly happy.
And very beautiful it looked, for exquisite
exotics from the Towers were pressed into
the service. It was considered very unfortunate
that Mr. Dashwood should have been
summoned to his sick mother the very da'
of the wedding, but in compensation Mr.
Lanyon would be present to assist the
Eector. It was to be a holiday in the

schools, and as the time drew on the
church began to be crowded by interested
sight-seers. The first to arrive of the bridal
party were the Eectory people — consisting
of Lady Laura, who looked regal in her
sweeping dark velvet dress, while Pauline
Cohen was dainty to a degree in her lovely
pearl-colour silk, Lady Louisa contenting
herself with dark grey satin and old point
lace, but beaming and smiling upon everybody.
Then came the Mayor's party, Mrs.
Grantley simply perfection in her eau de Nil
satin and her tall Colonel in attendance, the
Mayor keeping well in the background as
was his wont. Sabina Maitland was to be
one of the bridesmaids with three other
young relatives of Sir Ernest. Then came
Sir Ernest, the bridegroom, accompanied by
his best man, Sir Percy and Lady Willis,
and Philip Willis, who seemed much impressed
by his new suit of clothes. Then

the excitement increased as the bride's procession
entered ; Hester with her face so
full of tender and earnest emotion, as to be
almost beautiful, clad in ross of russet-colour
velvet, led by the hand the lovely
young bride, in her soft trailing silk and
lace, while the young bridesmaids followed
behind. There was a hushed feeling of excitement
in the church as Gerald Lanyon
began the noble office of the ceremony.
And it was with a beautiful and stately
dignity that Hester gave the child of her
heart away, over to the safe keeping of the
frank, loyal young baronet. And then the
Eector took up the rest of the service in
affectionate paternal tones, and the marriage
of Esme Beldon was an accomplished
fact. Then, as all the wedding guests left,
the bells struck up a merry peal, and the
whole party adjourned to the Towers.
Mrs. Frostick quite considered the

quality " had done their duty to the Town,
both in regard to the toilettes of the ladies
and the general arrangements for everybody.
The male portion thought the best
treat was the bonnie bride, and the pretty
women generally ; and opinions ran high
between the men as to which was the best
looking, Mrs. Grantley or Mrs. Cohen — but
they came to the conclusion that the
Mayoress was hard to beat.

Ah ! Gerald, but for you how could I
part with my darling!" said Hester, as with
hands clasped on Gerald's arm, she watched
with humid eyes the fast vanishing carriage
that contained Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon.

"Sweetheart! Do you know we are
anxiously waiting for you at Luscombe ! I
can't tell you how eagerly my uncle is
longing for your presence. We are a confraternity
of men ! How soon can it be,
dearest ? "

Gerald, believe me, directly affairs can
be settled. It will be horrible here without
Esme. Though I am glad — so glad, for
her sake. I am sure he loves her dearly ;
but I shall miss her."

"I think he is a right down honest
fellow," said Mr. Lanyon, heartily.

It was settled that, after her marriage,
Hester was to have several of her own
servants in her new home, as the staff at
Luscombe was very limited. So there was
much to be done at the old Manor House.
Much renovating within and without. And
by-and-by Hester's beautiful treasures were
to be brought down to adorn her future
home. But before anything as regards
themselves could be settled, they both felt
the laying of the stone of the new Cottage
Hospital must be an accomplished fact, and
directly that was done, their own marriage
was to take place. So everything was to

be worked up to that point. And they both
thought that May would be the most
suitable time, and the Eector and Lady
Louisa were of that opinion.

The meeting between Mrs. Cohen and
her ci-devant lover was of the most friendly
and prosaic character. They each felt
amazed that anything more than pleasant
friendship, could possibly have been entertained
between them. Pauline thought
him grave and severe. He thought her
pretty, childish and frivolous. Each was
perfectly satisfied with that other partner
chosen from their own hearts.

Gerald felt that the woman he had won
was far above rubies, and Mrs. Cohen contrasted
Mr. Lanyon unfavourably with
Charlie Yere. So with this satisfactory
basis, Lady Laura was genial ; in fact
prosperity had warmed her heart. And

the happy affection shown towards her by
Pauline had much to do with it, therefore
as everybody was satisfied, why should she,
Lady Laura, set herself against it all ? And
Mr. Yere left no stone unturned to win
her affection ; and she admitted this was
perfectly disinterested of him. He was
wealthy ; he knew Pauline loved him ; he
had nothing to wish for at Lady Laura's
hands, except that she should like him for
his own sake, and this was becoming
evident.

"Be sure and let me know, Pauline,"
said her uncle, the Eector, " when you
require my services."

Never fear," Uncle Harry, answered
that young lady, who was a very great
favourite with her uncle, who liked her
bright cheerful ways. " I only wish it
were to day ! It is very hard on Charlie
and I, to have to wait when we don't wish

to, but directly we can, settle the day, I will
send you a telegram."

"Do my dear, I shall be ready. What
do you think of the ' affair ' to-day,
niece ? "

"Oh, it was lovely! I think we all
looked so nice, too."

"Well, you did, my dear, there is no
doubt about it."

"Look! Uncle, there is that naughty
boy, Phil Willis, helping himself to champagne;
and see, he is filling his pockets
with the preserved fruits and his mouth
with tartlets. Oh! my dear little boy, I
do feel so sorry for you — presently ! "

Master Phil, taking advantage of the
general emotion, and excitement of the
company, and the opportune absence of the
servants, was, as Pauline could see through
the opened door, regaling himself for the
second time that morning. But the

presently," as Mrs. Cohen wisely anticipated,
had already come upon him, his face
turned white, then green, and he staggered
past them up the stairs to his own domain.

That's about the best thing he could do,
greedy little wretch ! "

I expect it will be about as disagreeable
as a first smoke ! " said the Hector,
with more sympathy — " that is a very unpleasant
sensation ! "

"I have never experienced it — But I
have tried a cigarette, but it's not worth
the fuss they make over it — the women, I
mean.

Uncle ! what time is the tea coming off
to-night ? I always think they are great
fun ; the amount of liquid those old
mothers get through ! is amazing ! and
each child seems on these occasions, to
have half-a-dozen mothers ! "

Well, well ! My dear it doesn't do to

be too particular, and some of these old
women have great experience in tea galas !
They go to Dissenters, and all sorts of
sects, so of course they are able to compare
notes, and I must admit there is a good
deal of competition. I believe ours, generally,
do give satisfaction ! I think your
aunt makes her teas a speciality, rather
hard to beat in the opposition camp ! "

"I wonder if they are grateful for it
all?"

"I do not know about 'gratitude 5 they
expect it anyway ! Yes ! on the whole I
think it is a good thing, it humanises them
and brings the classes together. I am sure
I do not know how many are coming tonight,
because Miss Higgins has given carte
blanche to your Aunt. And that means a
very great deal of latitude. Trust Louisa,
for cramming the place with all the waifs
and strays she can lav her hands upon. I

do not mind, I am not responsible for the
funds ! " chuckled the Rector.

Mrs. Frostick was quite in her glory.
Lady Louisa had deputed to her a large
share of the " catering " for this particular
festivity. Once more she was occupying
her proper position in " Society ! " and it
was a balm to her wounded pride.

Among all the dramatis persona? of the
wedding, there was one individual who
felt sick and sorry. And that was Percy
Blythe. The presence of Colonel Luttrell,
was a bitter pain to his heart, because he
too loved Mrs. Grantley, but it was a love
borne silently, and he knew it was a love
that would never be reciprocated. As long
as no other man gained her heart, he could
bear it, and bask in the pleasures of her
friendship. He could not even say she
showed any particular love for the Colonel.

Only he could see the Colonel did for her.
He appropriated her, as it were ! that was
it. Mrs. Grantley, with rare instinct, knew
what was passing [in the younger man's
heart, and tried in her bright pleasant
fashion to soften the blow, but her kindness
only made it the worse. Whatever
she did increased his hopeless love.

' I wish he would fall in love with
Sabina ! " thought Mrs. Grantley, but
Sabina was not an easy person to fall in
or out with ! She had an unpleasant way
of putting very pertinent questions. In
appearance, she was very much improved,
these last two or three months — her face
was rounder, her figure a little fuller,
but she was still a slender dark-eyed girl.
She had become " accustomed " to Mrs.
Grantley, but the love her uncle hoped
for, had not come. Now, Sabina had
taken a fancy to Mr. Blythe, though no

one was aware of it. And it annoyed her
to see the dreamy sad look in his blue
eyes. She was watching him to-night. Ashe
watched — Mrs. Grantley, flitting about,
and her bright happy laugh — came over
to where he stood.

Why are you looking so dismal, Mr.
Blythe ? " asked a voice at his elbow. " I
fear the wedding hasn't agreed with you

DO «/

any better than it did with little Philip
Willis."

Did it not agree with him, Miss Mainland
? "

c; Xo ; he ate and drank too much, and
made himself ill."

Well ! I was not guilty of that I "

Xo ; but something disagrees with you,
and I think I can guess it."

I think not, Miss Sabina," he answered

coldly, while a hot flush passed over his

face.

vol. n. 22

Yes ! You have to take in a rather
large dose of Uncle Selwyn, and it does not
agree with you ! "

I do not understand you, Miss Maitland
! " He was angered that this child
should so read his thoughts.

Oh yes, you do ! I, too, have felt just
as angry — you know Uncle Selwyn was
my very own, but she has taken him
away."

I think we have no right to discuss
Mrs. Grantley in this fashion," he replied
with some sternness.

Miss Maitland paid no attention whatever
to his observation, but continued in precisely
the same voice — " There is just this one
thing to be said for her. She was engaged
to him — or something like it — years ago,
and he has waited for her all this time."

"Is that so?" asked Mr. Blythe with
painful eagerness.

Sabina was rather pleased to discover
she could thus move her auditor.

Yes ! He worships her ! I don't know
that she cares so much for him. I do not
believe she cares for anybody but herself."

I will not hear a word against her,"
exclaimed the young man passionately.

Sabina looked coldly at him, and a look
of contempt passed over her face at such
weakness.

'• Do you think it will do you any good
to go on loving her ? — it is like a child crying
for the moon ! "

I shall always love her ! " and with that
he turned on his heel.

Her dark eyes flashed' a look after him
as he moved away among the throng and
carefully avoided his tormentor for the
rest of the evening. But his heart felt
like lead.

; You look tired to-night, Mr. Blythe,"

22*

said Mrs. Grantley, coming to where lie
stood. " Let us sit down for a few
moments."

"J am rather tired, I was up very early
this morning So I am going to ask the
Eector to let me off a little to-night. Johnson
can take my place for the remainder
of the evening."

Perhaps it will be best," said she
simply. " We cannot always get what we
want in this world."

No," he answered in sad tones.

Good night, Percy, and God bless
you ! " and she held out her hand in frank
kindness. He grasped it with strong,
almost unconscious pressure. Then seizing
young Johnson, who was passing, he whispered
a few words and hurriedly left the
hall.

He swiftly made his way down the silent
moonlit street to his own unpretending

lodging. He let himself in. All the small
household were just where he had come
from — the Town Hall. He pulled, a chair
to the table and threw himself into it, and
presently he laid his head on the table and
wept his heart out. It was no disgrace to
his manhood — no one saw him — it was the
pent-up misery of months of hopeless fighting
against stern facts and logic. He knew*
he felt, the very first time his eyes fell on
Colonel Luttrell, his fate, hitherto perhaps
in the balance, was sealed. And that child
with cruel fingers had torn the wound, so
that to-night, he could not bear it.

4i God bless you ! God bless you ! my
darling ; may you have every happiness,
though I may not share it. Xo wonder he
has waited ! She is worth the waiting for ;
and he is worthy of her." Yes, in the
midst of his own bitter grief he could still
do his rival justice.

Then lie though he would get a curacy
elsewhere. But would it be fair to the kind
old Rector, who was very fond of him, and
detested changes ? Lanyon had gone, and
no one knew what Dash wood would do. No !
he must stay on and fight his battle manfully.
He felt relieved by his tears, and
determined to take a stroll in the clear
moonlight. He walked out towards the
country, and after an hour or two returned,
tired, but refreshed in mind, and able to
enjoy the frugal supper prepared by his
landlady.

' It was a pity you left so soon, sir !
Everybody was asking for you. Mrs.
Grantley told them sou felt very tired'

Which was quite true, Mrs. Fisher, and
I had a headache as well, so I thought a
good walk was the thing."

Well, sir, if you're better is the main
thing."

u Thanks, I am, and ready for my
supper."

Aye, that's a good sign ! As long as
folks eat, drink, and sleep well, there isn't
much amiss with them! "

May had come at last ! the very birthday of
the world ! so joyous, so dainty, so rich
with bud and blossom, the air laden with
sweetness of perfume, hills and dales still
covered with yellow cowslip, and once more
Langton was en fete. The foundation stone
of the cottage hospital was to be laid that
day by the Lord Lieutenant of the county,
one or two Members of Parliament were to
be at the ceremony, flags were flying, there
was to be a grand lunch at the Town Hall,
when there would be speeches. The townspeople
had taken up the scheme more
warmly than could have been expected,
and Miss Higgins' generous example had
been followed by high and low, according
to their abilities. Everyone was in good

humour, for any change from the quiet
monotony of country life is appreciated and
made the most of. Not that they object to
the monotony — which is the normal state
of affairs, but they are ready to welcome
any little excitement that comes in their
way.

There is no need to describe this particulars.
Everyone knows them so well.
Everyone says something pleasant of each
other. The two members benson the
Government side, just say a few words
against the opposition, but praise for the
loyal town of Langton " was the order of
the day. The Lord Lieutenant smiled
affably upon everybody, and was thankful,
when he was at liberty to return to his
ancestral halls.

The townspeople having paid for their
lunch, thoroughly enjoyed it; in fact, everybody
was satisfied.

This was Hester's last appearance as Miss
Hisrffins, though Langton was unconscious
of that fact, for early the next morning
she was to be married by license, so that
the good folks of Langton had even been
defrauded of hearing her banns called out !
To this day, they talk of the gay wedding
of Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon, as if it had
been entirely got up for their special edification.
And as for Miss Higgins, she was
looked upon as a confirmed old maid, and a
person never likely to tempt matrimony.

No suspicion was raised at Mr. Lanyon
again appearing before them. Did not he
and Miss Higgins work their hardest over
the hospital scheme ? And there never would
be a more generous woman than the owner
of Combe Towers. So the grand day was
over, and Hester was to stay all night at
the Eectory, and Gerald with Dr. Lewis.
Mrs. Grantley and Sabina came down from

town, only for the ceremony of the foundation
stone, and returned the same evening.

The sun rose in all its splendour, flooding
the church with light — as Lady Louisa,
Gerald, and the Sector, and Dr. Lewis
walked in at eight o'clock. Again the
Eector read the service, and in the quietest
manner possible, Gerald Lanyon and Hester
Higgins were made man and wife. The
sun poured his beams upon Hester's earnest
face, and Gerald's, so full of love — on
Lady Louisa's happy satisfied countenance,
despite something like a tear lurking in the
corner of her eyes.

They silently left by the vestry door, just
as the early congregation were beginning
to file in as the bell summoned them to
mattins. Once more the Eector, Lady
Louisa, Dr. Lewis and the newly-married
pair drove to Combe Towers, where Lady
Louisa played the part of hostess. The old

house hardly wore its wonted look, for so
many lovely things and pictures were to be
conveyed down to Luscombe Manor. All
her own personal belongings, her horses
and dogs, many of her servants had already
departed, so that it seemed as if its gentle
owner must perforce follow them.

They were only going to allow themselves
a week at the Isle of Wight, and then they
would take up their residence at Luscombe.

Ah, my dear," said Lady Louisa, " I am
the one to be pitied ! What shall I do when
you are both gone ? "

Come and stay with us, dearest friend,
and bring the Rector."

That is easier said than done, but I
must try."

At last the hour came for their departure.
And as the carriage waited at the door to
convey them to the station Hester made a
little tour of farewell through her desolate

rooms. Into Esme's empty chamber, which
was still as the young girl had left it three
months ago. Old Major followed her
about with sad pathetic eyes — those faithful
friends of ours — with their dumb voices,
have a wonderful sensitive sympathy ! He
knew full well something, was disturbing
his generally quiet mistress. And our surroundings
! how we cling to them ! They,
too, in their way are silent friends. That
chair, hallowed by Memory, almost seems
to speak. It knows all — our very thoughts.
The familiar arrangement of our possessions
how part and parcel they are of our very
self ! Hester felt all this, and felt it deeply ;
but yet she knew by the exchange she would
be the gainer. It was not lightly that she
gave away her liberty. Then she stooped
down and kissed old Major, and he felt a
tear or two, and he licked her face. " Only
for a week, Major, and we shall meet again."

Then she walked down the broad staircase,
past the Egyptian girl, still holding
her lamp, Major following with infinite
dignity beside her.

Ah, my love, it distresses you to leave
your home," said Gerald, hastening to
meet her. " I do not wonder."

No, dear, not ' distresses me,' only a
little sad feeling at the uncomfortable state
of ' my Lares and Penates.' We do cling to
our household gods ! "

May you say that in another three
months in your new home ! "

I am sure of that," said she, smiling
through her tears. "All the more, dearest
of friends, if you will only make haste
and come."

And with this she placed her arms round
Lady Louisa, and lovingly kissed her.
Quickly the warm adieus were made to the
Eector, Dr. Lewis and the old housekeeper

and butler — all that were left of the once
large household, who had gone on before,
even to Justine, and these were to follow as
soon as possible.

Gerald hurried his wife into the carriage,
for he saw she could not bear much more.
And again the comforting feeling of his
strength and force of power— the staff, in
fact — which she had promised herself, and
which she knew by instinctive intuition,
would never bend, or bruise her hand.

Major looked after the carriage with sad
wistful eyes, and Lady Louisa had tears
in hers. She fondled the old dog, who
gratefully licked her hand, and then the
Eector, Dr. Lewis and Lady Louisa departed,
and the remaining servants hastened their
arrangements, and old Major wandered
about disconsolately into the deserted rooms,
first into Esme's, the loved young companion
of his gambols, and then into his

mistress's, where he threw himself down in
weary abandon at the foot of her chair.
It passed his comprehension, only he felt
in his canine way the happiness was gone
out of his life.

Saturday morning. Mrs. Frostick spectacles
on nose, was opening her weekly
paper, the orthodox Conservative and
Clerical paper, and, of course, like all
other methodical women, she began at the
births, and read them through carefully,
commenting favourably or unfavourably,
as the case might be, on the young
lives just launched on the sea of life. Then
she came to the marriages.

Good powers alive ! Here, Betty, come
here ! "

Betty came from some back regions, her
great thick apron full of potatoes, in their
various stages of peeling, knife in hand.

What is it, missus ? "

What is it ? Why, this. ' May 2nd, at
the Parish Church, Langton, by the Ev.
the Eector, Canon of Oswaldminster, the
Eev. Gerald Lanyon, nephew of Sir Horace
Lanyon, Bart., of Luscombe Manor, in the
County of Devon, to Hester, daughter of
the late Dr. Higgins, of Combe Towers.'
What do you think of that, Betty ? "
It's just the most surprising thing I
ever heard on."

No banns or nothing ! " murmured Mrs.
Frostick. " It does beat all."

She put a shawl over her head and flew
down the street, into the Browns', paper in
hand.

Have you seen this, David Brown ? "
Seen what, neighbour Frostick ? "
"Why, Mr. Lanyon's marriage with
Miss Higgins."

You don't say so ! " said the old man,
heartily. " Why, that's real good news.
vol. ii. 23

There's goodness and loving-kindness
matched, and no mistake. Well, I am
pleased — real pleased."

But, Father ! they have had no wedding,
or nothing, it's all so sudden like."

Never you mind, lass, it isn't always
the greatest fuss makes the happiest
marriage. Both them two, are as humble-minded
as — as" — he might have said of
himself — but he scratched his scanty old
rocks to find a simile ! " " as Lady Louisa —
you can't beat that ! "

We are not even thinking of Lady
Louisa," said Mrs. Frostick, shortly.

"May be not!" said the old man in a
satisfied tone of voice. " But if there are
four people I love, it's these two," (tapping
the paper with his horned rimmed
spectacles) and " my Lady, and bonnie Mrs.
Grantley.

Lord save us, David Brown ! You fix

well on to the quality," said Mrs. Frostick,
shaking herself with offended dignity.
What do they think of you in return ? "

That's not for me to say, neighbour !
They are always uncommon kind you
know — it's just 'Mr. Brown this, Mr.
Brown that ! ' Why, neighbour Frostick,
if I was sick like, there wouldn't be a
tenderer body than you," said the old man
with sly propitiation.

Xo ! " said the widow Frostick, softening.
" If you were ill — Brown — you might
always count on me."

"Where have the new married couple
gone to?" asked Harriet.

Now this simple question did vex Mrs.
Frostick. She absolutely did not know.

Oh, I suppose to foreign parts. All
married people go there. Sir Ernest and
Lady Beldon did."

It doesn't seem to matter where they

23*

go, so long as they're married. Ah ! shea
good woman, and the likes of them are
gifts from the Lord. My Nancy was one
of that sort," said old Mr. Brown.

Mrs. Frostick pursed up her lips ; that
theme was most uncongenial to her. In
her young days she had in the ordinary
course of life hoped to have become Mrs.
David Brown, but this said Nancy stepped
into her shoes before she could realise the
fact.

No ! She did not wish to hear anything
of Nancy Brown, deceased.

Matilda Brown, looking thinner and
more lanky than ever, was pensively
wondering as to what dress Miss Higgins
was married in, and when she would return
to the Towers.

Harriet was a little more sprightly ; she
thought she had made some slight impression
on the new curate, who was rather

raw " and somewhat shy, while the hearty
welcome given him by old David Brown
had cheered him not a little.

There was another person equally taken
by surprise, and that was the Rev. Cyril
Dashwood. And to think Lanyon was the
possessor of the heiress after all ! It was
not the woman Mr. Dashwood cared for in
the least — the only woman he would probably
ever love would be Esme — no ! it
was her fortune. Oh, what would he not
have done with that! The position he
would have climbed to ! He gnashed his
teeth with impotent rage. Lanyon, who
had everything — position, birth, wealth,
heir to a fine estate. He cursed fortune,
who had behaved so scurvily to him. And
here he was, tied by the leg ! He found
the town and place hateful ; but it
was no use quarrelling with one's bread.
Xo ! he must remain on, till something

turned up ! Meantime lie became more
austere, more reserved, and almost hating
the fair sex, as much as Mr. Lanyon once
had done before him.

Poor Percy Ably the in his way was equally
depressed. When Mrs. Grantley was in
Langton, Colonel Luttrell was nearly sure
to be, and that of itself was a source of
pain. When she was absent there was a
blank, which nothing could fill. No, it
was all dark and dreary — a grey, unlovely
road, which he felt he must traverse
alone. Lately she had been much in
town. Sabina was having some finishing
lessons, and both were going about a good
deal. When the London season does
begin, it keeps the votaries of pleasure
well employed, and not only in pleasure,
but in intellectual pursuits. And Mrs.
Grantley was a woman who made the
most of these in every way. Sabina also

enjoyed the great city at its brightest and
gayest.

Mrs. Grantley," said she one morning,
why can't you ask Mr. Ely the up here fora
week ? I should like him, at any rate."

I have never thought of it. He always
seems such a part and parcel of the Langton
home. But, Sabina, do you really mean to
say you would like him here ? "

Yes, I do."

Well, we will ask him — if the Rector
can spare him."

Sabina went over to where the elder lady
sat and kissed her — the first deliberate kiss
she had ever given her.

"Thank you, Mrs. Grantley."

I did not fancy, Sabina, that Mr.
Ely the and you got on too well."

Ko, we do not," said the young lady,
candidly. " I like him, and he does not
like me."

But perhaps lie won't care about it,"
said Mrs. Grantley, thoughtfully.

'• Never mind about him caring or not,
like it," said the young autocrat, drawing
her delicate dark brows into a line, not
pleasant to see. " Besides ! I don't see
why you should always consult the male
part of humanity. They don't think a
bit the more of you, or put themselves out
of the way."

One cannot always study one's self,
Sabina ! ' "

I do not see, why not ? I always
do so ! "

My dear, you do now, because you are
young, and, like all Indian children, yow.
have been spoilt. But believe me, Sabina,
selfishness is not a lovely trait, or one
that makes a woman beloved individually,
or charming generally ! "

Perhaps not, but it's very comfortable

to do as you like, without any
bother."

What is that, that is so ' comfortable '
Sabina?" said her uncle, who was just
announced,

Only to do as one likes, Uncle Selwyn."

Lawful but not expedient."

Then he turned to Mrs. Grantley. "I
have some tickets for ' the Horticultural
this afternoon — Will you come ? "

Most certainly, and with pleasure ! —
Shall we get dressed now ? "

I think so, the afternoon is so lovely."

Uncle, what night are we £join£ to see
1 Madame Ingot ' ? "

To-morrow ! Miss Impatience."

How delicious ! "

Percy Blythe was busy over his sermon ;
trying to strengthen his heart by working
his mental powers to their fullest — when
that rather important factor in our hopes
and disappointments in life, the postman,
brought a letter — it ran thus :

Cavendish Square, May 10th.

My dear Mr. Blythe,

"It will drive Miss Maitland and
myself great pleasure, if you can get the
Rector to give you a week's leave, and
come up to town and spend it with us.
We are leading most dissipated lives ! And
propose to drag you into the vortex !
Come at once, if you can. — Your sincere
friend, " Edith Grantly.

"Kindest regards at the Rectory."

He rose excitedly, and kissed the letter.
Sermon and all good resolves were thrown
to the winds. He would have one taste of
the intoxicating draught, even if hampered
with the objectionable Sabina and the
existence of Colonel Luttrell. He would
be near her, that was the point. He seized
his hat, and almost ran down to the
Eectory ; fortunately the Eector was in.

He gave the Eector his letter to read,
almost jealously ; but still he thought his
chief might be mollified, for he was a little
testy sometimes about small things, and he
never liked Percy to be long away from
him.

"Well, well I suppose you must go.
There is no getting over Mrs. Grantley's
coaxing ! "

"I should like to be going myself"
said Lady Louisa. " We shall have to
go, by-and-by, Harry, because I have

promised Adolplius to take him everywhere
! "

A rash promise, Louisa," replied the
Eector, who knew from experience the
life his Etonian son was likely to lead
them.

The poor boy works so hard, he
requires relaxation," answered his mother
affectionately.

I do not know how it was, but the eyes
of the Eector and his senior curate met,
with precisely the same smile, that of incredulity.
For it was notorious that Master
Adolplius Frampton's life at Eton College,
was the reverse of studious, and it was
only a delusion of his fond mother to
imagine it.

"Well, Blythe ! You must arrange with
Johnson to take your work. He always
seems so dense about everything ! Make it
clear if you can."

No, sir, I don't think he is dense, he is
nervous."

Well, it's just as disagreeable."

I will see him, and put everything all
right."

Good bye then, Percy. Say good-bye
to him now, Louisa, it will save time. He
might get off by the 10.15 train, it's only

nine now."

Thanks, dear Hector," said Blythe,
heartily grasping their hands. And he
rushed off in search of the new junior
curate. He found him discussing his
modest breakfast.

Here, Johnson, is a chance to distinguish
yourself. I am going up to town by the 10.15
train, so you will have to take my duty tonight,
the Thursday evening lecture."

But," said the other, horror-struck, " I
have no sermon ready, and it takes me
nearly a week to write one."

Never mind," said Blythe, airily, " I
will lend you mine. It's about my best ; it
isn't quite finished, it's on ' Predestination.' '

Oh, Lord ! That's a subject I have
never tackled. What an unpleasant state
of affairs ! "

"Never mind, old fellow," said Percy,
giving him a hearty slap on the back.
il You have never had the honour of
preaching on the Thursday evenings. It
will be a good introduction, especially
with my sermon, and you can wind it
up with your own ideas. I have arranged
other parochial matters at my
lodgings."

Mr. Johnson did not seem in the least
consoled, on the contrary, he looked very
miserable.

Here's the sermon, old chap, and adieu ! "
And Percy, throwing down the MS., quickly
left the unfortunate man placing his

spectacles on his nose, and beginning his
punishment forthwith.

Mrs. Fisher was a good-natured old body.
So with her valuable help, his scattered
belongings were neatly packed in a portmanteau,
and a few small arrangements of
his own rapidly completed. He was just intime
to send a telegram to Mrs. Grantley;
and, as he was getting into the train, the
Rectory page-boy put a letter in his hand.

From the Rector, sir," said he, touching
his cap. And the train carried Percy out
of his sight.

Mr. Blythe opened the note anxiously.

"Dear Blythe, — There is nothing like

having plenty of money in your pocket,

and no place like London for melting it.

Accept the enclosed with our hearty wishes.

"Harry Framptox."

Four five-pound notes ! The tears almost
came into his eyes. So generous and delicate.
They would guess his purse would be but
slender. Needless to say, his spirits went
up at a bound. And at King's Cross there
was Mrs. Grantley's dainty brougham, with
its charming owner inside, and, to Percy's
great delight — no Sabina !

Sabina had an engagement, or she
would have come too."

I am quite as pleased as it is, Mrs.
Grantley."

"Isn't that just a bit uncomplimentary
to that young lady ? "

Probably, but it is the truth."

When Mr. Johnson got into the pulpit to
preach on Thursday night — greatly to the
surprise of the congregation — they were
still more surprised at the sermon ! Surely
the words were-the words of Mr. Blythe

(for his style was very familiar), and the
manner of uttering them Mr. Johnson's own,
which was nervous, and at times almost
incoherent. And the fag-end of the sermon,
which was his own composition, expressed
his great relief at having got rid of the first
portion. The Eector stared in amazement
(from the chancel stalls), and then gave way
for a moment to a broad smile, but he
drew himself smartly up at " attention,"
and resumed his severe inspection of the
nervous, agitated Mr. Johnson, who came
down the pulpit-stairs, mopping his face,
but otherwise relieved.

May I ask, Mr. Johnson, if that — ahem !
sermon is an original composition?"
enquired the Eector, ironically.

"It was partly my own, sir, and partly
Mr. Blythe's."

Ah! I thought it a very peculiar jumble!
For the future, sir, I would suggest the
vol. il 24

composition of your sermons should be
made by yourself. Good evening ! " and
the Hector retired from the vestry, leaving
the discomfited Mr. Johnson in a very
unhappy state.

You made rather a mess of that," said
Mr. Dashwood, very much in the tone of
Job's friends.

"I know, too well! But what was a
fellow to do at a few hours' notice ? I
haven't got any old sermons by me. I
have not been ordained six months. And
Blithe turned up all in a hurry this morning
with half a sermon, and told me to
finish it how I liked. A most unpleasant
situation ! "

I should advise you to study up a bit
before you venture on another Thursday
evening ! " said the second curate, with
a cold unsympathetic smile, and he too
left.

So the unlucky Mr. Johnson, his freckled
face still flushed, took off his cassock with
limp fingers, and even the old parish clerk
looked severely on him, so that it was with
feelings of real gratitude that he reciprocated
Miss Harriet Brown's warm pressure
of the hand, when she informed him her
father wished to see him on his way home
from church.

With the greatest of pleasure ! "

Father couldn't get to church to-night,
Mr. Johnson. So he hopes you will stay
and have a bit of supper with us."

I think it very kind of him asking me,"
said he, gratefully.

So they wended their way — he comforted,

and she very pleased. It began to look like

business, she thought. But Harriet had

learned wisdom in repeated failures. She

kept silence as to her own affairs. There

is nothing like publicity for nipping a

24*

flickering affection in the bud, above all
in country towns, where the inhabitants —
like the Athenians of old — spend much of
their time in " telling or hearing some
new thing."

^AHI&^

It was a perfect day. The sky was blue
as a turquoise. Every hill and dale was
clothed with the most exquisite tints of
spring, from pale primrose to deep citron,
all fresh and fair in their new birth, while
every tree was laden with blossom, sending
forth from their woodland home dainty
bouquets of Nature's own perfume. And at
Luscombe Manor it was hailed with gladness,
for it was the home-coming of the
young Squire and his Bride.

Under the skilful and experienced hands
of Hester's servants, her apartment already
had that air of comfort and elegance
peculiar to well appointed English homes.
All her cherished possessions — her ' household
gods ' — were arranged in suitable

positions. Old Major was gradually
making friends with Prince and Eupert,
but generally kept to his mistress's apartments,
for he felt sure, by instinct, that
where Justine was, there would his mistress
be, and he was pleased, on personal investigation
of each individual article, to find
that they were old friends.

Old Sir Horace was as nearly happy as
possible, in his wheeled chair, attended by
Percival. He visited the arrangements
progressing two or three times a day, and
watched with unflagging interest every
beautiful picture, plaque or bronze, as they
emerged from their packing-cases and were
placed into position, and when everything
was completed, to the vases of flowers and
lovely plants, he was delighted. " Ah, Percival
! your new lady must be a wonderful
woman, or her servants would not be so
perfect in their work. Servants always

reflect the character of their masters and
mistresses."

I believe they do, Sir Horace. It's
living with them day by day as does it. If
there's real friendship between masters and
servants there's love in the work, sir, that's
it ; it isn't all time-serving ; there's a real
spurt in it."

Quite true, Percival ! If I was a poor
penniless old cripple you would stick tome
to the last ? "

Aye, sir ! that I would," said the man
in solemn tones, as the tear came into his
eye.

"Percival! what do you mean by having
the dismal such a day as this P when we
ought to be as bright as the sunshine !
Come, turn about, and let us see my
nephew's rooms — how they look. And
hark you! just ring and order a bumper of
that good old port."

"But, sir! I don't think you must
have it ! "

And pray, sir, who said I was going to
have it ? Pang the bell."

And when some wine was brought in a
silver goblet Sir Horace took it in his
hand, and holding it towards the old
servant said, " Now, Percival, you will
please to drink to the health of Mr. and
Mrs. Gerald Lanyon, and that you and I
may be spared many years to witness their
happiness, and fresh young branches to
the old stem of the house of Lanyon !
Drink, sir ! " And old Percival drank
as his master directed, and his heart
was warmed, and cheered and his spirits
refreshed.

Sir, perhaps a very small wineglass
would not hurt you on this
auspicious occasion ! " said Percival, relenting.


I don't think it will at all ! Anyway,
if it does, I shall always blame you for it,
Percival."

Certainly, sir ! " And so a wine glass
of the rare old wine was sipped by the old
baronet, while Percival watched anxiously
to see if any bad results came from this
unusual dissipation, but none appeared,
and Sir Horace seemed to enjoy it.

Percival! as I cannot unfortunately goto
meet my nephew and his wife, you will
go as my representative. What sort of a
person do you consider my niece's coachman
— Charles ? "

A very affable person, Sir Horace."

Oh ! " said the baronet, with an unusual
twinkle in his eye. " An c affable
person ' ; I am very glad I am sure to hear
it. Well, then, you will sit beside this
affable person."

But, sir ! How can I leave you all

those hours ? " exclaimed Percival, in
horrified tones.

"Nonsense! send one of the maids to
look after me."

Poor old Percival was full of anxiety, he
trusted no maids with his precious master ;
and yet he dared not disobey. So he was
fain to find out the most likely of the
female servants and thoroughly drill her
into the important custody of the master for
three mortal hours.

"Lor' 5 Mr. Percival! As if it wasn't
women's calling to nurse folks ! "

You will please not talk too much ;
Sir Horace objects to any chatter," said
Mr. Percival, severely.

To this she vouchsafed no reply, for
when her turn came to wait on the old
baronet, she chatted considerably, and
posted her master well up in every scrap
of local news, and interested him so much

that the time flew, and he was amazed to
find the hour was due for the travellers to
arrive! And presently the shouts which
could be heard drew nearer and nearer.
Sir Horace had his chair drawn up to the
great entrance hall, the massive old doors
were thrown wide open, and in a few
moments a most animated group were at
the broad steps. The open carriage containing
Mr. and Mrs. Lanyon was a mass of
flowers, from humble childish offerings to
bouquets of larger ambition. The tenantry
were mounted, having escorted the young
Squire and his lady to their home. They
watched with affectionate interest the old
Baronet's reception of his new niece — how
warmly he grasped her hands, and drew
her face down to his, and how gently and
graciously she embraced the old man !
Then they set up a hearty cheer for the
Squire and Mrs. Lanyon, and some ringing

cheers for Sir Horace Larson ; and the
Baronet had his chair wheeled to the
terrace, and in his weak, thin voice
thanked them for their kind loyalty to the
house of Lanyon. Then Percival came and
took his master away ; after which Gerald
thanked them in the name of his wife and
himself, and the family were left to themselves.
As for old Major's boundless
delight, it can scarcely be described.
Hester was gratified at her own especial
apartments, at the position of the rooms,
which were beautiful ; the windows, which
were large casements and built out in a
bay form, from which a great expanse of
view of hill and dale and sea, could be
seen. The lovely mossy lawns, the distant
trees, while every sort of flower seemed to
give her welcome. Outside the window the
syringa was asserting itself both by its
lovely perfume and blossoms. Then she

examined the inside of her domain ; there
were all her old favourite pictures, her
especial chair, with its fur covering, her
Japanese screen, lined with pale yellow
brocade, all her possessions being heightened
by the handsome carved oak
panelling.

Is Madame satisfied," said Justine, with
affectionate anxiety.

Indeed, Justine, I do think it perfect !
Thank you, so much, and the others too."

*' The old Sir Horace, Madam, has been
here twice a day to see how we get
on."

Well, sweetheart ! " how do you like all
the arrangements which my dear old uncle
and Justine seem to have managed between
them? " said Mr. Lanyon, entering.

I am perfectly in love with everything,
and cannot feel sufficiently grateful to
everyone."

Then Justine left to prepare her mistress
change of toilette. And Gerald, putting
his arm round his wife's shoulder, drew
her to the window. " Welcome to your
new home, a thousand times welcome !
Will it please you, my Portia ? "

Ah, Gerald ! I cannot express my feelings
; I only know I am unutterably happy,
and it has all come through you," and she
put her hands up to his face and then
kissed him. " But Gerald, love ! in our
happiness we must not forget your dear old
uncle, his delicate white face went straight
to my heart ; we must be very good to him
by reason of our great love, and pay him
back in every devotion for the; loss of all
he loved."

We will, indeed ! But now, wife, be
ready in half-an-hour, because we dine at
very primitive hours — six o'clock ! — on
account of Sir Horace, who retires

generally to his own apartments after that
meal."

So Hester passed up the large open
flight of stairs to the gallery beyond, which
ran round, and as she ascended the staircase
she was struck with the large hall
below, which might hold two hundred
people. "What a good place for 'Penny
Headings,' and this gallery might be utilised
for extra pressure ! " Her face broke out
into a smile as these thoughts flitted
through her mind. But it did not prevent
her hastily completing her toilet,
and being perfectly ready, when her husband
came to conduct her to the large
old dining-room, where Sir Horace was
already seated.

aTy dear niece, you will excuse an old
man being seated before you, though that
could not be used as a plea ; but my last
illness has left me very shaky on my legs,

and Percival here will insist upon my
being comfortably placed first of all, so
you must excuse us both."

Dear uncle Horace, you must not treat
your niece as if she were a stranger — so
please withdraw your apology." Then, as
servants were present, only ordinary
subjects were discussed. But they were
very happy — probably it was one of the
happiest days Sir Horace had spent for
years. He seemed to forget all the past in
the present. Once more he saw at his
table a younger scion of the old House and
a gracious woman, for, with the intuition
which some natures possess, he read the
new chatelaine's character — good and true
to the core. After the dinner he retired,
not because he was so much tired, though
he was to a certain extent, but his happiness
brought him almost near to tears — as
it does to some natures, whose organisation

is emotional, and have been tried in the
furnace of suffering.

As the days wore on Sir Horace Lanyon
was more often to be found in the rooms
especially devoted to Hester. Here she
would play the piano to him, read to him.
His chair would be beside hers on small
sketching expeditions. She often drove
him out in her low pony phaeton, while
the three dogs would generally bear them
company. Gerald meanwhile taking all
the burden of managing the estate off his
Uncle's hands. Sir Horace seemed to have
revived wonderfully in the sweet and gentle
presence of Hester, so truly a woman, so
perfect a mistress. The household, somewhat
rough and neglected hitherto, moved
upon wheels, and was as perfect in its
appointments as " Combe Towers " had
been. The old gardens were once more
restored to their first estate. The hitherto
vol. ir. 25

closed rooms were radiant with sunshine,
swept, garnished, renovated and refurnished.
With all this her large heart and
ample means were still anxious to do some
service to those who had none to help
them.

They often now adjourned to her sitting-room
after dinner, and this evening it was
delicious. The large casements were set
wide open ; the evening sun was casting
lovely glows everywhere ; far out beyond,
the sea looked so blue as to be nearly
purple. The views as they met the eye
seemed one long exquisite panorama : the
blue distance, with its delicate haze ; the
trees so far off that they seemed to melt into
a purple sea of hills and dales ; while the
sky, with beautiful opal tints, intensified
itself as the sun sank grandly behind the
distant hills, leaving his track in rosy
cloudlets and pearly hues. Then the sea

took up its rose tints, and it deepened into
stronger shadows ; and the small white
sails flitting about on the distant waters
looked like spirits. Hester sat silently
watching this beautiful scene. Her own
face and form, with its full, grand outlines,
no unworthy spectator. Both the men
were gazing at her. With the same rosy
flush from the fast departing sun on her
face, as she was intent on the external
world, she was thinking over some problem
in her own mind, for her eyes had a farseeing
look in them. She saw the beautiful
world outside, and vet her thoughts
travelled beyond that.

Well, wife. And the result ? "

"The Result? Of What?" said she,

turning the grey eyes round to her

husband.

Of your thoughts, sweetheart ! Uncle

25*

Horace and I have been waiting patiently
this last half-hour. Will it please you,
speak ? "

Dear Gerald, I was thinking at that
moment, how much I should like to bring
some of that exquisite picture into some of
those terrible back slums in London, where
they hardly even see the sky ! To think !
we have — all — and they — none."

Those are causes and effects too deep
for us, dear," said Gerald, gently.

Perhaps so. But still I think we
might do a little, even only a little.
They, perhaps, would care less about this
beautiful picture ; but would appreciate
little comforts, little necessaries, even as
I do this setting sun and those distant hills.
Gerald, I have been thinking. I should
like to find out some good woman — a
second ' Sister Dora ' — who would try and
work in one or two of those fearful courts,

as my work seems cut out for me, in life,
in looking after you two dear ones, and
receiving all your love," said she, with
affection.

Most certainly ! " the two gentlemen
exclaimed emphatically.

Well, let me finish ! If I can find this
noble woman, who could and would do
this work, I could find a certain amount of
funds to place at her disposal. You would
not object dear Gerald ? " And she rose
and laid her hand on her husband's
shoulder.

Object, sweetheart ! God forbid ! it
is your own, to do what you will
with."

I think dear niece, we shall require
another Solomon to extol you."

Nay Uncle Horace — the love of you
two is sufficient reward."

Settle it as you think best, Hester ! "

Thanks, Gerald. You are always
good."

I have often wished our Police Magistrates
had discretionary sums of money
voted, so that they might dispense their
alms as wisely, and as patiently, as they
do their advice, or their justice."

They do do that very often," said Sir
Horace.

Yes," said Mrs. Lanyon, " but only in a
fitful way — that is, when they have it
in the poor-box. But see how wisely
it is administered. If it is a doubtful
case, the magistrate often sends an officer
from the Court to make inquiries ;
if it is an honest story, the relief
according to the circumstance, comes at
once. They don't postpone the charity
till it is cold. And how can we say
how many lives it has saved from starvation,
or death? Oh ! I am sure

they ought to have money at their command."


"Yes, but you see, Hester, the magistrate's
function is to dispense justice — not
alms. The time would be taken up with
hungry claimants."

All the same, Gerald, the alms might
wait upon justice."

Well, love, I will not dispute your
theory, you can carry out your own argument
by sending some money, which I
daresay, will be received with thanks.
And now play us one of those lovely
nocturnal of Chopin's, it is just suited to
the hour and scene. I think there is so
much in the time, and situation, to
thoroughly enjoy music."

There is in souls a sympathy with sounds,
And as the mind is pitch'd, the ear is pleased,
"With melting airs or martial, brisk, or grave ;
Borne chord in unison with what we hear,
Is touch'd within us and the heart replies."

And so Hester played on till the sunset
gave way to twilight, and the closing
flowers wafted in their evening incense,
and night came on gently in her grey
robes.

,mm



Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon were sitting in
their pretty morning room at Heminglee,
which was very modern and very pretty,
with its soft chintz of pale blue and roses.
The long French windows were open,
letting in the sweet scented air from the
tall lilies and standard roses, and Esme
flitted in and out bringing in baskets full
of flowers, which she was soon deftly
arranging. She looked as sweet and girlish
as she did five months ago, on her wedding
morn ; her white soft dress, with its simple
blue sash — the gay colours of the July
flowers — made her a pretty foreground
study, and the pale pink walls, with a few
choice water-colours of great artists, gave
an artistic touch to a charming interior.

Esme ! You make a fellow frightfully
idle. I feel I ought to be going, or doing
something."

"Well, why don't you, dear? "
"It's so jolly here, little woman! So
nice to have a wife of one's own, you know,
to say nothing of her being the very

loveliest " but Esme stopped any more

flatteries by going over to him as he lazily
lounged in a low arm-chair, and kissing
him. " Here you lazy person, let me
decorate you with my flower, and do go
somewhere. Stay ! the very thing ! Old
Spence is in a way about the salmon for
the dinner to-night, so suppose dear, you
make an excursion into the town, and bring
it. It will never do for me to be let down
in my first dinner party. Just think what
Hester would say! to say nothing of Mrs.
Spence immolating herself like ' Vat el,'
because the fish did not arrive in time ! "

"All right, I will go." So Sir Ernest
deliberately lighted his cigar, then kissed
his wife, and turned back again. " I say,
Esme, why can't you go too ? "

Oh ! Ernest, what an idea ! Of course
not ! Why I have hundreds of things to
see to, all these flowers to arrange, to
say nothing of decorating the dessert, all
which I mean to do myself. I should love
to go and make all the sweets, but old Mrs.
Spence would be horrified ; she would say
I never did it when I was at home.' 5:

My dear little rosebud, it strikes me
very forcibly she has reason on her side,
and it might be quite as well that you
should not try your 'prentice hand, when
we expect all the heavy swells in the
place."

Oh ! but Ernest, I really do know how ;
we used to see so much of it in Germany."

No doubt, love. But I think Hester

showed her wisdom in letting you bring
away clever old Mrs. Spence. I know of
old, at ' The Towers,' the cuisine was
perfection ; and I owe much to dear Hester
Lanyon for her thought of us. Believe me,
little woman, a very great deal of married
happiness has to do with well-cooked
dinners."

What material ideas you have, sir ? "

Simply practical, love. People can't
live on roses or kisses — nice enough in
their way — at least not married people. I
believe lovers never require food, but all
the married men of my acquaintance have
very healthy appetites, myself for one."

Well, dear boy, do be off, and do your
share."

So with one more kiss he disappeared.
And then his wife finished her flowers, and
gradually filled every bracket and vase in
her drawing-room, which was so dainty in

its appointments. She flitted about like a
bird, her light footstep keeping time to her
voice, as she sang from pure light-heartiness.
She was deliciously happy, they
simply idolised each other. Did she ever
think of her old love ? Never ! He seemed
to have faded from her view, and his place
filled with the all pervading, all shadowing
personality of her husband. She had none
of the large mind of Hester. Hers was
simply a sweet, soft, tender little heart,
that had never known trouble, except that
caused by Cyril Dashwood. In Hester she
had found a loving guardian, sister, friend ;
she had slept as it were on rose-leaves, and
had scarcely found even a crumpled one.
Even, separated as they were by distance,
the tender love of Hester never failed ; every
thought, hope and fear of the young wife
was guided and guarded by her. If the
young Baronet loved his wife above all

women, so lie honoured Hester above everyone.


Heininglee was a house that had been
rebuilt, partly out of old material, but to
all intents and purposes, it was modern.
From the time of the death of his parents,
his sister and brother-in-law, Sir Percy and
Lady Willis, had made it their home. Sir
Percy's affairs having been much involved,
his young relative suggested that they
should take up their abode at Heminglee,
while he spent some two or three years on
the Continent, and there it was Sir Ernest
met his wife, though it was a long time
before he saw the fruition of his heart's
wishes.

After three years' of absence, he once
more returned to his old home, and his
sister and her husband to theirs. But when
once the question of his marriage was

settled, the house then was newly decorated
and furnished, and no mean setting was it,
for the lovely young bride. His was no
ancient family like the Lanyons ; he was the
fourth Baronet, the first having been a
Lord Mayor of London, but they occupied
a good position in the county ; and now
the advent of the beautiful Lady Beldon,
as she was called, caused a flutter of
excitement, especially among the women,
who had heard dazzling accounts of her
wonderful trousseau.

The dinner party to-night would consist of
twelve guests, these were the crime of the
neighbourhood, the lesser stars would
follow later on, and in due course.

Very lovely looked Lady Beldon as she
appeared for her husband's inspection
before the guests arrived. Iter dress was
a very pale blue silk, covered with delicate
lace and gauze, with clusters of beautiful

damask roses. Round her fair young
throat was a single row of pearls, the gift
of Hester, and her clustering nut-brown
hair was fastened with a pin in the shape of
a star, likewise composed of pearls.

My pearl of pearls ! " said he with pride.

Then I shall do ? "

Very much so."

Then the guests began to arrive, and the
pretty Lady Beldon gained fresh laurels
that night. The ladies thought her dress
perfection, and the men envied Beldon.
She made a charming hostess, and her
dinner was a great success, for Mrs. Spence
surpassed herself.

Cyril Dashwood had been appointed to a
living ; it was not a very valuable one in
his idea, but many of his cloth envied him.
Three hundred a year, and a picturesque
old vicarage. He shook the dust off his
feet, and quitted Langton without regret on
either side — his cold unsympathetic nature
prevented him ever making real friends.
He was exact to a degree, in all his
duties, but they were all duties, no labours
of love. You could not help having the
conviction that if his mind was in them,
his heart, certainly was not, and that just
made all the difference. It was his profession
in life. But his work was carried outwith
no enthusiasm, it was all done
u decently and in order." Neither was
vol. ii. 26

this Yorkshire living much to his choice :
it was a dreary and rugged country, with
wild desolate moors, a straggling village
with no resident gentry within some four
miles ; and there seemed to be no doubt
whatever he would have a great deal of his
own company. And he had not improved
for the better ; lie was harder and colder
than ever, his handsome delicate features
were sharper, and across his face a peevish
irritable expression so often flitted, as to
threaten to take up its abode there. He
was a disappointed man. He had intended
to do such great things for himself, and
lo ! everything had turned to Dead Sea
fruit. However, here he was, and the only
thing for him to do was to make himself
as comfortable as he could, and with the
help of the paternal purse he made his
study the very perfection of clerical comfort.
It was a pretty room, sunny in the

summer ; and the garden was the most
redeeming feature of the whole thing. It
was old, and surrounded by mossy old
walls covered with carefully trained fruit-bearing
trees. The honeysuckle clambered
over an old fence until it reached and
covered a little thatched summer-house,
where its late owner, a bluff, hearty York-sherman,
had smoked his pipe of an
evening, and his noisy boys and girls had
run in and out. It was a place beloved
and frequented of bees, to say nothing of
other harmless creeping things, all utterly
abhorrent to the fastidious taste of its
present owner, who would infinitely have
preferred a town living among civilized
human beings to these outlandish, not over-polite,
Yorkshire villagers. Their late
parson suited them exactly, he was almost
one of themselves, while this " new-fangled
chap," who minced and mouthed his words,

26*

had already incurred their ire. " Was not
told church good enough for them and
told parson?' The fact was, the frightfully
bare, primitive old church, which
looked very like a barn, with a few mouldy,
old, worm-eaten pews, a damp looking
pulpit, a chancel more like a cupboard than
anything else, with a clumsy old table, and
a wretched red cover, had utterly shocked
and disgusted Mr. Dashwood. He also
complained of there being no vestry, and
the rustic churchwarden had laughed at
him. " Told parson put his surplice on
as he went into the church. " Finding he
could neither get help nor sympathy, he
had to spend some of his own money to
make the place simply decent in his idea,
for which his congregation, instead of
thanking him, felt deeply resentful. If he
could only have unbent and made himself
more genial, there might have been some

soft spot to be found in their hearts ; but
his own want of sympathy had shut that
door. Altogether he was not greatly to be
envied. The principal family in his parish
were absentees. At least, they had been soever
since he had been there, now getting
on for six months, and even if they were
at home, they were four miles off.

His household consisted of a middle-aged
woman, and a lad of eighteen, who looked
after his horse, and in odd moments
attended to the garden. The late owner
having his quiver more than full did his
own garden work, and a labour of love it
had been, of which the present owner was
ungratefully unconscious. To him the
carefully-trained wall fruit was only what
it ought to be. The lovely syringa that
came down with its starry blossoms nearly
into his window, the soft monthly roses
growing all over his porch, the delicate-leaved

Virginia creeper that now was so
green, and would so soon be blood-red,
conveyed no thoughts of the loving care
that had trained and planted it. No, it
was all there when he accepted the living,
part and parcel of what he called a " hard
bargain." What he did discover was
the dreary, lonely moor, which stretched
for miles on one side of him, and the
miserable street which did duty for a
village, and then more expanse, and in the
far distance some bleak-looking hills, and
beyond those hills Moor Hall, where the
only gentry resided — when they were at
home.

And time after time the thought would
come over him, if only Esme Curtis had
been his wife, even this dull spot would
have been tolerable. He could almost
picture her flitting in and out of the old
garden, up and down the stairs, her golden

head catching all the sunny lights, her two
laughing blue eyes — and the' might have
been his ! The thought was maddening.
Truly it could be said of him :

Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
As if he mocked himself, and scorn'd his spirit
That could he moved to smile at anything."

And as he looked out of the window (the
side window, for there were two in his
study), his eye perpetually fell on the white
marble tombstone of his predecessor, on
which was written in bold black letters in
all their freshness, the date, age, and qualities
that had made him so beloved by the
parishioners of Moreton. Every Sunday
was the grave covered with such flowers as
grew in the simple homely gardens of the
few cottagers, all emblems of love, and
somehow this weekly offering offended the
eyes of Mr. Dashwood ; it seemed to

extol the dead, at the expense of the living.
So he sent to London for some " glacier
paper," and when the villagers next Sunday
looked at the study window, lo, it was full
of stained glass ! " better than the windows
of told church ! " They could not understand
this at all. No glazier had been
heard or seen. They shook their heads — it
was all uncanny. It had the desired effect
as regarded their vicar. He could sit in
peace hidden from their view. But there
was getting to be a settled dislike between
the clergyman and his parishioners, though
it only took the form of coldness. But in
one sense they hardly did him justice.
Never mind how dark or dreary the night
was, it was quite sufficient if they required
his services for him to go forth at any
moment, he never pitied himself, it was
his " duty " — cold, stern, hard duty — and
it must be done. They hardly looked at

it in this light, it was done so coldly 7 .
He was trying with wonderful patience to
encourage the few boys that the village
could muster to sing in something; like time
and tune ; he had replaced the wheezy old
harmonium, which had nearly driven him
wild, as it was well pounded by the village
school mistress ; and coming, as he did, from
the well appointed service at Langton, it
seemed as if this place was to be a form of
punishment ! So dreary and desolate ! so
ill at ease with himself and the world, that
even the cold worn face of Matilda Brown
would have been received with something
like cordiality. And added to all his disgust
of the place, he found the local cobbler,
intended to set up against him as a rival,
and have Sunday afternoon services — with
the assistance of the wheezy harmonium
lately discarded — in his low-pitched front
parlour, and where, with the promises, of

nuts, and sweets, his choir boys were
beguiled into constant desertion.

Once he had an inspiration! he wrote
and asked his old rector, Canon Fr amp ton,
to send him Percy Blythe for two or three
days. His picture of the place was so
desolate, that the rector almost smiled. " I
fear, Percy," said he, " they have put the
square man into the round hole. He will
have to alter considerably before he fits in.
However, stay a week, I will rub along."
So Percy came, saw, and conquered. His
cheery genial ways, his pleasant voice,
quite won these rugged hearts ; he had
found out their weak place. He told them
he honoured their love for their old vicar,
and nothing would give him greater pleasure
than, when he died, to have the idea in
his heart that his parishioners would come
and deck his grave.

Why couldn't he stay with them ?

Well ! he had lots of work to do in his
own parish, but when he could he certainly
would. So that at last, these people
thought Providence had used them very
badly, in sending them a man they all disliked,
and keeping back one that just
suited them.

Try and like them, old fellow ! They
are really not half bad. It's their manners
that want mending — not their hearts."

Possibly ! though as yet I have seen
nothing but rude sullenness and ingratitude
for what little I have tried to improve
in this God-forsaken place. If you could
have seen that church, as I saw it ! I
should like to have all those damp old
cupboards of pews taken down — levelled
as it were ! "

Take my advice — which is brief —
Contr

Your reasons, Blythe ? "

These country minds move slowly.
They do not discover, or even dream of,
the deficiency which to you, coming from
a well appointed service, must appear
glaring. Why not let them come by
degrees ? Get them to love you first."

Love me ! Save the mark ! They are
nearer hating me ! "

Have patience, Dashwood ! it will all
come in time. I envy you. I only wish I
were in your shoes ! "

Every man knows where his own shoe
pinches ! "

True ! "

Mine not only pinch, but nearly crush."

I expect most of us have a skeleton,"
said Blythe, almost sadly.

Colonel Luttkell was travelling London-wards
from Manchester. He had been
staying with distant relations, relations
whom he had not seen these fourteen years,
and he had also received an invitation for
Sabina later on. He would have to return
to India in another six weeks, as his leave
would soon be up. He took his seat in the
night mail train, and prepared to make
himself as comfortable as circumstances
would allow. There were two other occupants
of the carriage, and these followed
his example, put on their travelling caps,
produced their newspapers, lighted their
pipes, and generally settled themselves to
the best advantage for the long journey.
It was not in the least cold, for it was a

mellow August night. The sky even now
wore traces of amber light, and the moon
was slowly rising almost as red as the
sunset of an hour or two ago ; above their
heads the clear stars shone out like crystals.
It was soft, and soothing, and the only
sound, save of birds twittering in little farewell
sounds, and an occasional lowing of
cattle out in the summer pastures, was that
of their own train as it passed swiftly along
like resistless fate, smoothly, but surely.
It had a drowsy effect, for Colonel Luttrell
found both his companions settling for
sleep. And he thought on — his mind
somewhat perplexed, and his heart a little
sore — three months from now, must find
him again in harness, the old routine, the
old strain ; and the woman he came over to
see, to be near, to love, apparently no
nearer. She was gentle and playful, and
kind beyond measure, but . Ah ! how

many "buts" there are in life, that make
so much difference as we toil along. As yet,
with him, the great question remained
unsolved. Would she let him go back,
never to see that charming face again?
never to hear that teasing sauce voice that
he loved ? Ah ! it would be terrible ! No !
he must have an answer, it must be settled,
the suspense was getting more than he
could bear. He had loved her so long, so
faithfully, surely his reward must come !
Yes it must ! how or when he could not
say to-night, and then his thoughts became
dreams. A gentle somnolence overcame
him. He thought he heard Edith say,
Selwyn I will reward you ! You have

been so brave, so true, I love you ! "

And then an awful crash ! The carriage
lamp was out ! They seemed rolling over
and over ! A fearful blow on the head, his
leg jammed in like a vice, the carriage

seemed crushing in his chest, and he
knew no more.

Cries, and screams, and groans, rose upon
that still summer night — nearly half the
train had gone over the steep embankment.
There lay the mighty engine, like some
great monster wounded in the strife, and
the risen moon looked down on dead and
dying forms. Those whose fate had placed
them in the rear of the train, hastened to
the assistance of the unhappy victims. They
were some distance from a station. The
poor helpless wounded creatures were got
out by willing hands, some were extracted
with frightful difficulty, and the agonies of
suffering was awful. Among others, poor
Selwyn Luttrell, crushed, bleeding, unconscious,
save for a death-like groan. With
one of the singular hairbreadth escapes one
hears of now and then in such carnage,
the youngest of his two fellow travellers

had escaped injury ; lie hastened with the
help of the guard to drag Colonel Luttrell
out. They laid him on the bank, but
feared to touch him.

I fear he's done for, sir, but I must
go to the wreck, and Se what more there
is to be done presently." To the young
fellow's great delight, he could see tramping
across the fields, men from a distant farmhouse,
and as they approached, he found,
to his great joy, they bore cans of water,
one or two bottles, and blankets. Who
shall say there is no goodness, no beautiful
charity in the world ? He seized a can,
and put some water into the unconscious
lips — then a little brandy. After some
little delay, out of the distant village came
the doctor. Colonel Luttreli was found to
have his leg broken, also two ribs, and
a very serious blow on his head. As soon
as possible, on a hurdle covered over
vol. ii. 27

with a blanket, lie was conveyed to the
village Inn. There his kind young friend
searched in his pocket and found his name.
And himself walked off to the nearest
station, and reached it just as his friend
the guard, who was now using the wire —
but promised the first chance to send off
the telegrams, one to Dr. Lewis, Mayor of
Langton, and one to Mrs. Grantley.

You look a bit faint yourself, sir, have
a pull at this ; one of the farm servants
gave it to me just as I started. : ' It was some
brandy and water in an ordinary medicine
bottle.

Thankfully the young man partook of
it, and then, both the guard and he returned
to the wrecked train. They had
lighted a large fire with the broken
splinters, and now two or three doctors
were hard at work. The poor engine
driver lay an inanimate mass, crushed and

smashed beyond recognition. The guard
pointed to the body as they passed. " Poor
Bill ! he's made his last journey. It will be
bad news for his poor wife and sis little
ones ! "

Where do they live ? "

In London, sir ! "

The young man dived into his pockets,
and pulled out two sovereigns. " Give
them this, there's a good fellow."

God bless you, sir, that I will ! " And
the honest, kind-hearted fellow carried out
the request, with a trifle of his own, to
help the widow of the man who had died
at his post. By an hour's time, a breakdown
gang had arrived, the wounded were
cared for, and put into a fresh train, while
those too bad for removal were, for the
present, distributed in the village.

The young gentleman returned to the
Inn, where he instituted himself guard-inches



to Colonel Luttrell, till the arrival
of his friends. The host of the Inn got
the young gentleman a good hot glass of
brandy and water, and some bread and
cheese, for which he was most thankful.
Then, bathing his tired head and face with
water, he once more took up his post
beside the injured man. The doctor had
just finished setting the leg, the rest of
the poor body was bound up, and the head
bandaged.

You know something of this gentleman
I believe ? "

Yes, I find he is Colonel Luttrell, a
great friend of some friends of mine. I
have telegraphed to them, and I expect
they will be here as soon as train and
carriages can bring them."

That is well ! It will be a long affair I
fear."

"Is he badly hurt ?"

Very badly ! His leg is broken and
two ribs."

"And his head?"

That is the least hurt, but he is suffering
from concussion as well. He will
require most careful nursing. We must
have a nurse."

"I will take upon myself all responsibility,
here is my card, pray order or
suggest what you please."

'•Mr. Charles Yere. Jermyn Street,
Piccadilly."

Well, Mr. Yere," said the doctor, after
perusing it. " He owes almost everything
to your prompt kindness."

"He is a brave soldier, that I know! "

Yes ! it was kind Charlie Yere — who
by strange coincidence had travelled
almost unconsciously with the injured
man.

The doctor gave him a few instructions,

and the eventful night turned to day. The
guard had hunted in the break, and found
Colonel Luttrell's portmanteau, which happened
to be uninjured, in the farther part
of the train, and also Mr. Vere's. In the
course of two or three hours the nurse
arrived, and at once took charge of her
patient. Mr. Vere stood at the inn door.
The lovely summer evening was beginning
to throw longer shadows over the waving
corn. In the distance he could see the
embankment, the scene of last night's
tragedy, thickly peopled with railway
workmen and officials. The news-boy
brought a London paper, and there was a
highly sensational account of the killed and
wounded, and amongst others the death of
Colonel Luttrell was graphically described.
Charlie Yere was deeply grieved to read
this, feeling the terrible pain it would
use the Colonel's friends. He still stood

there as a fly drove up, and he hardly
realised it was Mrs. Grantley. She was pale
to the lips. He hastened to greet her.

Oh ! Mr. Yere ; is— is he — ? "

'He is alive, but unconscious'

Thank God ! thank God ! "

And then the tears coursed each other
down her pale and wearied face.

Come in, Mrs. Grantley."

And he ordered her some wine, while he
directed the landlord to have dinner ready
as soon as possible.

He made her drink the wine, which he
held.

c; Oh, Mr. Yere, tell me all about it !
How came you to be here ? I am so
upset, so miserable."

And again and again the tears came, but
he did not try to arrest them ; it would
relieve the overburdened heart, and he
guessed so much.

I had been down to Manchester on
some business of my own, and was returning
by the night mail, and I intended to
join Lady Laura and Mrs. Cohen in Paris
tomorrow. When I got into the train at
Manchester I did not for the moment
notice Colonel Luttrell. As we journeyed
on I fancied I had seen his face ' somewhere,'
but only in a vague way. I think
we all went to sleep, and it must laye been
two hours from our departure when the
terrible accident took place. We were all
three — for there was another poor devil in
our carriage, God only knows what has
become of him ! — we were all thrown pellmell,
only I was at the top, and got out
through the carriage window, which was
above my head. The guard dragged me
out, and then I hunted for my fellow-traveller,
whose face had haunted me.
We, after terrible difficulty, got him out,

and laid him on the bank till we could get
medical assistance." Seeing her agitated
face, he quickly continued : " His leg is
broken, two ribs fractured, and a blow on
the side of the head."

What does the doctor say ? "

That he will need the most careful
nursing, so I have arranged for a nurse,
who is here, and with him now."

God bless you ! true friend," said Mrs.
Grantley, impulsively grasping his hand.
I did not think I loved Selwyn Luttrell.
And now I would almost give my life for
his."

Be strong and of stood courage, dear
Mrs. Grantley. While there is life there is
hope. Now, do rest a little, and have some
dinner, and then you can see him."

My brother, Doctor Lewis, will be here
soon."

That is a comfort."

She took the much-needed refreshment,
in which Mr. Yere joined her, for he, too,
was very tired. Then afterwards she crept
up the little rustic staircase into the homely
Guest-chamber." Her heart almost stood
still. The motionless bandaged figure — the
brown ruddy tinge replaced by a grey
pallor — the death-like repose — the sick
nurse, with her calm, noiseless tread. And
that was her hero ! He who had borne so
patiently, endured her caprices, waited so
long for some token of her love ! There
he lay — a quiet, patient creature, ready for
death. Oh, it was agony! it was too
much! She knelt down by the white,
spotless bed, and then softly kissed the
unconscious face — a kiss that would have
brought heaven into the hungry heart of
Colonel Luttrell. Ah, it is so ! So long as
we can have it for the asking, it is naught !
it is naught ! but when it is withdrawn —

then all its virtues, all its beauties are so
clear — but they are no longer ours.

Supposing he should be taken from her ?
Well, she would stay with him to the last.

Later on, Dr. Lewis came, and he and
the local doctor consulted, but nothing
more could be done than was being done.
Dr. Forbes, spoke most highly of Mr. Vere
and his faithful self denial.

There is no chance of Colonel Luttrell
being fit to return to India in six weeks'
time ? "

Most decidedly not ; it will be months
before he is fit for service."

I must take his affairs in hand then,"
said Dr. Lewis.

Dr. Lewis, after a day or two's stay at the
little village of Adingford, was compelled
to return to Langton ; but Mrs. Grantley
took up her abode at the bedside of the
sick man. She and " Sister Grace " bore

the heat and burden of the day. And the
August days flew past, and September,
with its busy harvest-tide, was upon them.
Sabina had been sent for, but in the village
Mrs. Grantley had found some nice old-fashioned
apartments not very far off from
the Inn. So there was a little pied a terre,
where Mrs. Grantley ran to and fro, and
where Sister Grace had a tiny little bedroom,
where, in her turn, she could rest.

Dr. Forbes pronounced a gradual improvement,
and that hope carried them
through much weariness of body and much
tribulation of mind.

¥?WW

Percy Blythe did enjoy his week in the
gay Metropolis, in spite of Sabina Maitland
and the perpetual presence of Colonel
Luttrell. But, on the other hand, Mrs.
Grantley was dangerously kind to him.
She was determined, as he had come up,
he should enjoy it. The pictures, the
Park, the flower-shows, the concerts, and
the theatres, was a perfect mental kaleidoscope
which he would have to arrange on
his return home. Sabina laid herself out to
please ; he was pleased — but su imply indifferent.
Certainly he preferred Sabina ina
pleasant humour to a disagreeable one.
It was in vain she put on her pretty gowns,
or decorated her beautiful dark hair. It
was Mrs. Grantley who filled his vision —

Mrs. Grantley and no one else ; and yet she
was grieved, because she felt so kindly
towards him ; but of love there was nothing
— she said to herself — she loved no
one. She was so happy in her life ; she
dearly loved her independence. Her dead
husband had been so indulgent, so tender
of her every thought and wish ; should
she ever find anyone like him again ?
No ! she was almost sure she would
not. Her love for him had been for him
by no means ardent ; but it was a love
which grew day by day, in its gentle
steadiness, and it had pervaded everything.
She had no room in her heart for Percy
Blythe. But if he would be only satisfied
with her friendship, it would greatly
please her. He never tormented nor
worried her, but his face was a continual
protest ; sometimes it looked joyously
happy, and at others hopelessly depressed.

It was all such a pity ! she
thought.

Whatever happens, Mrs. Grantley, I
shall always look back on this week, it
has been so beautiful!"

I never heard of ' sight-seeing ' being

o o o

beautiful before," said Sabina, entering
the conservatory, where the two were.
Interesting it may be, but not beautiful."

"Probably not," said young Blythe,
coldly, " but if I find it beautiful, there is
no objection to my appropriating its
beauties."

t; Oh dear no ! " But Sabina knew he
was not referring to the " shows " he had
seen, but to the happiness the week had
brought with it ; and he owed it all to her.
And this was the reward ! But for her,
would he have had it ? Certainly not.
And there he was, just sighing his heart
out for this Edith Grantley. And her uncle

almost as bad. It was too much. Surely
she (Mrs. Grantley) had had her day. The
young always think that any woman over
three or four-and-twenty is quite old, forgetting
oftentimes, that many men prefer
the cultured intellect of a charming woman
to mere physical beauty, and a crude
young mind. Love is of no age, and it
is never old, for it bestows an elixir on
all its votaries. Do we not say " Love is
blind " ? To love is to keep the heart young.
Whereas, Sabina looked upon it as a possession
peculiar to youth. Sj she felt herself
defrauded. Hitherto she had only to
ask, and to have ; and why should this
blonde-headed curate be denied her ? And,
with a strange contrariness, the more he
avoided her, the more her heart went out
towards him.

Colonel Luttrell had likewise found out
the young man's secret, but he felt no

jealousy, because lie saw the love was not
returned, neither did he feel sure about his
own affairs, nevertheless he was not sorry
on the whole to see Mr. Blythe depart — he
seemed to have Edith Grantley more to
himself.

Did she never feel any reproach? As
she saw, day by day, Selwyn's increasing
love and devotion — so kind, so tender,
and yet so masterful — she felt sure some
day she would be beaten on all points, but
would hold out as long as possible.

Meantime, the summer was passing by.
The season was over, London was tired.
It wanted a good gulph of sea-air, to fill
the vitiated lungs, to gather force to go
through another and another season. To
get out of the way of those holiday folks !
whose only Saint is St. Lubbock. Those
folks, whose lungs never do get replenished,
who just toil on till they drop out of life,
vol. ir. 2S

too weary, too tired out, to continue the
struggle, and whose place in the ranks is
filled up so soon, that their very absence
is never noted.

Mrs. Grantley had been down again at
Langton, but she intended to go over with
Sabina to Homburg, there to drink the
waters, and to enjoy the distractions, of
that gay, wicked little place.

Colonel Luttrell, a little later on, intended
with Edward Lewis to join them, but
before he left England he had to find out
a distant branch of the Luttrells, who
lived far away, down in Lancashire. He
made the journey, as we know, and with
what terrible results.

And now, for some weeks, he had been
hovering between life and death, an unconscious
pitiful figure.

Mrs. Grantley had come in with a
basket of fresh flowers, which she was

arranging in a vase. The nurse and
Sabina had started for a walk. She
arranged the little bed-room to the best
advantage, the open window admitted the
sweet country air, then she drew a little
table towards her, and commenced writing
her letters. The afternoon sun lighted up
her face with a tender light, it was a little
worn and pale ; and then she looked softly
at the motionless figure, and with a sigh,
resumed her writing.

Presently a very faint sigh reached
her, an echo of her own. " Edith," it
said.

Selwyn !— thank God ! "

Then she went round to him, and
pressed her lips lovingly on the wasted
cheek.

Ease my head, Edith."

She did so with infinite tenderness.

Then their eyes met, his so dim, hers so

28*

full of the new light, which he could
hardly see.

Selwyn dearest, Will you try and live
for me ? "

At last ! Edith ! raise my face to yours,
and let me kiss you."

She raised his head on her shoulder, and
then, all weak as he was, he gave her a
kiss, with all the love of years in it.

Now dear ! You must take this medicine,
and get a little sleep, and then, by-and-bye,
I will talk and tell you everything."


There must be so much to explain,"
he murmured feebly ; then she settled the
pillows, with gentle touch, and with a little
light kiss on his heavy eyelids bade him
sleep. When, two hours later, the doctor
looked in, he found his patient conscious
and refreshed.

He will do now, Mrs. Grantley ! No

excitement and plenty of nourishment !
Has sister Grace come in yet ? "

No, doctor. I told her to take her
time. She and Miss Maitland have gone
on a nutting expedition."

"Well, it will do them good! Colonel
Luttrell is in good hands — only be very
cautious."

"Doctor! how came I here?" said the
invalid with weak voice.

Oh ! that's too long a tale to tell now.
Only wait till you are stronger. There
will be a budget, I can tell you."

So the patient — too weak, too weary to
argue, and yet so perfectly restful in this
unlooked-for happiness — with half-closed
eves, watched the form he loved moving
so softly about, with deft womanly hands,
putting a touch here, and touch there.
Close by his bedside was a bowl of glorious
Gloire de Dijon roses, opening out their

ricci leaves, and sending forth, their delicate
perfume. Almost like a child, he looked
and wondered at the strange, clean, homely
room, with the bed furniture, smelling so
fragrant of lavender. He realised something
serious must have happened to him.
But why speculate ? Whatever had been
the cause, the result was happiness, that
was enough for him. He had something

to live for . Then, by-and-bye, Sabina

came in, and she was thankfully grateful
to kiss her uncle, and could hardly keep
back her tears.

Sabina, child ! "

Dearest Uncle Selwyn ! You are going
to get strong again ? Oh ! do try ! ''

A gentle smile hovered over his face.
Then the nurse, with gentle peremptoriness,
dismissed her, and proceeded to look after
her patient, while Mrs. Grantley, with a
farewell kiss, went out for a drive, which

had for its bourne the station, from
whence she sent off a telegram to her
brother, announcing the cheering change
in the invalid. Her own heart was lightened,
and she knew now she loved Selwyn
Luttrell.

It was now decided by Dr. Lewis and
his sister to send for Andrews, the Colonel's
soldier servant, who was only too eager to
come and help to wait on his master.
Dr. Lewis was much impressed by the
calm, pleasant cheerfulness of Sister Grace,
with her neat costume. Her face, not even
pretty, but marked with strength and
endurance, with such sweet womanliness
written in her gentle blue eyes, and then
her neat methodical habits so delighted him,
that at last an "idea" became rooted in
his mind. One day he startled his sister
very considerably by saying : " Edith !

should you think Sister Grace could ever
be transformed into Wife Grace ? "

Edward ! "

I really have been thinking over it
very seriously. You see, Edith, it is just

this " and he pushed his spectacles on

his forehead, and pointed his sister to an
adjacent chair. " Of course, when Selwyn
gets well, you will marry him ? "

I suppose I shall ! poor fellow ! "

Exactly ! and where am I ? Nowhere !
So it seems to me to be perfectly reasonable
that I should try to find out some
nice suitable person who would not object
to my collection. You know, Edith, it is
very valuable, and fancy the damage a
thoughtless person would do ! Now,
what has struck me so much in Sister
Grace are her quiet, tidy habits ! And
then she moves so softly ! She never
brushes or bangs about ! She doesn't

wear trains that catch and trip you up !
Believe me, dear, I have studied her."

"So it seems, Edward," said Mrs.
Grantley, with a twinkle in her eye, at the
very business-like qualities the Mayor of
Langton was summing up.

And she is suitable in age ! "
And how old should you say she
was ? " asked his sister blandly.

Oh, about forty, or thereabouts ! "
My dear, she is only thirty."
Bless me, you don't say so ! How unfortunate!
That's certainly awkward! Dear, dear!"
Why, Edward, most people would consider
it an advantage."

"No, my dear, not in my case. I want
some one who will take care of my interests,
and would help me in my ' Book of Natural
Science.' "

Then you have no doubt, excepting
her age, she would be suitable ? "

Yes, she is exactly what I want."

Then why don't yon suggest it to her?"

"That is just my difficulty; I don't
know how she might take it."

' Faint heart,' you know."

"That is all very well, but that only
refers to young people, romance, and suchlike.
You see, when a man is turned fifty,
he does not indulge in illusions, but realities.
And I want somebody who will be a
help, not a hindrance. Edith, could you
not suggest it, or place my wishes before
her in a pleasant light ? She should be
well provided for, and I am not difficult to
live with, am I, dear ? "

No, dear, that you are not," said Mrs.
Grantley, kissing him affectionately.
"Well, I will see what can be done,
dear old Ted."

And Mrs. Grantley did see. A day or
two afterwards, leaving Doctor Lewis and

Andrews in charge of the invalid, she and
Sister Grace set out for a drive in the
village fly. The autumn tints were beginning
in all their splendour, the fresh
smell of the newly-turned earth, the clear
crisp air, the light sky and sunny vistas,
were all tempting. And Sister Grace
enjoyed it thoroughly.

"How much longer must we keep the
Colonel here, nurse ? "

Perhaps another fortnight. Then I
think he will want a change, a warmer
climate by the sea."

And then, when your task is over here,
where is your next move, Sister Grace ? "

Back to the Institution, if I am required
; if not, I shall take a holiday."

I think you said you have no
parents ? "

"No, they have been dead these many
years."

Is it not a hard, weary life ? "

No, not when you get used to it.
Besides, I must work for myself, you see.
I am not clever in anything else, but I
am considered to have an aptitude for
nursing."

You never thought of marrying ? Pray
do not think me rude."

Yes, I did, years ago."

Then ' he ' died ? " said Mrs. Grantley
gently.

No ! ' he ' married some one else," replied
the nurse, in quiet, matter-of-fact
tones.

Oh ! " said Mrs. Grantley, shocked.

"It is ten years ago. I do not even
think of it now. I was never good-looking."


Sister Grace, suppose any one should
ask you to marry them now ? Would

you?"

Nobody is likely to ask me," said the
other, with a pleasant laugh. " You see, I
am ni jeune, ni belle — two very important
items ! "

But supposing I know someone who
thinks your only fault is that you are too
young ? "

But Sister Grace only laughed again,
the idea amused her.

Really, I know of a gentleman this
moment, who would be grateful if you
would do him the favour of marrying
him."

"Mrs. Grantley," exclaimed the nurse
in astonishment. " What strange jokes
you do make ! "

It is no joke, I really mean it."

"Well who is it, then?"

My brother, Dr. Lewis."

Dr. Lewis want to marry me ? "

Yes."

"It is very strange. I do not understand
it ! "

"Dear Grace," said Mrs. Grantley, putting
out her two little gloved hands, and taking
the other's in hers. " Be ' Sister ' Grace in
reality. You know for weeks you and I
have seen much of each other, and I daresay
you have guessed Colonel Luttrell and
I are much to each other," (and with a
charming little blush she continued) :
Directly he is convalescent we are going
to be married, and then, you see, poor
Edward would be quite alone. So that
if you could agree to it, you would please
him and please me. And he is so kindhearted
and simple. 1 can't tell you what
he has been these last few years to me."
But there was a tear in her eye that pleaded
eloquently for her brother.

Did Dr. Lewis ask you to tell me all
this ? "

Indeed, he did. He is very humble-minded."


Well, I will see him later on myself."

"That is but right and just. Xow dear,
let me kiss you and think, perhaps, I may
have a new sister."

Airs. Grantley, you are a dear sweet
woman."

My dear, my only fear is that you will
both prove too humble-minded."

Then Mrs. Grantley sought her brother.

Edward, I have done everything but
the love-making, and that you really must
do yourself."

There will be no need for love-making.
It will not be a love-match, but a right
down sober, earnest arrangement between
two sensible people ; and there is no reason
why we may not be happy, Edith — in our
way, of course."

Ted, dear old boy, please to remember

this much ; it is not everyone who can live
on grubs, butterflies, and other such creatures.
People who have hearts require
sometimes other sustenance. I don't quite
think Sister Grace's heart is a fossil. If
anything, it is rather human than otherwise."

I will do my best, dear. Could you
arrange for me to see her ? "

Certainly ; go down to the cottage and
send Sabina to me."

In the meantime Sister Grace, sitting
in the little homely parlour of the cottage,
the smell of the Gloire de Dijon roses coming
in softly and sweetly as they climbed
over the window and caught the rays of the
setting sun — pondered over it all. Should
she accept this strange offer — might she?
Nay, did she not get sometimes tired with
thinking and her own solitary inner life?
And as the years went on, would she
not feel it more and more? Yes, Dr.

Lewis was kind and tender — that she had
seen ; and as he often watched her, she
concluded it had been with professional
approbation. But by this new light she
saw it in its true colours — and then
she saw him coming down the lane, and
the roses wafted in a few leaves ; and she
drew in a rosebud as it swayed gently with
the breeze, and held it in her hand. Would
there be warmth enough to expand it ?

Sister Grace, may I speak with you ? "

Certainly, Dr. Lewis. Will you come
in?"

How picturesque this cottage looks,
with those Gloire de Dijon covering it."

Yes. I was speculating how many
more buds would come out. True, this
is a south aspect ; but the October nights
are chill. Only it is a hardy rose ! "

There are many human flowers, Miss
Grace, that are hardy, and yet sweet.
vol. ii. 29

Look at that beautiful bud you hold in
your hand. If it had been in a warmer
quarters would have expanded into a
lovely rose. As it is, it will live and die a
bud — because there will not be sufficient
warmth for it. I want you to expand into
the rose of nry home — to be its mistress,
my helper, my companion, my fellow-worker.
Look upon me as the old grey
wall ; and think what a charming covering
you might make, hiding my deficiencies,
putting new colour, new life in
it all ! "

Dr. Lewis ! I thought you were a
philosopher, and I find you a poet! "

Nay, nay ! young lady. Do not laugh
at me ! "

Laugh at you ! Indeed, no ! I respect
you far too much for that."

Miss Grace ! can you find it in your
heart to take me ? Just as I am ? "

Yes, Dr. Lewis. For I believe you area
good man."

"I will try to be so," lie answered,
gently.

Of course, you would understand
I cannot settle anything until poor Colonel
Luttrell is well off my hands. He still
requires much care. Both Dr. Forbes
here, and I agree that in a week or two's
time he ought to be moved to a warmer
climate. This is too bleak for a convalescent.
Bournemouth or the South of
France would be better."

I quite agree with you. But I think
Edith, with Sabina and Andrews, can
manage now without either you or me."

I expect they can," said Sister Grace,
with a pretty smile that lit up her face.

Very well. When my sister goes, I
shall want my wife. That is quite understood,
and perfectly reasonable ? "

29*

Yes. That is reasonable."

Good-bye, then. And thank you deeply
for your goodness to an old man."

Old man ! Why, Dr. Lewis, you are
not much over fifty."

No ; but I thought all young people
called that old. Sabina says I am very
ancient."

But I am not a young person, Doctor.
And much study and thought make one
old. I feel fifty, even if I am thirty."

Then, dear, redeem the years that the
canker-worm has wasted," said Dr. Lewis,
with kindly affection. " Now, God bless
you. Edith will be so glad," and with a
kiss of blended kindness and affection the
Doctor took his departure.

Sister Grace watched him musingly up
the lane on his way back to the Inn. " I
am sure he is both kind and good. I think
1 have done right. Yes ; I am sure ! I

have no one to consult. There will only
be one nurse less at the Institution."

Well, Edward ! I can see by your face
you have been successful. I am glad,
dear."

Yes ! it was very good of her. But
nothing' is to be settled till you and Selwyn
are married."

I am in no hurry to part with my
little Edith," said her brother with deep
affection. No ! he was sure there could be
no woman so fair, so charming, as his step-sister
Edith, and no one knew better than
Mrs. Grantley of the kind, honest, upright
simplicity of her brother. So she thought
Sister Grace had drawn no small prize in
the lottery of life.

A more cheerful or pleasant house it
would be almost impossible to find
than that of Mr. and Mrs. Yere. They had
settled in one of those palatial — as the
estate agent would say — residences near to
the South Kensington Museum. Everything
about them was new. The newest
designs, the latest carpets !

Don't let us have any of those depressing
dingy arrangements ! I hate old things.
But let us have everything bright, fresh,
sweet, cheerful." And so it was, garlanded
with flowers, inside and out. It looked
the embodiment of affluent cheerfulness.
They loved to gather round them friends
of the Bohemian world — people who
were more agreeable than conventional.

Whom, the pose of Lady Clara Yere de
Vere was not so much appreciated as a
brilliant " mot," " a new song," u a charming
sketch," " a rising genius " — everything
was of " to-day. The latest scientific
discovery — the new actor — the last book.
And Pauline was thoroughly happy. And
Charlie, in her pleasure, was perfectly
satisfied. Again the dimples visited her
pretty face. There was no one to thwart
her, no one to vex her. True, Lady Laura
would have preferred that her daughter's
house should have been more exclusive,
with a flavour more distinctly aristocratic
about it. But it was all no good. If Mrs.
Yere had any tastes at all, they were
essentially democratic.

Good gracious, mamma ! do you suppose,
after all the misery the ' Yanseurs '
have caused you and I in our lives, I care
one toss whether or not they put their

aristocratic noses inside my door ? I would
just as soon they stayed away ! I hear
Frampton ' intends to honour my next ' At
Home.' I shall just tell him what I think."

Better not, Pauline ! "

Oh, but I shall, mother ! We can just
snap our fingers at them all ! "

Pauline, love, do not get vulgar ; it is
not ' good form.' "

il I can't help it, mother! I have been
repressed so many years, I am bound to
break out somewhere."

You will shock them so, dear ! It will
reflect upon me, and they will say how
badly I have brought you up."

Let them, mother ! They should have
made the allowance larger, and the result
(myself) would have been more highly
developed. As it is, I am as happy as a
country lark ! Vulgarly happy ! Dear old
Charlie, he is as good as gold ! I believe

I am the the most fortunate person in
London."

Well, darling ! that is a great thing,"
said her mother, kissing the bright, pretty-face.
What was the use of lecturing a
person who was supremely happy ?

Wee are going to have the theatricals
in the large drawing-room, mother. Satis,
of the Elysium, is going to send us scenery,
and he and Charlie are now hard at work
over the piece. Bring Sabina Maitland
round early tomorrow, so that he can
coach her well up in her part. Eva
Mountchesney is one of the characters."

Miss Mountchesney is not in society,"

said Lady Laura stiffly.

What does it matter ! As if you could

not find as nice people outside this stupid

social pale as inside ! Anyway, they are a

deal more respectable ! "

My dear ! as the granddaughter of an

earl that speech is not comme il faut or
becoming ! "

Dear, darling mother ! I hate comme il
faut — and as the granddaughter of an earl
I have a right to know something of them
and their doings — and I prefer our set
infinitely ! "

Well, dear, above all things, don't get
talked about ! "

Never ! while I have as good a husband
as Charlie. Why, mother ! whom
have we here ? "

Your cousin Frampton. Do receive
him nicely."

A young man was just announced, tall,
pale, slight, perfectly dressed — what you
would call a lady-like young man ! He
moved slowly and languidly to where the
ladies were sitting.

How do you do, cousin Pauline ? And
are you quite well, aunt Laura ? "

Quite well, thank you, Arthur ! How
is your father ? "

Oh, his lordship was quite well when I
saw him last, but I hear he has symptoms
of gout. I don't see him very often, you
know."

I am very sorry to hear that," said
Lady Laura with polite hypocrisy — for
nearly all her sufferings and mortifications
had come from this cousin, Earl Yanseur,
lately Lord Frampton.

Pauline expressed no regret; privately
she thought it would serve him right.

Cousin Pauline ! I hear you are busy
getting up a play, Ah! what is it, may
I ask?"

"' The Good-natured Man,' " she answered
drily.

Ah ! never heard of it ! I suppose it's
original ? "

Perfectly so."

All ! Some fellow here wrote it ? friend
of Mr. Vere's?"

No ! Mr. Yere has not the pleasure of
his acquaintance, only of his works."

"Arthur, do you not remember ? It is
one of Goldsmith's plays ? " said Lady
Laura, scandalised at his ignorance and
her daughter's love of mischief.

No, really ! " and a very faint blush did
just tinge Lord Frampton's face. "I never
read those fellows, don't you know."

I suppose then you never saw ' She
Stoops to Conquer ? ' "

Oh yes, I did, though ! " said his lordship,
with something like animation. " I
remember pretty Lydia Craven in it ; she
might conquer any fellow ! only there are
so many fellows, don't you know !

"Well, good-bye Cousin Frampton, weare
going to rehearsal in half-an-hour. 1
have to study a little."

Oh I say ! Cousin Pauline, are all the
parts filled up ? "

No ! There are still two men's parts
vacant ! "

"Could I take one? I should like it
awfully, don't you know ! "

There's the ' Butler ! ' But he is always
tipsy. Of course you never could have
been tipsy in your life ? Only common
people get screwed."

"- Oh by Jove, that's a mistake ! " said his
lordship eagerly.

Well ! there's another part, that of
Mr. Lofty.' I fancy that would just suit
you!"

Now really ! that's awfully nice, Cousin
Pauline."

Pauline opened a side door, and called
out in clear tones : " Charlie ! My cousin,
Lord Frampton, wants a part. I think
6 Lofty ' will just suit him." And with that

she pushed the young nobleman into the
study, and rejoined her mother.

Pauline ! How can you ? " said Lady
Laura, angrily, " you are making a complete
fool of him."

Not one whit more than he is. Idiotic,
milk-and-water creature, with his ' awfully '
and his 'don't you know.' On the contrary,
if we make a man of him (though,
with such a face as he has got, it will be
well nigh impossible), his father ought to
thank us."

Pauline ! I do not half like it,"
Mother, did you invite him ? or did I ?
neither of us ! He came unasked. We do
not care for him, unless he has something
in him. We don't care for fools, I can tell
you ! "

Still! he is of our blood, Pauline."
It's nothing to boast of, then. Oh,
mother, let him stand or fall by his own

merits. Why should you stand sponsor for
him, because he happens to be your second
cousin, even if he does call you Aunt
Laura ? Why he isn't a patch upon Adolphus
Frampton, mischievous as that boy is.
There is no humbug about it, he is
a downright honest young rascal. He is
at Langton, with Aunt Louisa, otherwise
— "

I am very glad he is where he is ! And,
Pauline, be careful about Sabina Maitland,
because while her uncle and aunt are at
Nice, I feel very responsible."

I will take every care, mother, rest
assured, and come as often as you like,
dear, and play propriety. I want Aunt
Louisa, and dear Uncle Harry, to come up
for my play. It is to be on 'Twelfth
night,' mother, of the New Year, don't
forget ! "

Nay, love, I won't forget. I will bring

Sabina round by eleven tomorrow — will
that do ? "

Thank you, dear ! " and Mrs. Cohen
saw her mother safely into the comfortable
little brougham, which her improved means
enabled her to keep."

Pauline tripped back into her house,
and her mother drove homewards, a little
anxious, but by no means unhappy.
Pauline looked so radiant, so gay, and she
was so thoroughly happy. Lady Laura
felt her great safeguard was the love her
daughter bore her husband. He really
ruled his wife by love. Pauline's was a
nature that could not be driven. And the
one tender spot in Lady Laura's heart
was her great love for her only child,
Pauline had a different disposition from her
mother, it was more true and honest at the
core, but heedless, and careless, and of no
great depth.

To say that Langton was amazed was to say
very little. They almost felt bewildered —
that Mrs. Grantley had left them and
married Colonel Luttrell ! And that the
Mayor, of all people, should have married
again! It was true they knew nothing of
his first wife, but the fact of his having
been a widower so many years seemed in
their idea to bar any further matrimonial
arrangements. And here he was married
and done for! And Dr. and Mrs. Lewis
had just issued cards for a reception, or, in
other words, " A Tennis party " for the
opening of the Tennis season. Langton
Proper had paid its respects to the new
Mrs. Lewis, but Langton General had still
its duties to do.

vol. ii. 30

Once more the " Bed House " was
thrown open hospitably. And the pretty
old garden, now decked in its Spring
attire, its lilac and laburnum, its cherry
blossom, looked gay, while the beautifully-mown
lawn invited the eager votaries of
the game. And in the large drawing-room
stood the new Mayoress ready to receive
her guests. A quiet, self-possessed, ladylike
figure, well, though neatly, dressed,
in soft grey velvet, with simple little frills
at collar and wrist. Yes ! she was decidedly
pleasant-looking, and when she smiled
her face lighted wonderfully. Dr. Lewis
was better dressed, and looked very
satisfied, but as the people filed out into
the sunny garden, they all felt a tinge
of regret for bright Mrs. Grantley.
Ah ! there never would be two of
her," said David Brown ; " it isn't to be
expected. Yon lady's right enough,

never fear ; but it's that we just loved
t'other one."

Yes, Mr. Brown, that we did, and
that we do," said Lady Louisa. " But you
must consider how lonely Dr. Lewis would
have been, with no wife, no sister, or
daughter."

Quite true, my lady, quite true ! And
pray don't suppose I am for saying one
word against his Worship, who to my mind
is as kind and simple a soul as you would
meet on a day's march. And, please my
Lady, how is Mrs. Grantley — begging
her pardon — Mrs. Luttrell, and the
Colonel?"

I am glad to say Colonel Luttrell is
now really well, only just a very little
lameness. And Mrs. Luttrell is quite welland
as bonnie as ever. They have, as you
know, passed the winter in a beautiful
warm country, and that has done wonders

30*

for the Colonel. We expect them home
now very soon"*

That's good hearing, my Lady."

Then Lady Louisa was required elsewhere,
and Mrs. Frostick took possession
of Mr. Brown.

Well, Brown, what do you think of the
Mayoress ? "

I think she seems a nice winsome
woman, and the Doctor is quite right to get
married again."

We shall have you getting married
again, David Brown!" said Mrs. Frostick,
tartly.

Nay, nay, neighbour ! I should put
none in the place of my Nancy ! My
lassies will do for me. There isn't a
woman in the place to beat Tilly in stuffing
a chine."

That's not everything ! "

Maybe not, but it's a good way on.

And Harriet, she looks after the ' posies '
and the flowers, and such like in the
garden. They are real good lassies, both
of them."

Old David had an instinct that Mrs.
Frostick was secretly hostile to his daughters,
and it was quite enough to put him
on his metal. But he spoke the truth —
they did look after the house, and beautified
it according to their lights (borrowed
from Lady Louisa and Mrs. Grantley).
The flowers that freshly adorned the rooms
were Harriet's especial province, and, asher
father said, "There wasn't a better
cook in all the town than Tilly."

But Mrs. Frostick could never secretly
forgive these young women for being their
mother's daughters, and even now it
angered her to be the unwilling witness
of his love for his dead wife and her
children.

The Rev. Percy Blythe walked about in
this throng of people with a heart wounded
to the death, but he bore no outward trace.
He was as kind and gentle, as unselfish as
ever, getting to be almost invaluable to the
Eector, who relied upon him in everything ;
courteous to all women as a knight of old,
but heart-proof to every blandishment of
the whole sex. There had come a slight
softening of the blow at the time of Mrs.
Grantley's marriage. She wrote him a
letter full of womanly kindness, telling him
of her approaching marriage, and how the
lover of her youth had waited and waited,
until at last death nearly marked him
for his prey, how essential she had become
to Colonel Luttrell's absolute life. And
then she went on to claim his friendship
: " We can at least have that
pleasure, dear Percy, in life. Write and
give me all Langton news, and how you

like my dear new sister-in-law. And
believe me ever your friend." And lie had
tried to follow her instructions, to live as
she would have him, but it was as yet-uphill
work. As her love would have made
his life golden, so its absence made it of
dull neutral tint. He devoted more and
more of his time to his work.

As for the Eector, he loved him ; indeed,
he felt he was almost selfish in his monopoly
of the younger man. But there was a
deep trust and sympathy between the two,
and Lady Louisa had unconsciously, as it
were, put him into the vacant place so
long filed by her godson, Gerald Lanyon.
She had guessed his secret long ago, and
with her soft tender heart tried with
motherly kindness to comfort him. Added
to this, Master Adolphus was to be got
ready for Cambridge. His mother's suggestions
he politely ignored, and the person

who had the most influence over him was
Percy. The Eector was quietly patronised
by the nineteenth-century lad. In his own
way the young man most certainly loved
his father, and if any one had said one
word to that father's disadvantage, Mr.
Adolphus Frampton would have very soon
given him the benefit of his pugilistic education,
which between whiles had been
carefully attended to at Eton.

The Framptons, of Langton, were a
distant branch of the Vanseur family ; while
the late Earl Yanseur had been the father
of Lady Laura and Lady Louisa, he had
stood in the relationship of cousin to
Canon Frampton. The present Earl was
cousin to the two ladies, and, if anything,
more distantly removed to the Eev. Harry
Frampton, so that now they had really
little in common between them except the
name.

Canon Frampton was a man of fairly
ample means, but prudent withal. He was
most anxious that his only son should study
for the Bar, but as yet that young man had
declined to study for any special purpose ;
if he had any predilection for anything at
all, it was for "the noble art of self-defence."
So that really he occupied a good deal of
Mr. Blythe's time in trying to persuade him
to set to work. He took very kindly to the
various tennis parties, and, being a very
good - looking youngster, had all the
feminine on his side, beginning of course
with his mother. But he was at an age
when women's society is not particularly
appreciated by young men. If he had any
very small weakness at all, it was for
Adelaide Craster, who was pretty, lively,
lady-like, and seven years his senior, but it
was very harmless, as his mother saw,
and indeed she encouraged the very

faint interest lie might feel in ladies'
society. What he really did interest
himself in was "ferreting," and nothing
gave him greater pleasure than to go out
on these secret expeditions. The rat-hunt
to him was an intensely exciting, if
ignoble, sport, much of which he kept to
himself. So that Percy often felt the
futility of trying to inspire the soul of the
youth, whose thoughts and hopes were
centred in a haystack or corn-rick, but, for
his father's sake, he tried on, When Mr.
Blythe did write to his friend Mrs. Luttrell,
he gave her a graphic description of this
promising scion of the Frampton family,
which amused her hugely, and yet she felt
this was the refreshment offered to the
weary, tired heart of her poor prisoner of
love.

The person whom Mr. Adolphus Frampton
strongly objected to, was Mr. Johnson — his

freckled face, his nervous, agitated manner,
his red hair, marked him out for many
unfortunate contretemps. One morning his
boots were missing ! and he was compelled
to go to mattins in his slippers ; another
time his sermon could not be found; the
buttons were off his cassock, which completely
upset the Eector, who hated slovenliness
as much as Dr. Lewis.

At last Percy spoke very strongly,
though kindly to the lad :

Do you never consider, my dear boy,
the discredit all this brings on your father ?
Sooner or later all will be found out, and
while your father is unjustly blaming Mr.
Johnson — whose only fault is his nervousness
— he "

Oh, he's such a confounded muff" —
colours up like a girl."

Listen to me, sir ! " said Mr. Blythe
sternly. " What will your father feel,

when lie finds all this silly bearish play has
been executed by his only son ? Remember,
he has a position in this neighbourhood,
and you have only Mr Johnson's gentlemanly
feeling between you and your father's
anger."

By Jove ! Blythe, I am very sorry. I
will keep clear of ' Miss ' Johnson for the
future."

I think if you had the faintest spark of
the feelings of a gentleman, you would
apologise to Mr. Johnson for the senseless
annoyance you have caused him."

Oh ! come I say, that's coming it
strong ! "

Not too strong for your silliness ! "

Do you really meanest ? "

"Most certainly."

Well, I will do the humble pie. Only,
3 t ou know, I shall never like the fellow."

"That is of no importance. He will

certainly survive that. The question is to
spare your father vexation." Then Mr.
Blythe said with a quiet smile : " You can
tell the Eector if you like ! "

"Catch me! You won't, I suppose,
Blythe ? " he asked doubtfully.

You must settle that with Mr. Johnson."

All right, Percy. I think it was rather
like a cad, after all."

"There can be no doubt of it. But
still, Frampton, I shall believe in you when
you make an honourable amende to Mr.
Johnson."

By Jove ! I'll go and do it now, and
get it off my mind ! " And he was as good
as his word, for Mr. Johnson nervously
begged him to think no more of it.

DO

Mr. Adolphus Frampton, anxious to
show his return to decent behaviour,
desired to commemorate the event by a
present ; so he bought the handsomest

pipe his pocket-money would allow, which
Mr. Johnson received in the kindest spirit,
albeit he had a perfect horror of smoking.

Mr. Blythe felt that if by any chance he
could improve the only son of his cherished
friends, Mr. and Lady Louisa Frampton, it
would go a slight way towards the deep
debt of gratitude he owed them both, for
their affectionate friendship and sympathy.

Mindful of Mrs. Luttrell's request, he
showed in every way his anxiety to be of
service to Mrs. Lewis, while she in her
turn was simply invaluable to the committee
of the Cottage Hospital. Her
thorough practical knowledge of the whole
thing, her clear good sense, made her very
soon a person of importance in Langton ;
for they very soon found she was a person
who could very well stand on her own
basis. And the Mayor and Mrs. Lewis were
an all-powerful faction.

Mr. Dashwood was sitting in his stud',
sick and weary, so he lighted his pipe — that
solace to so many weary brains. Then he
opened the window and walked out to the
garden. It had been raining ; but the
shower was over, and the smell of the
garden was refreshing to a degree — so
sweet, so pure. The sun came out and
lighted up the rain-drops, as they hung
from leaf and flower, like jewels. The
roses covered the front of the house, and
peeped in and out among the leaves of the
creeper. To-day he appreciated all this !
It soothed him, and he walked silently on,
still smoking his pipe. But as he passed

by the summer-house he paused in his walk,
for he heard a strange sound — some one
sobbing ! He looked in, and there, kneeling
on the floor, in the greatest abandon,
with her face buried almost in the hard
wooden seat, and with her frame shaking
with bitter sobs, was a young girl — at least
he concluded so by the youthful form of the
figure, for her face he could not see.

Oh, father ! father ! if I could but see
you ! Could but kiss you only once ! I could
bear it all. Father ! father ! " And then
the grief burst forth afresh. Mr. Dash-wood
stood in amazement. The girl turned
suddenly round, and stood upright. " Sir,
pray, pray forgive this intrusion ! But I
came to see his grave. And I could not
resist the temptation to come here. I will
retire at once."

Stay ! I beg. You are one of the
daughters of my predecessor, Mr. Orme? "

Yes ! I am the third, Peggy — Margaret,"
she corrected with a blush. Her hair was
drawn back and somewhat disordered, but
tied at the nape of the neck. Her eyes, all
full of tears as they were, had a gentle lookin
their hazel depths, the wet lashes were
dark, while the flushed face had a sweet
homeliness, though it was marred by excessive
weeping. "I do not know what
you can think of me, sir, but he did so
love this place ! We all helped to build
it. Father made this seat, Kitty, Jack,
and Polly put in these cobbles in the floor,
I varnished it, Harry, our eldest brother,
made this lattice work. And then in the
evening, father would come and sit here !
Oh Father ! " and then her tears burst out

afresh.

"Miss Orme, you will hurt yourself!

Gone in and bathe your face ! " said he

gently.

VOL. II. 31

She left off rubbing her eyes, and looked
up at him.

Thank you ! "

My name is Cyril Dashwood."

Will you forgive me ? I must seem
so rude ! "

Indeed, I will forgive yon. Come in
and tell me about your father. It will
give me great pleasure ! "

Then, somewhat consoled, she followed
him into the little study.

il Jane ! Bring some tea for Miss
Orme ! "

Yes, sir! "

Mr. Dashwood poured out a glass of
wine for his young guest.

Now, drink that ! and then my servant
shall take you upstairs to bathe your face,
otherwise you will get a headache ! "

Thank you ! How kind you are ! "

He smiled grimly to himself. She was

the first person who ever had called him
kind, but somehow it moved him.

He rang the bell. Jane came hastily
in with the tea. " Take this young lady
upstairs. She is rather tried by coming
to her father's old house."

That I will, sir! " said the woman, full
of S} T apathy.

And as they passed out, he arranged the
cups and saucers, went out and returned
with some jam and cake, and actually
smiled as he did these little hospitable
duties.

The girl soon returned, and old Jane
made some tea, which Cyril thought never
tasted so good before. He waited upon
his guest, and soon the grief, for the present,
was banished.

She heartily enjoyed her tea, and he
enjoyed his. It was so pleasant to have a
vis-a-vis.

Now tell me all about yourself, your
father, and your brothers and sisters ? "

There were seven of us ; like the
children in the poem ! Mother had been
dead many years. First came Harry, he
was our eldest, then Kitty, who was
housekeeper, but she married just before
father died, and went out to Australia with
her husband, then Jack, then me, then
Polly, and the twins — they are eight years
old ! They are living with Jack and Polly
at Leeds, and I am governess at Moor Hall,
at General Fraser's. We have just come
back, we have been at Pau this last year,
because Mrs. Fraser's health has been
delicate. But to-day, they are all in
London, and I could not resist coming
over to father's grave."

But how did you come ? " said he with
interest.

I walked the best part of the way, and

then old Farmer Davis met me, and would

make me ride in his cart. All the people

know me so well," she said apologetically.

It was Miss Peggy here, and Miss Peggy

there. You know we were all born in this

house. Your bed-room was mine and

Kitty's! — and to smell the roses in at the

window ! Oh ! it was just like old times !

And I feel father must be here somewhere !

The very flowers, in the garden, speak to me

of him ! "

Are you happy where you are ? Are

they kind to you ? "

I do not think I can be happy anywhere

not very, you know. Oh, yes, they are

kind. They pay me forty pounds a year,

so that I can send half of that to Polly and

Jack, so I ought not to complain. Only

we were so happy, we all loved each other

so dearly; and father — ah ! we did just love

him ! "

Now Miss Peggy, when ever you get the
chance you are to come over. Consider
every flower in the garden your own, and
pick and take what you please. If I am
out, never mind ; Jane will get you all you
want, and you shall tell me every now and
again, what flowers you used to plant, and
in what places, so as to keep the old garden
as you all had it."

How good you are, Mr. Dash wood, I
think it almost the first bit of heart pleasure
I have had since he died."

Again he was pleased.

I suppose you all come to church
Sunday ? "

Yes, we shall drive over."

Then I shall look out for you."

And now if you please, Mr. Dash wood,
I must be going ; it is fair again."

"Well, I suppose you had better.
Go and put your hat on, and then we

will go into the garden and get some
roses."

Her eyes lit up with pleasure. What
pretty eyes they were.

She rose as she spoke, and his fastidious
eye was pleased with the elegant cut of her
French frock, black though it was. She
was a thorough country girl, and yet there
was a certain air of refinement about her.

May I ask how old you are, Miss
Orme ? "

Eighteen."

I suppose you know something of these
flowers ? "

Do you mean the roses ? "

Yes."

This rich dark red one is a Louis van
Houtte, and this white one Boule de Siege,
this of course is a Mareschal Noel."

And so, from one to the other — he cutting,
she explaining.

Now, Miss Peggy, how do you think of
getting back ? "

Why, walking, of course."

But isn't it very far for you ? " said
he doubtfully, looking at the slight girlish
figure.

Oh, no, we often have walked over
there."

"Well, let us be going."

Are you coming too ? " she asked in
amazement.

Certainly, part of the way."

And then they set off. She, with her
hands full of her beloved roses, nodding
here, and saying adieu there, to the villagers
as they turned out to see her pass.

Good-bye, Miss Peggy, come over soon.
God bless you, Miss Peggy, dear!" and suchlike
homely greetings. Cyril Dash wood
wondered if they ever would say a kind
word for him.

They are such affectionate dear things,"
said the young girl, as they passed the last
house and came out on to the moor.

I can't say that has been my experience
of them. I think they detest
me."

Oh ! Mr. Dashwood, how could they ?
so kind as }'OU are ! " said she, quite
shocked.

But I am not sure I am kind — sometimes
I feel right down angry, they seem
so dense."

I can't understand it — they always
loved us so ! "

Perhaps that is it ! They loved you and
dislike me."

I am so sorry ! Don't you think if you
had a wife, it would make a difference ?
You see they have always been accustomed
to women-folk, and a good many of
them ! "

One can't marry to order."

No, I suppose not ! Only I think you
will need one — a wife I mean — or some
lady to help you."

Well, I must think over it ! " said he
with an amused expression, which she did
not see.

He began to feel quite amiable. Here
was a girl, who absolutely thought him
kind and good," whereas certain other
women of his acquaintance had called him
hard, opprobrious names, which had
scathed his manhood, and made him very
bitter with himself and others. And then
he looked at the late Vicar's daughter.

The fresh wind that came across the
moorland, had effaced the traces of tears.
And her kindly reception at his hands, had
cheered her. The permission to visit the
beloved garden was a solace he could
hardly dream of — keen affection of family

life, not being one of his attributes. But
to the lonely girl, it was like a spirit
world, where all her dear ones could assemble.


Every now and again the roses were
raised to her lips, and she seemed to beholding
silent converse with herself, which
he did not interrupt. There was something
in the simple honest confidences
of this girl, that appealed to the very best
part of his nature.

How beautiful the sky looks, Mr.
Dashwood ! "

Yes ! but there is electricity in those
clouds, and it would not surprise me
if we had a thunderstorm before very long.
All I hope is, that you will arrive at
Manor Hall before it breaks. Have you
an umbrella P "

Oh, I am sorry ! I was stupid enough
to leave it in the summer house."

Fortunately, I have mine, but I will
send over yours."

Thank you much ! "

They plodded on, and presently great
drops began to fall slowly, the wind rushed
past them with a moan, the short grass
and weeds bowed to it with little shivers,
and the heavy road with its great ruts,
seemed to Cyril infinitely trying, as the
wind grew stronger ; then a distant growl of
thunder far off, presently a sharp flash, and
then there rolled over their heads a crashing
peal, and the rain began to fall heavily.

Then Peggy stopped. " Mr. Dashwood,
will you please go straight back home ? I
am so used to country storms, and these
moorland ones, above all."

"Miss Orme, what can you think of
me, to imagine such a thing? Surely if a
woman can stand it, I must be a very
feminine specimen of the male sex if I cannot

do likewise ? Let us get on." And his
umbrella protected them both.

"You are Town bred, Mr. Dashwood,
and I have lived here all my life, and you
must remember you will have a wet tramp
back, eight miles in all."

Miss Peggy ! I do not get so many
visitors that I begrudge them my company
if they care to have it."

Ah ! you find it dull ! " said she in
kindly tones. " No wonder, you are all
alone ! There were so many of us. I used
to be father's ' curate ! ' We all had our
parts, and then in the evening we were so
happy ! in the warm days out in the summerhouse
and the garden, and in the
winter time in the long parlour." And
there was a pathetic droop in the voice — it
was past, it was over ! Each had to go out
in the cold world, and Peggy Orme said no
word, but walked on with compressed lips.

I hope you are not very wet ? "lie asked
gently.

Oh no ! I think not," she answered indifferently,
as if mere physical discomfort
were of so small importance, compared
with the loss of her home and the father
she loved, " I can change directly I get to
the Hall.

Are we far off now ? "

Oh no, about half a mile."

The rain came down in torrents, and the
thunder and lightning did their worst.
There was nothing for it but to go through
it. There was no shelter anywhere.

I am so sorry for you," she said with
regretful kindness.

« Why ? "

Because you are not used to it. Anyone
could tell you are a townsman."

Is that a great blot in your idea ? " he
asked coldly.

Surely not ! Only I am used to these
long marches, and you cannot be."

I shall be calling at the Hall before
Sunday, Miss Orme, and will either send or
bring your umbrella."

I thank you most kindly, Mr. Dash-wood.
Now here we are at the Hall !
Won't you come in and dry yourself ? Do
now ! "

Thank you ! I will make the best of
my way home. And pray do not think I
am such a coddle as not to be able to bear
rain or anything else ! "

I am sure of it ! " and she grasped his
hand with frank warm pressure, and with
almost regret he retraced his road, now
almost a swamp. The storm was gradually
dying away. The blue sky was seen again
reflected in the streams of water rushing
down the cart ruts, and in the puddles.

Fancy that girl walking alone all this

way," lie thought " Poor, brave, tenderhearted
girl, tramping eight miles for a
sight of her father's grave ! "

Solitude gives one a chance of squaring
up one's moral accounts, and Mr. Dashwood
had had a good deal of this lately — he
began to almost despise himself ; his
punishment would always be that he had
lost Esme irrevocably. Looking at it in
cold blood, he did not regret the loss of
Miss Higgins, because there never was the
faintest trace of love. There was no
doubt, as Miss Orme had said, he was dull !
frightfully dull and lonely ! He remembered
Tilly teasing Mrs. Grantley, and kind old
Percy ! How they all came crowding upon
his thoughts, as he walked quickly to keep
himself from taking cold, for he was
dripping. The road over the moor looked
interminable, but still he tramped on, and it
was with grateful feelings that at last the

homely little vicarage, with its gabled roof
and russet tiles, came in view. As he
passed through the village the people were
standing at their doors after the storm, and
he was very surprised to hear one or two
good evenings, sir." Generally they
allowed him to pass in silence, but they
had appreciated his courtesy to their dear
old parson's daughter. They had seen the
large posy of roses, which they knew he
had cut her, and they saw him return wet
to the skin, having seen her quite safely to
her destination. This was all quite right
in their estimation, so they greeted him
kindly as he passed. He returned it
courteously, for Peggy Orme's words came
back to him, " They are so affectionate ! "
Perhaps, as Percy Blythe said — he should
make some advances to them. Any way he
would try, and unconsciously they had
helped him.

vol. n. 32

So you don't like the character of ' Mr.
Los t} T ,' ' : said Sabina Maitland, with mischief
in her tone.

No ! " said he, " decidedly don't."
"And why?"

Oh, he's such a cad, don't you know ! "
said his lordship, ruefully sticking his eyeglass
firmly in his eye. "Why could not
Mr. Yere have given me 4 Leonine ' ? then I
could have made love to ' Olivia ' — cousin
Pauline, you know."

Then you are a good hand at making
love? I should not have thought it."

Shouldn't you ? Ah ! May I ask your
reason ? " said he, nettled.

"Not strong enough — everything seems
such an effort, everything bores you so."

You're chaffing a fellow, Miss Maitland
! "

I never cliff a lord — only common
people ! Would you not have liked to
have made love to me ? I am ' Miss
Richland,' don't you know?" said Sabina,
wickedly mocking his languid tones.

Oh ! come now, I say, Miss Maitland !
you are too bad ; it isn't kind to make
game of a fellow ! I know I am stupid
and all that, don't you know ! — and — and
if I loved you ever so much, I could not
make love to you, you would frighten it
out of me, you are so down upon a fellow ! "

Well, make yourself happy ! I don't
want you to make love to me in any form,
either in the play or out of it ! When I
get a lover, he shall be strong and brave !
None but the brave deserve the fair ! ' :

Poor Lord Frampton was certainly
having a bad time of it, and it was all the

32*

more painful to his feelings because he
really had a tendresse for Sabina — her
dark piquant face, her beautiful hair, hervey
impertinence had an irresistible attraction.
Most of the young ladies of his
acquaintance thought a very great deal
of him — listened to his words, admired his
delicate, languid ways. And here was a
girl who turned up her nose, as it were, at
him — who told him to his face he wasn't fit
for anything — not even for a stage lover !
butthat she preferred somebody strong and
brave !

It's some other fellow she's got her eye
on, d — him ! "

What are you muttering to yourself,
Lord Fr amp ton, over there ? "

Nothing ! " he answered somewhat
curtly.

What a rude young man you are fora
lord ! I thought they were so polite."

Oh, Miss Sabina ! do behave decently
to a fellow ! I am sure I would do anything
to please you ! "

Well, then, take that absurd eyeglass
away. At your age you ought to have good
eyesight ! " And then she came near to him,
her pretty face just in reach of him.
Why you really have very nice blue eyes.
You can see me, I suppose, very distinctly
? "

That I can," said he briskly enough.
Come and sit down by me, and I will do
anything ! "

ci Xo, no ; I can see you very well from
here ; and if you would only pull yourself
together you wouldn't be really at all
bad — but you want backbone. Xow I
must really go. Good bye, for the present."


Miss Sabina ! I implore you ! " but she
was gone.

So lie sat there thinking : " I wonder
why she thinks me such a confounded ass ? "
And there isn't a woman I would please
sooner than her," and he was really unhappy.


Then Sabina put her mocking face in at
the doorway.

' Mr. Lofty ' is wanted."

And " Mr. Lofty " was sent to a warm
place.

Then he rose, and really did pull himself
together, for he hastened after her.

Miss Maitland ! "

Well ? "

Do you think so very badly of me ? "

Why should I think about you at
all ? "

But you need not be cruel ! "

Well, let us shake hands and befriends
! "

And she held out her hand. He not

only took it, but kissed it, and held it
tight.

"Upon my word, Lord Frampton !
Come, they are calling ' Miss Richland ; '
don't you hear P "
"Let them call."
Come, let me go."
Say, ' Please, Frampton.' '
That I won't," she answered angrily.
' Miss Richland ' is wanted ! ' Miss
Richland ! ' "

Dear Lord Frampton, do let me go."
So at last he did, and she flew away.
Ah, I see ! She wants mastering. She
will always despise me. She thinks I am a
soft, useless creature. And I believe I am
when you come to look at me in that light.
What can I do now? I wish they had
given me a decent part — ' stage lover.'
She thinks I am not even up to that. That
cur ' Lofty ' has only to make himself a

thorough cad all round ! I want backbone,
do I ? Well, I'll get it. And she shall see
how she likes it ! " — and he gave a vicious
tug at the eyeglass. And then he too
went into rehearsal.

Charlie, do you think Cousin Fr amp ton
will ever do any good ? I am sorry we let
him have a part ; he does seem so stupid.
Sometimes I should like to shake him."

I think, Pauline, that saucy little
Sabina Maitland has something to say to it.
She teases him so."

Serve him right, Charlie. I have no
patience with him."

Now, Pauline, that isn't really fair. I
do not think he is half a bad sort. He is
only like hundreds of young men, and two
to one isn't fair. He really is trying to do
the best with his part. Now do be nice to
him, dear. You can't expect perfection
out of everybody."

"Very well, Charlie, dear, I will
try," replied Pauline. " Here comes
mother ! "

And Lady Laura was seen making her
way with Canon Frampton.

Why, Uncle Harry, this is a pleasure.
I did not know you were in town."

Well, my dear, I have only just
arrived, and finding your mother was
starting off to you, I thought I would
just drop in and see what you were
doing."

How is the play getting on, dear ? "
said Lady Laura.

Oh, very well. Frampton is a little
slow."

"What part have you given him,
Pauline?"

' Mr. Lofty,' " said she, with a laughs
' and he doesn't like it."

Why did you give him such a disagreeable

character? Could not you have
given him a nicer part ? "

"We didn't want him at all, to start
with, and he must make the best of it.
Oh, Uncle Harry, you shall have the
best place in the room — you and Aunt
Louisa. Adolphus is coming ! "

Indeed, my dear ! And what may this
wonderful performance be ? "

' The Good-natured Man ! ' We are condensing
it a little so as to make it shorter ;
but it is more of a novelty — so few people
have seen it. Here comes Frampton ! "

The young lord came in without his
usual friend — his eye-glass. But they
certainly had sharpened him up a little,
Lady Laura thought ; for he was absolutely
brisk.

How do you do, Aunt Laura?"

How are you getting on Arthur ? I
hear you are going to act''

I hope I shall succeed, Aunt Laura ;
that is all I can say at present."

I am sure you will, dear," said her ladyship
encouragingly.

He brightened at this, for he had not
been overdone with encomiums so far.

Here is your second— or third cousin ! —
Cousin Frampton — Louisa's husband."

The Eector shook hands with him.

I haven't seen you since you were a
very small bos ! "

Then all the other dramatis persona?
entered, and the conversation became
bright and general ; no one enjoying it
more than the Eector, who stayed to
luncheon, and quite regretted when the
time came for Lady Laura to drive him
home again.

What a dear, bright child Pauline is to
be sure ! She does one no end of good,"
said her uncle heartily.

I believe she is very happy," said her
mother. " And Mr. Yere is so kind to her !
Yes, I am glad now as it is."

Twelfth Night came at last, and with it
the play. A large audience had been
collected. Lord Frampton had been
nervously anxious to make the most of his
part, and when the night came he felt he was
as perfect as could be ; he was determined
to show Sabina Maitland that he had " some
backbone." To Adolphus Frampton's great
delight, he. had given to him the small part
of " Lofty 's French servant," owing to the
illness of the young man who was to have
acted it. Lady Louisa was as much
gratified as her son. The Hector was doubtful.
Three prettier women than Pauline,
Sabina, and Eva Mountchesney — who was
a blonde — would be hard to find.

The charming drawing-room had been
curtained off, and the inner one arranged

for the performance. Every detail had
been carefully studied. Rehearsal had
succeeded rehearsal, so that as nearly as
possible they reached perfection. In their
eighteenth-century costumes they looked
charming.

To the surprise of all, Lord Frampton
acquitted himself admirably ; it was a
thankless part at the best, but it was a
success.

Lady Laura congratulated him warmly,
and so did her sister. Adolphus had
very nearly wrecked the whole thing by
disappearing just when he was wanted, but
fortunately he did turn up.

Well, Miss Maitland, haven't you a
word to fling to a fellow ? "

What do you wish me to say, Lord
Frampton ? "

Well, to begin with. How did I
do ? "

Honestly, then, you ' did ' better than
any of us."

The pale face of Lord Frampton flushed
with pleasure. And it looked really handsome
in his picturesque dress.

What pleasure you have given me !
Won't you reward me with the first dance ?
That is only fair ; because I tried to please
you ! "

"Well, I don't mind that," And as
Sabina brought her bewitching face, with
a charming smile, to bear on him, he felt in
the seventh heaven.

So these two were satisfied.

Pauline had collected a great many celebrities,
and the success of these theatricals
had established her reputation. She was
full of delight, and a celebrated painter
desired to paint her portrait in her quaint
costume, as " Olivia " in the " Good-natured
Man."-

Sabina came in for much applause. She,
from a sallow, sickly girl, had grown into
a handsome young woman ; her clear
brunette face, her large dark eyes, her
pretty slender form, and her saucy coquettish
tricks captivated even the impressible
heart of ]mr. Adolphus Frampton, who
hovered about her, to the evident annoyance
of his lordly cousin, who was heard in
sotto-voce tones to declare his readiness to
kick that young cub! And Miss Sabina
played off on both her admirers.

It was a delightful evening, without one
drawback, so that justly could be said of
these pleasant drawing-room actors : —

Blame where you must, be candid where you can,
And be each critic the Good-nature! Man ! "

END OF VOL. II.

KELLY AND CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS

AND KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.

3 0112 056547836

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/threecuratesnove03bigg

a NobeL

Mis. G. BIGG-WITHEE,

Author of "Broken Sunshine."

"Nothing is new ; we walk where others went ;
There's no vice now but has its precedent."

Herrick.

IJY THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

L K D N

F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31, Southampton Street, Steal),

wit

THE THREE CURATES

Chapter I.

Spring had come and gone, summer was
departing, and yet Colonel and Mrs. Lnttrell
lingered among the Italian lakes. They
were so happy, and it was so beautiful. Of
course Colonel Luttrell had resigned. They
thought next autumn they would go over to
India and take Sabina back to her parents.
They had very good accounts of her,
and they knew she would be truly cared
for with Lady Laura, who had volunteered
the charge of her, and there was a great
friendship between Mrs. Vere and Miss
Maitland. Edward Lewis and his wife
Grace were perfectly happy, and Mrs.

VOL. III. o3

Luttrell was well posted up in all the
amusing details of country life by Percy
Blythe, so there was no need to hurry
home, and Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell were
free to follow their own wills, which took
them to one place after another. They had
thought of sending for Sabina to share their
delight, but that young lady had emphatically
declared her preference for London
and Lady Laura ; and on the whole Mrs.
Luttrell was secretly pleased at this
decision, for Sabina was a capricious
young person. Selwyn thought his life
beautiful with the woman he loved — forever
his own — and asked for nothing more.
He had gradually recovered his health, buta
certain lameness had remained. They
thought of trying; some of the waters, but
he really did not repine at this, for it
always awoke his wife's tenderness and
sympathy. And if he tried any cure it was

more to please her than himself. What did
it all signify ? He could not be happier.
After his long journey in the wilderness of
life, he seemed to have reached such a
peaceful and happy haven, that he was
more than content, for his crown was in
his heart, not on his head.

And Mrs. Luttrell never regretted it.
Eor every woman with a tender heart
appreciates a man's devotion, when he
offers her his noblest gift— his entire love.
And this man had never loved but one
woman— herself. And at these soft Italian
lakes, with their beautiful blue skies,
they both felt their life was crowned with
happiness.

"I suppose, Selwyn, we shall have to
go back ? We can't go on here for ever."

No," said he, with a slight sigh. " But
we can always come back again. It has
been so beautiful ! "





So we can. But I think we must be
going homeward. I hear from Lady Laura
that Sabina is making conquests in all
directions."

I fear she is somewhat of a flirt."

Mrs. Luttrell only smiled. She knew
she was.

Could you not just suggest that it is
wrong, Edith?"

No ! no, Selwyn. You really must do
that yourself. You are her uncle, and the
one she loves best. Besides, it would have
so much more effect."

"Well, dear, I must take her in hand
when we get home."

Mrs. Luttrell laughed. No one was more
indulgent to Sabina than her great tall
uncle. But if there was any lecturing to
be done, let him do it by all means.

The next days came a letter from Lady
Laura, telling the news of a proposal of

marriage to Sabina from Lord Frampton ;
but the young man would write himself to
Colonel Luttrell."

Well, Miss Sabina has not lost much
time," said Mrs. Luttrell.

I shall wait for Sabina's letter before I
do anything in the matter," said the
Colonel. "But I think she might do
worse. I believe he is a kind-hearted
young fellow. Only — "

Only what, dear ? " said his wife,
seeing he paused.

That I wish Sabina was steadier. She
requires a firm hand, and I almost fear
young Frampton will give way to her too
much. There is a great deal in managing
a wife let me tell you, Mrs. Luttrell."

"Your long experience of matrimony
tells you that, Selwyn ? "

"Don't laugh at me, Edith. You are
not a woman who requires managing ; but

I have seen the want of it, and it makes all
the difference in people's married life.
What treatment would suit one woman
does not apply to all ; and I say that
Sabina requires a kind, firm husband, and
that will be the only fear I shall have with
regard to Frampton."

Sabina's letter came, full of sunny expressions,
just like herself. She was a little
elated with her conquest, and intended to
take Lord Frampton in hand, though in
what way she did not say. " Make haste
and come home, there's a dear old uncle.
Though nothing can be kinder than Lady
Laura or dear Pauline Vere, she and her
husband are so nice, and Adolphus Hampton
is no end of fun, though he and Arthur
don't get on too well ; and, considering they
are cousins, it is very wrong of them."

I expect Miss Maitland is the cause of

their disagreement," said Mrs. Luttrell with
a smile, as she leant over her husband's
shoulder and read the letter.

I do think life in London is charming.
And at the Teres' one meets so many nice
people, though I expect you and Aunt
Edith are enjoying the lakes quite as much.
Perhaps I shall make a tour some of these
days, in the company of a certain person."

And with a few more comments the letter
ended.

I shall not write to George or Ellen
until I have had a talk with the young
man. And all I have to say is this, that I
hope young Hampton will be as truly
happy as I am."

"That is a nice little compliment,
Selwyn."

"No dear, not a compliment, but the
most delightful truth."

But there was just this with these two.

Theirs was the mature love of middle age,
when the feelings are strong, the love
deep, and the judgment clear and calm.
Sabina and her lover would have to steer
through many a shoal, many a quicksand,
before their bark reached smooth waters.
Mrs. Luttrell felt all this, but said nothing
to her husband.

She was thankful herself when she saw
the hue of health return to his face, but
his lameness grieved her. However, they
would have to return now on account of
Sabina's affair.

It was with some regret they bid adieu
to the lovely Italian waters, and turned
their faces homewards.

Nearly two years had passed, and once
more Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon were
sitting over their breakfast table at Hem-ingle
in the sunny morning room overlooking
the south garden. Esme a trifle
more matronly, but otherwise as young as
ever, her coquettish little mob-cap framing
her face like an old picture. Each
were busy with their letters ; Lady Beldon,
having finished hers, rang the bell.

I must have my son down, Ernest. Do
make haste and get all that tiresome correspondence
over, so that you can give all
due attention to your heir. I am perfectly
sure he is the most beautiful baby in all
England."

All mothers think that," said her husband,

as he lighted a cigar, to help him
with his letters, which were business ones,
and not of acute interest. " But I will say
this much, there isn't a prettier woman
than his mother."

Ernest ! " Nevertheless, the idea was
appreciated, for Lady Beldon walked
round to where he sat ; and, standing
behind him, drew his head back and
gave a very affectionate kiss to his sunburnt
forehead. " You are just an old
flatterer, and a dear one to boot."

These little affectionate amenities of
married life, how they smoothe its wheels !
I wonder if men ever do think what
these timely little flatteries mean ! Just
clear sparkling wells — in sometimes a
dreary wilderness — of calm, blind, indifference,
begotten of daily familiarity.
A woman requires all these little elixirs,
to keep her young in heart, if not in

years — and often they are left to other
women's husbands, and then sometimes
there is poison in the draught.

Ernest Beldon was intensely in love with
his sweet young wife — she looked as dainty
and as fresh as the day she married — and
he felt his happiness complete with wife
and child.

The Baby — otherwise Lanyon Esme
Beldon — made his appearance at this juncture
; he certainly justified his mother's
highly qualified panegyric. For he was a
most beautiful child. His eyes were as
blue as a hare-bell, his skin like rose-leaf
satin, while his lovely golden curls
clustered all over his head. His young
mother folded him in her arms, with
infinite tenderness. " Oh, Sonny ! Sonny !
I do hope you will grow up as good and
loving as your father.

I must say, Esme, I do think it's a pity

that all that beauty is so thoroughly
wasted ! it would have made the fortune of
any girl ! Whereas, as it is — it is a mistake.
Beauty in a man is of so little consequence,
indeed I am not sure it is not a drawback,
it makes them so conceited! because the
women make such fools of them."

Oh, Ernest ! it hasn't made you conceited
! "

Surely, my little wife, you don't think
me handsome ? " And he laughed his jolly,
happy laugh at the idea.

Why ! I think you perfect, Ernest !
Handsome ! of course I consider you very
handsome ! "

You are the first woman who has ever
thought so ! "

Just then Cyril Dashwood came to
Esme's memory ; she vividly remembered
the handsome perfect features of her first
love. " It was all outside," she thought.

Then Lady Beldon, and her son, walked
out, or rather it would be more correct to
say, she guided his tiny footsteps into the
garden, where the small man was attracted
by the tall stately lilies, who
looked down upon his little flower face.
But to wish, was to have, with Baby, so
his mother pulled down to his level, a
beautiful white lily, and the child buried
his face in its large cup, and emerged
with it covered with yellow dust.

Oh, Baby, Baby ! " and she knelt down
and dusted it off — while he broke the
flower from its stem. " Oh, Baby ! what
have you done ! poor flower ! Let us take
it to dear father ! " And they entered,
fragrant with the perfume of the beautiful
broken lily, which the small man vigorously
stuck to."

Why, Ernest ! there is yet another
letter unopened ! "

By Jove J so there is. I never saw it."
He broke open the envelope, and a bewildered
look came over his face — " I say,
Esme, just listen —

Sydney, New South Wales,

June 4th, 1882.
Sir Ernest Beldon,

Dear Sir, —

By the instructions of our client,

Mr. Joseph Stratton, we are writing to

request your presence in this country, at

your earliest convenience. Your uncle, Mr.

Stratton, is gradually sinking. He wishes

us to state that all his large property, here,

is left absolutely to you, and he would be

thankful to see one of-his own kin before

he dies.

We are, dear Sir,

Yours faithfully,

Grey and Fisher.

To Sir Ernest Beldon, Bart."

It must be my uncle Joe, my mother's
elder brother ; we have not heard anything
of him for years and years. How strange !
I thought he was dead ! "

"Ernest ! you won't have to go, will
you ? " said his wife, with a sinking of heart.

I fear so, dear. It is so difficult to
refuse a dying man, and it will be all the
better for this small man of yours."

Ah ! we are so happy as we are. No
more money can bring us greater happiness."


I fear, dear wife, there is no option."

If you are compelled to go, and — this
this money comes to us, you will divide
it between Hortense as well ? They could
so well do with a little more."

"Good little woman that you are !
Certainly my kind sister shall have her
&h':ire, but it is so like you to think of it."

There was a deep silence between the

two. Baby sat on the white rug with the
wrecks of the lily in his rosy little hands.

Ernest, could you not take me too ? "
and the pleading face was raised to his.

"Darling! it could hardly be. You
know there are several reasons! Why,
dear ! " said he, speaking cheerfully, " No
one thinks anything of these journeys now
either to India, Australia, or America !
If I can catch the next steamer, I shall be
there the inside of seven weeks ! Say a
fortnight or even a month in Sydney !
Why in eighteen weeks I should be back
again ! "

It will be a terrible time," said Lady
Beldon, who had never been separated a
day from her husband since their marriage.

"Esme!" and his voice was full of
tenderness as he drew her towards him.
Suppose, instead of a humdrum country
squire, I had been a soldier? There are

times and places, when and where a man
must leave all those dearest to him, behind.
And who can say if they ever meet again ?
Whereas, I am not going out to fight for
my country ! And think, love, out of our
great store of love and comfort, ought we
not to spare one crumb to a desolate dying
old man ? "

Ah ! how selfish I am ! "

That you are not ! " said her husband,
kissing fondly the tender face with its
humid eyes. "I leave you in charge of
my wife and son." So my princess must
be strong, and buckle to ! "

When must you start, Ernest ? "

'• Let us look at the newspaper. Ah !
the ' Shone ' sails on Thursday from the
London Docks. I will go up to-day and
get a berth in her." He took up his son
from the hearth rug, and kissing him again
and again, gave him to his mother. " Now,
VOL. III. 34

Esme, ring for nurse to take him. And
if you like, and could get ready quickly,
you might go up to town with me ! "

That I will, Ernest ! "

I would suggest, Esme, during my
absence, you and the child go down to
the sea — say Ilfracombe. Then 3'ou will
be near Hester, and I feel she will wish
you to be under her wing."

•' I will do whatever you wish ! Only
try and get back as quickly as you can."

Eest assured of that, dear wife ! "

A berth was procured, and Esme went
all over the great steamer, deeply interested
in her husband's " water hotel," so
comfortable and so luxurious. It was to
sail, all being well, at one o'clock on
Thursday. There was much to be done.
Sir Ernest had to see his solicitors ; he left
nothing undone that could add to his wife's
comfort during their enforced separation

To Hester he wrote a long letter, telling
her everything, and every detail of business.
To her care he confided his v^ife.
Esme had determined to see him off, and
he begged Mrs. Lanyoa to come up to
town (if she could leave her own young
child), and remain with her for a day or two
all of which it is needless to say she did.
The Thursday morning had arrived. Sir
Ernest, his wife, and Hester were on board.
Esme had seen all her husband's impedimenta
placed in his berth, had arranged a
bouquet of flowers, her own photograph,
and the child's, on a little stand. The
warning bell was rung ! The last passionate
embrace, the strong hand-clasp
with Mrs. Lanyon, "Take care of her,
Hester," the last of the cargo hauled up,
the gangway removed, and the stately
vessel slowly steamed off. Esme could see
her husband through her blinding tears,

34*

and to the last she watched, till the vessel
or ship was lost in a haze of smoke and
distance.

Come, darling," said Hester gently,
the train is just ready to start," and, still
holding the young wife's hand in hers, she
watched over her with the old protecting
love. And when, faint and weary and heartsore,
poor Esme reached Heminglee,
Hester saw her safely to bed, and busied
herself with the preparation for their departure
to Luscombe Manor on the following
Saturday, for it had been the wish of
Sir Ernest that his wife and child should
remain, if possible, with or near Hester,
and Mrs. Lanyon was unfeignedly glad to
have Esme again with her. But she had her
own responsibilities at Luscombe, so that
her stay at Heminglee must perforce be of
short duration.

There had been great rejoicing at the

birth of Hester's child, which was now only
three months old. But the old Baronet was
more than gratified ; it seemed the crowning
point of his life. In this satisfaction
old Percival shared — so there were absolutely
three generations at Luscombe !

It had been a day of rejoicing all over
the vast estate, and the cause of many good
things to the tenants, but still there was to
be the grand christening, which, owing to
circumstances, had been postponed. And
that was looming in the future.

Hester wrote to have every arrangement
made for Esme's comfort, so the two ladies,
Esme's two female servants, and the young
heir reached the station, where they were
met by Gerald.

Esme was warmly welcomed by them all,
and Hester was doubly happy, for nothing
would ever reduce her love for her adopted
child.

After that memorable day, when Cyril
Dasliwood had tramped to and fro Moor
Hall, there seemed a change in him.
Whether or not the villagers thought
they had judged him harshly, or whether
they forgave him his (in their eyes) faults,
it would be difficult to say ; but there certainly
was an approach to something like
kinder feelings. They would talk to him
of Miss Peggy (and he fancied he liked the
subject), of Miss Kitty, and Miss Polly ; of
the many lads of the dear old parson ; and
he saw how the family had lived in the
hearts of these rough-hewn natures.

Mr. Dashwood duly sent over the umbrella
and another supply of roses. And
he called a day or two afterwards to seethe

master and mistress of Moor Hall, a
rather severe military man, a delicate
fragile wife, and two fair-haired children.
Miss Orme looked much better ;
pretty, decidedly, he thought ; her hair,
which was dark and crisp, was now
neatly fastened up behind, but it wandered
about in all sorts of little brown
tendrils ; her face, no longer disfigured
by tears, was soft and fresh ; and her
eyes, clear and deep, had a somewhat sad
wistful look. He thought Moor Hall seemed
a dull, depressing place, and not likely to
cheer a young heart already overweighted
with care.

They drove over, with the exception of
Mrs. Fraser, on the folio wing Sunday to
the service.

I think you have improved it," said
Miss Orme, referring to the alterations " I
know father considered the chancel ought

to be restored, and new furniture ; but
there was no money ; and the villagers
did not mind in the very least."

No, I believe that is one of the causes
of their offence. They actually preferred
it as it was, and looked upon what I did
as a ruthless innovation."

They are slow to take in new ideas —
but I see the carriage is ready, so I must
say good-bye."

When will you come over again, Miss
peggy?"

I cannot say ; I long to, though; perhaps,
Mrs. Fraser and I will drive over one
afternoon. She is very kind and gentle.
You will like her when you know her."

Come and see your garden when you
can. All visitors are like angels here —
some, of course, more than others."

She smiled kindly at him, and his implied
compliment.

I think the people have been kinder tome
since your visit."

I am glad," she answered, warmly.
Now good-bye, once more." And, grasping
his hand with firm, warm touch, she swiftly
walked down to the carriage. The little
girls were already in, and the General was
awaiting her.

Mr. Dashwood has been telling me
about the restoration. I think it was
greatly needed, but it was not dear father's
fault," she said, with tender loyalty to her
dead parent.

I am sure of it," said Mr. Dashwood.

Peggy gave him a swift little glance.

"We are so little at Moor Hall, ]mr.
Dashwood, but if you are disposed to come
over and dine with us, sans ceremonie, Mrs.
Fraser and myself will be glad to see

you."

The invitation was not given with cordiality,

but with courteous, cold politeness ;
but Peggy's eyes said " Come ! " So ho
said : " Thank you, I will come over onu
evening."

"Don't forget to drive over when you
can," he whispered, while General Eraser
was speaking to the coachman.

Indeed, no ! "

And then they set off at a smart pace, and
he watched the carriage across the moor.

Cyril turned slowly back into the
Vicarage. How Peggy Orme had brightened
it !

Just now the garden was at its brightest,
and while his dinner was preparing, he
walked to the summerhouse and sat down.
It was henceforth hallowed by her presence.
It was no longer to him a place of creeping
things innumerable, but filled with love
and affection.

Within a week ]airs. Fraser and Miss Orme

were announced. He had just finished his
sermon for the following Sunday, and was
putting away the MS. He begged the
ladies to come into his study, as it was the
only habitable sitting-room.

You see a lonely bachelor does not
require a suite of sitting-rooms."

Have you no sister who can come and
live with you ? " asked Mrs. Eraser kindly.

No. My only sister is married. I deal
largely in brothers ; I am the eldest of four."

Dear Mrs. Eraser, while you and Mr.
Dashwood are talking, I am going into the
garden. I know I may." She disappeared
through the long French window.

Dear girl ! " said Mrs. Eraser, looking
after her. " It was a terrible wrench
when they had to leave their home. They
were so happy here. And I expect the
people miss her. She did so much ^f or her
father among them."

I am convinced they do. I am sure,,
I wish they could have all lived here ; but
I fear it is a pain many of the wives and
children of the clergy have to bear — an
uprooting of home ties for which there
seems no help. Mrs. Fraser, will you have
some tea ? or some wine ? "

Thank you, I should like some tea.
Here comes Peggy. With flowers, as usual."

You see, Mr. Dashwood, I have taken
you at your word, for I have helped myself
to these lovely carnations. Just smell them,
Mrs. Eraser ! "

They are delicious ! "

Miss Orme, will you kindly give us our
tea ? " And Peggy did the honours in her
old home.

A very pleasant time was spent, and it
was with a regretful sioii he saw them
drive off. However, he still had the dinner
in prospect.

Two years bad nearly flown over their
heads. Again Miss Orme had been abroad,
but the family were expected back at Moor
Hall very shortly. From time to time
Cyril had received little short epistles
from Peggy, generally upon little parish
matters, or little charities in which Mrs.
Eraser was interested. Cyril Dashwood
had had one or two brief holidays. He
had become accustomed to the somewhat
monotonous life ; but the little notes from
Peggy kept a feeling warm in his breast,
which was unconsciously taking root. And
almost as unconsciously was his character
gradually improving. Perhaps it was she
thought so highly of him? Once Miss
Orme had suggested his writing for some
magazines. " I think it would be such a
good thing, especially during the winter's
evening. They must be so long, and so
lonely." He followed her advice. And, ashe

certainly was not wanting in mental
parts, his articles were very well received.
It not only gave him pleasant employment,
but remuneration as well. And so the time
wore on.

Most unexpectedly his father had died,
leaving a moderate fortune, of which his
eldest son had the largest share, as the
father still hoped great things would yet
come, though, so far, Fortune had looked
coldly on his ambition.

But this increase of income put all
thoughts of anxiety away. He was saving
money. Peggy Orme still ruled over the
garden from afar ; her directions and
suggestions were implicitly carried out.
This gave him a secret pleasure. " I wonder
what she will think of this ? " Or, " Will
that be looking? well when she returns ? "

Mr. and Mrs. Lanyon, with their guests,
were in the tapestry drawing-room. A
quaint, large old room, with furniture of
Dutch marqueterie, with its curious inlaying,
giving so much colour and warmth. The
old chairs and sofas, with their ancient, but
still beautiful, brocade of gay flowers and
cupids, were uncovered. It was a room
very seldom used, so that it had not the
cosy refinement of Hester's own sitting-room
; but its arrangements were really
artistic, and certainly valuable.

Sir Horace, in an old carved chair, sat
near the fire, with a little table near him,
and a shaded lamp. He was watching with
quiet pleasure his nephew and his wife as
they moved among their guests: There

was his great favourite, charming Lady
Beldon ! looking very lovely in her soft
azure silk, but with just a tinge of sadness
in her eyes and mouth, for she was longing
for her husband's return. There was Cyril
Dashwood, who had been invited by his
old confrere Lanyon — all unsuspecting of
the strange part he had played in the lives
of Mrs. Lanyon and Lady Beldon — only
too pleased to show hospitality to his old
friends. There was Hester herself, moving
gracefully about, in her black velvet and
old Venetian point. And above all there
was their cherished friend, Lady Louisa !
They had all assembled for the christening
of the heir of Lanyon, now six months old.
For the young gentleman had been obliged
to postpone his formal religious entry into
the world, until his god-mother. Lady
Louisa, could leave the Eector of Langton,
who had been laid by, with a severe attack

of congestion of the lungs, and carefully
and affectionately nursed by his wife and
Percy Blythe.

And now the christening was over. The
service had been performed by Cyril Dash-wood
at Gerald's request. The guests
filed out into the dining room, and there
were many county friends of the Lanyons,
so that the great dining-room was none
too larc^e. The old Manor was listed
from turret to basement ! The poor
were to be regaled, and the tenants entertained.


Sir Horace felt that now he could depart
in peace. The birth of his grand-nephew
had given him extraordinary happiness,
and this was shared by old Percival, who
always included himself in all family
arrangements.

Gerald Lanyon had quite taken his part
as a country squire, and had a happy, pros-vol.
III. 35

serous look. He had grown stouter too,
and was as happy as any man could be.
It was the first time Cyril Dashwood had
met Esme since her marriage, now more
than two years ago. He found her, if anything,
more beautiful. There was a gentle
dignity of wife and mother ; and for the
time the old love rushed back and filled his
heart, and Peggy was forgotten. He had
to take a pretty young girl in to dinner,
but Lady Beldon was on his right. The
round, white arm, with jewelled bracelet,
the soft dimpled hand he had so often
passionately kissed, the slender throat, the
warm brown hair, he knew so well ! And
to think, but for his own wicked folly, it
might have all been his ! And there was
ever humiliation with the thought ! He
could hear her talkini]^ to her neighbour ;
hear her expressing her impatient longing
for her husband's return, which had been

delayed ; that her little son, now fifteen
months old, was with her !

His own partner thought him a most
uninteresting man, for she got nothing but
monosyllables for answers ; so, excessively
piqued, she devoted herself entirely to a
bluff old gentleman on her other side, who
was only too pleased to have the conversation
of a bright-looking young girl, which
left Cyril at liberty to listen to Esme's
conversation ; he heard with something
like jealousy the loving inflection of her
voice as she spoke of her absent husband.

As the evening wore on, Mr. Dashwood
found Lady Beldon a very different person
from Esme Curtis. There was a quiet dignity,
a self-possession, as if she always remembered
her husband's injunction. She was
courteous and gracious to Cyril, but so she
was to every man who approached her ; he
could trace no favour to himself — she never

35*

referred to past days, as far as he was
concerned. She was much sought after,
and he thought with envy, in her 3^oung
maidenhood lie was the loveliest woman
he had ever seen.

As for his hostess, she was essentially a
lady, and the friend invited by her husband
was treated with every consideration, but
he knew full well that she despised him.
lie was much surprised to find how
marriage had improved her ; she had
always been dignified and graceful, but
now there was a softness about her ; and the
unbounded love which encircled her,
between Sir Horace and her husband, had
drawn forth a late] it sweetness of character
wdiicli he certainly had never before
observed.

lie critically examined her, he found her
almost handsome. There was a brilliancy
in the deep grey eyes, a warmth on the

clear skin, a pervading look of happiness.
leer love of Lady Louisa, her gentle tenderness
to young Lady Beldon, filled him with
infinite sadness — he was so thoroughly
outside their barrier, and by his own want
of manhood ! Had it not been that he had
a vao^ue desire to see Esme once more — his
love of olden days — he would hardly have
accepted the warm invite of his friend Mr.
Lanyon, and now she was further off than
ever !

Her hand had not lost its cunning,
neither her fingers their skill, for Chopin's
delicate nocturne floated through the room,
and then a charming little selection of Raff.
And Hester's grand voice was also heard to
advantage.

When the last guest had departed Gerald
and Cyril retired into the former's smoking
den, and had a pleasant chat over old
times.

I congratulate you, Langton, on your
wife, your child, your home 1 "

Yes, I think fortune has showered her
choicest gifts upon me."

When is Sir Ernest Beldon expected
home?"

In about a month, I believe ; he has
started. It is a great grief to his wife, his
leaving at all."

What did he go out for ? "

Oh, for a fortune," replied Mr. Lanyon
with a laugh. " An uncle left him a large
sheep run and valuable property in
Sydney."

What luck some people have ! " said
Dashwood, enviously.

Well, they do old fellow ! Perhaps
your turn will come some day ! "

When I am too old to care for it."

Nays don't say that ! Have another
pipe? No! Well, then I had better show

you your bearings. These old houses are
always rather puzzling, so, allons I "

They proceeded up the great staircase

These rooms, opening out round this
gallery, are mine and my "wife's. Those
over the other side are Lady Beldon's, her
child and nurse ; here is yours, not far off
as you see, from us all. Down that long
corridor are my dear old uncle's apartments,
and the servants' are down the opposite
side. So now you know all about it!
Good-night, old fellow, and I am glad to
see you here."

Thanks, Lanyon ! many thanks ! And
in his soul he felt small, compared with
the honest upright heart of his host.

He turned into his chamber, but he did
not feel inclined to sleep, so he took off his
coat, and put on a comfortable dressing-gown,
and gave himself over to his reflections.
Not quite pleasant ones. He

almost wished he had not come. An hour
or two passed away, his candles were
burning very low down in their sockets.
He could hear a chiming of distant bells —
one, two, three.

How late it is ! " and he got up and
stretched himself.

Surely ! did his eyes or his nose deceive
him ? Certainly, there was a quantity of
smoke in the room. It came from under
the door.

Great heavens ! He tore open the door.
The great staircase and hall below were
full of smoke, and here and there little
darts of fire. Esme was his first thought.
He flew to this washstand, dragged ofi the
towels, dipped them hastily in the cold
water prepared for his morning bath,
wrung? them and wound one round the
lower part of his face, and rushed to awake
Lanyon.

Then lie flew to Lady Beldon's room, and
-with scant ceremony, pushed open the
door.

For Heavens sake ! rise at once, Lady
Beldon ! I fear the place is on fire ! "

Save my child ! save my boy ! Never
mind me ! "

I will try and save you both — only
lose no time. Where is the child ? "

Through there ; that door ! " and she
pointed in agony.

Courage ! Throw on a dressing-gown,
cloak, anything ! " and while he was thus
directing her, he tore into the inner room,
where the little creature lay sleeping like
a cherub — roughly awaking the nurse —
and with the child in his arms, he rushed
back to Esme, who stood ready, with a
large cloak thrown over her.

Come, there is not a moment to lose,
tie this wet towel over your mouth."

Let me take my child I "

No, I will carry him ! Place your arms
round my neck and keep yourself covered
up — now ! " and with Esme and the child in
his arms he got through the door They
were met by volumes of smoke, which
almost blinded him ; bright flames were
partim? in and out the carved balustrade.
Down he staggered with his heavy burden.
this chest heaving as if it would burst. Oh,
if he could hold on for another second, till
he reached the great door ! He could hear
the household — now near, now far off —
shrieking, calling, moving everywhere.
Esme seemed to be fainting, for her weight
became excessive, and the child on his
other arm was beginning to wake up.
They had reached the old door, and here
was the tug of war, for the flames seemed
leaping all round them.

With one despairing eflbrt the door at

last was opened, and lie almost fell with this
burden on the terrace.

But he felt they were saved, and for a
moment he became unconscious himself.

Thank God, Esme, you are safe ! "

"Ah, Cyril! I owe my life and my
child's to you. God bless you, my dear
friend."

Oh, the sweetness of those words to him !

Try and keep yourself and the child
warm, while I go and see if I can help.
Let me have that damp towel again. Put
this over you," and he took off his heavy
dressing-gown.

Cyril ! Cyril ! I cannot let you do it.
It will kill you. Pray keep it on, I hee
you."

I will obey your wish."

Here come Lanyon, Mrs. Tanyon, and
Lady Louisa." •

"Thank God! you are safe, Esme," said
Hester. " And the child ? "

And yours, Hester ? "

It is here ! " And she opened the large
cloak and showed her sleeping babe closely
pressed to her bosom.

The flames were pouring through the
windows, but fortunately the wind blew
from one quarter. So they hoped one part
of the old Manor might be spared, and
that was the portion occupied by the old
Baronet.

Gerald had rushed back again to the
burning pile, closely followed by Cyril Dash-wood.
But it was found impossible to get
upstairs through the burning staircase.
There was outside Sir Horace's window a
stout old limb of ivy, and by the aid of
this Gerald clambered up and Cyril after
him. To smash in the window and undo the
the old fastenings was the work of a moment.

There was a little lamp still burning, buta
strange silence reigned inside. Gerald
rushed to the bed. There lay the old Baronet,
and kneeling, with his head buried in the
bed clothes closely clasping his master's
hand, was Percival. There was a good
deal of smoke in the room, but no trace
of fire.

Uncle Horace ! Uncle ! Wake up ! I
will get you safely out"

But no answer came.

Then Gerald looked closely at the quiet
figure.

Good God ! Dash wood, he is dead ! "

Yes, the old man was sleeping his last
sleep.

And Percival ?

Mr. Lanyon gently touched him on the
shoulder. He moaned slightly, but seeme 1
hardly conscious.

"Percival, dear old friend! you must

come with me ; you can do no more for
your dear old master."

Then the old servant seemed dimly to
understand, for he turned his face — so wan,
so haggard, that it cut Gerald to the heart.

Oh, my master I my master ! Would
to God I had died for thee ! The shock
killed him, Master Gerald."

Then the poor old man fell to weeping
so bitterly over the cold, lifeless hand of
his dead master, that both the young men
had tears in their e3^es.

Come, dear old Percival, I must take
care of you now."

No, sir ; with your permission, I will
remain here. There is nothing in life to
live for."

"Percival!"

Forgive me, I am near distraught."

"Lanyon! there are the fire engines
below. This part of the building is really

safe. We had better see low the ladies
are, and that all the women are safe."

So they drew a chair for poor old
Percival, lifted him into it, covered him
over with a blanket, and then descended by
the same way as they had come up.

They found the lawn covered with every
description of furniture, pictures, half-clad
women, the men servants in most cases
working valiantly to get out the most
valuable articles, the local fire brigade in
full swing, and busy and willing hands
everywhere.

Where is Sir Horace ? " was asked by
everyone, and it was with heartfelt grief
Gerald had to tell them the sad news that
the fright of the fire had caused his death,
his faithful friend and servant being with
him.

Deep sorrow was felt by all, but there
was no time for lament.

However, the fire was being subdued ; and
an entrance having been effected to the still
intact portion of the building, the men
soon got a room ready for the ladies and
young children, while Justine and Esme's
maid did their best to make their mistresses
as comfortable as possible.

Cyril was indefatigable — indeed, Gerald
feared he would seriously injure himself.
Rescued valuable after valuable — he was
in the thick of everything. The fire
having been checked, and fortunately the
wind having blown it from the buildings
instead of to it, the flames had been confined
to one end, which had been the
kitchen and servants' portion. They found
out afterwards it was caused by the oversetting
of a lamp by a man-servant, who
had indulged greatly in the conviviality
of the interesting occasion.

After a time the butler groped his way

to the wine cellar and brought out some
wine and brandy, which were distributed
among the cold and shivering company.

By daybreak the fire was completely
extinguished. And as the sun rose what a
hideous great black scar was over one
portion of the beautiful old mansion.

As Gerald stood and gazed on it the
tears came to his eyes. His uncle dead,
and the grand old home partially burned !

He went up to old Percival, and found
him dozing, worn out with his long weary
watch ; then, as he stood silent and sad,
the tired servant opened his eyes.

I beg your pardon, sir, I am sure ! I
think I was tired."

Percival, you must drink this ; I have
brought it up for you myself ; and afterward
he — (pointing to the calm, dignified
dead) — must be attended to."

*' Oh, sir, let me, I beseech you, do the
VOL. III. 36

last for him ! I think it would break my
heart that any strange hands should touch
him."

Do as you will, Percival. But 1
must insist on your drinking this wine and
eating these sandwiches ; Mrs. Lanyon has
made them herself for you."

Her ladyship is too good, sir."

Percival, to us your friendship is precious,
and both my wife and I are only too
willing to receive some of the faithful
service that has helped to prolong the life
of my dear uncle. Do what you will, but
afterwards you must go and rest, and rest
thoroughly''

Ah, Master Gerald, you are just too
good, and I can't bear it ! "

And the old man sobbed as if his heart
was broken.

"You see, sir, the old master and I
glowed up together. He was about four

years older than me, and then this love for
Miss Lettice — begging your pardon, sir, for
speaking of your mother — his years of
silent sadness, his marriage to ray lady, then
the death of the bonnie young Squire — they
was all as much to me as to him, nearly.
Your grandfather, my master's father, died
young — at least, he was no more than
thirty — but it was his second wife and
Master Ealph as had got all the father's
love, not my master, who was by the first
wife, who died, poor lady, within a year of
her marriage. So you see, sir, I loved him,
and that's all about it."

''I know it, Percival. Now you must
eat this, and drink your wine, then settle
what you think best about him ; no one
shall interfere with you."

"Is — is much of the old place destroyed,
sir ? " said Percival, with broken voice.

No, Percival, it is better than we

UNIVERSITY OP
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

thought ; it is the servants' quarter that
has suffered the most. But tomorrow I
should be glad if you will go over as much
as you can of it, and report to me."

Certainly, sir ! "

Gerald knew there was nothing( more
likely to pull the old man together than to
think his services were required by " the
family." So, having seen him partake of
his refreshment, and kissing the cold forehead
of the peaceful dead, Gerald departed
to join the tired, weary people below.

It had been a nii^ht of intense excitement
and anxiety. Both Hester and Esme
looked worn out, while Lady Louisa, with
her bright good nature, had " mothered "
the children, so as to give the younger
ladies some chance of rest.

It was settled that they should for the
present remain at the Manor, as Gerald
wished to superintend the re-building himself,

and the place was so large and roomy,
that, beyond the moving of various articles
of furniture, it would not greatly inconvenience
them, and Hester's sitting-room
was uninjured, so they had only to put
back her things.

The funeral of the old baronet took
place a week after the fire. He was
buried among his ancestors, in Luscombe
Church. The large throng of friends and
tenantry who were present at his funeral,
spoke greatly for the kind feeling existing
between him and them.

When the will was read, it was found
he had left everything to his " dear
nephew," except some legacies. Among
others, " one hundred a year to his faithful
friend and servant, Percival." He commended
! — Nay ! he begged his nephew — as
his last wish — that his servant should
continue to live at Luscombe Manor as

long as lie lived, and to be allowed to
occupy his present apartments.

There was something almost touching
in the love between these two old friends.

It is needless to say, that these injunctions
were carefully carried out. And
as time wore on, the load of grief was
lightened, and some of the love transferred
to Sir Gerald and his young son. And
Percival was consoled in a certain decree,
by the growing graces of the youngest
scion of the House of Lanyon.

Hester was of far too noble a nature not
to feel acutely the brave, unselfish conduct
of Cyril Dashwood, of his almost reckless
indifference, and the valuable help he had
given in their hour of need.

"Mr. Dashwood! what can I say? How
can I thank you for your bravery ! As
for Gerald, he cannot extol you highly
enough. All I trust is, that your health

will not suffer, that your hand is not very
bad."

Lady Lanyon, you make too much of
a service that any man would have
rendered. And there is nothing I would
not do for Lanyon, who has always
thought so much more highly of me than
I deserve."

Mr. Dashwood ! we all think most
highly of you."

For the life of him he could not prevent
the warm blood rushing over his face.
At last she respected him! and forgave
him ! It restored him his self-respect, which
had been wounded almost to the death.

"Ah, Cyril!" said Esme, "what can I
say ? How can I thank you for my life and
my child's ? "

By sending for me at anytime, if I can
ever be of service, Lady Beldon."

"God bless you, Cyril! I will do so,"

and she held out her hand, which he held
in his with warm, kindly pressure. *' You
must kiss my son before you leave," and
the youthful Lanyon Beldon w\^s brought
down ]jy his nurse, and very willingly embraced
his preserver.

What a beautiful child he is ! "
So Cyril Dashwood returned to his
Yorkshire home, somewhat out of sorts
bodily, but mentally happier. He felt as
if he had effaced the black stain that had
so embittered his life a few years back.
He could lift up his head once more. He
could bear anything now !

,t;k.t-^=.

'^^Am^^

The snow was settling in large soft flakes
on the broad, dreary moorland, softening
with its delicate touches cottages and trees,
and making their homeliness beautiful.
The red sunset tinted the old church and
settled upon the Vicarage windows, and its
rich, warm glow lighted up Peggy Orme's
face as she stood at the church porch, her
hand still holding a bunch of holly ; for she
had just finished decorating the church.
Mrs. Eraser and the two children had
already gone into the Vicarage, being somewhat
cold and tired.

Cyril stood beside her. And his face, in
all its clear-cut beauty, looked down eagerly
on that of the girl beside him.

Two years had ripened the beauty of

Margaret Orme. It was more refined, but
the clear, vigorous character looked out of
lier blue eyes with honest, unmistakable
feeling.

Even if 3'ou only loved me a little,
could you not make up your mind — if only
for the old home — and once more reign as
its mistress ? You know how it wants you,
how / want you, Peggy ! Think of my
dull, lonely life ; and how it is in your
power, and in yours alone, to brighten it ! "

Mr. Dashwood, much as I love this
place, and my old home, not even for them
would I accept your offer if I did not love
you!"

Then you do love me ? Oh ! Percy ! "
And he threw the pieces of holly down
out of her hand and possessed himself of
both.

Yes ! for some time past I have loved

you." ^

And I never knew," lie said reproachfully.


It was not for nie to say," she answered
with a sweet blush.

"Ah! well. It doesn't matter now.
What a lovely Christmas Eve! The joy
bells are ringing in my heart this night."
He gave her one heart-felt kiss. And then
they both went in to the Vicarage.

Was it the setting sun or some miner
light that made their faces so beautiful as
they entered the study ?

Mrs. Fraser looked kindly at them. She
loved Peggy Or me, and she had known her
for years. So she guessed it was the old,
old story told afresh ! And for her young
friend's sake she was glad .

Once more Peggy played the hostess.

What would you say, Mrs. Fraser, if I
were to ask you to make me a Christmas present
? Something you valued very much ! "

1 think, Mr. Dashwood, I should give
it you. Yes ! and feel that the gift will
bring an infinite blessing with it. Also it
will be in the right place ! "

''Ah! you have guessed," said he joyfully.


Yes. I have guessed. You know —

Love is blind, and lovers cannot see
The pretty follies that themselves commit."

The two little girls looked mystified.
They thought their dear Mr. Dashwood
was just — a little — rude — to ask for a
Christmas present when there was one
absolutely on the road, in the shape of a
large hamper-full. Oh! full of every
earthly (in their eyes) enjoyment. But
he should not have asked for it ! Xo ;
they put their wise little heads together,
and both decided it was against the

canons of all good conduct to ask for
things 1

Presently Miss Orme rose and kissed
Mrs. Fraser.

'• How sweet of you ! " whispered she.

Dearest, you deserve it, and it would
have so pleased your father."

Now, young ladies, suppose, before
you go home, we have ' snap dragon' ? "

They forgave him on the spot ! He
really couldn't be bad to propose " snapdragon
! "

So the delighted children shrieked and
screamed with pleasure, and it was with
some difficulty they at last took farewell
of the fascinating study and its contents.

Mrs. Fraser, with kindly tact, went into
the carriage, and coaxed the young girls in
with her.

But, why doesn't Peggy come ? "

Do you not remember, children, it is
her old home ? Think how she must love
it''

Of course, she does, poor dear Peggy ! "

"I daresay she is running in and out
every room ! "

Instead of which, Cyril had run
upstairs, and returned breathless, but
with a beautiful sapphire ring in his hand.

Dearest, it was my mother's, and she
left it for ' my wife.' "

Cyril, is it not too good for me, too
beautiful ? "

Peggy ! "

I have never had a ring in my life, we
never had any money for rings," said she
with a laugh.

This is the bef]jinnino' of rino-s, then,"
said he gaily. " I must say, I like to see a
pretty hand levelled. It is the right thing
in the right place."

Cyril, I must go. If Mrs. Fraser were
not the dear sweet creature she is, she
would be tired out, and cross. Goodbye."

And before he could say one
word, she had run on before, and was
in the carriage. He was just in time to say
a hearty " au revoir ! " and they were off.
He heard Mrs. Fraser say, " never mind,"
and wave her hand, but he was very
happy, so he did not mind.

There was no shame, no drawback in
this love — No, he felt proud of it all. She
was no rich heiress — her riches were her
own bright, sweet nature, strong and reliable,
true and steadfast.

How pleased the villagers would be ! He
longed to rush down the street, and tell
them ; but it was premature, and not
dignified. No, they would know it in
good time — but as soon as possible, that
was only fair to them.

So, instead, he sat by his study fire,
conjuring up sweet visions and dreaming
pleasant dreams.

He had almost come to love this village
home. The trivial tasks, the daily round,
had ceased to weary him. The fact was,
the Vicarage, by some strange sympathetic
influence, always spoke of Peggy, and
Peggy was always a sweet thought. So
that, in fact, it was all identified with her
the village, the church, the house, the
garden, it was always her — till at last the
theme became love, and now the love was
to bear fruition.

While he was thus musing, the fire of
son"" was kindled outside ! for the choirboys
sang " Powell, No well," and presently
" Good King Wenceslas ! " that
quaintest and oldest of Christmas Carols.
It pleased him beyond measure, it seemed
a serenade of hope and joy — also it gratified
him, they sang so well ! in their clear
high, boyish voices, and all his own training.
He opened the door, and thanked

them, and told them to get nuts and cakes
from old Jane, who grumbled, but gave
nevertheless. You see, she had no high
strain of joy to sustain her, and it meant
additional cake making ! But Cyril was a
man who would always be obeyed in his
own household. But certainly, that night,
there was peace and good will. And the
bells rang it out, and it floated over to
Moor Hall, as Peggy was preparing forrest.
And as she looked over the white
world outside, the refrain entered her
heart.

.^^j^^^.^^

VOL. III. 37

The " City of Tralee " came in, the
steamer Sir Ernest Beldon was to arrive
by. Esme with Sir Gerald and Lady
Lanyon, were down at the wharf to receive
him, but no Sir Ernest appeared ; then Sir
Gerald, saw the Captain — Sir Ernest's
name was on the list of passengers, his
passage was paid, but he had failed to put
in appearance, when the ship started,
neither had his luggage come on board —
they had waited to the last moment, but,
as they were carrying the mails, they
started exactly at the appointed time.

The shock to Esmc was terrible ! And
both Sir Gerald and his wife were full of
the gravest anxiety on her account. And
the mystery surrounding the 3'oung

Baronet, caused them unqualified uneasiness.
His last letter, dated Sydney,
November 14tli, informed them he should
start in the " City of Tralee," leaving
Sydney November 20th, and it was now
the second week in January ! No telegram
had arrived to account for this nonappearance.


Gerald at once telegraphed to the
solicitors, Grey and Fisher, for information
concerning him. They telegraphed
back that they knew nothing of his movements.
He had informed them he intended
to return to England by the mail steamer,
City of Tralee," and of course concluded
he had sailed. They had seen nothing of
him since the first week in November.
They would go to his hotel, and telegraph
results, if any.

The shock to Lady Beldon had been
most serious, her second child died as it

37*

saw the light, but it was her health, that
caused the most terrible anxiety to her
friends. They almost feared for her reason.
She felt persuaded some terrible fatality
had overtaken her husband. And this retarded
her convalescence to such a degree,
they really feared the worst results.

They thought over everything that could
be suggested. Week after week went on,
and no news from the absent man. Cyril
Dashwood, as one of her friends, was informed
of all these terrible events. And
one morning they were very much surprised
at receiving a letter from him. It
ran thus : —

*' Moor Town Vicarage, Jan. 28t]i.
Dear Lanyon,

When I married, a fortnight ago,
the daughter of the late vicar of this
parish, Miss Orme, you were in quite too

much trouble for me to enter into my own
affairs, however happy. Since then I have
been thinking with great interest and sadness
of Lady Beldon's terrible troubles. I,
with my wife's full consent, have settled, if
agreeable to you all, to go over and seek
for the missing man. My wife's uncle. Dr.
Thomas, will, with her help, work this little
parish. I can get leave from the Bishop
for six months. Suggest this, and let me
hear your opinion at once. Your sincere
friend, " Cyril Dashwood."

"It is most noble of him," said Hester,
warmly.

I quite think so," replied Sir Gerald.
How does Esme seem to-night ? "

The nurse tells me she has gone into a
profound sleep — almost the first natural
sleep she has had since the poor little baby
was born."

It may be the saving of her. On no
account must she be disturbed."

Is it not strange she never asks for
the dear little Lanyon P So much as she
idolised him too ! "

Her mind is full of one idea, and
everything else is an impertinence as it
were."

We will wait and see how she seems in
the mornings, before telling her of his generous,
unselfish offer, for it is that; leaving his
bride, his home, to go a journey of thousands
of miles for the sake of a man he
knew little of ! "

I think it is for Esme s sake ! " said
Hester gently. " He sees, too, our great
anxiety for her, and her reason ; and, asa
friend who is deeply interested, offers
to bear his share.

You put it admirably, dearest wife'

"Now, Gerald dear, I am going up to

the nursery to see my little son, and Esme's
little darling. Poor little man, he is always
asking for his mother."

"Poor little innocent!" said Gerald
kindly. You must for the present give
him a share of your large heart."
Eest assured of that."
Just as Hester had made this remark,
Percival put his head in the door. "If
you please, my lady, little Master Beldon
is crying for his mother, and won't be
pacified — the nurse fears it might wake
her ladyship."

Thank you, Percival, I will go up at
once." And Hester left the room.

Come here, Percival ; I want to ask
your advice," said Sir Gerald.

It was only some trivial matter, but it
pleased the old fellow. Gerald had made
him a sort of major-domo — he liked to feel
a little importance.

Lady Beldon's sleep lasted till quite late
morning, and when she awoke there was a
complete change in her.

"Tell Lady Lanyon I wish to see her,
nurse, particularly ! if you please."

Yes, my lady," replied the woman,
looking at her with some surprise ; but she
went out, nevertheless, and did her bidding.

Hester came at once.

Darling, you are better ! Thank God ! "

Yes, Hester, better ; but I have something
so strange to tell. You will leave us,
nurse, if you please, for the present."

The nurse would have much liked to
have heard this " strange story," but Lady
Beldon waited calmly till the door closed
on her.

Now, Hester, listen ! I had the
strangest dream last night. I thought I

O CO

saw Ernest start on some voyage — not the
one home — Jut, somewhere near Sydney, I

suppose, there was a terrible fog, then a
collision, and the crew and passengers — I
don't seem to remember how many there
were — sank, Ernest among the number.
Some one picked him up in a boat — he was
insensible, bruised, bleeding ; he was taken
somewhere, perhaps to Sydney. Now
listen, this is the strangest part, he was
robbed of every penny, and whatever the
sea had left — such as rings. He became
delirious — no one knew who he was, but
he was taken to some horrid, dirty backstreet,
and there he lies now," she continued,
with increased eagerness. " In my
dream I saw this miserable room, with a
wretched pallet, an old chair, hardly a
gleam of light. And he called ' Esme !
Esme ! ' nothing more — only he calls me !
And now, dearest Hester, my mind is made
up ! Before this week is over I shall go out
to search for my husband ! "

But, dearest child ? "

No, Hester, put no obstacle in my way,
is it for you to say it (the dream) was not
sent for my guidance ? "

But you are not strong enough."

I shall be strong enough when my work
begins. Now, darling Hester, this is my
unalterable decision ; it is for you and
Gerald to make it as easy as you can. And
Oh ! Hester, take care of my precious child !
love him like your own ! Swear this ! "

I swear it, love ! Esme, very strangely
this letter came from Cyril Dashwood.
Head it, love ! "

Hester, does it not all point one way ?
I gratefully accept his offer. Shall I take
old Mrs. Spence ? 1 shall not require any
maid," she said, somewhat grimly Mrs.
Spence is not too old to be of use, and she
is fond of me, and will help me // lie is ill.
Now will you go and tell Gerald all this,

and beg him at once to communicate with
Mr. Dashwood, and to find out how soon
he can sail. Have no fear for me, my
strength has come ; I know I am doing
right. What a noble woman Cyril's wife
must be. May God bless her for her goodness
to me ! Now go, dear, and tell Gerald
at once — it brooks no delay."

With a gentle kiss Hester left the room,
greatly perplexed and moved. She told her
husband at once.

I think she is in the right. I do not
see that we ought to thwart her, even if we
had the right, which we have not. Were
she to be denied it might drive her mad. As
it is, if Cyril goes with her, and Mrs. Spence,
she will be cared for."

Then you do not forbid it ? "

Certainly not ! I have just said she is
his wife. It strikes me Hester, if I were
lost you would seek me."

Aye ! that I would."

Well, she is going on her quest. I will
write to Dashwood, write to the shipping
agents, and do you write for Mrs. Spence
and begin Esme's arrangements."

From that morning Lady Beldon seemed
endowed with new strength. Her face was
as pale as a lily, but her mouth and eyes
showed no weakness. She laid all her
plans, completed all her arrangements, gave
orders about Heminglee — in fact, Hester
watched her with amazement. She could
hardly realise that this self-contained young
girl could be her little cherished rose-bud,
on whom the winds of Heaven were never
allowed to blow too roughly. They seemed
almost to have changed places.

The Baby Lanyon followed his mother
about like a shadow. She would take him
up every now and then, kiss him passionately,
and then steadily go on with her work.

At last the day came for them to sail.
Once more Gerald Lanyon and his wife
were on board the large steamer, seeing to
every possible detail for Esme. Mrs.
Spence, in a workmanlike manner, was
selecting and arranging for stowing their
luggage in the most convenient places.
Cyril was aiding the woman to the best of
his powers. Then the visitors had to leave,
and Hester, with her eyes blinded with
tears, watched the face of her darling as it
looked down from the side of the great
ship. And they both noticed there was
no tears, but the sort of look that a
saint might wear— pure, strong and brave.
Then Cyril came and gently led her
away. And Sir Gerald and Lady Lanyon
turned with sad hearts and eyes full of
tears.

"Cyril," Lady Lanyon had said before

Starting, " I am going down to see your
wife, if I may? "

"If you may! Lady Lanyon ; it is just
like your goodness ! It will give me heartfelt
happiness."

Leaving Lady Beldon on her journey
across the wide seas with her trusty squire,
it will be as well to return to our other
friends.

Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell had returned
from their long visit abroad, and had taken
up their abode for the season in Cavendish
Square. And Sabina was now with them,
that young lady having declined to return
to India, until — well — until a certain event
came off, to wit, her marriage to Arthur
Lord Frampton. It was she and not him
who had postponed the marriage ; she was
a wild little bird who declined to be caged,
with certainly no large amount of heart,
but with plenty of common sense, not to
allow any other woman to walk off with
her lord. She kept him in a perpetual
state of anxiety with her endless flirtations.
He was always in terror that some other
fellow " would walk off with his pretty

bride elect, for she was as graceful and
piquant as a young fawn.

He had tried manfully to " pull himself
together," and his unfortunate eye-glass
had been completely abolished by his
imperious little mistress.

"I hate it," she had said, "It's quite
time enough when you are old ; when you
really can't see, why you must have
spectacles of course, but if you persist in
going about with one glass in your eye, I
will go about with two ! "

On no consideration, Sabina, to hide
your beautiful e^^es would be a sin."

"Well, don't hide sour one. I do not
say they are beautiful, but they might be
worse.

Whenever he found his lady-love in a
propitious mood, he would urge on his
marriage. " Ladies always require so much
trousseau business, do pray, dear, begin."

There is no hurry whatever, Arthur
we shall see plenty of each other all our
lives."

Poor Lord Frampton ! He really was a
kind hearted, if not very brilliant young
fellow, and this tantalising little amour
rebelled caused him at times real pain. At
last he took courage, and asked Mrs.
Luttrell to intercede, so as to have some
definite arrangement made.

It would be no good my saying anything,
Lord Frampton, but I will suggest it
to her uncle."

Do, dear Mrs. Luttrell, and make me
your debtor for ever."

She laughed gaily as she looked at his
fair forlorn face.

So that evening (Sabina being at a
concert), after the dinner was over and the
fragrant coffee was steaming on her little
table, she broached the subject to him.
VOL. in. 38

Selwyn ! Lord Frampton being in
despair, wants you to try and persuade
Sabina to fix a day for her marriage ; he
says they have been engaged over a year,
and he seems no nearer to it than then ! "

Poor fellow ! I know too well the aggravation
of your sex, have I not suffered for
it?"

And haven't you been rewarded? you
ungrateful monster ! "

That I have, but it does not prevent my
having a fellow feeling for the poor wretch."

Dear Selwyn, why does the poet say
Men were ever gay deceivers ? ' You
know they must have earned that character,
otherwise Shakespeare would not have immortalised
that failing in your sex. So,
after all, we are only rendering dramatic
justice when some of us are a little restive.

If ladies be but young and fair
They have the gift to know it.' "

That they most certainly have, both
in your own person, Mrs. Luttrell, and
in Sabina. You know your own power
certainly."

Are you any the worse for it, speaking
individually ? "

No ! a thousand times better," said he,
with animation.

Then rest satisfied, man beau sahreur^

And about Sabina ? "

I must have a little talk. In fact, as
it happens I have a slight lever, which will,
I believe, bring up her intentions to our
level. The last letter from her father.
Judge Maitland, insists on her returning.
They — that is to say, Ellen and George —
long to see her. She was always the spoilt
one, and the most delicate. They would
be so delighted to have her home again."

That ought to be sufficient, Selwyn."

I think it will ; I must have a serious

38*

talk with her. What time is the concert
over, dear ? "

"A little after ten. Lady Laura will
drop her here about eleven."

Well then I will wait up for her, and
you go to bed, dear."

My dear Selwyn, considering it is only
nine o'clock, allow me to inform you I have
not the faintest idea of retiring before ten.
I think this lire, my armchair, my book,
and I will throw in your cigar, quite too
pleasant to leave."

Edith ! Do believe I did not think of
banishing you the presiding genius."

An}^ ^^'^}% dear, it is exceedingly
comfortable."

And with a little kiss, which she blew
over to him on the tips of her fingers,
she drew her chair round to the hire, and
began to read her book. He looked at
her for some time, and then rose and

leant over her chair and kissed her, as he
whispered :

Beshrew my iiearfc, but it is wondrous strange ;
Since there is something more than witchcraft in

them,
That masters been the wisest of us all."

Now, Selwyn, I insist upon you leaving
the poets alone. Let us return to our
prose. And it isn't bad prose, after all."

It can never be where you are, Edith.
What are you reading, wife ? "

Monsieur Jordan's discovery. That
he has been talking prose all his life
without knowing it."

"Ah! I remember reading Moliere,

years „^

aofo."

He gives me each time I read him
renewed pleasure," said Mrs. Luttrell, "and
I think his fat ignorant old (no, he is only
40) Bourgeois is splendid. Listen, Selwyn !

"Monsieur the Philosopher suggests he
should learn La Morale.

He naturally enquires what that is.

*' ' Qu' est-ce qu'elle dit cette morale? '

• Elle traite de la felicity ensign aux hommes 4

modeur leurs passion etc.

' Non ! Laissons cela. Je suis billet comme tous

les diables ; et il n'y a Morale qui tieiine. Je me

TBUX mettre en cohere tout mon soo, quand il 'en

prend envie.'

He objects to bind himself to amiability
of temper."

After all," said Colonel Selwyn with a
laugh, " he isn't a fool, because if I remember
correctly, he asks them to teach him
Orthography.' I think he learns
A EI u."

Yes, and then he says : "

' Quoi quand je di?. Income, appretez-moi mes pantoufles,
et me donnez mon bonnet de nuits, c'est de la
Prose ? ' "

' Oui, Monsieur.' "

' Pas ma foi : il y' plus de quarante ans que je dis
de la Prose, Sans que e'en suisse rien. Et je vous suis
le plus oblige du monde.' "

Ah ! Moliere was a clever satirist. I
conclude, Selwyn, it is the role of most
dramatists to show up the faults of ' Society,'
and somehow T don't think we mind in the
least being scolded collectively. Though
one might resent it individually, because we
almost enjoy it, when we all get it, it is so
pleasant to feel yourself no worse than other
people."

Then she resumed her book.

Fancy having a servant like ' Nicol ! '
Would she not be a curiosity in these nineteenth
century days ? She is so amusing."

My dear ! You would obj sect to her
very plain speaking. Do you remember,
Edith, in one of his plays* Moliere tells usa
girl called Andrew breaks a glass, and her
mistress, the Countess, says she shall pay
for it — and she agrees to do so, and then

" La Comtesse D'Escarbagnas," 1672.

La Comtesse calls her a few unpleasant
names, and Andre e says :

' Dame ! Madame ! Si je paye, je ne vieux point
efcre quereliee/

Fancy, John Thomas, or Mary answering
us in that fashion ! "

You may depend upon it they ' think '
it, though their training as ' automatons '
would prevent their giving vent to their
feelings above stairs. Below, we know it is
quite another thing, and many a reputation
has been smirched b}^ our ' hewers of
wood and drawers of water.' "

"They have great power no doubt for
food or evil. There is Sabina ! I hear the
carriage has stopped."

And in tripped Sabina, looking like
a lovely snowflake in her white sophie du
bal.

How cosy you look. Uncle Selwyn I "

Well, we are dear. Are you cold ? "

Not in the least."

Your supper is on that little table,
Sabina! And there is some hot coffee, if
you care for it ! "

Thanks, Auntie, dear. I am hungry,
having to sit still alone gives one an
appetite ! " and throwing off her wraps,
Sabina sat down to her table.

She was now tall, slender, bright and
pretty, with little quick movements like a
bird.

If you have finished, dear," said her
Aunt, " I think I shall retire."

What have you been doing, you lazy
Auntie, to make you tired ? "

Reading Moliere ! "

Oh ! well ! I don't wonder you are tired.
All those old fossils are wearying to a
degree. One gets them ad nauseam at
school ! "

"But I thoroughly enjoy it, Sabina ! '*
said her Aunt with a smile.

Oh ! '^ and Miss Maitland shrugged her
shoulders.

After all, there was no accounting for
tastes !

Good night. Aunt Edith ! ''

Good night, love ! " and Mrs. Luttrell,
with a little significant smile to her
husband, left the room.

Who was at the concert to-night,
dear ? "

Arthur, Adolphus Frampton — Lady
Laura, of course — a young fellow called
Chetwynd, the Teres, and many others I
know, whose names I forget ! "

Sabina ! have you and Frampton settled
your marriage yet ? "

No, Uncle ! There is no hurry ! "

No ! only that your parents insist upon
your returning to Lydia at once ! I have

a letter here from your father ! " and he
felt m his pockets. " No, it is upstairs !
Your Aunt can give it you."

Under those circumstances, I shall
marry Frampton as soon as possible. Soif
I go to India, it shall be my honeymoon
trip ! "

Does he agree to that ? "

Of course, Uncle Selwyn ! Why, if I
proposed the North Pole it would be
quite the same thing ! "

I suppose, dear, you know best, only
I think I should not try his love too far —
even a worm will turn. His long devotion
to you should insure respect and love on
your part."

"Do you think I treat him badly?"
said she, opening her large dark eyes as
if the idea had never struck her before.

"Well, Sabina, Ido!"

Her Uncle Selwyn spoilt her. He never

thwarted her in anything reasonable. So
to hear this strongly expressed opinion
from one so usually indulgent, rather
surprised her.

You will have to decide, dear ! "

I will quite decide tomorrow, dear old
Uncle ! "

"That's right, my pretty pet," and he
kissed her affectionately on her forehead,
and then she left the room.

He smiled to himself at the fish of the
little diplomatic adroitness he had displayed.


Frampton will thank me, I expect !
She is almost as pretty as Edith, and
very nearly as saucy. They are dear
torments both of them."

Peggy, otherwise Mrs. Cyril Dash wood,
was sitting in the little study, sacred to her
husband. Her two young sisters, "The
Twins," were on a long visit to the Vicarage,
for Polly had gone to Moor Hall to replace
Peggy, and the little girls during their
brother-in-law's absence were to remain
with their sister. Anything more joyful
to these children could hardly be
imagined, they felt so truly grateful to
their rather severe-looking brother-in-law
for leavings dear, darling Pe£;-f]^v for their
own use.

Christie, should you mind very much
if he (meaning Cyril Dashwood) were never
to come home again ? "

ISTot at all. If we can only stop here

for ever I should prefer him being millions
of miles away ! "

Yes, but perhaps as Peggy is Mrs. Cyril
Dashwood now, we had better not tell
anyone, in case he should come home, you
know!"

No ! " So they said nothing to Peggy,
only enjoyed their hearts' content in the
old garden and the old home.

Their great-uncle, a kindly, simple old
man, who had always been a cathedral
hack, was glad of the quiet and rest of
this secluded Yorkshire moor. His niece
was good and tender to him. He thought
his new nephew " quixotic " to a degree ;
but, on the other hand, it gave him a pleasant
change. Very little was expected of
him, for Mrs. Dashwood saw to everything
in the little parish. To have Miss Peggy
back again was too good to be at first
realised. But there she was ! in and out

their houses with the little girls at her heels,
just like old times ; all they wanted was
told Parson. But they admitted " Parson
was getting to be real nice and friendly,
all along of Miss Peggy though."

Peggy was busy over some winter
garments for her little sisters, when they
rushed in breathlessly : " Sister ! there's a
strange carriage coins across the moor.
Not the Hall carriage."

It must be someone going on to Black-moor."



But they might have gone nearer by
train."

So they might, but you see, dears, I do
not know, so it's hardly worth while puzzling
out. Put some coals on, Mouse."

This done, Mousie and Christie vanished
again to watch the progress of the strangely
fascinating, mysterious carriage. On it
came ; now it had reached the Eectory

gate — it stopped, and out of it alighted a
tall, stately lady, who with a pleasant smile
asked to see Mrs. Dashwood.

The little girls, exceedingly awed, ran on
in front to tell their sister.

Peggy came out at once.

I am Lady Lanyon, your husband's
friend, for I am sure you are Mrs. Dash-wood,
from his description."

Yes, I am Mrs. Dashwood," said Peggy
with a pretty blush.

"lam so glad to make your acquaintance,"
said Lady Lanyon with great friendship,
and these are the two little sisters ? "

Yes, Christina and Helen. Please
come in. Lady Lanyon, and let your fly go
round to the stables."

So Hester went into the pleasant little
study, and Peggy put her work on one side,
drew the cosiest chair for her visitor, and
made her feel thoroughly at home.

Hester was charmed with the bonnie
little wife, so straightforward, so honest.

I suppose you heard, as we did, from
Malta ? "

Yes, Cyril said they were all well ; that
Lady Beldon had borne the voyage better
than could have been expected. She was
not ill at all— and Cyril was," said his wife,
with a smile.

We are anxiously awaiting a letter from
Suez, and, oh ! Mrs. Dashwood, we do think
it so noble of you to spare your husband."

Nay, Lady Lanyon ; it was a duty he
told me he owed to himself, and to Lady
Beldon and you, to help in some way to
clear up this terrible mystery."

Hester knew better than his wife what
he meant, but all she said was :

It is most generous on his part, and
we all appreciate his devotion and your
unselfishness."

VOL. III. 39

And then they fell to talking over many
things and foreign places, where both had
been, over the hospital at Langton, the
little parish here, and, after Hester had
enjoyed her tea, seen the old Vicar's grave,
the church, the principal street in the
parish, left a handsome sum with the Vicar's
wife for any parish or charitable purposes,
the two ladies parted, both mutually
pleased with each other.

With such a friend as Lady Anyone
do not wonder Cyril has such noble
ideas !''

Sweet, tender Peggy !

Has she asked you to her grand
house, Peggy ? " asked Christie.

She has, dear ; but I shall wait till
Cyril comes home, and then I should like
to go and see her."

She didn't ask us, I suppose ? '*'

"Well, no, not just yet, but I am sure

she will when she knows what dear little
sisters you are."

But perhaps you think us nice because
you love us, Peggy ? "

"Perhaps, darlings. Well, now about
those frocks ; suppose you try yours on,
Mousie ! "

And as, after all, the matter of garments
is absorbing to the feminine mind, however
youthful, and as these especial ones were
to be donned for forthcoming festivities at
Moorhall, Lady Lanyon was forgotten for
the time, and Peggy's busy, skilful fingers
were in full request.

So, with perpetual little glancing at the
photograph of Cyril's beautiful face, taken
just at their marriage, she worked with
light heart, thankful that a beneficent
Providence had placed her in the haven
where she would be.

39=

Lady Beldon, Mr. Dasliwoocl, and Mrs.
Spence landed safely in Sydney, and drove
to one of the best hotels. After some little
resli and refreshment, Cyril set out to
discover Messrs. Grey and Fisher. Eventually
they were found ; but it was some
distance from the hotel. These gentlemen
were quite as perplexed at the strange disappearance
of Sir Ernest Beldon as the
members of his own family.

We saw a great deal of him before the
time came for his departure for England.
We find that just before he left his hotel,
The Empress,' about two days before the
ship sailed, a telegram came — though wherefrom,
or who from, we cannot find out.
He told the hotel people he was going away

on business, but should be back in time for
the ' City of Tralee ' ; but not to send his
luo'o'aofe on board till he returned. This
caused no surprise whatever. So he left,
taking only with him a small bag and some
wraps."

"Had he his watch and his usual
trinkets, such as pin-rings ? " asked Mr.
Dash wood.

Oh ! yes. Exactly as he always was
dressed."

Can you imagine he had any enemies
in the place ? I mean people who might
resent his comines into the laisse fortune he
did ? Any relations out here of the late
Mr. Stratton?"

"None whatever. As far as we know
he had no relations except Sir Ernest and
his sister, Lady Willis. We have been Mr.
Stratton's legal advisers for years, and know
he had no other relations."

Do you imagine lie has met with foul
play?"

They did not answer immediately.

You see," said Mr. Fisher, " it is a very
difficult thing to say. What could have
been the motive of this telegram? We
have seen the manager in connection with
the sheep run and the agent for the Sydney
property. Sir Ernest had made every
possible arrangement with them ; indeed,
he told them he should return by-and-by
and bring his wife out as welL They have
neither seen nor heard anvthincf of him
since. A reward has been offered for him ;
but, as yet, with no result."

Could we have a detective ? " \

"Oh, certainly. We can recommend
one who has served us well in many

cases."

This was rather unsatisfactory news to
take to Lady Benton. She was sitting at

the window of the hotel anxiously watching
for him to return.

He told her the result of the interview.

If we can get this detective man to go
with us, he may take us to all the likely
places where a poor waif or stray might betaken
in. For I am sure that's what he is
now," said poor Esme, with a break in her
voice.

Anyway, wee will begin the search for
him tomorrow morning."

But he thought what a vaofue chance
it was. Only a woman's dream! The
detective Davies came early. A homely,
civil-looking person, and the three set out.

Day after day passed with no success.
But on the nftli day, Mr. Davies came
in again one evening, rather late, to say
that at the low part of the town he had
heard of a man having been picked up
at sea ! It min-lit be worth while to ^o

and see him. " But it's hardly a fit place
for a lady."

Never mind what the place is, I shall

go."

Again they began their weary search.
They found a rough-looking object, who
scowled at them, and was ex seemingly
suspicious of the whole party.

He was questioned minutely if he had
heard of any gentleman being lost in a
fishing boat, or picked up outside the
harbour. But to these questions he
maintained a dogged silence.

Presently, Mr. Davies speaking with
deliberate meaning, addressed the man who
had continued to smoke in contemptuous
silence.

Tom Heenan, I think it will pay you
best to tell anything you do know."

At the sound of his name, the man
roused himself with wonderful alacrity.

What do you know about Tom
Heenan ? "

A ofreat deal more than you think for
or would care to hear. But on this
occasion it's all straight and above board."

If you can give any help towards
finding this here gent, that we feel sure
is stowed away somewhere, it might be
something in your pocket, and as I said
before this time it won't have anything todo
with the ' other affair,' " said the detective,
significantly.

Tom Heenan looked with intent
scrutiny at the other's face.

Are you quite sure you mean it ? "

Quite sure. The ' other affair ' must
look out for itself after wards T

The man nodded his head and reflected.

'' How much ? "

Twenty pounds ! "

"Gold down?"

When ? "

'' Directly we find the missing man ! "

Oh, T will give you something handsome,
only do, do tell me, if you know ! "

And the man stared at the lovely
beseeching face.

What's he to you ? " he asked gruffly.

My husband ! "

Oh ! "

And a cunning smile stole over his face.

Well, it's just possible I can put yer
in the way, but I shall want more than
twenty pounds ! "

You shall have it ; only do not let us
waste time ! "

There ain't no hurry for me ! " he
said with aggravating calmness.

'' Now look here, Tom Heenan," said
the detective. " I don't think you'll gain
over much by having too long a rope, it

might be worse for you. Take my advice,
close with the party, their offer is very
handsome, and let us have the gent at
once, it might be safer for you if you was
wanted ? "

This argument seemed to have some
weight.

I shan't move till I get the money ? "

I will go to the bank at once, and
bring it back with me," said C3"ril .

'' How much ? "

One hundred pounds in gold," said the
scowling Heenan ; " not a penny less."

Oh yes, yes ; " said Lady Beldon,
feverishly, " only make haste, Cyril."

Cyril swiftly went off, took a cab, and
hastened to the Bank. To Esme it seemed
hours.

He came back with the gold in a canvas
bag, and as it was counted out on the
table the ruffian's eyes gloated over it.

He was going to sweep it all into the bag
again.

With your permission, Mr. Heenan,"
said the detective politely, " we will keep
back fifty to be paid on the delivery of the
gent. Fair is fair ! "

Seeing he could not get the whole sum,
he muttered something like an oath.

Come on, then ! "

They followed their odious cicerone
down alleys and slums indescribable till
they came to one street. Suddenly Lady
Beldon cried out :

"It is here! I know it. I feel it is
here."

Tom Heenan looked at her in amazement.


This is the room I saw," she said,
turning excitedly to Cyril. "At last !"

The man lifted the latch. They entered,
Lady Beldon first.

Seated by the fire was a man, who
looked more like a skeleton than anything
else. His head was bent on his chest ; he
did not raise it even as the door opened.
Lady Beldon paused for one moment with
a look of horror, and then went forward.
With a self-restraint that was almost agony
she went softly to the silent figure. Very
gently she whispered :

Ernest ! "

Very slowly and with great effort the
face was raised, the dim eyes looked out of
their hollow circles.

"Ernest, darling, don't you know your
Esme ? "

Then gradually a dawning of reason and
light entered, and two large tears coursed
each other down the thin, wan face.

Esme ! Wife ! Esme ! "

She clasped her arms round him, and
kissed him, and smoothed his tangled hair ;

but again restrained lier feelings, for she
feared even now he might vanish into the
realms of death.

Directly Cyril saw they had found the
poor lost wanderer, he handed the man the
other fifty pounds, who no sooner received
it than he simply vanished. The detective
smiled as the door closed softly on him.
There was a woman in the room, whom
they had hardly remarked. She had been
a silent spectator of the whole transaction.
No one saw the bitter smile on her face as
the ruffian clutched the gold and disappeared.


How came this gentleman here and in
this plight ? " asked Cyril of the woman.

The man yoa have just paid brought
him here."

What has happened to him ? "

He was decoyed on a little trading
vessel, but, owing to a fog, it came into

collision w'itli a steamer and sunk. They
(the vessel's crew) were all drowned except
that man and this poor creature, and I — I
saved him, because he's my own flesh and
blood ! "

What?"

"lie is Sir Ernest Beldon! I am Mr,
Stratton's illegitimate daughter. That man
you have paid is my husband ! "

The astonishment at this revelation can
be imagined.

My father for years has sent me sums
of money, but that ruffian hearing that all
the money was to go to a stranger, determined
to seize him and make him pay a
large sum for his liberty ! but the time he
was in the water, and a frightful attack of
typhoid fever, took the senses out of him,
he forgot who he was. Heenan was for
doing away with him ! (they shuddered as
they heard this) but I determined if I

could . to save him, and told Heenaii I
would round upon him for something
else."

The detective nodded — he knew what
the " something? else " was !

But this poor chap's been as nigh
death, as can be, he ain't up to much

now."

Has he had a doctor ? "

A doctor ! answered the woman scornfully,
we don't have no doctors down
here ! They die or they lives ! which ever
turns up."

Anyway I feel sure you have done
your best for him," said Lady Beldon, going
up and taking the woman's hands in hers.
How can I thank you. What can I do
in return for saving his life ? "

Just nothing but let me alone."

Would you go back to England with
us ? Think of a pleasant little home all

your own. You shall never want for anything.
Some of your father's money shall
be yours, only say you will come."

For a moment the woman's face softened
as there passed through her thoughts a
vision of peace and rest. Then it hardened
again.

What did you come out for, my
Lady ? "

To find my husband ! "

Well, I stop here, for mine."

She went to a drawer, and pulled out
some old rags, and out of them she produced
a gold locket.

Do you know that ? "

Ah, ses ! it is Ernest's. I gave it him."

Well, if 3'ou want to give me anything,
give me that."

Do you know my portrait is there
too."

No ! "

VOL. III. 40

See," and Esme opened a spring, and
her own lovely face, taken more than two
years back, shone out."

Will you give it me ? "

Yes ! And may God reward you and
bless you."

During this time Cyril had sent for a
conveyance. A little brandy and a large
grey shawl, for the poor young baronet's
attire consisted of rags, and he seemed
cowering with cold. The cab was at the
door, so Cyril asked the woman for some
water, and bathed the sick man's face and
gave him some brandy and water, then
carried him out, placing him with gentle
movement in the most convenient position.
Lady Beldon just stayed one minute, and
putting out her hand, took the woman's
hand in farewell, and kissed her on her
forehead. What gold could not do that
kiss did, for the fountain of her heart.

crushed and seared by sin and misery,
rushed forth, her hot tears flew fast, and
all she could say was, " I am not worthy !
I am not worthy ! " And shut the door
quickly.

Esme supported the poor wreck of what
was once a strong man. They got him to
the hotel, and put him to bed — then they
sent for the doctors, who pronounced him
in a state of frightful weakness and wasting
fever ; but if he had good nursing,
good nourishment, and no excitement, he
might recover.

Before Esme let the detective go, she
charged him to go back again to the
woman, Heenan's wife, and beseech her to
accept something, if only a hundred pounds.

Oh, it would make me happy."

I'll go, my lady, never fear ! but as sure
as my name is Bill Da vies, the bird will
have flown. If she's there I'll make her

40^

take the money ; if she isn't, well ! I'll
brings it back."

Any way, Davies, you shall have one
hundred pounds."

Eris eyes sparkled with intense pleasure.

'* Then I am yours to command."

And he went forthwith.

Thank you ! What was it to her ? All
she had would count as nothings for her
husband's life.

Lady Beldon returned to her poor invalid,
who watched her with languid eyes,
bat never spoke to any of them. Indeed,
to keep him alive was as much as they
could do.

The next day Cyril went out and telegraphed
to England the glad news " he
had been found." And Mr. Davies likewise
turned up with the information that the
woman had gone, as he had anticipated.

It is yours, then, and thank you much."

Them English are real swells, I will say
that for 'em. No meanness — they know a
man's worth at a glance. He then went
on to Grey and Fisher, and informed them
of all the denouement and of the story, and
the fact of Mrs. Heenan's existence. This
took them much by surprise. After all
do we ever know that ' hidden self ' of our
neighbours, or they ours? I venture to
say no ! emphatically ; everyone has his
own inner history that never comes to
the surface — unless by the unforseen.

Mr. Stratton had had a history which had
caused him years of worry — which he kept
to himself. Even his lawyers knew nothing
of it.

It was more a work of time and nursing,
than anything else with regard to
Sir Ernest. Nothing' could exceed the
devotion of his three willingness —
his wife, Cyril Dashwood, and good solid

Mrs. Spence ; each of these three brought
all their hearts, all their skill, all their love
to bear on this poor broken specimen of
humanity Gradually the attenuated form
recovered flesh — the dim eyes became
brighter — but even now he talked but
little ; he seemed to have a dislike to
speak — but his eyes hitherto not so remarkably
expressive — expressed everything.
With what looks of love did he
watch his graceful pretty wife. He could
hardly bear her out of his sight. And
Cyril, once his rival, now his trusted friend
he seemed by his clear intuition to
understand it all. And Mrs. Spence,
with her large good-natured figure, who
thought nothing a trouble, if the " Squire "
was only pleased. On his thin wasted face
there was always a smile, when she loomed
in the distance with her I good beef tea, or
her jelly.

Now, sir ! do please to look sharp and
get well, because all the jam wants seeing
to ; and, as I reckon it, we ought to be
back, say end of June, so as to give me
plenty of time. You see, sir, July is always
a busy time for cooks." He would answer
not a word, but a faint smile would come
and go.

He did get sufficiently strong to embark
on the mail steamer " Dalmatia," and it did
get to England about June, as Mrs. Spence
had accurately summed up.

The voyage did wonders for him, and
when Gerald and Hester met them at the
Docks, accompanied by Sir Percy, Lady
Willis and Mr. Dashwood, they were
almost shocked to see such a complete
invalid, and perfectly amazed to hear he
had " so improved on the voyage." What
could he have been before ?

Esme rushed into Hester's arms too

overcome to speak. *' Oh ! darling Hester,
thank God!"

Hortense Willis, with her eyes so full of
tears she could hardly see, clung to her
brother, while Sir Percy, vigorously
blowing his nose, declared he would write
to the Times and expose the bad management
of the colony, &c. All the same, they
had taken every care ; Cyril's letter had
prepared them for something like the
situation.

So two carriages were in waiting one
with an invalid's bed, which held Sir
Ernest, his wife and sister, with good Mrs.
Spence outside, while Hester, Gerald, Sir
Percy, Cyril and Mrs. Dashwood squeezed
into the other.

All these nine hearts beat with one
emotion ; love towards each other, love
that had been tried in the fire and had
come out clear. To Peo's^y's tender heart

there came this thought, " Well clone,
good and faithful servant." Yes, her Cyril
had earned a noble niche in the Temple of
Fame. To say that she loved him was little,
she did that, when he showed his goodness,
in the summerhouse, but now he was
a hero, a beautiful, noble hero, and her
own!

Then lovely Lady Beldon, as they parted,
came up to her. " Mrs. Dashwood, nay,
may I say Peggy ? for your noble surrender
of Cyril, who has been to me as a brother,
how can I thank you ? I can appreciate
your sacrifice, when I feel how near my
husband has been to the jaws of death.
Some day, not now, I may be able to do so."
And then she kissed her.

God bless you, Esme, and help you
now. I think he will yet be your staff, and
stay. Have patience, dear," said Cyril.

Ah, Cyril ! I owe you my child's, my

husband's and my own life! Good-bye,
dear ! " And she kissed him with a gentle
kiss. It was a kiss so pure, so tender, so
true, an angel might have given it. And,
after having; seen to Sir Ernest's comforts,
he bade farewell to the party, and he and
his wife returned to their Yorkshire home,
and the rest to Heminglee.

Langton had heard with regret of the
disappearance of Sir Ernest Beldon. Some
said he had been blown up, others said he
had run away. Anyhow, he was non est.
But when they heard the true version and
that he had returned, from Lady Louisa,
they were unfeignedly glad, for young
Lady Beldon was a great favourite, and,
after all, she must expect some drawbacks
in life. But they were exceedingly surprised
to hear that Mr. Dashwood had
accompanied Lady Beldon abroad.

A highly improper proceeding, I must
say," said Mrs. Frostick. "I hear he is
married, too ! to go and leave his own wife.
Fie! don't tell me! he went with Sir
Gerald's and Lady Lanyon's sanction ! I

don't believe it, my dear, lie always was
fond of Lady Beldon, only lie wasn't good
enough for her ! of course not ! Ah, ita
bad world ! a bad world ! "

Neighbour Frostick, why should you
think evil like that ? " said old David
Brown. " To my mind, there is something
real noble about that Mr. Dash wood
leaving his own young bride to go and
help to find a lost man. And you may
take my word for it. Sir Gerald and Lady
Lanyon knows what they was a doing,
better than you or me."

"My dear Brown, you're just a right
down innocent. Any one might take you
in, and some of these days you'll find it
out."

Well, neighbour, I will wait until I
do. 1 think it's always wise to believe the
best of folks. You think the worst, maybe
you're right, maybe I'm wrong, but I like

to think no evil ; besides, it strikes me we
ain't saints ourselves."

Mrs. Frostick looked upon this as very
nearly impertinence, for she considered
herself, if not a saint, a very proper person.
She went every day to church, sometimes
twice on saint days. Whereas old Brown
never went at all, except when his duties
as churchwarden obliged him.

There was one thing old David was
always longing to let out, and that was
his daughter Harriet's engagement to Mr.
Johnson, but his two daughters absolutely
prohibited it. They knew too well the
power of Mrs. Frostick's tongue. They
meant to spring a mine upon her. She
should not hear of it until it was a fait
accompli. She had given them many a
bad quarter of an hour " in their life.
This would make them quits. To think
that David Brown's daughter should ever

marry passed her belief. So Harriet grew
younger, and dressed more suitably. She
really looked bright and happy, and all
her trouble now was to keep Mr. Johnson
by his fatuous conduct, from betraying the
real state of affairs.

Percy Blythe was almost as good as the
Eector, for, excepting the Sunday morning
sermons, he did most of the rector's work.
He really lived at the Eectory, though he
still kept his own little pied a terre. Also,
he always received, when his official salary
was paid, an extra douceur, and a very
good one it was.

His was by no means a disappointed life.
Troubles can be lived down if only we pull
ourselves together ; it is the ever giving
way to them that makes them so hard to
bear. When once he found Mrs. Grantley
was Mrs. Grantley no longer, he gave up
the feverish wishing and longing ; he would

ever love her, but it would not be a way
that could injure him or her ; it was a very
honest loyal love that perhaps would ever
prevent him loving any other women, but
even time and circumstances might conspire
to thwart this — queen sale ?

He was both amused and pleased to hear
of Sabina Maitland's engagement to Lord
Frampton, but he would be more than
glad when it was an accomplished fact, as
she considerably unsettled that very mercurial
young person Adolphus Frampton,
and the Eector and Lady Louisa trusted so
much to his influence over this by no
means brilliantly gifted young man.

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis made a most happy
couple. It is marvellous what effects matrimony
has on some people. Dr. Lewis
seemed in some quiet way to have parted
with the untidy " savant " like appearance
he used to wear. He was always well

dressed — " well groomed," Adolplius said.
His collection flourished, and the specimens
were no longer all over the place, but
arranged in one room, which his wife called
the " museum," and he appreciated her
neat, methodical arrangements. Dr. and
Mrs. Lewis contemplated making an extensive
tour abroad, and were busy making all
their arrangements, for a new mayor
reigned in their stead, so there was nothing
in the way of official duties to prevent them
doing as they liked. The Doctor understood
there were some wonderful specimens
to be had in Brazil, and as their time was
their own, with ample means, they intended
to indulge their respective tastes ; he for
his naturalist studies, and Mrs. Lewis for
hospital and nursing institutions. Before
her marriage hospital work had been a
means of livelihood, now it was a question
of deep interest. The committee at Langton

had found lier services invaluable, for
she had practical knowledge, and the local
doctors were more than glad of her valuable
help. She recommended the matron,
arranged the staff. Altogether she o-ave an
immense impetus to the whole affair, while
Sir Gerald and Lady Lanyon supported her
financial!}^, so that the scheme begun so
nobly was carried out in every way satisfactorily.
But they did not allow local
interest to languish, for Mr. Blythe was
anxious to raise the tone of — we will say the
lower middle class — of the town ; and
before Dr. and Mrs. Lewis left for their
foreign tour, there was to be a concert, and
amateur theatricals, which it was particularly
requested they should grace.

Now with regard to the private theatricals
the Eector had taken a warm interest
in them. He had been so delighted with
those he had seen at his niece's, Mrs. Yere.

VOL. III. 41

that lie was anxious, if possible, they should
be repeated at Langton.

But, dear Eector, I do not think the
'Good-natured Man * would take down
here. You see half the people know
nothing about plays at all, and I fancy
they would like something bright, and
brisk."

Yes, but think what good prose, what
excellent English, they would get."

True, but would they appreciate the
prose ? It would be all the same to them
if the grammar was execrable, they would
infinitely prefer a comic song, or a breakdown
dance."

^' I have it," exclaimed the Eector.
She Stoops to Conquer ! ' There you
have everything combined, and I am sure
you have the comic element there."

Percy saw the Eector was set upon it,
and after all, they could but break down

(whicliby-tlie-bye they would be sure to do),
and it would be quite as amusing to the
audience, who would be far more interested
in the players than the play. So the
Eector wrote up forthwith to his niece,
Mrs. Yere, begging her, her husband, and
any likely friends she might suggest to
undertake the ajQTair.

Mrs. Yere was pleased in both senses.
She was very fond of her uncle, and very
fond of private theatricals. So she undertook
to arrange the whole thing ; and
would bring with her Lord Frampton,
Sabina Maitland, and a Mr. Chetwynd,
and one or two others.

In the programme, the concert was to
come off first, on the Wednesday and
the following week the theatricals.

The concert was entirely under the
direction of Mr. Blytlie, whose difficulty
consisted in choosing from the number of

41*

people who wished to perform. Of course,

Mr. Johnson, being a nervous, hesitating

man, chose a comic song, and he also

stipulated that Miss Harriet Brown should

do something.

Poor Percy was very doubtful of her

capabilities.

What can you sing, Miss Harriet ? "
' Twickenham Ferry,' and I could sing

a duet with Mr. Johnson," said Harriet

with a slight a'icfRle.

Oh, indeed ; and what is it to be ? "
*' We haven't quite settled yet, perhaps it

might be a trio, if you have no objection ! "
I must tell you candidly, I did not

know Mr. Johnson could sinsf/'

No ? He can, beautifully, though ! "
Well, let me hear what you propose

singing ? "

If we have a trio, we — that is — Mr.

Johnson, Tillie and I — thought — "

Miss Tillie, can she sing ? " said Percy
aghast.

'' Oh yes, very nicely. We thought of
either, 'Sigh No More, Ladies,' or
Memory.' "

Mr. Blythe's heart sunk. He could
picture to himself these unfortunate three.
He must consult the Eector.

Well, Miss Harriet, if you will kindly,
with your sister and Mr. Johnson, try over
what you propose to sing, I shall be at
your disposal in half an hour."

So with that he flew off to the Eector.
What is to be done about them
Eector?"

Oh let them sing, by all means ! "
But I don't believe either of them have
a note of music in their composition ! "

Never mind ! what does it matter to
you and I, if they do come to grief ? Let
the concert be as representative as possible.

You know the British public like ' something
' for their shilling ! "

They will get it," said Mr. Blythe with
conviction. " You are quite sure about the
wisdom of having the two Miss Brown's and
Mr. Johnson ? "

"Sure! Why not? Just think of the
delight of old David at seeing his daughter's
name in print. Why, it will be worth the
whole thing ! As for Johnson, he is sure
to make an ass of himself, whatever he
does," said the Eector with a laugh. "I
wish," he added, " we could get dear Esme
Beldon down for the night. She would
take immensely. And I am told she can
play. And she would make up for everybody
else's break down."

Could you not write and ask her ? "
said Percy eagerly ; " if Sir Ernest could
only spare her ? "

"I will, and at once! Oh, by-the-by,

Adolphus wants to sing something in
character."

*' What is it ? "

I don't know the least."

Then Percy returned to his dramatis
personas. And with the exception of the
chance of Lady Beldon, so far, they gave
him unqualified uneasiness.

The two Browns, Mr. Johnson, and
Adolphus ! Suddenly he remembered
Adelaide Craster sung very sweetly. To
be sure, he would run round and ask her !
No sooner thought than done. He found
her at home and willing to help.

Only," she said modestly, " my voice is
very commonplace. Bat I will sing these if
you care to wait and adjudicate upon me ! ''

And she sang, with soft, pathetic sweetness,
'• Robin Adair," and " My Mother
Bids Me Bind my Hair."

Percy was completely surprised. No

doubt lie had heard her sing dozens of
times ! But then his thoughts were always
full of another woman.

I don't know if I shall have courage
when the time comes," she said, in answer
to his warm congratulations.

"Oh, yes you will. We hope to get
Lady Beldon to play, if Sir Ernest is well
enough."

That ill be a treat ! Besides, she is
so sweet and lovely ! "

Percy thought it strange he had never
before remarked that Adelaide Craster was a
very agreeable girl. Without being absolutely
pretty, there was something very
winning and pleasant about her face and
manner. So he said, " Stick to those two
songs. Miss Craster, and you will do."

She was very pleased, both at being
asked and that her voice should be considered
good enough.

So once more he returned to the Browns
to hear their rehearsal. The door stood
open, and he was just going in when he
saw Mr. Johnson, with his arm round
Harriet's waist as they were singing their
parts.

Whew ! That's how the land lies !
Well, it's no business of mine ! So, with a
premonitory cough, he made himself heard.
They all stood at attention. Matilda was
playing and singing as well, " Sigh No
More ! " They sang, and he sighed, as
the dull, monotonous voices blended
together. No, blend they did not,
for Tilly's little, thin, rasping pipe was
heard above Harriet's fuller but wrong
notes ; while Mr. Johnson's was a very
weak tenor, inclined to run into a falsetto.
So altogether, both the poet and the
musician were comfortably murdered, by
these three satisfied people. Poor Percy

Blythe sighed heavily How could he
make headway against ignorance and
vanity ?

Thank you, Miss Brown ; you play the
accompaniment very well. I conclude you
will all three practice up till the concert
comes off."

He was going to suggest they should
sing without accompaniment, but the result
would have been simply too dreadful. No,
they must sing their own way. There was
no help for it.

I think they sing that real well," said
David Brown, coming in from the parlour,
where he had been having his afternoon
siesta. " Lor, to think my girls can sing
like that ! It's right down pleasant, Mr.
Blythe. I did pay a lot, 'tis true, for their
schooling, but it wasn't wasted, not it.
Please tell the Eector I'm mighty pleased ;
and Mr. Johnson here " (giving him a hearty

slap which made that gentleman jump),
he's mighty good at a song ; he can sing
no end ! What's amiss now, lass ? " as
Harriet gave a warning pinch ; "all right,
lass "

I am glad you are satisfied ; the Eector
thought you would be pleased."

"Pleased, bless yer, ain't the word. I'm
proud, man ! "

At any rate there was somebody satisfied.
Now there was Mr. Adolphus Frampton,
who was a very uncertain quantity, and upon
being asked the name of his song replied ;
Never you mind, old fellow ; it will take
with ' the gallery,' " and that was all Mr.
Blythe could get out of him.

Well, I can only do my best ; but it's a
sorry lot, except Lady Beldon and Adelaide
Craster."

The concert was duly announced, and
Mrs. Frostick took a reserved front seat.

And the evening came ; she put on her
best cap, her moire-antique dress of dark
blue, all her gala rings, her large brooch,
like a saucer, of the defunct Mr. Frostick,
her yard of watch chain — of course, as she
was to sit in the front row among the
quality, she must do credit to the occasion.
As yet she was unacquainted with the
programme. However, she arrived therein
ample time. Afterwards came the
Eector and Lady Louisa, and with them
Lady Beldon, who looked lovely, as usual,
in a soft black lace dress ; then Dr. and
Mrs. Lewis. With the exception of Lady
Beldon all the performers went into the
little waiting room under the orchestra.
The programmes were being sold in the
room, so Mrs. Frostick bought one of
course. She put on her best gold-rimmed
spectacles. The grand concert was duly
set forth under the patronage of several

distinguished people (who would be conspicuous
by their absence).

Lady Beldon was down for an " Air de
Banjo ! "

." Who would have thought she could
play anything so vulgar as a banjo ! and
a ' ballade,' by Chopin." Mrs. Frostick had
never heard of Chopin, but the name
did not even please her, so with a disapproving
shake of her head she passed on.

What! " she screamed to her neighbour,
Brown's girls going to sing ? Look here !
Miss Matilda Brown, Miss Harriet Brown,
and Eev. J. Johnson, trio — * Sigh No More,
Ladies'"

She read no more ; she first thought of
having her money back. No ! that would
be silly ; she was there, dressed in her
best, so she would stay ; but if ever there
was a swindle —

The Eector came on the platform and

made a few openings remarks, and then led
on Lady Beldon, who was received with
vociferous cheering.

Her '' Air de Banjo " pleased the audience
greatly, the gods keeping time with their
feet ; indeed they would have liked it allover
again.

Then came Mr. Johnson's " Comic Song'*
which he sung in the most dreary manner
possible ; it was politely ignored by the
audience. They did not express any disapproval
— that was something, thought
Percy.

Then Adelaide Craster, with her pretty,
timid manner, began " Robin Adair." At
first she was very nervous, but gathering
courage she rendered the old ballad charmingly,
and received tremendous applause.
It suited this country audience, with its
old simplicity. Now the grand trio was
to come off, Mrs. Frostick put on her

spectacles and glared at the three, as they
one by one came on the platform. Lady
Beldon played the accompaniment. They
began ; presently a small titter was heard,
and as they got through it somehow or
another, the audience fairly roared ; there
was, as the reporters would have said,
ironical cheering." Old Brown, not
understanding it all, clapped and thumped
with his stick, and was greatly pleased.
But to hear Tilly's thin, wiry voice, Mr.
Johnson's feeble tenor, and Harriet — who
was always a note or two behind hand — was
quite too-much ; they looked upon it as an
amusing joke.

Mr. Johnson did not feel quite so comfortable
as he hastily disappeared with
Harriet, leaving Tilly to get down how she
could. Lady Beldon and Percy Blythe
exchanged a glance full of humour. Mrs.
Frostick was heard audibly to call it

howling," and the Eector stifled his feelings
in a pocket-handkerchief. However,
everyone was amused.

The lovely " Ballade " was received with
great satisfaction, as indeed anything Lady
Beldon chose to play would have been ;
they were satisfied to see her there.

Then came the star of the evening,
Mr. Adolphus Frampton." His songs
were neither elegant nor classical. His
Champagne Charlie," with his intoxicated
make up,/' was received with round after
round of cheers, the " gallery," as he quite
anticipated, joining in the song and chorus.
They had everything over twice, and his
other songs — in fact, he was the hero of the
evening.

And the hour was so late Adelaide
Craster's second song had to be omitted, to
Percy's regret.

However, the audience went away in

high good humour ; after all, it was local
talent.

Well, Percy," said the rector with an
amused smile ; " it might have been
worse."

"I think not, sir."

At any rate, they are all pleased," said
Lady Louisa, as she thought over the trio.

"Except Mrs. Frolicks". said Esme
Beldon, laughing.

No, the Brown girls would never go
down with her," said Lady Louisa.

:»■««. \ ■ — , fe.

^1^: — ^^ V

VOL. Ill, 42

It was a far more difficult affair to get the
play under way. The Eectory was full of
guests, and two or three were at Dr.
Lewis's. In the course of the next fortnight,
Lord Frampton and Sabina Maitland
were to be married ; so they wished to
have the performance at the earliest possible
date.

Young Marlowe " was to be taken by
Mr. Chetwynd, a friend of Charlie Vere's,
and a great favourite ; " Mr. Hardcastle''
by Charlie himself; "Hastings," by Lord
Frampton ; and a Mr. Woodward was to
take the two parts of "Diggers " and the
*' Landlord."

The pretty character of " Miss Hardcastle"
was to be Pauline's, and Sabina was

the "Miss Hastings." Adelaide Or aster was to
be initiated for the first time as the '' Maid "
a dashing widow, a Mrs. Bell, undertook
Mrs. Hardcastle." So that all the principal
roles were filled up, not forgetting the
one of " Tony," by Adolphus Frampton.
The rehearsals were very laborious, and
a cause of much vexation to Lord Hampton.
For "Tony," instead of pinching
and teasing "Miss Hastings," persisted in
kissing her! &c., and all of which Sabina
was wicked enough to enjoy.

Don't be disagreeable, Arthur ! It
will be all over in a week ! "

Certainly playing in Private Theatricals
had much improved Lord Frampton.
He had lost that extremely listless, bored
appearance ; in fact, nobody could be very
listless near Sabina, who was quick in
everything. No one knew their part
better than she; and she took care Lord

42*

Frampton should know this ! But lie was
far from happy, for Jack Chetwynd was
a dangerously handsome fellow, and was
greatly smitten with Sabina. So, between
this gentleman and Adolphus Frampton —
who was exceedingly " gone " on her —
the stage manager, Charlie Vere, had much
ado to keep the peace.

However, by constant repetition they
became perfect — the stage was erected,
and the best scenery under the circumstances
obtained. Their pretty eighteenth-century
costumes were again greatly admired.
The Rector, who was admitted to
the rehearsals, was delighted, Goldsmith
being one of his greatest favourites.

So, at last, the night arrived for the
grand performance." It caused far more
interest than the concert ; and the hall was
filled long before the time. There was a
commodious room under the orchestra, and

this was the " green room " ; here all the
Dramatis Persona assembled — Pauline,
in her exquisite dress of embroidered silk
and powdered hair, and Sabina in her
Watteau sacque, with her lovely dark
hair tied with ribbon, were perfectly
charming ! As the respective scenes came
on, cheer after cheer rose. Lord Frampton
waiting at the side to come on, saw Adolphus
take Sabina by the waist and kiss
her. He heard her whisper, " You must
pinch, not kiss me, Adolphus ! " in her
coquettish voice ; instead of which he
kissed her again. There was a laugh
among the audience, and from the back
seats arose a cry of " encore ! encore ! "

Lord Frampton's face flushed a deep
red, and then left it pale and stern.

Charlie Yere called out, " For goodness'
sake don't play the fool now, Adolphus !
You will ruin everything." But Adolphus

was far too excited to listen to reason — he
thoroughly enjoyed his part. The consequence
was, the audience were delighted
with him, and applauded again and again.

Neither he nor Sabina noticed the angry-burning
gleam in Arthur Frampton's eyes.
Miss Maitland, indeed, was as intoxicated
with her success as Adolphus, and when
she was not flirting with him, she was with
Chetwynd.

Lord Frampton said never a word. He
went through his part, and when the
curtain at last came down, amidst deafening
applause, he quickly donned his everyday
costume, and went off to the Eectory,
where he was staying.

And an hour afterwards, when the entire
party adjourned for supper and a small
dance, a note was handed to Sabina.

She gaily opened it, but as she read it
she turned very pale.

I hope there is no bad news in it, Miss
Maitland," said Jack Chetwynd, somewhat
anxiously

Oh, no! Lord Frampton was — He had
to go to town. And she resumed her gay-talk,
her manner charming as ever, and her
eyes were feverish with excitement.

Where was Lord Frampton ?

Oh, he had been obliged to go to
town — £0 sorry — he left a note to say so.

This was what the note really said —

Sabina, from to-night, I set you free.
You have passed all limits, even that my
love could allow — henceforth, as far as
I am concerned, you are your own mistress.
Blame me as much as you think
proper. I go abroad at once.

Frampton."

At last she realised what she had done,
though no one at the Eectory could guess

from her liigli spirits anything untoward
had happened. The only person who read
it all, was Percy Blythe. He had seen Lord
Frampton's indignation, he had seen Sabina
read the note, and noted her wild gaiety,
but his sympathy was with the outraged
wounded heart of the young man, not with
her.

The next day came a telegram from
Colonel Luttrell.

Come up at once, your father arrived."

Yes the mortifications were coming thick
and fast on Sabina's wretched heart.

She hastened at once to her uncle
Selwyn. " Andrews, let me see my uncle
first, please, before you tell anyone I am
here."

The Colonel is in the study and the
judge' and my mistress in the drawing-room."


She flew into the study, and falling on

her knees, placed her head against her
uncle's breast, and the tears ran down her
face. " Oh, uncle ! uncle ! what shall I
do ? Head this ! " And as he read, there
came a grave, almost stern look on his
face.

Sabina ! have you forgotten my warning
? — Did I not tell you, you would go too
far ? Child, men's hearts are not to be
trampled on by your wanton feet."

Oh, dear Uncle Selwyn, do not you
turn against me ! What shall I do ? What
shall I do ? — and papa ? "

"Your father has come over, at some
inconvenience, to be present at sour
marriage. He would not tell you, for
fear of disappointment. And now what
can be said ? How spare the blow ? It
will be terrible to him ! "

What will you tell him ? " she asked in
agony.

The truth 1 Give me that note. I had
better see him first. Stay here, I will
come for you."

This was punishment with a vengeance !
And then came the thought of all the
whispers, the scandal ; the beautiful
trousseau which her new maid was already
arranging for packing, for they were to
have sailed immediately after the marriage ;
the presents, costly and numerous, already
in the inner drawing-room — possibly her
father had seen them ! Oh, it was terrible !
And then the loss of Arthur's love ! Now
she saw it, in all its patient, loving endurance
— her scant, and often uncourteous
treatment, oh, how it all came home to
her, stinging her like scorpions ! All over !
All over ! Anything more desolate than
Sabina Maitland in this hour, can hardly
be conceived.

She stood there, her face pale with

anguish, her eyes simply touching in their
pathetic misery.

The door opened, her father came in.
At the sight of her suffering face, his own
softened.

With one look at him, she flew into
his arms.

Papa ! Papa ! Oh, Papa ! "

Oh my wee bird ! is it thus I find you ?
Forsaken, dishonoured in your name! I
will hunt that scoundrel down till '*

Hush, Papa ! " said Sabina, gravely.
In no way must you blame Lord
Frampton. Uncle Selwyn here will tell
you how wicked I have been, and how
patiently Arthur has behaved throughout
everything."

Wicked ! No, Sabina ! but terribly imprudent
and foolish," said Colonel Luttrell.

Can we do nothing ? " said Judge
Maitland.

No, George ! " said his brother-in-law,
unhesitatingly. " Sabina has brought it
upon herself, and she must bear the consequences.
Is it not true, Sabina ? "

Yes, Uncle ! " she answered sadly, " it
is all true. I, and I alone, am to blame.
Papa, darling, will you forgive me ! I
know Uncle Selwyn will his little pet."

Ah, child, yes ! " said her uncle with
the tears in his eyes. " God knows I
will ! If you have erred through
thoughtless vanity, you will have to
suffer for it."

Papa ! can't we go back to India at
once, before the people begin to talk about
me ? " And even as she spoke, a deep
burning wave of colour rushed over her
face and neck.

We will. There is a ship sailing on
Thursday. Could we get off by that, think
you, Selwyn ? "

"I fear not! All the berths will betaken,
but I will see what can be done."

"Aunt Edith! can Watson pack some
of my clothes? Papa finds we can go
after all ! "

Yes, darling ! " said Mrs. Luttrell,
drawing the desolate girl to her, and
tenderly kissing the pale cheek.

Oh Auntie ! how thankful I do feel
Madame Celeste has not begun my wedding
dress. I suppose I may as well take those
that have come home, and some of my
clothes. My presents must all go back."

"Leave them in my charge, Sabina, I
will see to everything."

The French maid had been dismissed.
Mademoiselle was obliged suddenly to goto
India ; doubtless she would be married
later on." These reports spread themselves
about and saved some pain. Those old

friends who knew the state of affairs, said
very little on the subject; the judge had
unexpectedly arrived in England and had
returned with his daughter, and. Lord
Frampton being abroad, they concluded he
had gone likewise.

And as Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell
returned from seeing the Judge and his
daughter on their way to India, Edith
Luttrell, after a silent review of the
situation, said : " Selwyn, I think you and I
had better take a trip to Mentioned or
Homburg, or some Continental place ; we
shall thus escape many questionings ; and
you really need a change, dearest, for this
has worried you sadly."

It has, dear wife ; only I am so thankful
to know and feel I have a true and noble
woman for ni}^ wife! May our poor little
Sabina some day be as true ! "

She will, Selwyn, I feel convinced.

Gold must be tried in the fire, and no
character can be completed until it has
suffered. It may be this trial will be the
beginning of nobler things for the dear
child."

Amen ! " said the Colonel.

Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell went abroad,
and, as no one knew the exact state of
affairs, everyone surmised different things.
Most of them agreed "Miss Maitland had
been obliged to postpone her marriage on
account of the illness of a member of her
family in India, for her father had come
home for her, and taken her back with
him." And, as some new thing turned up
just then, they and their affairs were
forgotten in some one else's scandals and
troubles, and the world wag^o-ed on.

Xo one was more indignant than Earl

Vanseur, he had rather repudiated the
whole affair ; he had hoped great things for
his son, and lo, this was the result ! But
unfortunately he could not give vent to his
anger, because Lord Frampton had expressly
desired it should not be discussed
in any way ; it was an affair that concerned
no one but himself, and Miss
Maitland.

Many months had passed, summer was at
hand. " Leafy June," in all her fresh fair
graces, was with them. Lord Frampton
had returned from his wanderings, and the
craving to see Sabina Maitland was so
strong he could not resist it. So he made
an excuse to call on Colonel Luttrell. He
was shown into the Colonel's study. Selwyn
Luttrell was more than surprised to see
him. " I thought you were in Russia,
Frampton ? "

I have been there for months. I believe

I am qualified to write a history of the
country, but I felt I must come back. Oh !
Colonel Luttrell, I hardly know what you
will think of me, when I tell you my love
is stronger than my pride. Can you let me
have one word with Miss Maitland ? "
My dear fellow — impossible ! "
Impossible ? " said Lord Frampton, his
thin, worn face full of pain.

She has been in India for months."
In India ? " said the other blankly.
Yes. Strangely enough, the very day
you and she quarrelled, her father, Judge
Maitland, arrived from India. He came
over expressly for the marriage. You must
know, Sabina has always been the spoilt
darling of her family, and her parents
could hardly bear the thought of her being
married without one of them being present.
So the judge thought it would be a pleasant
surprise. It was a surprise to us all,
VOL. III. ' 43

but not a pleasant one to him. So lie took
his daughter back by the very first vessel
going to India."

Lord Frampton sat the picture of despair
; his head between his hands.

Did he blame me very severely ? "

"Well, honestly, he did. He felt it
most keenly."

And she ? "

She vindicated you most nobly. She
told her father how patiently you had
borne all."

The tears forced themselves into the
young man's eyes.

Oh, Colonel Luttrell ! I seem to be a
very blackguard in my own eyes. Of
course anyone so lovely as Sabina must be
admired."

Frampton, my dear fellow, I do not
blame you. Perhaps it would have been
wise not to have sent forth such an ultimatum

as that note. You see it left no
loop-hole for anything. Sabina was to
blame, and she was honest enough to own
it. As it is now, she is invaluable to her
mother, who is in most delicate health.
Indeed I should not be surprised if the
judge retires and comes over to England."
And you think I must wait ? "
Yes. Wait and have patience."
You will say a good word for me ? "
Yes," said the Colonel with a laugh.
Do I " said the young man, rising and
grasping the other's hands fervently. " Tell
her I love her, ask her to forgive my
brutal note, say I will wait for years if
she will only take me at last."

"Leave it to me. And now come and
see Mrs. Luttrell. Some dear friends of ours
and yours are with her, the Yere."

So Lord Frampton, somewhat consoled,
went up to the drawing-room ; and it was a

43*

painful pleasure to see his cousin Pauline
again, it brought back Sabina. However,
they were all so good and kind to him.

Frampton ! Do you know I have a
very small daughter ? " said Pauline.

Indeed I did not. But I am sure I am
glad to hear of it."

She is looking out for a godfather.
Will you undertake that dignity ? "

'• That I will. But on one condition."

What is it ? "

That you will let me have something to
say to her name."

I should like to know what you suo^sfest
first, before I agree. You might consider
Betsy Jane ' a suitable name for my
daughter ! "

Pauline ! "

Well, what do you propose ? "

Sabina Pauline."

"Oh! Well, I don't object."

And Charlie ? "

Charlie will be quite satisfied. So I
shall have it thus — ' Sabina Pauline Charlotte.'
"

Why not give it half-a-dozen while you
are about it ? Will cost no more ! " said
Mr. Yere.

Sto, Charlie. It will just be as I have
said — ' Sabina Pauline Charlotte.' "

And what does Aunt Laura say ? "

Mother is too delighted. She was so
afraid she would have no grandchildren,
that it does not matter what it is called
provided it's a baby."

Pauline, dear, I am very glad for your
sake. I hope my little god-daughter may
bring you every comfort and happiness."

Thank you, Arthur, dear. Yours will
come in time, never fear."

The change in Lord Frampton was
marked. All the listless airs, all the affected

boredom, had vanished. He looked terribly
in earnest. Having loved Sabina Maitland
deeply, he had suffered much. He blamed
himself incessantly, but it was a consolation
to feel her uncle did not look upon him
harshly. In point of fact, he did not know
what a true friend he had in Colonel
Luttrell, for if he had seen the letter that
had been sent off that day, he would have
rejoiced beyond measure. Selwyn pleaded
his cause eloquently to the judge ; he also
wrote a very suggestive little epistle to
Sabina. And having laid the seed, he left
it to mature in the hearts of those he loved,
thousands of miles away.

Sm Ernest Beldon slowly recovered this

strength, but it was months before he

looked anything like the hale, hearty young

man who had started with so light a heart

on that memorable journey. It had grieved

him beyond measure that no trace could be

found of the young woman who, at the risk

of her own life, had saved his. To have the

large fortune of his uncle, and to feel that

that poor girl, who picked him up out of

the deep waters that night, should have

nothing, and might, perhaps, be wanting

the very necessaries of life ! In vain he

sent to the solicitors in Sydney to spare no

expense to trace her. But it was always in

vain. She seemed to have disappeared. It

preyed upon him, and it grieved his wife,

who had hardly recovered the birth of her
little girl — now three months old.

Ernest, why should we not take a tour ?
Let us all go out again — you, I, and the
children. I think a sea voyage would set
me up."

Are you sure, Esme, it would not be
too much for you, or the little ones ? "

"I should love it, Ernest. We might get
Percy and Hortense to come here and look
after things. Let us go, dear. We ought
to try and see what has become of your
uncle's daughter, for she saved your life,
and mine. For if you had died, I think I
should have longed for death. Could we
afford a yacht of our own ? We should not
be tied in any way. We must live somewhere.
Why not in this way ? Others
have done it before us."

The idea pleased Sir Ernest, and it gave
him much interest in arranging]: and

planning. To see lier husband strong
and well, Esme would have sacrificed
everything. He was all the dearer because
he had been so near death, and she felt a
deep debt of gratitude to the woman who
had saved him.

A yacht was found, whose owner was
very willing to dispose of her, and with all
due care a very comfortable home was
arranged on board. There was no lack of
means and no lack of comfort ; and one
August day they all set sail — a regular
colony of friends to see them off. And
as the white sails of "The Lark" were
unfurled, a hearty " God speed " and
Good-bye " floated after them.

After all, Ernest, it is worth while
leaving, if only to come back again ! I
only wish Hester and Gerald could have
come out with us."

I do not think it would be their idea of

happiness," said Sir Ernest, with a smile.
Gerald feels with their great wealth they
have equal responsibilities, and those are at
home."

Both Sir Gerald and his wife were full
of business. Not only in the management
of his estate, but in large undertakings on
behalf of their poorer brethren.

The old Manor had been repaired, and
the ravages caused by the fire had been
partially hidden by creepers and ivy,
planted as soon as the new masonry had
been completed.

Hester's son, a sturdy little fellow of two
sears, still reigned supreme over Percival,
who looked upon him as a young king.
The old servant devoted himself entirely to
the young autocrat, who had no more
willing slave.

You will spoil him, Percival ! "

No, no, Sir, begging your pardon. I

have had some experience with children, but
I have never seen a more noble child than
Master Horace."

Is it not rather early times to judge of
his ' nobility ' ? " said Sir Gerald, with a
laugh, " considering you humour him in
everything."

He's a true Lanyon, Sir ! " was all the
old man would say, and Gerald did not
interfere, for the child was the apple of the
old man's eye.

Gerald's love was greatly centred on his
little year old daughter, whose small form
was often seen in her father's arms as they
took their walks in the broad grounds. As
for Hester ! her heart was aglow with happiness
! Not only did she love her husband
with a deep devotion, and her two young
children ; but it caused a happy anxiety,
that others should benefit by it, and her
schemes of benevolence were multifarious.

Percy Blyte]e was sitting in the Eectory
study, full of business and parochial affairs.
The Eector, whose health now was far from
strong, was with Lady Louisa at Torquay,
where they would remain for six weeks.
Mr. Blythe was perfectly capable of doing
all that was required of him, and the
parishioners were equally willing that their
Eector, whom they loved very much, should
take every care of his health.

Percy was very busy, for everything
devolved upon him. Mr. Johnson was
willing to do anything, but his capacities
were limited. He was exceedingly good-natured
and obliging. But, as the Eector
put it, he was dense.

The page-boy brought in a telegram.

'' Is there any answer, sir ? "
Wait till I see."

Come up at once. — Adolphus'

The telegram was from Charlie Yere.

Give this answer in — * Will come.' "

Anything more, sir ? "

Nothing more."

Master Adolphus has got into a mess, I
know," and he hastened every preparation,
left a note for Mr. Johnson, and set off by
the first up train.

Adolphus Frampton had been seeing
London life, and not the best part of it.
He had a fairly good allowance from his
father, and was supposed to be studying
for the Bar, but besides studying for the
Bar he was practising other accomplishments.
When Percy Blytlie reached Mr.
Vere's house he saw Pauline.

Oh, Mr. Blythe ! You must go off at

once to the police-court ! I am afraid
Adolplius has got into trouble. Charlie is
there — look, this is the message he left ! "

Percy read it hastily. " I will go now,
Mrs. Yere, I have my cab at the door ! "
When he did reach the court, he found
Charlie Yere.

I fear Adolphus is^in a devil of a mess !
It's about some gambling fracas."

I hope it will not be in the police
reports, it would break his father's heart,"
said Mr. Blythe gravely.

They had to wait about while the first
cases were taken. Then Adolphus Hampton's
came on — and he likewise ! Anything
more deplorable can hardly be
imagined. His coat was slit down the
back and exposed its lining, his shirt front
was crushed and dishevelled, his face soiled
and bruised, his hair all over his face, and
no hat.

The magistrate asked him sternly what
lie had to say for himself.

He said he had been introduced to a club
by some friends, and he caught some man
he was playing with cheating. He told
him so. The man called him names ; he
struck him ; the police came in ; the others
escaped ; the lights were blown out ; and
he was taken to the police station, where
he had been all night. It was his first
visit to the place.

The magistrate asked the inspector if it
were so ?

Yes ; the owner of the gambling den
had disappeared ; he was a Count Marco-witch.
The club bore a bad name. There
was no money found, only the cards, and
some were marked.

Had the prisoner lost any money ?

Yes ; twenty pounds !

The magistrate, under the circumstances,

thought the prisoner had been punished
enough for his imprudence ; he woukl only
inflict a fine, and advised him for the future
to keep clear of gambling hells.

So Mr. Adolphus Frampton was handed
over to the custody of his two friends in
court. Charlie took off his own great-coat
for him to put on, and Percy went out and
bought him a hat. and they conveyed the
unhappy youth to South Kensington.

Well, Adolphus, you have been and
gone and done it this time ! What do you
suppose your father will feel when he sees
it all in tomorrow's police intelligence ? "

Oh ! Blythe, I am sure I don't know,"
said the young man, with all the bounce
gone out of him. "And I'm simply
starving ! I haven't had a taste of food
since I dined with Jack Chetwynd at ' The
Criterion,' and it must be nearly one
o'clock."

Yes, it's about that," said Mr. Yere.

How came you to go to such a place ? '*
asked Percy.

There was a fellow dining with us, and
he said, ' Let us go and have a quiet game
of cards. I know a nice little place.' First
of all I won a lot. Then some chap with a
foreign name began playing ; he soon
cleared me out. Then I found he was
doing a little business like the ' heathen
Chinee.' I told him so straight out. He
called me a few names, so I just hit out
from the shoulder. Then they all began to
fight, and we had a regular scrimmage.
Then they cried out the ' police ' were at the
door ! They blew out the lights. I heard
somebody clearing off the cash. When the
police lighted a candle, there was nobody
left but me ! The others had all clean
bolted. How or where they got to, beats
me ! Of course they nabbed me ; and you
VOL. III. 44

saw the object I was ! I looked guilty of
everything ! Any way, I suffered for the
lot."

All I hope is, Adolphus, you won't try
this on again."

Catch me, that's all ! But I would not
care so much if it were not for the dear old
dad ! Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! "

Perhaps it won't be in the papers," said
Mr. Yere, consolingly.

I thought they put everything in ? "

Sometimes they don't."

When they arrived at Charlie's house,
they could do nothing with Adolphus until
he had had something to eat ; he would
neither wash himself nor change his coat.

Oh ! cousin Pauline, if you only knew
what it is to be starving ! I hadn't even a
penny. See J " and he turned inside out
his empty pockets. " I couldn't raise even
enough for a roll,"

Poor Adolplius ! Never mind, dear ; eat
as much as you can," said Pauline, with all
the weak amiability of her sex to forgive
the culprit.

Adolphus, I think you had better go
back with me — by the five o'clock train.
Perhaps Mr. Yere can lend you some
clothes."

Certainly I will," said that gentleman.

ril go, if only just to make up for it
all. But there's just one consolation I have
got."

What is it ? " asked the gentlemen.

"I have just spoiled that chap's beauty.
I should like to see his eyes this morning."

I think it just as well, Adolphus, for
you to be safely out of it all — and —
decently attired, for I have never seen such
an object as you look now."

No ! I don't suppose any ' old clo '
would give much for my wardrobe as it

44*

stands. Don't be down on a fellow, Blytlie,
you don't know what it is to be in a police
station all night."

I am thankful to say I do not, and
I hope this' is your first and last experience."


By Jove ! yes. Now, if you will excuse
me, Pauline, I will go and adorn myself
with Charlie's clothes."

Do, dear," said Pauline, with a laugh,
as she surveyed her cousin, now, in much
better spirits after his lunch, for the poor
wretch was frightfully hungry.

It was no use blaming him, for after all
he was more sinned against than sinning.
He was young and boyish, and, if
only it could be kept from his parents' ears,
both Percy and Charlie felt the lesson
would not be wasted. So by the five-o'clock
train he departed safely in Percy's
care, and was comfortably installed at the

Eectory, from whence lie wrote the most
dutiful letters to his mother, that she, unknown
to the Eector, sent him a ten-pound
note.

Nothing could have been more opportune,
for his finances where simply " nil," so
he paid back the small sum Percy had lent
him with great gladness.

Isn't the mater an old trump ? "

Don't vex her heart, Adolphus ! It
would be cruel to repay such love as hers
with bad deeds."

All right, old fellow ! I really do mean
to turn over a new leaf."

Do ! There's an evening party at the
Craters', I can't go, or, if I do, it will be
very late, but you might ; they would be
very pleased to have you."

Happy thought ! So I will."

So Adolphus went and enjoyed himself,
and Percy just looked in for half an hour.

Mr. Dashwood was busy in his study, but
not too busy to watch, with affectionate
eyes, his wife, as she stood in the garden
with their only child in her arms. Peggy
looked as sweet and homely as ever, though
she had on a deplorable old hat. She put
down the little girl, while she stooped to
pull up some vagrant weeds.

Esme, go and fetch mother's gloves."
And the tiny scrap went in soberly to the
hall and brought them back in her chubby
hands, and her mother set to vigorously
to uproot all the intruders on her cherished
borders.

And Cyril watched all, with heart felt
pleasure and pride. How he loved that
little daughter of his ! How her baby

prattle went to his heart ! And when he
mused over his life — to think that he, of all
men, should settle down in a dull country
vicarage, and like it ! Yes, that was the
strange thing — like it ! He felt he would not
exchange it for anything ; nay, can he not
say :

0, grant me, Heaven, a middle state,
Neither too humble nor too great,
More than enough for stature's ends.
With something left to treat my friends."

At last the villagers had learned to love
him. At first they took him on trust, on
Miss Peggy's recommendation, now they
liked him for himself. And it is a constant
thing for him in the summer evenings to be
busy in the garden, unconsciously carrying
out the old vicar's ideas, with Peggy as his
constant helpmate, so that the old garden
looks lovely, and flourishes continually.
The two little sisters are at school in

Leeds, but they spend their holidays at
their old home, while Jack has joined his
brother and sister in Australia.

Polly seems invaluable to Mrs. Eraser,
whose health gets worse ; but when she is
able she drives over with Polly to the
Vicarage. Then the two sisters are truly
happy, and the wonderful little child, Esme
Dashwood, who talks so distinctly and so
prettily, and who is such a quaint, old
fashioned little thing, that she seems to
have come from a bye-gone century.

Lady Beldon, with Sir Ernest, came expressly
for her christening, and the villagers
were much impressed by the grand doings,
and the honour done to Miss Peggy.
They always spoke of the tiny child as
the little lady," and she was surrounded
by a halo of love. As for
Christie and Mousie, their pride at being
aunts to such a wonderful child made them

full of great importance, especially among
their schoolfellows.

There came wonderful presents from far-off
lands, for " Baby Dashwood," from her
god-parents. Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon ;
so that Peggy considers by the time her
daughter grows up she will have a fortune.

The church had been almost completely
restored, and there had been built in the
High Street a beautiful new school-room, a
thank-offering from Hester Lanyon and
Esme Beldon. The old school-mistress was
pensioned off, and a new one, young and
bright, reigned in her stead. The village
was cheerful and happy ; Parson and Miss
Peggy, and " the little lady," were dearly
loved, they were the centre around which
everything moved.

Cyril no longer begrudged the flowers
on the grave of the old vicar. Did not his
baby daughter add her little tribute every

Sunday? Yes; he liked to think now,
that, when his time came, they would do
the same to his last resting place.

It was by gradual and severe inspection
of himself, that Cyril Dashwood had at
last arrived at the conviction that he had
received far more than he deserved, in the
way of happiness. He was thankful that
his atonement had reinstated him in the
good opinion of two women, so worthy,
as Lady Lanyon and Lady Beldon. Ashe
looked back, he felt how much he had
outraged both their dignity, and love ; but
there was a deep pleasure in feeling and
knowing that they had both thoroughly forgiven
him, and now looked upon him as a
valued friend.

As for his wife, her belief in him was
sublime. There could be no such other
man as her Cyril, so noble, so chivalrous.
He had not considered it necessary to

inform his good innocent wife of his early
shortcomings, there was no need. She had
put him on a pedestal, and if he can
remain there, why not ? — he means to try.

The little sisters-in-law are at school at
his expense, and so their brother has been
enabled to go to the Colonies, and try,
with the others, to make a home for them,
while Polly is invaluable at the Hall, and
is also a comfort to his wife. So we may
safely leave one of the three Curates, whose
fortunes we have chronicled and whose,

Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow.
He "who would search for pearls must dive below."

There were rumours in Langton, that
Combe Towers " was once more to be
thrown open. It had been closed for some
three or four years. Not that Gerald or
Lady Lanyon were coming back to the
latter's old home. But still, there were
signs of coming life. The windows were
thrown open, and paper hangers, and
whitewashed, and tradespeople from
London, took the place in hand. Then
Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell came and visited,
and arranged, planned and ordered.
During this time they stayed at the Red
House, though Dr. and Mrs. Lewis were
still in foreign lands. But " Combe
Towers " was not required for them ; no,
that was very certain.

By and-bye, Mrs. Luttrell hired servants,
and additional furniture arrived, and was
as busy as a Bee getting things in order.
But for whom ? Mrs. Frostick considered
Mrs. Luttrell was trifling with the Town.
Why could she not say who was expected ?
But Mrs Luttrell only went on with her
preparations. The Colonel took in hand
the grounds, and they were got into fairly
decent order, but certainly not as they
were in the time of Miss Higgins ; but it
was the end of May, so, with bedding-out
plants, it was made to look very bright
and cheerful, and shrubs were trimmed up,
and walks weeded, so in the first week of
June the place looked very comfortable
and home-like. Then arrived a van load
of very curious things from India —
black carved chairs; davenports, carpets,
Indian goods, queer carved things,
mats, rugs. Such a collection as was

transferred from the Railway to the van,
had actually never been seen before.
After these had arrived and been settled
in their various places in " Combe
Towers," Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell went
the one to Town, and the other
to the " Towers."

A day or two afterwards, Mrs. Luttrell,
in Dr. Lewis's old large carriage, and a fly
following, went up to the station, to meet
the down train from London ; it was about
six o'clock, and the Langton world was
on the tiptoe of expectation, some at the
station, some at their windows. When the
train arrived, there was the Colonel, and
an elderly, imposing-looking gentleman,
a pale, delicate lady, who was lifted outwith
great tenderness. Then a young lady
stepped out. Surely ! Yes ! it was Miss
Maitland ! Then an elderly-looking maid,
and lastly a gorgeously dressed black

servant, in a turban, who seemed to hold
the elderly gentleman in great respect.

They all kissed and hugged Mrs. Lut-tell.
George! Ellen! Edith! Sabina!—
these names, in all their warm affection,
were heard and commented upon by
the interested bystanders, Mrs. Frostick
among them.

Then Lors. Maitland, Mrs. Luttrell and
Sabina, got into the large carriage, with
the maid outside, while the fly held the
Judge, Colonel Luttrell, the luggage and
the Indian servant. So the procession
moved on, till it reached Combe Towers,
where Mrs. Maitland was installed in
Hester's old morning room, made beautiful
for her by the clever, loving hands of her
sister-in-law. Sabina was charmed with
everything, and the Judge warmly thanked
the Colonel.

It is just what I have been dreaming of

for years, Selwyn ! How fresh and green it
looks, Ellen, doesn't it ? "

What a sweet old place ! '*

It is delicious ! How good of you,
dearest Selwyn and Edith, and how prettily
you have arranged all my possessions ! "

Is it anything like what I described,
mother ? " asked Sabina, as she deftly
attended to her invalid mother.

Yes, love ! only prettier ! You did not
tell me of those copper beeches, or the
cedar. But I know, I shall love it."

By-and by, when you can get out in
your wheeled chair, you will be so charmed
with the grounds, won't she. Aunt Edith ? "

I fancy she will, Sabina. Also there is
some one else, who will be equally
charmed to hear of your return. Can you
guess, love ? " said her aunt, kissing her,
and whispering in her ear.

A rosy flush spread over Sabina's face.

So apparently she did guess, but she said
nothing, only, with the help of the maid,
assisted her mother into her bed-room,
which had been arranged on the same
floor.

Later on, the party, with the exception
of Mrs. Maitland, adjourned for dinner,
and afterwards the two gentlemen made
the tour of the whole place, while Mrs.
Luttrell and Sabina, linked arm-in-arm,
walked through the pleasant shady shrubberies.


Yes ; it was exactly two years since that
memorable day when Sabina had been summoned
up to town by her uncle to meet her
father. How well she remembered it ! And
as they drove past the town hall — the scene
of her crowning folly — how it all came back
to her ! And the bitter mortification and
misery she had suffered !

Mrs. Luttrell carefully studied her, and
VOL. III. 45

she came to the conclusion that it was a
very improved edition of Sabina that had
returned — not Sabina the selfish, the
egotistical, but a tender daughter, a
charming companion, whom both parents
loved to look upon, cheering them by her
unselfish devotion.

Great faith had been attached to the
home-coming of Mrs. Maitland, and both
the Judge and his daughter anxiously
looked forward to good results. So far,
she had borne the journey better than could
have been expected. The voyage had
greatly improved her, and, with the more
invigorating English climate, they allowed
themselves to be cheered into hope.

Lady Louisa and the Eector are expected
home very soon, so Percy Blythe
tells me. I shall be so glad for your
mother's sake. Dear Lady Louisa is a host

in herself. She is such a sweet, cheerful
creature. And it will be nice for the
Eector to meet your father."

And Adolphus ? " said Sabina, with a
little laugh.

*' Oh, Adolphus really is settling down
and studying, at last. He is in London
now. He certainly owes everything to
good Percy Blythe."

And Mrs. Frostick ? "

Oh, she is alive, you may be sure, and
devoured with curiosity. And now, dear,
have you no questions to ask of a certain
person ? "

Oh, Auntie, I am almost afraid ! But
you did say he would be pleased to hear I
have come home."

Yes, dear. He gave me this message
to give you."

Yes, Aunt Edith."

' Tell her I shall always remain faithful

4to

her ; that if she can ever bring herself to
love me again, I am her faithful lover and
slave.' "

He is very noble, Auntie."

"I think he is, Sabina. He was so
much improved. His travels have bronzed
him ; he looked so much more manly,
too. And, my dear, the way he is
run after ! The mothers with marriageable
daughters do not mean to let him escape
for want of looking up. But, so far, he
has proved impervious to their blandishments."


All the same. Aunt Edith," said Sabina,
after some silence, " I could not leave
mother for any one ; she clings to me.
You see, the others have married, and we
quite thought she would die out there.
Papa says all the unfortunate affair, some
two years ago, was almost Providential,
on account of my being with her. So out

of my own misery some one has gained
by it."

And no one more than Sabina," thought
her aunt, as she looked at the sweet face
beside her.

Now, Auntie ! I must go to mother ; she
always likes me to read to her about this
time, and Collins will want to be unpacking.
I am so glad you are going to stay at the
Bed House, till Doctor and Mrs. Lewis
come home. There come dear Uncle
Selwyn and Papa ! Well, Papa ! and what
do you think of it all? Does it please

you?"

That it does, love ! I am charmed with
it, and the way Selwyn and Edith have
arranged it all ! It will give me something
to do to get all those hot-houses into working
order."

And you must have a horse, love, and
we must get something very nice for the

mother to drive out in. Oh, I think we
shall be wonderfully happy here."

"You delight me, George," said the Colonel.

Stow, Papa ! I am going in to mother
for a time, so au revoir." And the graceful
figure ran off to the house with quick footsteps,
and kissed her hand gaily as she
disappeared. They all looked after her.

Ah, no one knows what Sabina has
been to us this last two years," said her
father fondly. " I believe lie really has
kept her mother alive by her devotion."

I think I never saw any one so vastly
improved, there is something so sweet
about her eyes," said her Uncle Selwyn.
She always was the daintiest little creature
imaginable, but now there seems a tenderness
about her I did not notice before."

No, it was a tenderness born of her
own suffering. For Sabina had suffered
acutely ; it was months and months before

that letter written by her Uncle Selwyn
arrived, to be like the shadow of a great
rock in a weary land. After having been
in intimate communion day by day for
over a year, to have been the daily
recipient of the kindest love, the most
unselfish devotion, and then suddenly to be
cut off from everything by one blow, and
by her own act ! At first Sabina felt as
if she could not bear it, but the alarming
condition of her mother put every other
thought aside, though the pain and the
wound were there always.

And now she was in the same country,
breathed the same air, heard of his fidelity,
his message of love. Ah ! it was worth the
pain, to have the joy it gave her.

She entered her mother's chamber with
a bright happy light in her eye, and drew
a chair by her couch.

Well, dearest ! are you glad to get back

to England ? You look so bright, I think
you must be."

Indeed, yes, mother ; you know I have

stayed in this neighbourhood so much with

Aunt Edith, that I know nearly every one,

this house as well, when Lady Lanyon was

Miss Higgins, so it seems like coming

home. You will like Lady Lousia ! she

is the dearest old thing you can possibly

imagine, and the Eector is nice. Papa will

like him, and Percy Blythe too."

Who is Percy Blythe, love ? "

Oh, the Eector's dear friend and curate.

Oh, mother, I am longing to introduce all

the dear friends who were so good and

kind to me when I was here. But, dearie,

to give me that pleasure you must get

strong. And now I will read you to sleep,

and tomorrow, if you feel equal to it,

you shall make the grand tour in your

wheeled chair." And then she softly read,

until lier mother's tired eyes were closed,
and the maid came in and quietly relieved
the young lady, who joined the others in
the drawing-room.

A month or two passed, and Mrs. Maitland
had improved wonderfully. Lady
Louisa had returned and brought her
bright, cheering presence to bear on the
invalid ; she was very soon as invaluable
to the sick woman as she had been to her
friends of old.

Lady Louisa was one of those happy
beings who diffuse cheerfulness around
them as a matter of course. She would
take Mrs. Maitland for drives, interest her
in almost everything that was going on, so
that not only was her bodily health improving,
but her mind was interested, while the
Judge and his daughter would ride with
the Colonel and make acquaintance with
every hill and dale.

One morning a little note came for
Sabina from her aunt, Mrs. Luttrell:

If your mother can spare you, come
over and spend the day with me.

"E. L."

Can you spare me, mother ? "

Of course, darling! Is not Lady
Louisa coming for one thing? and if she
were not, I am so well I could do with my
own company, for once in a way."

Very well, darling. I see Aunt Edith
has sent her pony carriage, so I will just
run and put my things on."

And Sabina equipped herself briskly,
and rather-looked forward to the day to be
spent in Aunt Edith's society. There was
always one theme which never tired Sabina,
and as she drove along this theme was
uppermost. She walked straight into her
aunt's drawing-room.

"The mistress will be down in a few
minutes, Miss Maitland."

"Thanks," and Sabina walked towards
the window, that looked so pleasantly
out on to the old garden.

As she stood there the door opened.

"Auntie, dear!" But instead of her
aunt there came forward a face and a
form that made her heart leap into her
mouth.

Arthur ! Lord Frampton ! "

Sabina, at last ! " And he came forthwith
two eager outstretched hands, and
somehow her own were grasped warmly
and held fast. ■

"Sabina, Sabina! have you forgiven

ri 5)

me :

Forgiven you ? It is I who need the
forgiveness. I cannot forgive myself."

Sabina, have you still any love left forme
? "

But Sabina answered nothing, only a
blush went over her face.

Won't you relieve my suspense ? "

"What can I say?"

Say ! Say, ' I love sou and forgive you,
Arthur.' "

"Well, Arthur, I do love you, but I
have nothing, as I told you, to forgive."

He clasped her eagerly in his arms, he
required nothing more. His Sabina, his
wild little love of old days, was his own
once more ; and when dear, kind Aunt
Edith, with a little warning noise, came in
later on, she found traces of tears on her
niece's face.

Oh Auntie, I am so happy at last ! "

"So am I, Aunt Edith, said Lord Hampton
in tones of convincing quality. " We
have made it all up, and I feel so happy I
should like to kiss you."

Perhaps the Colonel might object to

that," said Mrs. Luttrell with a hearty
laugh. " He is exceedingly particular
who I embrace."

It is needless to say that these two
young people spent a truly happy day.
The Colonel was safe in London. They
wandered about the old gardens of the Need
House under the old trees just as Esme
Curtis and Cyril Dashwood, in the days
gone by, had done. How many vows have
the trees heard in their time ? Who
knows ? But the babblings of these two
were very happy.

Sabina, I shall call on your father ! "

Arthur, you won't want me to leave
mother yet ? Her health is so delicate.
When she gets strong — by-and-bye."

Sabina, I love you too much to be
selfish. I will, if needs be, wait for you
as Jacob waited for Rachel ! So long as
you are mine, I fear nothing."

"You will have no cause, Arthur," said
Sabina earnestly. " You are, and you
will be, the only man I shall, ever love.
Suffering has taught me to know myself
at last."

Mrs. Luttrell's page-boy drove Sabina
back. Lord Frampton would dearly have
liked to do so himself; but Mrs. Luttrell
was stern in this :

No, no, Frampton, be satisfied and be
reasonable. You have yet to obtain the
Judge's consent, and you had better leave
it in the Colonel's hands."

Mrs. Luttrell, I will obey you
implicitly."

"Oh, Auntie! how good you are. It
was sweet of you," whispered Sabina, as
they parted.

Good-bye, child ! and be off with
you," said her aunt ; but there were

furtive tears in Mrs. Luttrell's eyes, only,
fortunately, it was dusk and no one could
see.

'' How good you have been to us, Mrs.
Luttrell," said Lord Frampton, when
Sabina had departed.

Dear Frampton, I waited to prove
my love, till the man I loved was nigh
unto death, and even now he suffers at
times. I do not wish you and Sabina to
go through the same bitter experience."
And she told him of the life long love of
the Colonel for herself.

Sabina's character has been tried and
not found wanting. She had been spoilt,
she was heedless, volatile. Now, she
has proved herself a devoted daughter,
and the hearts of her parents safely trust
in her, and so may her husband. I think
you must wait a little longer. Even I
could not advise her to leave her mother ;

though she is rapidly improving, you must
give her time."

I will only say to you as I said to her,
I will wait seven years for her ; she is
worth it."

Yes ; T think she is. Hark ! here
comes the Colonel." And Mrs. Luttrell
rushed off to the entrance to meet her
husband, and hug him as heartily as if
he had been away weeks, instead of a
day!

Is Frampton here, Edith ? "

"Very much so. Here he comes to
answer for himself."

"Here I am, Colonel, as happy as a
lark."

'• Mischief, Edith, mischief ! " said her
husband.

My dear Selwyn, you speak in

enigmas."

Yes; but you understand. However,

dinner first, and then you shall tell me
all."

After the dinner was over and the
cigarettes and coffee were being enjoyed,
Colonel Luttrell was put in possession of
the whole affair.

I expect I shall have some trouble
with the Judge ; he thinks it is a thing of
the past — is forgotten, in fact. He does not
want to part with Sabina."

Oh, Colonel Luttrell ! tell him I will
wait, I will try and be as patient as
possible ; and if I do marry soon, Sabina
shall stay with them as long as he likes.
Say anything, so long as he only says yes."

Well, well ! I will see what I can do,
but match-making isn't at all in my line."

Xot match-making, Colonel, but heart-making
! "

I knew Edith here would get me into
a mess, she has no conscience."

VOL. III. 46

But his wife laughed happily. " Now
Frampton, go to bed, and remember ' faint
heart never won fair lady.' Take a lesson
from the Colonel ! He made me marry
him, he did indeed ! " And with a saucy little
grimace at her husband, she wished them
both good night.

Ah ! " said he, gazing after her, " If
your Sabina only comes up to my Edith,
you will be a lucky man."

'' I am sure of it."

"Frampton, I am not sure if this long
separation and trouble has not been a good
thing for you both."

'• I can hardly agree with you, Colonel."

Yes," said the other, with conviction ;
'' it has proved you both. Sabina has had
time to be sure of her own heart, and j^ou
will not love her the less because you have
waited for her."

I have alvvavs loved her."

I believe you have, and now you know
for a certainty she loves you."

The Judge on the whole took it better
than the Colonel anticipated. He dearly
loved his child, but still, if they would
wait for a time, he would give his consent.
This they most joyfully agreed to, and when
Lord Frampton came over the Judge was
pleased with him, and Mrs. Maitland was
charmed, so, thanks to Colonel Luttrell, the
wheels moved very easily, and he was very
soon as much at home as if they had known
him for years.

The settlements he proposed to make
were very handsome, and Judge Maitland
could not but feel gratified. Lord Yanseur,
the father, was polite, and that was all they
required of him at present.

4G^

Mrs. Frostick had never left her home, if
a very little excursion out of the town to a
neighbouring village might be looked upon
as home-land. But now, in a most unexpected
manner, she had been summoned
to London on some legal business connected
with a small legacy left to her by a distant
cousin, and it was with great fear and
trembling she set off to the mighty Babylon.
She thought she might have to stay three
weeks ; and Betsy was left with more
admonitions than her old head could ever
hold — was cautioned and cautioned — and
at last the omnibus came to fetch Mrs.
Frostick and her luggage, and she went off
by the train, whose advent often gave her
such topics of interest.

Jilt HOW occurred a strange event, at
which even old David Brown himself connived.
Immediately after Mrs. Frostick's
departure, the banns of James Johnson and
Harriet Hannah Brown were given out, to
the great surprise of everyone (except Mr.
Blythe).

The Eector laughed outright when Percy
told him before the service.

Old Brown's brimming over with pride,
and directly ' the three times of asking ' is
over, they are to be married at once ; so
we shall want help for a week, because,
Eector, you must give Johnson a little
holiday."

Oh, yes, let him have his little holiday.
And where are they going to live ? "

With Mr. Brown. Johnson does nearly
live there now."

What do Johnson's people say toit
all?"

I have not the faintest idea," answered
Percy. " Harriet Brown has a little money
of her own, which her father has settled
upon her."

The first, second and third Sunday were
over, and on the Monday morning the
bridal procession wended its way to church,
'Tilly feeling somewhat improved in social
status, Harriet really looking well in her
white silk dress. There were a few friends
present ; kind Lady Louisa was there,
and Mrs. Luttrell greatly gratified old
Brown by being present likewise.

"How is it Mrs. Frostick is not here?"
asked she of Mr. Brown.

Hush, ma'am, if you please ! " as if he
was fearful her very name would bring her
back. " It's just this ! My lassies have
stolen a march upon her! We was only
waiting for her absence for this little
affair to come off. They've been courting

this year and more ; and now, when she
comes home, they will be married ! " The
old chap chuckled and crowed over this
with great glee.

The fact is, ma'am, she has a tongue ! "

She has, Mr. Brown ! "

And now the Eector began the service,
and Adolphus actually was "best man"
for the occasion ; but he had volunteered on
condition that he was not expected to kiss
the bridesmaid in the person of 'Tilly or
Mr. Johnson's sister, who was, if anything,.
a thinner and more nervous edition of her
brother.

The newly-married couple duly started
for their short honeymoon.

And Betty bemoaned the fact that she
could neither read or write. What ivoidd
the Mistress say when she came home ! It
incas surprising, to be sure !

And before Mrs. Fro stick had returned,

the bride and bridegroom had settled
themselves under "David Brown's roof; he
had given them up entirely one portion of
the house, and Mr. Johnson had moved in
his modest possessions. Both the sisters
were very good friends, and the arrangement
suited them all.

If Mr. Johnson was dense and nervous,
he was quite able to appreciate the
advantages of having to pay no rent, and the
run of a by-no-means-to-be-despised home.
His own family were equally satisfied. So
there was no reason why they should not
get on very comfortably.

A week or ten days had passed, and Mrs.
T'rostick was seen to get into the omnibus
waiting at the Station.

Presently, Keziah, who was " going up
town," got in likewise.

I hope I sees you well, Mum, after
your great journey."

Yes, I am well enough. How's Betty ? "

Well enough, Ma'am. Have you heard
of the grand doings at Mr. Brown's,
Ma'am ? "

Grand doings ? What grand doings ?
Have they had a fire ? "

"A fire.' Lawks, Ma'am, no! It's a
wedding they've had."

A what ? " shrieked Mrs. Frostick, as
the omnibus began to move.

A wedding ! " bawled out old Keziah.

Has old David gone and made a fool
of himself ? I'm not surprised ! "

No, Ma'am," screamed out Keziah,
louder than ever ; " it's Miss Harriet's got
married to Parson Johnson ! "

Mrs. Frostick heard this time, and anything
more maliciously angry than her face
could hardly be imagined. She realised
they had taken advantage of her absence to
enjoy themselves!

Keziali was for giving her full particulars,
lie snapped her up with :

Hold sour tongue, I don't want to hear
any more of such trash ! "

Keziali felt a little thrill of triumph, she
had angered Mrs. Frostick, and as they
neared the street where the old charwoman
lived, she alighted, with a " good day,
ma'am ! " in a demure voice.

Mrs. Frostick vouchsafed no answer, and
in no amiable mood reached her own door.

Betty rushed out to greet her, and
then began to narrate the wonderful news.

Just hold your tongue ! Do you suppose
folks coming such a journey as mine,
wants to be fashed with doings like
theirs ? " So old Betty hobbled off, considerably
snubbed, and brought in some tea
and some ham.

After this refreshment was over, old Mrs.
Frostick was a little mollified.

Now Betty, you may tell me what I
don't know, but I heard the minute I got
in the town; folks always are so full of
other people's doings."

"My lady and Mrs. Luttrell were there,
and Mr. Johnson's sister and Master
Adolphus."

What was he doing there ? ".

I don't know exactly, missus ! I
thought it was him as was going to be
married ; he seemed talking and doing
about, and laughing with everyone, and
Miss Harriet had on a real grand white
silk dress with a train, and Miss Tilly's
gown was pale green."

"And a pretty object she must have
looked in it, with her face like a bit of
whitey-brown paper ! "

The colonel's lady," continued Betty,
"had a brown silk dress, and my lady a
dark grey, and as for old Mister, he was as

fine as line could be. A great posy as big
as a saucer stuck in this coat, a white
westkit, a "

There, that will do, I am getting nigh
sick of them Browns — it's nothing but
Browns wherever you turn."

There's a young lord as have been
stopping at the Need House, and now he's
gone on to the Towers."

What's his name ? "

I can't think, mum !^"

Then you may go."

So you've got home, neighbour Frost
! " cried Brown's hearty old voice at
the open door. " How do you find herself
after yer stay in London city, ma'am ? "
Quite well, Brown ! Why shouldn't I ? '*
Why not ? Only you're not so young
as sou were, and journeys to old folks is
wearisome-like."

Mrs. Frostick drew herself up, liiglily
offended. '' Old, indeed ! "

I suppose, neighbour, now you've come
into a fortune, you'll be too grand for us
poor folks."

Oh, dear no ! Not now you've got a
parson ' in the family" she answered
sarcastically.

"Well, I was just a coming to that.
Here's a bit of cake wrapped up in satin
ribbon. Tilly put it up for you. You can
put it under your pillow. It was a pity
you was away, neighbour, while all our
grand doings was on," said the old man
with sly unction in his voice.

Ah ! David Brown. I ain't quite so
soft as I look ! "

David Brown was half a mind to tell her
she was the hardest-looking old female he
had ever set eyes on, but he refrained.
Had they not got the best of her ?

"We have got a tea coming off tomorrow
evening. Will yer come, and
meet my son and his wife ? "

"My son? We're getting on, David
Brown."

We are," answered the old man succinctly.


"And when does Tilly intend to be
married ? "

"Oh! we don't quite know yet. But
now, neighbour, I must be £?oini^. There's
all Langton, nearly, calling on Mr. and
Mrs. Johnson."

Lack-a-day ! " said she as he passed
down the street. Nevertheless she felt she
had been worsted.

That it should all have been o'oinof on
under her very nose, and she not to know
anything about it !

But she would be even with them,
sooner or later.

Adolphus was a constant visitor at the
Towers. He was wildly in love with
Sabina, but she, knowing what it all led to
before, was careful to give him no encouragement
; on the contrary, she avoided
him as delicately as she could, and yet she
felt sorry for him. To Percy Ably the— once
the object of her own love and scorn, she
confided her present trouble. " Oh, Mr.
Blythe ! can't you tell him not to come so
much ? You know how it caused the
quarrel two years ago with Lord Frampton
and myself. Arthur trusts me so now, I
would avoid every appearance of flirting."

Dear Miss Maitland, I think you are
perfectly wise," said Mr. Blythe in kind
tones. Eest assured I will do everything

to get him to return to his studies. The
drawback is his mother's fondness for his
presence! Nothing gives her so much
happiness as to have him to look at! "

Dear Lady Louisa ! She is so good to
others, it seems a shame to take her pleasure
away ! Work is good for him all the same.
Are there no nice girls about here now ? "

He shook his head.

Stay ! Used he not to like Adelaide
Craster ? "

He had a fancy that way," said Percy
with a smile, " but Miss Craster is too old
for him."

And he might have said he had just the
slightest weakness for her himself.

I will take master Adolphus in hand.
Make your mind easy."

Percy had resumed his old friendship at
the Need House. Nothing in life gave him
so much pleasure as to spend a stray half

hour in Mrs. Luttrell's company. His old
love was not dead, only altered — idealised
as it were. She would always be the most
charming woman he would ever know, but
he could honestly look his host in the face.
The pleasant hours in the evening would
glide away in their company, and it
refreshed him exceedingly ; and he valued
the friendship of Colonel Luttrell almost
as much as his wife's. It no longer
grieved him to see the love between the
two.

Percy told Mrs. Luttrell of Sabina's embarrassment
about Adolphus.

Poor child ! She had many a mauvais
quart cohere. Apropos of that young
man. What a pity a nice girl can't be
found for him."

'that is exactly what Miss Maitland
said. But nice girls can't be made ' to
order.' And even if we found one, there is
VOL. III. 47

quite the possibility that Adolphus would
not like her."

A way was found out of the difficulty,
for unexpectedly Mr. and Mrs. Yere were
giving a dance, and Adolphus was urgently
required. And as he was exceedingly fond
of his cousins Pauline and Charlie Yere, it
pleased him to go.

I wish you were going, Sabina," said
he dolefully.

No, Adolphus ! I can't leave for one
thing, and I don't care to go without
Arthur."

Why without Arthur more than me ? "

Because, Adolphus, I am going to
marry Arthur, and not you ! " She said it
so kindly he could not take offence, but his
boyish face was eloquent with wounded
love.

"I thought it was allover between you?"
he said resentfully.

Yes," she answered, with a warm blush,
but we have ' made it up,' as the children
say."

You were not so unkind in the old
days."

No ; I was wicked and foolish. And
now, dear Adolphus, I do love Arthur very,
very much ; so you must not expect too
much of me. Adolphus ! "

"Well?"

Don't you think Eva Mountchesney is a
very nice girl ? "

I don't know ; I do not think any girls
are nice," said the young man, with a
lamentable lack of politeness. "You used
to be. I can't see why I'm not as good as
Frampton, except he's a Viscount, which I
am not."

Ah, but I loved him first ! I have
always liked you, Adolphus ; you know
that. Believe me, there are nice girls,

47*

and pretty ones, if you would only look
about."

I don't want to look about, and I tell
you I don't care for them ; and as you will
have nothing to say to me, I shall go.
Good-bye, Sabina ! "

Good-bye, Adolphus ! Don't be cross
with me."

He was too angry for any blandishments,
so that when he arrived at the Eectory,
Percy had no difficulty in discovering that
Sabina had given "a quietus," however
gentle, to the unfortunate Adolphus.

Mother," announced that gentleman,
I am going up to Pauline's tomorrow,
and afterwards back to work. A fellow
gets sick of doing nothing. It's beastly
down here."

Why, Adolphus, I thought you told me
you enjoyed it?" said his mother, much
hurt.

Oh, well, I have changed my opinion.
A fellow can change his opinion, I suppose,
if he chooses ? "

"I think he will be all the better for
some work. Lady Louisa," said Percy
Blythe. " Even the best of us get tired of
doing nothing."

Now, mother, I shall run down again
soon, you know I shall," for his mother
looked aggrieved.

Well, dear, I suppose all mothers have
to part from their sons," said Lady Louisa,
reluctantly. " Don't work too hard, and
knock yourself up. So many young men
do that now-a-days."

I am sure Adolphus will take care of
himself," said Mr. Blythe, with a twinkle in
his eye.

Adolphus saw it, and, cross as he was, he
felt he could not help smiling too. No one
believed in his hard work but his mother.

Never you fear, mother ; I will take
care of myself."

She left the room for a few moments, and
presently returned with a crisp note for ten
pounds.

There, dear ; I always save all my petty
cash for you. It is sure to be useful."

What an old brick you are, mater !
There isn't a mother to beat you in all the
county ! "

Lady Louisa was amply repaid.

You are very welcome, dear, to it."

And Adolphus really kissed her with
affection, for his errors were those of head,
not heart.

When the Eector heard of his son's intention
to resume work, he was also pleased.

When do you go, Adolphus ? "

To-morrow."

Are you going to accept Pauline's
invite?"

Father, sir."

'before you go tomorrow, come into
my study."

And when Adolphus presented himself,
his father handed him a cheque for ten
pounds ! With a good deal of pleasure
Adolphus pocketed it (he discreetly said
nothing about his mother's present), so
that if he was unlucky in his love affairs,
his financial ones were in a most satisfactory
condition.

Well, young man, I don't think you
have done badly," said Mr. Blythe, with a
laugh.

No, I have not," answered Mr. Adolphus,
decidedly consoled.

Now, Adolphus, do buckle to, and
work."

I will, Blythe, upon my word ! "

'* All right, old fellow ; I shall trust to
your honour."

And SO Adolphus departed, and when he
reached his cousins' house, he really felt
cheered. After all, it was no use making
himself miserable, he could not make Sabina
love him. And Eva Mountchesney was
really very nice. Of course, she could not
be compared to Sabina. But if Sabina was
engaged to that tall, lanky Frampton, there
was nothing more to be done. He would
make a name — do something wonderful ! —
and then Miss Sabina might regret she had
not taken the short Frampton instead of
the tall one.

"Pauline, did you know Frampton and
Sabina were engaged again ? "

No, Adolphus, but I am very glad, and
not in the least surprised ; though I think
Sabina behaved very badly to him."

Badly to him ! In what way ? "

Why, was she not always flirting with
you and Jack Chetwynd ? "

And is that why they quarrelled ? "

"Yes."

Mr. Adolphus saw things much more
clearly now.

Then I put my foot in it? "

Most decidedly."

Well, I will take good care I don't doit
again."

' 0, wise young judge, 0, learned Jew,'
etc," quoted Pauline.

"Now look here, Adolphus, there is
plenty of time for you ; you are not even
of age yet."

No ; but I shall be, in a few months
time."

Very well ; take my advice, and don't
rush into matrimony or even in love. Girls
think so much more of a man if he is a few
years over twenty, instead of one year
under."

How old is Frampton, then? "

About seven-and-twenty."
It wasn't 'even' running, then? "
"No, not as regards age," said Pauline,
with a laugh.

So, carefully turning the matter over in
his own mind, Adolphus submitted to
circumstances, and resigned himself — as
his father had done before him — to
what he could not possibly alter.

Winter reigned supreme at Langton.
Snow covered the ground. Every tree
and shrub glittered with frost, and the
youthful world skated at its pleasure.
Easy faces, that the snow threw up with
bright clear light, looked charming, while
the elders looked out of their windows,
and shivered. Christmas was just over,
and on New Year's day, Adolphus Hampton
came of age.

There were to be grand doings— a ball
at the Town Hall — while all Lady Louisa's
friends were to be with her on this
auspicious occasion.

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis had returned from
their long trip, with results that delighted
the Doctor ; Colonel and Mrs. Luttrell

were to come down from London ; Sir
Gerald and Lady Lanyon would arrive
from Devonshire ; Mr. and Mrs. Cyril
Dashwood would put up somewhere in
the town, and Sir Ernest and Lady Beldon,
who had only landed about a fortnight,
had promised to come likewise.

These last two friends had not accomplished
the desire that had so eagerly
possessed them of finding the unfortunate
woman ; but they had heard that the
renowned Tom Heenan had been sentenced
to penal servitude for life, so that he was
not likely to trouble his fellow creatures
for the future. They left instructions
with their Sydney lawyers, that if any
information should come to them, they
were to follow it up with every possible
pecuniary assistance to his wife. Sir
Ernest had done everything that could be
done. The long cruise had been invaluable

to them. Both the young Baronet
and his wife had quite recovered their
former health, and the little Lanyon and
his sister had proved themselves admirable
sailors. But still, these were glad to be
once more in their own home, and much
happiness came from the fact that Sir
Percy and Lady Willis were in a much
better financial condition than they had
ever been before, for Sir Ernest had
generously divided the large fortune
between the two houses. So the New Year
promised to open with much satisfaction
to many of them.

Adolphus began to feel a person of great
importance, for he was the hero of the day,
and his presents were in every way satisfactory
to himself.

The day of the ball arrived, and those
people who could not go to the ball were
to be admitted by tickets to the galleries,

SO that they could see the grand doings
below of their more fortunate friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson had received invitations,
likewise Tilly. Many of the old
county families would be present to do
honour to the coming of age of the grandson
of the late Earl Yanseur.

Ko woman could feel more proud than
did Lady Louisa. And it was with deep
pleasure her dear friends Hester and Esme
were there, with their respective husbands,
while the Eector was greatly gratified to
have his ci-devant curates with him again.
Gerald so cheery, so genial, Cyril so handsome,
so pleasant, and Percy, whom he
loved like a son, a little older, a little
graver, but always the same sweet, unselfish
temper. Yes ! These three men, all
in their several ways, were attached to
each other and their old Eector. There
was a strong link of friendship between

them all. And they were rejoiced at the
meeting, and the occasion that had brought
them together. And their wives! Where
would you find a sweeter mother than
Lady Louisa, or anything more gracious
than Hester ? while Esme was the picture
of beautiful happiness, and the Yere and
the Luttrells, to say nothing of charming
Sabina and her lord, of Lady Laura, of
sweet Peggy Dashwood !

Mrs. Frost sick was even satisfied at the
mise-en-scene, as she looked down on the
brilliant throng, with old David beside
her, for they had buried the hatchet for
the nonce, and both were genuinely gratified.
He felt proud to see his daughters
and son-in-law among " the quality." And,
knowing nearly everybody, as they did,
both Mrs. Frostick and her neighbour
were deeply interested, so can .we do better
than leave them all on the threshold of

a new year, with the fortunes of our
friends " The Three Curates " safely and
happily assured ?

"All nature is but art, unknown to thee ;
All chance, directions which thou canst not see ;
All discord, harmony not understood ;
All partial evil, universal good ;
And spite of pride, in erring reason's spite,
One thing is clear, whatever is, is right,"

THE END.
