OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUN 1

i'.

L161— O-1096

&C., etc., &C.
BY THE AUTHOR OF

'lady AUDLEY'S SECEET," "VIXEN,"
ISHMAEL," ETC.

in Z:f)xtt Volumes.

VOL. I.

LONDON
JOHN AND EOBEET MAXWELL

illLTOX HOUSE, 35, ST. BRIDE Street, Lydgate Circus,

And

14 And 15, SHOE Lane, FLEET Street, Eg.

18S6.

[All rights reserved.]

V, I

CONTEXTS TO VOL. I.

CHAP. PAGE

I. * Oh, Marked from Birth, and Nurtured tor

>.

-.x THE Skies 1

(^ II. ' "Whence and what art Thou, execrable

Shape?' 20

III. 'All that hate Eyes to Weep, Spare one
^■> Tear with Me ' 34

- IV. ' So WOE-BEGONE A ThING WAS ShE ' . . . 57

', V. ' By Degrees the Human Blossom Blows ' . 91

^ VI. ' Out of Sight, beyond Light, at what Goal

^ may we Meet?' 122

o

VII. The New Cinderella 156

VIII. A Young Proud "Woman that has "Will to

T Sail with 217

IX. ' But as the Days Change Men Change too ' . 233

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onethingneedful01brad

Chapter I

OH, Marked FROM BIRTH, And Nurtured f OK THE
SKIES '

The gray old walls of Lashmar Castle rise ina
massive pile above a broad reach of the Middle-shire
Avon, which here makes a bold and sweeping
curve, and dallies with its rushy banks, as if some
spirit of these Lashmar woods were the Cleopatra
to that watery Antony. The stream has such a
languorous flow just at this point ; the river here
spreads itself into such a placid expanse, that one
would hardly credit the current with force enough to
turn a water-mill or drift a barge. It has an Arcadian

air, a river made for Chloe and Phillips, and Stephen
VOL. I. B

and his flock, and not for the vulgar uses of daily
li fe. Yet that very river waxes utilitarian enough , and
carries all foul things which a seething populace cares
to cast into its waters ; it puts on the dark livery of
smoke and dirt, only a few miles to the east of those
Lashmar woods yonder, where the great manufacturing
town of Brumm obscures the heavens with
the smoke of numberless chimneys, and taints the
atmosphere with the mixed odours of the people.
But here there is no hint of that great industrial
centre. No one basking on the green slope above this
glassy stream, between a foreground of bulrushes
and a background of immemorial oaks, would suspect
the existence of such a place as Brumm within
ten miles.

Yet, although its smoke made no stain upon
the blue sky above yonder gray towers, Brumm
had an influence on the inhabitants of Lashmar
Castle, and that by no means a pleasant influence ;
as witnessed by her ladyship's temper upon this
particular morning, as she sat at breakfast in the
oak parlour, with her step-son, Lord Lashmar,
and the Eton boy, her son.

Her ladyship was the Dowager Baroness Lash-mar,
and a woman of mark. She was one of the
daughters of the illustrious Marchioness of Island,
famous alike for wealth, talent, and force of character.
Old Lady Pitland had given laws and
fashions to society for nearly forty years before
she was translated to that better world in which,
perhaps, there are neither coal mines nor leaders
of fashion: and she had transmitted much of her
managing power, and something of her talent and
charm to her daughters, the eldest of whom, as
Duchess of Malplaquet, was said to be quite the
cleverest matron in England, having managed to
marry all her daughters to rich men, and to have
dressed and fed them in their spinsterhood, and
maintained appearances in town and country on
something under five thousand a year.

Lady Lashmar's powers as an economist had
not been so severely taxed ; for the Lashmars were
rich in stocks and shares, as well as in that luxury
of the well-born, broad acres ; and they could smile
serenely at the decay of rents. Lady Lashmar had
always had as much money as she wanted, and

some of her tastes were costly ; but there was
not an ounce of butter or a tea-cup of milk
wasted at Lashmar Castle ; there was not a dirty
corner, or an unauthorised follower in the great,
rambling, old house in Grosvenor Square, which
had belonged to the Lashmars from the time of
the Pitt and the Foxes, when that aristocratic and
exclusive square first came into being. Lady
Lashmar had the eye of a hawk, and a mind
constructed on the principle of the elephant's trunk,
which can uproot an oak, or pick up a pin. Lady
Lashmar's mind could grapple with public questions
; and it could stoop to the details of the store-closet
and the larder. Yet, it must not be supposed
that Lady Lashmar's bodily presence was ever
beheld in kitchen or store-room. Her mind did
all the work. She had a housekeeper who trembled
at her frown, and who obeyed her slavishly :
and through this faithful servant she was able to
rule every corner of her house, to measure every
meal eaten by her household, to be assured that the
footmen did not consume more than their due
allowance of table-beer, and that the maids did not

burn their candles in the small hours reading novels,
or making bonnets.

Lady Lashmar had been ten years a widow,
had enjoyed just a decade of undisputed dominion ;
she was eight-and-thirty, handsome, straight as a
dart, with not a wrinkle or a gray hair. Mrs.
Monsoon, the Princess's own particular dressmaker,
had been heard to say, in the confidence of friendly
intercourse, that Lady Lashmar was the finest
figure she had on her books, and the greatest screw.

I don't believe I have made twenty pounds
out of that woman in all the years I have worked
for her,' said Mrs. Monsoon ; ' but she shows off
my gowns to perfection, and she brings me new
customers.'

An age in which scandals about the aristocracy
are the current coin of conversation had not furnished
one hint of evil about Lady Lashmar. It
was of her that Lord Glanville, the cabinet
minister, said, 'My friend Lashmar's wife has all
the virtues. She is handsome, well informed, accomplished,
dignified, chaste as Diana, and the
most disagreeable woman of my acquaintance.'

Lady Lashmar was not a person who got into
violent passions when she was angry. It was said
that old Lady Pitland had been wont to swear like
a trooper at anybody v/ho crossed her imperious
will. Lady Lashmar's anger took a more dignified
and a more intense form. This morning the finely-cut
face was almost livid with passion as her ladyship
handed the local paper, the Brumm Independent,
to her step-son.

They were sitting at a cosy round table in one
of the prettiest rooms in the castle. It was a small,
low room, in which the old oak-panelling had been
painted white. The ceiling was decorated with
cupids and garlands. The high, narrow mantel-shelves
were lit up by bright little bits of old oriental
china. The curtains and chair-covers were of
the delicate chintz ; and in every spot where flowers
could be placed were bowls and shallow vases of
the famous Lashmar roses, red and yellow, now
in the plenitude of their summer beauty. So long
as the roses lasted, Lady Lashmar would have no
other flowers to decorate her rooms. It was in
vain that the head-gardener put forward his rarities

from the stoves, ' I will have no exotics while
I can have roses,' said Lady Lashmar.

She sat with her face to the window, as one who
need not fear the light. 'No, there was not one line
that told of advancing years upon the hard, handsome
face. Those finer emotions which plough the
human countenance, the care and fret of sensitive
natures, had never affected Lady Lashmar. She
had almost always had her own way, and she had
almost always been happy. When it pleased Heaven
to take her husband, after six years of married life,
she bowed to the rod. He was twenty years her
senior, and a chronic invalid. It was better that
he should be called away at fifty years of age
than that he should drag out a life of suffering to
the scriptural three-score and ten. Lady Lashmar
thought that Providence would have done well to
take her husband's afflicted son and to leave her
own boy, a fine healthy youngster, to fill the place
which the deformed step-son could never hold with
proper dignity.

Yes, deformed. It is one of those words which
are hardest to sav. The old servants who had

known Lord Lashmar from his cradle said that
his back was a little weak ; but his step-mother
was not a person to sophisticate, or to use soft
words. She knew that his spine had been curved
in his infancy, a weakly child, born of an overeducated
hyper-intellectual mother, and a father
who had lived not wisely but too well. She knew
that in the years to come that bent back would
get gradually worse, that narrow chest would invite
the attack of phthisis. She told herself that Hubert,
Lord Lashmar, would never make old bones ; but
she feared that he might live long enough to
marry and leave some sickly son who should blight
the prospects of her boy, Victorian, the very embodiment
of physical power and fresh unblemished
youth.

She had not been unkind to her step-son. She
was far too clever a woman, to make that irreparable
mistake. She resolved in the very beginning of
things to live pleasantly with her husband's son.
It would be so much better for them both ; especially
for her. Lashmar was fourteen when his
father died, and Victorian was five, a difference of

nine years ; and Laslimar was old for this years.
He had never been at any public school. He had
not ventured to face the light-hearted republic of
a University. What should he, the pariah, the
stricken one, do there, among the athletic and
robust? He had been brought up in cotton-wool,
as it were. He had a middle-aged tutor, who
had been with him from his tenth year, and who
remained with him as librarian and secretary ;
and he had an old servant. He had travelled a
good deal with the tutor and the servant. He
had read more than most young men of five-and-twenty.
He was a good classical scholar, and had
some knowledge of science. In a word, he was a
sickly lad, who had been brought up and nourished
upon books ; but he had fine instincts, and a strong
humanitarian feeling. The villagers about Lashmar
adored him. He drank tea with the old women,
read to them when they were ill, wrote letters for
young and old, talked politics or metaphysics with
the deep-thinkers, and carried the light of a noble
intellect into every house he entered.

Lady Lashmar was intense in politics, and all

her ideas upon legislation were of the good old
Tory flavour. She hated Eadicals ; and her greatest
affliction in life was that Lashmar Castle should lie
as it were in the very bosom of revolution. Brumm
was Eadical to the backbone, and Brumm was only
ten miles off. Brumm was a centre of Freethinking
and Nihilism; and Brumm was at her door. If
Aladdin's African magician had been at hand to
whisk off her castle to the furthest north, or the
remotest west of England, her ladyship would have
paid him handsomely for the operation. But
Lashmar Castle was planted deep in that detested
soil ; and as her ladyship despised the dower house,
which was hers by right, and loved this baronial
mansion and its much statelier surroundings, she
was fain to endure the vicinity of Brumm and its
forty thousand operatives.

It is an outrage against the decencies of life,'
she exclaimed.

What's the matter, mother ? ' asked Lashmar,
looking np at her with his deep-sunken eyes,
thoughtful eyes of darkest hazel. * Is it anything
about Boldwood ? '

Of course it is about Boldwood. That low
creature has been holding forth at another meeting.
They seem to be perpetually having meetings at
Brumm.'

They have very few other pleasures,' murmured
Lashmar.

They have theatres and circuses and horrid low
music rooms,' said her ladyship. ' Surely those are
enough for them ! '

Enough for the frivolous majority ; but you see
there is a superior minority who have learnt to think
and who want to say their little say upon great
public questions.'

Those thinkers and spouters are the pest of
society,* exclaimed Lady Lashmar, throwing her
paper aside, and going on with her breakfast, with an
air of finding no savour in either truffled chicken or
the Arabian berry. ' Over-education is the greatest
evil of the age. Thank heaven the people themselves
are beginning to feel the burden of it. After
clamouring for free schools and higher teaching they
are beginning to groan under the tyranny of compulsory
education.'

Perhaps that is because when they cry for
bread we give there a stone,' answered Lash marin
his gentle, meditative way. * We cram 'ologies
down the throats of starving children ; we feed
babes and sucklings with grammar and logic, and
then wonder that they are not grateful.'

That class of people never are grateful,' said
Lady Lashmar, calmly ignoring her stepson's drift.
But, fortunately, there are not many such wretches
as Boldwood, or we should have this castle sacked,
and find ourselves turned out upon the high road.
Boldwood is worse than Robespierre. Just read his
tirade upon the unequal division of property, his
revolutionary language about great landowners, and
his savage insolence about the Duke of Netherland.'

Boldwood always goes too far. Yet there are
generally some flashes of sense amidst the cloud of
rhetoric. I read that speech of his before you came
down to breakfast. He pleads the cause of the
yeoman rather cleverly — when one considers that
as an operative he cannot have very keen sympathies
with the agricultural class. His idea of dividing
some of our great farms into small holdings, and

selling them to the peasantry, to be paid for by
instalments, upon the same system as that on which
needy people buy pianos, is not at all bad.'

'And a pleasant place England would be for
decent people to live in if it were chopped up
in little bits to please such men as Mr. Boldwood.
But, really, Lashmar, I believe you are at heart a
Eadical,' said her ladyship.

No, I am a progressive Conservative ; and I
believe the truest conservatism consists in doincr

o

the utmost we can for the people. We can only
teach them to respect the privileges of property by
letting them taste the sweetness of possession.
There is no stauncher Conservative than your
working-man who has saved a hundred pounds.'

You always talk like a book, Lashmar,'
sneered her ladyship ; * I should like to hear you
speak in reply to this man Boldwood, at a great
public meeting.'

In her heart of hearts she was thinking how
sorry a figure this hunch-backed stepson of her's
would make upon a public platform ; how poorly his
low, grave tones would sound after Boldwood's base

bellowing, a voice which thundered and reverberated
through a vast building, as if it were the roar of
Bashan's mightiest bull.

Would you really like to hear mc speak ? *
asked Lashmar, smiling faintly.

Was there ever a young man who has read and
thought deeply who does not long to give speech to
his thoughts ? It is to satisfy this desire that
Mechanics' Institutes are built ; it is for this that an
Athenaeum is a pleasant thing in a town.

I should like this blatant beast to be answered ! '
replied her ladyship somewhat evasively.

Then I will do my best to answer him next
Wednesday week said Lashmar. * There is to be a
Conservative meeting at the Town Hall on that
night. Colonel Spillington, the new Conservative
candidate, is going to address the electors. It is
expected that Boldwood will be in full force, and
that there will be a row. Spillington has asked me
to support him — and — yes, I really should like to
answer Boldwood. Mine will be a very poor speech,
of course ; a very tame reply to Boldwood; who is

a born orator ; but I shall have education on my
side — '

'And prestige,' added Victorian, who had been
too busy with his breakfast to speak before. ' I only
wish I were old enough to tackle Boldwood. I'd
make his hair curl.'

What hideous expressions these boys pick up at
Eton,' said her ladyship, with a shiver. Then
with a fond approving look at the handsome lad, she
said proudly !

I hope you will be in Parliament before you
are ten years older, Victorian, and that you will bea
distinguished politician.'

Oh, I don't mind going into the House in ten
years time,' answered the boy easily, ' but I should
like to have my fling on the continent for a few
years first, as Henry St. John had, don't you know,
before he sat for the family borough. soothing
enlarges a fellow's views like diplomacy. I shall get
on to one of the legations directly I leave college,
Paris, if possible, and see as much as I can of life
before I pin myself down to politics.'

Paris is an admirable place — for a young man

who wants to waste his time pleasantly,' said
Lashmar, smiling at the embryo diplomatist.

Did you waste your time there ? ' asked
the boy.

No, Vic. I am not the kind of person to
succeed in Parisian society. My gifts are in
another line.'

Poor Old Lashmar ! You are out and away
the cleverest chap I know. When I think of
how much you've read, and how much better you
can construe a Greek play than our Toffs in the
sixth, I take off my hat to you. Do speak next
Wednesday week, Lash, and give that Radical
chap a good shaking.'

'We'll hear what Spillington says about it,'
answered Lashmar quietly ; ' if he wants me, I'll
speak. He is to stay here the night before the
meeting. You don't mind, do you, mother ? '

Lord Lashmar always deferred to his stepmother
in all household matters, invitations, and
engagements. There were only four rooms in
Lashmar Castle in which he reigned supreme.
The library was one, and his own sitting-room.

bed-room, and dressing-room were the others.
Outside those rooms he exercised no authority.
The Lashmar library was the finest in Middleshire
sone of the finest in England. The apartment
which accommodated that noble collection of
books was worthy of the treasures it contained.
It was long and lofty, with a fire-place at each
end, the oak chimney-pieces carved by Grinding
Gibbons, the ceiling enriched with oak carving,
the book-cases iu harmony with chimney-pieces
and ceiling. Lord Lashmar's writing table and
reading desk, his capacious arm-chair and dainty
little tea-table, only made an island of furniture
in the vast expanse of oak flooring, relieved here
and there by an oasis of old Indian carpet. The
only bright colouring in the room was furnished
by the books. The Lashmars had been connoisseurs
in bookbinding for the last hundred
years. They had spent thousands upon that
elegant art. They had " wasted " thousands, said
the unappreciative outer world, persons slow to
understand that the case of a shabby-looking

duodecimo Elzevir ought to cost four or five pounds.
VOL. I. c

Laslimar's sitting-room opened out of the library
and would have seemed a large room in a smaller
house. It was lined from floor to ceiling with
bookshelves, containing the young peer's own
particular library, those books which had been
the one luxury of his life. New books, or new
editions, for the most part — books in several
languages — books that had been their owner's
consolation in many a day of bodily weakness
and weariness : for Lashmar's life had been made
up of brief intervals of health between long
periods of illness. Those halcyon days of wellbeing
were very sweet to him. At such times
he spent almost all his life out of doors, and
revelled in nature's loveliness as only a highly-trained
mind can revel ; tasting the most infinite
details in the feast of beaut, the lights and
shadows on the petals of a primrose, the sheen on
a beetle's wing; enjoying every variety of atmosphere
and colouring, every form of lowliest
life, with that sensitive instinct for nature which
breathes in every line of Wordsworth's descriptive
verse.

He had travelled much, and knew nature in
her most glorious aspects, but he had no need
to go far afield for beauty. The woodlands
around Lashmar, the low hills and pastoral
valleys, the winding Avon and the English
hedgerows furnished a banquet which always
satisfied the longings of his soul.

If I had but any one to whom I could tell
all my foolish fancies, I should be ever so much
happier,' he said to himself sometimes regretfully,
but there is no one. Victorian would only laugh at
me as a queer old chap; and my lady would
lift her eyebrows and inwardly wonder if there
was a strain of madness in the Lashmar blood.'

WHENCE AND WHAT ART THOU, EXECRABLE SHAPE ? '

Colonel Spillington dined at Lashmar Castle
upon the night before the meeting. He was
a line average specimen of the British officer,
bluff, outspoken, unintellectual, right-thinking and
honest, a staunch Conservative, and a thorough
gentleman. He was a man of just sufficiently
good family to be tolerable in the eyes of the
great Lady Island's daughter. There was at
least no taint of trade in his lineage, and he was
therefore qualified to sit at the table with the
lady whose wealth had for the most part come
out of the coal pit, and who naturally scorned
the idea of commerce. He was not elated about
his election, and had dark doubts as to the power
of the Radicals in Brumm. 'There must be
some respectable people in the place,' he said.

'I fear not replied her ladyship. 'If there
were any respectable people such a person as
Boldwood would not be allowed to exist.'

unfortunately for us, mother, the days are
past when an obnoxious citizen could be sent
about his business, or even put in the pillory.
Boldwood is peaceable enough in his private life,
I believe, although he is somewhat truculent on
the platform.'

Somewhat :' echoed Lady Lashmar, ' you
have such a namby-pamby way of expressing
yourself. I have never heard the creature speak,
but I have read his virulent nonsense in the
papers, and that is enough.'

Virulent, sometimes, I grant, but not always
nonsense said Lashmar quietly. ' The man's
ideas are Utopian, but he expresses himself with
a certain rough vigour, and with a strain of
poetry — in fact, the man is a born orator — and
although he is for the most part illogical, he has
occasional flashes of common-sense.'

Who is this Boldwood ? ' asked the Colonel,
trifling with an olive ; ' everybody has been talking

to me about him since I consented to stand for
Brumm ; and, as I am a stranger in the land and
his reputation is entirely local, I confess myself
still in the dark as to this powerful antagonist
whom I am to meet tomorrow night.'

*Mr. Boldwood is a high priest of advanced
Radicalism,' answered Lashmar. ' He believes
in the divine right of every man to lay hands
upon any other man's possessions. He is strong
upon the old thesis, la propriety c'est le vol.
The first man who enclosed a bit of ground was
the enemy of the whole human race. He is the
sworn foe of the landowner and the manufacturer.
His gods are Rousseau and Karl Marx. He would
level all ranks, wage war against all privileged
classes, raze this house of ours to the ground, or
turn it into a hospital or a phalanstery, do away
with Monarchy and the House of Lords, and establish
a Republican senate of working men in which
the brain-workers or the professional classes
should be as one in three. He would have
universal peace — universal free trade : and pending
the falling in of other nations with these views,

he would have England walk in gospel ways, and
turn her left cheek to be smitten by the hand
that has boxed her soundly on the right cheek.'
You say he is a good speaker.'
I have never heard him ; but I am told
that he is magnificent, and his speeches read
like oratory. I am looking forward to the fun
tomorrow night. We may be in a minority ;
but there are plenty of Conservatives in Brumm,
in spite of her ladyship's doubts, and we shall
make a good light. From what I have heard
of Boldwood he is not altogether a ruffian —
indeed there are some people who declare that
he is a gentleman by birth, and took a degree
at Oxford. Yet I should hardly think this
likely, from the appearance of the man. He was
pointed out to me once in the street as I was
driving through Brumm — a giant with unkempt
hair, disreputable clothes, and a slouching walk.
I hardly saw his face, but T got a good idea
of his build and general style. He is a brass-worker,
earns high wages, and is said to be
almost a genius in his handicraft. He is nota

native of Brumm ; and I don't think anyone
in the place knows much about his antecedents.
He is an infidel, and seems proud of his
infidelity. He came to the town seven years
ago, with a wife and a baby. The wife died
soon after his arrival, and he has not married
again. That, Colonel, is the full extent of my
information about Jonathan Boldwood.'

I am looking forward to my encounter with
the gentleman !' said the Colonel cheerily ! ' He
shall see that I can stand fire. But I look to
you to reply to him. I am no orator.'

A gentleman is always more than a match
for a cad,' said Victorian, who had been making
havoc with the peaches while his elders were
talking.

Xot when the cad is on his own ground,
and has an audience of five or six hundred
cads to back him up,' answered Spillington.
How many does your Town-hall hold, by the
way, Lashmar?'

Fifteen hundred ; and of those you may be
sure more than half will be disciples of Boldwood ;

but that need not alarm von, as not half of
those are voters.'

The meeting was at eight o'clock, so the
house party at the Castle took a late luncheon,
and started for Bmmm soon after tea. Supper
after the meeting, was to serve as a substitute
for the edit o'clock dinner. This had been
duly explained to Colonel Spillington, who liked
his meals, and thoroughly approved of the
Lashmar chef. He laid in a heavy stock at
luncheon, calculating that there was a terrible
gulf to be bridged over before he should again
find himself face to face with substantial food.
He detested tea, and makes and muffins, and
all those dainties with which Victorian forced
himself at five o'clock, when the little party
assembled in Lady Lashmar's morning room, full
of the approaching fray,

Do have some of these chocolate cakes, Colonel,'
said Victorian, with his mouth full, 'they're so
good.'

Thanks, no, mv bov. I haven't tasted sweets

for the last twenty years, and I am afraid of tea.
It always turns to acidity. If,' with a deprecating
glance at her ladyship, * if I might have a brandy
and soda.'

By all means assented the dowager graciously,
though she inwardly scorned a man who wanted
to be periodically sustained by brandy and
soda.

Lashmar rang the bell. ' A little Dutch courage,
eh. Colonel ? ' he said, laughing.

You're beginning to funk Boldwood, I know
said Victorian, 'and I don't wonder. He looks
like one of those fellows in Homer — Cyclops, don't
you know ? I've heard that he lived for ever so
many years with the gipsies, and that his wife was
a gipsy girl. He's a rough sort, Colonel ; and I
shouldn't wonder if he wanted to come to fisticuffs
with you on the platform.'

If he comes to fisticuffs, I'm ready for him,'
answered Spillington gaily, 'it's the talking that
will bother me.'

They started soon after six, intending to be early
at the Town Hall, where the candidate had to

meet his aorent, and some of the Conservative
notabilities of Brumm.

It was a delicious summer evening, calm, peaceful,
the atmosphere steeped in sunlight, the earth
breathing warmth and perfume : a delightful evening
on which to loll against the cushions of Lady
Lashmar'$ barouche, to be gently lulled upon Cee
springs, as the seventeen-handers trotted with rhythmical
beat along the level turnpike road — a lovely
road for the first half of the journey, a road between
fair green pastures and golden corn, by wood and
copse, and hillocky common land, where the dwarf
furze shone yellow amidst the purpling heather,
a road by peaceful village and Elizabethan homestead,
by straw-yards populous with lazy kine, by
piggery and poultry yard, and duck pond, and
cattle trough. Colonel Spillington, who was of
the streets street, thought that the country was
a pretty place enough in the westering sun, but
that it had an ugly smell, and must needs be the
abomination of desolation in the winter, except
for a hunting man. And Colonel Spillington had
nothing in common with that great creature, the

British Sportsman. He had shot tigers and bears,
and had stuck pigs in Hindostan ; but he did not
appreciate the raptures of waiting about at corners
for a reluctant fox in a north-east wind, or a chilly-drizzle.


'A charming country,' he said patronisingly,
but I wonder you can live so many months in the
year at Lashmar Castle ! '

I am fond of the country, and Lashmar detests
London,' answered her ladyship. ' I dare say when
Victorian grows up I shall spend more of my time
in Grosvenor Square.'

I am not ofoinjr to live in London,' said
her son disdainfully. 'When I leave the University
I mean to see life. I shall travel all over
Europe. I mean to be a man of the world.'

'You had better stay in London if you want
to see life,' said the Colonel. ' The man who has
not learnt his Society-alphabet in London is always
half a savage. It is all very well to talk about
the superiority of foreign manners, but the man who
has been educated on the Continent is generally
a tiger ! '

Thoii I will be a tiger,' retorted Victorian
stoutly.

They were nearing Brumra, and there was an
unmistakable change in the atmosphere. The
fine gold had become dim. That pure radiance
of the westering sun was thickened and blurred, yet
beautiful exceedingly athwart the smoke-clouds.
The tall shafts began lo show against the blue
horizon, a veritable grove of chimneys ; and soon her
ladyship's splendid barouche, with its big bay
horses, white-wigged coachman, and powdered footman,
its emblazoned panels, and brazen harness,
was thrilling the souls of operatives and factory-girls
as it Hashed along the dingy crowded streets,
past the beer-slips and the pork butchers, and the
general dealers, and the bakers, amidst odours of
tallow and herrings, and onions and shoe-leather
and beer. The street boys called out ' Hooray as
the carriage went by. One keen-eyed brat caught
the distorted profile of Lashmar's back, and cried
out, ' My eye 1 look at the hunchback.'

Lashmar's quick ear heard, and his thin lips
contracted ever so slightly, with the faintest expression

of mental pain. He had heard just such a
speech many a time before. It did not come upon
him as a revelation. He knew that he was a creature
apart, marked out and branded by Nature. Wealth
and rank and culture could never undo what Nature,
in one blundering moment, had done. The hand
that had turned out so many thousands of ploughboys
and operatives, beggars and rascals, perfect
from head to heel, had faltered in the making of
the last Lord of Lashmar : and he must pay the
penalty of fate. He bore the disgrace as patiently
as he bore that other and heavier burden of neuralgic
pain, which had wrung his weak frame at
intervals ever since he could remember. He had
fought against long odds ; had exercised that poor
weak body of his to the utmost — rowing, riding,
walking. He, the hunchback, was a skilled gymnast
; but he had never exhibited his skill in any
public gymnasium. His own keen sense of the
ridiculous hindered any such foolish vanity.

The meeting had been convened by the local
Conservative Association, but it was not a ticket
meeting. The hall was to be open to all comers,

and the hall was crammed to overflowing before the
speeches began. The great oblong room reeked with
unwashed, or badly washed, humanity, a multitude
clad in long worn corduroy and fustian, simmering
in the glare of the gas. To Lady Lashmar, seated
on the platform, that sea of faces in that coarse
flare of yellow light, suggested an over-populated
pandemonium. They looked like devils, some of
those operatives, to her unaccustomed eye. Malignant
devils — swarthy, grinning, lurid.

The chairman opened the business in a mildly
conventional manner ; recapitulated the usual commonplaces.
The country was on the eve of a great
crisis, a crisis involving national interests and
individual interests alike, trade, security, prosperity,
peace at home, honour abroad. The time had come
when the Conservative party were called upon to
emerge from that shade in which their modesty
delighted; the time, in short — after a great deal
more to the same purpose — had come for a long
pull, and a strong pull, and a pull altogether.

This was the chairman's popular style, which he
had generally found answer before a mixed audience.

But on this present occasion, before the Conservatives
could begin their applause, a hoarse voice at the back
of the hall called out, ' Yes, and pull the boat over ;
that's about what you Conservatives generally does
when you do pull together,' and there was a laugh
which spoiled the effect of Mr. Mason Bank's peroration.
And now it was time for the candidate to
introduce himself, which he did in a somewhat
rambling speech upon old, old lines. The men of
Brumm had heard such speeches ever since they
had possessed ears to hear political discussion.
Colonel Spillington was a poor orator, and he had
nothing new to say. But he was hearty, and he
had a pleasant manner ; he had the courage of his
opinions too, and threw some pretty big stones at the
opposite party, in the teeth of hisses and groans
from the majority, for it appeared as if the Eadicals
were the most numerous. They were certainly the
loudest. It might be that noise prevailed over
numbers.

Before the Colonel could sit down, a man stood
up in the middle of the hall, an Anak, a giant
among dwarfs, for the men of Biumm were stunted

Lashmar looked at that face transfixed. He
had seen it before— seen it years and years aro
in a dream, before he was born, yes, in some
mystical anterior life, as it seemed to him. He
knew its every line. Yes, those lineaments were
graven deep upon the tablets of memory.

VOL. I.

ALL THAT HAVE EYES TO AVEEP, SPAKE ONE TEAR
AVITH ME '

I PISE to move an amendment,' said Jonathan
Boldwood; in a deep strong voice.

On the platform, get upon the platform, Bold-wood,'
roared the crowd. 'Let's hear thee man,
thou hast always summit good to say. Bravo,
Boldwood! Three cheers for Boldwood!'

And there was a shout that seemed as if it
would rend the roof of the building, a thrill of
delight as at the appearance of some favourite actor.
The crowd made way for the orator, and the applause
grew deafening, as he scrambled on to the platform,
shook his rough mane, folded his arms, and looked
round the assembly, those eyes of his shining like
coals of fire.

You want to hear me speak, friends,' he said, in

his deep thrilling voice. ' You shall ! You have had
plenty of fustian from these gentlemen. You shall
have a little bit of sound cloth from fine — stuff that
will stand wear and tear, not devil's dust that will
come to bits directly you pull at it.' And then he
began to attack the Colonel's speech. He took the
old, old story, point by point, from the Revolutionist's
side ; he laughed to scorn the old institutions,
the old opinions, bishops and peers, church
and state, royal sinecures, royal allowances, princely
nobodies, useless functionaries. He spoke with the
force and vigour of Danton, with the finesse of
Mirabeau; he spoke as a rebel against his queen
and against his God. His finest points were barbed
with blasphemy ; but he had the audience with him
from the moment he opened his mouth. He swayed
them as the wind sways the reeds by the river.

Void' God, the High-church God, the Tory
God, made man in His own image, you tell us. If
so He had two images, or you have strangely altered
and degraded, mutilated and defaced the image He
made. There is man as God made him, free,
upright, independent, with all the world before

him where to choose, told to live by the sweat
of his brow, and to till the land, but never told
that he should have no land to till, that his
brow and every inch of his body should sweat
in the grinding toil of the factory, that your
God's beautiful earth should be shut and fenced
off from him by an everlasting park-paling, that
his world to choose from should be an endless
turnpike road, where he should tramp for ever
through the dust and heat of summer, through the
mud and mire of winter, in the glare of the dog-days,
or with his face to the biting north-easter,
and with no halting place but the casual ward,
no bourne but the pauper's grave. That is the
type of God's noblest work, and the commonest
type : such men are as millions against your
thousands, you who toil not, you who spend the
wages of other men's toil.

God made the toiler, made Adam to work
for his bread — his own bread, mark you — sowing
and reaping on his own land, for himself and his
family, enjoying the first fruits of the land, rejoicing
in the fulness of the harvest, the fatness of his

flock, having his share in all the beauty and the
glory of this earth. That was patriarchal man
as God made him, and as he might have been
this day, for God's earth is wide enough for all
who live upon it, if it were not for ha-has and
park-fences. God's earth is not big enough to
keep an aristocracy, not big enough to give parks
and deer forests to all the dukes and earls who
have sprung from the amours of dead and rotten
kings. That is what this earth won't do, and
that is what the people of England mean to set
their faces against — the profligate splendour of
the few who fatten upon the bloody sweat of
the many : ay, my friends, a sweat as bloody as
that agony in the garden of which your priests
tell us ; for it means the gradual waste of life
worn out untimely in unnatural toil, life-blood
ebbing away drop by drop in the factory and
in the mine, lives wasted in premature old age,
children born and bred in dirt, in ignorance
and in squalor, in order that a few foolish faces
should be topped by coronets and a sprinkling of
fine gentlemen should lead the fashions in good

manners and bad morals. Can any man among
you be simple enough to swallow such a lie as
that God's image is reflected in this type of man ?
Xo, my friends : these are the sons of Belial, who
come among you this night " flown with insolence
and wine," not to ask you for your suffrages, but
to order how you shall vote.'

He flung back the coarse iron-gray hair from
his low broad brow, and stood like a tower, Awhile
the hall rang with applause, varied by timorous
hisses from the Conservative minority.

Where had Lashmar seen him before ? What
was that anterior existence in which this man's face
had flashed upon him as it flashed now ? but
only for a transient span, appearing and vanishing
almost in the same moment, flashing past him as
it were in a whirlwind, swept away upon the wings
of the hurricane.

It was either in that dim, unknown world of
a previous life, or it was long, long ago in his
earliest boyhood.

Yes, he recalled it all now ; the whole scene
stood out before him.

It was at the University boat-race. He was a
little fellow, with his father and mother, on a lawn
at Mortgage, a green lawn shadowed by leafless
lime-trees. He was clinging to his mother's gown —
the poor sickly mother already marked for death,
though he knew it not — clinging to her, breathless
with excitement, catching the fever of the crowd,
scarce knowing what thrilled him so. The crowd
and the river seemed to rock under the cold brightness
of the March day, as the two boats shot under
the bridge, Oxford three lengths behind.

That big man, number six, pulls like the devil,'
cried Lord Lashmar. ' If he can only last, I believe
he'll make them win. I never saw such an oar.'

He mentioned the man's name, but his sou had
forgotten that, though he distinctly remembered
his father's speech. He had his own little boat on
the Avon at this time, and had just learnt to row
so was keenly interested in feats of workmanship.

The Oxford boat came past the lawn, gaining
upon its antagonist, and then Hubert Lashmar saw
the face of the oarsman — a dark, ugly face, strong
jaw, broad forehead, beetle brows, but a face made

radiant, glorified, god-like almost, by triumph. Oxford
was winning. The stroke put on a tremendous
spurt, to which number six answered with might and
main. The boat was almost lifted out of the water.
The other oars nerved themselves for a superhuman
effort ; a great cry of exultation broke from the
crowd : ' Oxford wins ! ' Men thrilled with the
delight of having witnessed a miracle, and that
Oxford crew was cheered as never men were cheered
along the banks of the Thames.

This was the man. Number six in the Oxford
boat nineteen years ago, and the brass-worker
yonder, were one and the same. The face was too
peculiar a face to be easily forgotten or mistaken
for another.

Lashmar rose and came to the front of the
platform, braving that multitude of eyes, that broad
glare of light. But here there were no street boys
to jeer at his deformity. He stood up before men ;
and Nature's unkindness was a claim upon the
respect of even the lowest among the crowd.

He was of the middle height, fairly proportioned
from the waist downwards, but the misshapen back

and the neck sunk between the shoulders too
obviously indicated a malformation of the spine
The pale, classical features, the slender white hands,
the indescribable air of hi2:h birth and refinement
interested even these roughs of Brumm. They had
heard that this young Lord Lashmar was a student
and a poet, something like that Lord Byron of
whom most of them had read and heard, whose
poetry was familiar to many among them in these
days of free libraries and advanced thought. They
liked the look of the Lord of Lashmar Castle ; though
they had pledged themselves to those new ideas
which were to bring all such lordlings to their
proper level, cancel all old grants of land, reduce
all ancient privileges, and make the soil of England
common property, and all things equal between
man and man.

He began to speak, and was heard in silence.
He had a grave and steadfast manner, a low, earnest
voice, which was distinctly heard at the end of that
crowded hall — a voice of a very different calibre from
that of Jonathan Boldwood, but a voice of considerable
compass notwithstanding, and of finest quality.

'My friends,' lie began, 'the gentleman who
has just addressed you calls himself your friend,
but we all know what the demagogue's friendship
means. It means climbing into somebody else's
seat upon other men's shoulders. You have heard
of Marat, the man whom Charlotte Corday stabbed
in his bath, hoping by that one bloody act to stem
the torrent of blood which that man was shedding.
Now, I am not going to say that Mr. Boldwood
is like Marat, or that he would rejoice in that
deluge of blood which to Marat was the very wine
of life. Mr. Boldwood is an Englishman, and
Marat was a Frenchman, and your English demagogue,
I am happy to say, is always a very mild translation
of the French original. Yet I will venture to say
that if Marat were standing on this platform tonight,
he would talk to you very much as Mr.
Boldwood has talked. He would taunt you with
your daily labour as if it were a disgrace to work
for your living ; as if every one of us — queen and
princes, cabinet ministers, general officers, great
sea captains, lawyers, landowners, painters, poets,
musicians — do not toil, and bring forth that which

we have to produce in the sweat of our brows.
Granted that there are the sons of Belial, that
there are among the honourable and honoured aristocracy
of England a few black sheep, are there
no dusky fleeces, do you think, to be found in the
factory ? Are there no black sheep in the mine ? Xo
idlers and malingerers battening upon the toil of
others ? The warp and the woof of society are woven
upon the same lines, my friends, from one end of
the fabric to the other ; and those who prate to you
of equality prate to you of something that never
has existed and never can exist. "Were Cain and
Abel equal before God ? Xo ; the Almighty blessed
one and cursed the other. Were Jacob and Esau
alike in their fate, or were the fortunes of Joseph
and his brethren equal ? Is Nature equal in her
gifts ? I stand before you, my friends, this night
a living instance of Nature's inequality. Shall I
blaspheme against my God because it has pleased
Him to make me different from my fellow-men ?
No, I accept my burden, as other men must needs
accept theirs. Be sure there is something in every
shoe that pinches the wearer. What I have to do,

aud what we all Lave to do, is to make the best of
the world we live in for ourselves and for each other;
improving away evil gently and by degrees, not by
rapid wrenches and volcanic upheavals, but in the
gradual ripening of the days and years, clinging to
all that was good in England's past, and discarding
all that was bad ; lopping off the withered branches,
but zealously guarding the tree ; and that I take, it
to be true Conservatism, and a truly Liberal Conservatism.'


There was considerable applause from the Conservative
minority after Lord Lashmar's speech.
Bold wood sat facing the audience, his arms folded
upon the back of a chair, glaring at them from
under those bushy brows of his, with eyes that
seemed always to shine with the same angry light :
anger at fate, life, fortune — a world in which for
him all things were adverse and cruel. Suddenly
there arose a murmur of voices, excited voices in
the crowd just below the platform — murmurs in
which he caught his own name : and then the
word " fire ! " Some men by the corner of the platform
were talking about him, looking up at him.

He bent do\Yn and questioned one of them —
"What's the matter, mate ? '

Gold win's ! You live at Gold win's, don't

YOU ? '

eyes!'

Goldwin's is afire ! '

The demagogue bounded from his chair, dropped
off the platform, and pushed his way through the
crowd, muttering as he went :

My God ! And that child— locked in her room
on the fourth story '

He clutched a man by the shoulder :

What about this fire ? ' he gasped. ' Is it
true ? "Who brought the news ? When ? '

'Xot five minutes ago ; there's a lot has run
off to see. There was a lot of 'era here — a lot of
Goldwin's people.'

Boldwood waited to hear no further, but pushed
his way on to the door. The news had wrought
confusion in the hall already, and the crowd was
surging outwards. There was a greater excitement,
a fiercer fever of emotion to be had out of
doors than the finest speaker could offer within.

A great fire was one of the spectacles which
Brumm most enjoyed.

Goldwin's was a gigantic building: on the
eastern outskirts of the town, on that side most
remote from Lashmar Castle — a huge model lodging
house, built some years before by a friend of humanity
who only required nine per cent, for his
capital. It was a huge caravanseri, and swarmed
like an anthill ; for it was better than the dens
and hovels of the slums in the heart of the town,
inasmuch as it was wind-ands weather-proof, which
they were not. The rents exacted for the rooms
were high, and it was only the more prosperous of
the working classes who could afford to live at
Goldwin's.

Bold wood had a couple of rooms there : two
little square boxes on the fourth story, one with
a fireplace, the other without. He had made the
room with the fireplace his little daughter's bedchamber,
while he himself slept, and for the most
part lived, in the cold. There was a common kitchen
at Goldwin's where the inmates could get
anything cooked ; and there was a common laundry

where the women compared their rags and told
each other their troubles ; and there was a clubroom
where the men smoked, and talked politics,
and played dominoes — a hot-bed of advanced
socialism.

To the dwellers in the slums Goldwin's seemed
a lordly mansion, and to live at Goldwin's was a
distinction. It was a huge quadrangular building,
six stories high, with a courtyard in the centre —
a monster pile of ugly yellow brick, pierced with
windows all of one pattern, opening on to covered
balconies with iron railings — everything straight
and square, and flat and uniform. A huge cube
of brickwork it looked from the distance, as seen
across the level of the flattest, dreariest outskirt of
Brumm ; uglier than factory, or jail, or workhouse.
To those wealthier citizens whose prospect that
huge bulk defaced, it seemed a monstrous blot upon
the horizon.

The beneficent Goldwin had bought a couple of
acres of waste ground for a song, a quarter of a
century before; and when a great cry had gone
up to heaven from the penny newspapers, about

the way in which the poor of Brumm were
lodged, Mr. Gold win had stood up at a public
meeting and pledged himself to build a model
dwelling which should be as the workman's paradise.
While the building was in progress, Mr.
Goldwin was one of the most popular men in
Brumm. It was only when his house was finished,
and his scale of rents made known, that his popularity
began to decline. But, although the rents
were high, Gold win's was always full from roof to
basement.

The meeting ended amidst confusion, and the
last speeches were unheard. The news of the
fire had reached the platform, and Lord Lashmar
knew that the Eadical leader had rushed away
to see to the safety of his child. Even her ladyship's
sympathies were aroused by the tragedy
of the scene.

To think that such a creature should have so
much human feeling ! ' she exclaimed. ' I hope
his people will not be burnt.'

She had not grasped the fact that the demagogue's
' people ' were comprised by one only child.

'I think, mother, if you'll allow me, I'll stay
aud see the end of this business after I've put you
into your carriage said Lashmar. * I can get
a ally at the George to take me home.'

I'll stay with you,' said Colonel Spillington.

'And I,' cried Victorian.

*Xo, Victor, I will not have you struggling ina
Brumm crowd 1 ' exclaimed his mother ; ' and
you, Lashmar, you would not certainly be so
foolish as to trust yourself amongst those roughs.'

They would be safe enough with me,' said
the Colonel. ' But the young one can go home
with your ladyship ; Lashmar and I will see it
out.'

Lady Lashmar remonstrated ; she offered to wait
at the hotel until her stepson was ready to go
home with her ; but to this Lashmar would not
consent. He took his mother to her carriage, and
saw Victorian seat himself beside her, very
reluctantly. The boy was longing for an
adventure ; he felt that it was in him to do the
work of twenty hireling firemen. The engine
came tearing down the street while the carriage

VOL. I. E

stood there, frightening the big bays out of their
wits. The firemen looked like demons, the street
boys yelped and whooped as the vision of
flashing metal and dark resolute faces rushed by.
And to have to turn one's back upon that fever
of excitement and go home to supper with one's
mother! It was hard for impetuous young Eton,
strong in the overweening confidence of youth.
The barouche drove away through the summer
night, drove away from the smoke and grime —
towards fields and dewy hills and flowery
hedgerows. Lashmar and the Colonel got into
a hansom cab — they have had hansoms in
Brumm for the last twenty years — and told the
driver to go to Gold win's as fast as he could
pelt. Driver and horse were both excited, and
rattled off at a tremendous pace.

There were half-a-dozen streets, and an arid
waste of market gardens and ground newly
plotted out for building, to be traversed before
they reached the scene of the fire ; unmade roads,
stretching to the right and the left, ghost-like in
the moonlight — here a factory, and there a shabby-genteel

terrace of new houses, and anon a row
of allotment gardens ; but straight in front of
them they saw Goldwin's, like the fiery pillar
in the desert — a monstrous pile, vomiting smoke and
flame.

The fire must have chained round terrible
before the engines arrived,' said Lashmar, leaning
forward over the doors of the cab, with his eyes
intent upon that flaming bulk yonder.

'Engines never are in time to do any substantial
good,' answered Spillington. • How lucky
the fire did not happen in the middle of the
night. People would be up and about, and able
to help themselves.'

'But the children,' cried Lashmar, almost with
a moan of anguish. ' The little children, left alone
in that tower of Babel. The careless young
mothers roaming the streets ; the fathers listening
to Boldwood. Perhaps you don't know the kind
of mothers that are made out of factory girls ?
God help the little children : I'll warrant there
were dozens of them left to take care of themselves
in that big house to-night!'

LIBRARY ^,,,,-0,0

That's a horrible idea,' muttered the Colonel ;
and he felt that there was only too much ground
for Lashmar's fear.

They were in front of the house by this time
a dense crowd between them and the building.

'Wait!' said Lashmar to the cabman as he
alighted, and he and Spillington pushed their way
tliroucrh the mob.

It was a moment of breathless excitement.
The engines were on the other side of the
building ; the fire-escapes were in full action ; but
they could not be everywhere. Lashmar had conjectured
rightly. There was a swarm of children
in that human hive : and the mothers were rushing
about distractedly, pleading to the firemen, to the
crowd, to the empty air even, to save their little
ones — pointing wildly to windows : there, there,
that one, on the fifth floor, the seventh from the
end, that one by the broken rain-pipe — oh ! curses
on these tall houses, where the children could be
roasted alive, and no help possible ! The fire had
broken out suddenly, with an astounding fury.
It was all the work of an hour; but the mischief

had been slowly working for long silent days and
nights. The brick-work of that huge shaft which
went up from the laundry — the common chimney
of kitchen, laundry, and club-room — had been red-hot,
and none knew. They had only felt the
warmth an annoyance in the hot summer nights.
Xo one had guessed that there was danger; and
to-night, at ten o'clock, the skirting of one of
the rooms next the chimney had burst into flame,
and then another, and then another, till a great
column of flame was rushing up to heaven through
the middle of the house — that central block upon
which the initials of William Godwin, the people's
benefactor, stood out boldly above a great black-faced
clock, with white metal hands ; a clock that had
ticked off the brief intervals of rest to many a
toiler, but which would never tick again for dead
or living, since the metal that had composed its
works was running down the brick-work in a
molten stream like quicksilver.

Yes ; screams, and clasped hands, and dishevelled
hair were the livery of all those careless
young mothers to-night. Locked in, their children

had all been locked in I To hide the lucifers,
and to lock the door, that had been the maternal
idea of carefulness. Locked in — looked in one of
those pigeon-holes in that great barrack through
which the flames were roaring.

While the mothers were rushing to and fro,
threading the crowd, falling into the arms of
strangers to sob out their woe, shrieking in wildest
hysteria, or standing white and dumb waiting for
Fate to strike, there was one father who was acting
vigorously for himself, asking help from no man.

Look at him ! ' gasped the crowd, as Jonathan
Boldwood's huge form scaled the iron balconies,
clambered and swung himself from one point of
vantage to another, mounting higher and higher,
showing a dark moving blotch against the red light
that shone all over the building, as it had been
the palace of the setting sun. ' Look at him !
There's a man for you, a man with the heart of
a lion. His little girl is up in one o' them rooms —
one o' the tempest. The firemen and the 'scapes are
all t'other side o' the building. God help him! He'll
be suffocated before he gets to that top room ! '

This was about the "list of what the crowd

o

said, ia short gasps of speech, loquacious, excited,
pitying but impotent to help, around and about
Lord Lashmar. Neither his gentle blood nor his
crooked back attracted any attention in that surging
mass of anxious humanity. All distinctions
were for the time blotted out. The strong human
instinct prevailed over all class differences and
conventionalities. The hearts of Eadical and Tory
throbbed in perfect unison, accelerated by pity and
terror.

He'll do it ! ' roared the crowd, and Lashmar's
memory went back to that other crowd roaring on
the Surrey shore, roaring from the flat swamps of
Chadwick yonder, two voices meeting and blending
across the river. ' He'll do it ! ' cried the crowd,
watching that bulky figure — a figure that had lost
the littleness of athletic youth, and which pulled
itself heavily, with the strength of a giant, slowly,
laboriously, from iron rail to iron rail, bridging
the distance with evident difficulty. ' He'll do it ! '
and Lashmar remembered the dark face bent over
the oar ; the resolute under jaw and beetle

l3ro\v, the dark, cropped hair and bull neck. He
fancied he could see the face now, turned towards
the burning building, lurid in the reflected light.

One story more, and he's there ! ' cried the
crowd.

One more rail to grasp, one last effort to
swing himself to the higher level ; but before he
could grasp the rail a great wave of flame and
smoke rushed out from the shattered windows in
front of him, poured over him like black water,
and wrapped him in Egyptian darkness — darkness
flecked with arrows of flame. Then there arose a
groan as of Samson when the pillars yielded and
the roof fell— the groan of a despairing Titan.
The crowd reeled backward with a shuddering recoil,
and that bulky figure fell in their midst,
almost at Lashmar's feet.

There was no help, no hope. The demagogue's
neck ^^ as broken. He expired without a murmur.

so Woebegone A Thing WAS SHE '

While the mob surrounded the dead man, talking
over him, lamenting him. waiting for medical
help, for a stretcher to carry that motionless
bulk of humanity away, Lashmar had slipped off
his coat, flung it to the remonstrant Colonel
Spillington, and had begun to climb the iron
balconies, just as Boldwood had climbed, but at
a greater disadvantage, for the smoke and flame
had intensified with every moment; window after
window had shivered, and omitted fire. The
lookers-on, those who were not too absorbed by
their thoughts of the dead to watch the living,
gave a cry of horror — horror at the madness of such
an attempt.

But in a few minutes those spectators understood
that this climber was of a different calibre

from Bold wood. This slight, slim form was the
figure of a trained athlete. Those long lithe arms
held on to the balconies, and wreathed themselves
about the iron columns with the suppleness and the
tenacity of a serpent. Could this be the man
with the crooked back, who had been standing
in the front of the crowd just now, silent,
watchful?

Some of them recognised him by that marred
spine, knew him to be Lord Lashmar, a chronic
invalid, a weakling. Others who knew better
knew that he had trained himself to the highest
feats of asceticism, that he had built a gymnasium
at Lashmar Castle, and that he had
exercised his body with all the devotion of a
Greek wrestler, or a Woman gladiator. To these
it was no surprise to see the hunchback's long
lean arms lift him from balcony to balcony, to see
that well-shaped head thrown back to escape
the suffocating rush of smoke and fiery dust, to
see railing after railing gained, as that stunted figure
mounted higher, diminishing almost to a vanishing
point. Yes, he will do it ! That wliicli Jonathan

Boldwood — deteriorated by intemperate habits and
a sedentary life, hindered by his own balk — had
been unable to accomplish, this deformed lordling
would do. Would do ? He had done it. That sinuous
right arm was wreathed round the iron column
between the fourth story [and the balcony above.
A mighty cheer swelled from the throats of the
crowd — a cheer that was half a sob.

Bring round the fire-escapes,' shouted one
and there was a rush to the other side of the
building. Lives were being saved there as fast
as the firemen could save them — young children,
helpless old people, sick, and maimed. But here
was a life more precious than them all — the life
of the deliverer, the hero, the Hercules who had
entered himself, a voluntary combatant, in a hand-to-hand
fight with death.

Would he perish in his generous endeavour ?
That was the awful doubt which thrilled every
heart in that watching crowd. Even Rachel
weeping for her children, stilled her failings for
the moment, to look up with strained eyes and
awe-stricken face towards that upper balcony

within which the deliverer had disappeared.
"What fate awaited him in the darkness and the
fire ? Was the room he had entered sound and
whole, or was it but the mouth of a fiery pit ? Was
that generous heart stilled in death, even while
they watched and waited?

No ; just as the fire-escape appeared round
the corner of the building, swaying to and fro as
the firemen and the crowd steered it along, just
as succour drew near, that slim figure in the white
shirt sleeves flashed out again amidst the smoke.
Lord Lashmar was standing in that fourth floor
balcony with a child in his arms. He had but
to wait the adjustment of the escape, to guard
himself and his living burden from the flames,
and all the rest was easy.

Five, ten minutes of supreme anxiety, and all
was over. Lashmar was standing among the
crowd with Bold wood's five-year-old daughter in
his arms, a small, thin figure in a little white
nightgown, a sallow, wizened little face, with great
goblin eyes.

God bless you, sir ; God bless you, my lord.'

The men clasped him by the hand, the women
huDix about him, and kissed those wounded hands
of his, raw and bleeding, scratched and scorched
and torn, and smelling of smoke and fire. Xo
thought of Eadical or Conservative now ; no fierce
hatred of landowner and aristocrat. The greatheart
of the crowd was stirred \vith one divine
impulse, made up of love, pity, tenderness —
unselfish delight in a generous act nobly done.

*By Jove, Lashmar, I thought you were a
dead man I ' cried Colonel Spillington. ' You must
be hurt, surely ; dangerously hurt perhaps,' he
added, running his hand over the young man's
shoulder and arm, as if in search of broken bones.

'A few scratches more or less,' answered
Lashmar quietly ; and then he added to the
crowd: 'Don't make such a fuss, my good friends;
I'm sure there isn't one of you that wouldn't
have done as much.'

He made his way through the throng towards
the farther side of the broad barren road where
he had left the cab, with the rescued child still
in his arms, clinging to him, scared and pale,

with those wide goblin eyes of hers. Spillington
followed him closely.

*What are you going to do with the child?'
he asked. ' She'll have to go to the Union, I
suppose, poor little soul ! '

She'll have to go to no such place,' answered
Lashmar ; ' she is going to my house.'

You mean to take Boldwood's child to
Lashmar Castle ? ' asked Spillington, astounded.

Why not ? I should take a stray dog home.
Why should I draw the line at a stray child ? '

Well, there's a considerable difference, I
believe, though you may not see it. To take a
Eadical orphan upon one's hands is rather a
serious business. If I were you I should drive
straight to the Union, and deposit this poor little
thing with the matron ; much the best thing
you can do for her.'

'I have saved her out of the fire, I am not
going to throw her back into it,' answered
Lashmar resolutely. ' She is mine, jetsam and
flotsam from the great ship Fate; my prize,
my portion. She shall never cross the threshold

of a workhouse while I have power to prevent

it;

They were in the cab by this time. Lashmar
had wrapped his coat round the child, and was
sitting in his shirt-sleeves. He told the man to
drive to the George, the chief hotel in Brumm,
the hotel patronised by the county people, when
they gladdened the great grimy town with their
superior presence. It was an old-fashioned hotel,
with a wide archway, and a spacious courtyard,
and a magpie in a cage by the little low doorway
of the bar. It had been an old-established
hotel in the coaching days, before ever Brumm
had arisen in its grimy might as a manufacturing
town.

Lord Lashmar was known and honoured at
the George. The sleepy waiters stifled their
yawns, and bowed themselves before him. The
landlady, who had lingered over her supper in
the snug little parlour behind the bar, waiting
up to hear the latest news of the fire, came bustling
out to see if she could be of any use to his lordship.

She almost shrieked at the sight of the child

looking round with frightened eyes ; such a poor
little pinched, sallow countenance, so wizened, so
childlike. The mistress of the George thought
she had never seen an uglier brat.

Oh ! my Lord, where did you pick her up ?
Is she one of the children from Gold win's ? '

She is Boldwood's child, and his lordship
risked his life to save her,' answered Spillington.
*What will you have, Lashmar, by way of
pick-me-up? A brandy-and-soda — a tumbler of
champagne, eh ? You must have something ! '

*I'll take some soda, with a dash of brandy
if you like,' said Lashmar. ' Do you think you
could lend me a shawl to wi'ap up this little one,
Mrs. Sycamour ?' he asked the obsequious landlady
; ' and do you think you could get me a pair
of horses to take us back to Lashmar ? Her ladyship
will be anxious till she sees us all safe at
home.'

Certainly, my Lord ' — and Mrs. Sycamour rang
a bell : ' Tell Joe to get the landau and the grays
ready directly. And, Mary, run and fetch one of
my shawls. The warm knitted one in the bottom

drawer, you know, child. Don't stand staring like
a simpleton.'

Mary was gazing at the dark-eyed child in
Lord Lashmar's arms. A child in a nightgown
was a curious kind of thing for a young nobleman
to carry about with him at midnight.

Daddy ! ' cried tie little girl piteously, and the
great dark eyes began to fill with tears. ' Where's
daddy? I want my daddy.'

Lashmar looked at her helplessly. What could
he say to soothe or console, without uttering a
deliberate lie ? The little one's breast began to
heave with sobs.

Daddy I ' she cried, ' where's daddy ? Was
he burnt in the lire — was he hurt ? Let me
go to daddy.'

By-and-by,' murmured Lashmar, feebly ; ' by-and-by,
dear child. Will you give her a little milk
and a biscuit, Mrs. Sycamour ? The poor little
thing may be hungry.'

Poor little dear,' said the landlady. * Have a
nice cake, pet ? Mary, bring me a glass of milk,
and a sponge cake.'

VOL. I. F

But when the motherly soul attempted to take
the child in her arms, the little one scowled and
clung tighter to Lashmar.

'Take me to daddy,' she pleaded, frowning
darkly at Mrs. Sycamour's friendly face, rejecting
all tenderness from that source.

Upon my soul, Lord Lashmar, this is too much
of a good thing,' cried Spillington, who had finished
his brandy-and-soda, and was waxing impatient
to be gone. For a man who had not dined this
indefinite postponement of supper was a trial.
You had better let our good friend here take
charge of the brat for to-night, and hand her over
to the proper authorities tomorrow. I never saw
such a goblin. Why, she's as dark as Erebus.
There must have been a dip of the tar-brush
somewhere.'

It's the gipsy blood, sir ; everybody says that
Boldwood's wife was a gipsy.'

Is that carriage ready,' asked Lashmar.

The landlady blew down a speaking-tube which
communicated with the stables. Mysterious sounds
followed, as of voices from spirit land.

In five minutes, my Lord.'

Mary — no less a person than the head chambermaid
— had brought the milk and cake by this time,
and Lashmar tried to coax the child to eat and
drink. In vain ; She only wept, and pushed aside
his gentle hand.

'Where's my daddy?' she asked hopelessly.

Lashmar huddled her up in the shawl, and
carried her off to the landau, one of those capacious
vehicles peculiar to country inns, and seemingly
built to hold eight inside. It was very leathery,
but not uncomfortable. Colonel Spillingtcn
buttoned his light overcoat across his chest, and
composed himself in a corner.

If that brat will only let me sleep, now,' he
thought, and Providence was kind to him, for
before they had left the stones of Brumm far
behind them Bold wood' 5 daughter had sobbed
herself to sleep upon Lord Lashmar's breast, and
the Colonel was able to snore in peace.

Xot once did slumber visit Lashmar's eyes
during that long drive under the summer stars.
He was thinking of that dead face, convulsed by

the shock that snapped the cervical vertebra and
crushed one side of the skull — that dark powerful
face in which every line indicated the double forces
of a strong mind in a strong body. And this man
who had been so potent an influence in that great
hive of workers yonder, this daring speaker, this
audacious thinker, the man who blasphemed his
Maker and hated his more fortunate fellow-man,
was gone for ever — a mere lump of clay now, to
be buried out of sight, and forgotten.

All the Eadicals and Freethinkers of Brumm
would deplore the agitator : but perhaps there was
only this one helpless little being, this five-yearly
child, to mourn for the man.

And he had been a gentleman once ! What dark
experiences, what temptations, errors, misfortunes,
lay between that triumphant hour of the Oxford
undergraduate, and the dreadful death of the Brumm
brass worker? Lashmar's reading had taught him
that most men's misfoi-tunes are in some degree of
their own work : and he could but think that this
brass-worker must have sinned against God or
society before he took to himself the fustian coat

and the fustian creed of the Brain demagogue.

It was past one o'clock when the grays from
the George trotted along the avenue that led to
Lashmar Castle. The river was gleaming in the
starlight, mysterious, beautiful, between its rushy
banks, its leaning willows ; and the casements of the
castle gleamed also, with an earthlier radiance, and
the low Gothic doors stood open under the massive
stone porch, revealing the lighted hall within.
Lady Lashmar and Victorian came ont of the white
parlour as the carriage stopped.

*My dear Colonel, I thought you were never
coming back ! ' she exclaimed. ' How dreadfully
you must want your supper ; ' and then starting
at sight of Lashmar's burden — the little fissure
muffled in a red fleecy shawl — she exclaimed, ' Why
Lashmar, what in Heaven's name have you there 1 '

*A child, madam; an imp of darkness : the
spawn of the demagogue — Boldwood's child, rescued
from the flames by this young hero of your's. By
Jove, Lady Lashmar, you have reason to be proud
of your ?on.' said the Colonel, collecting his senses

with an effort, for he had been in the middle of his
first and soundest sleep when the carriage pulled up.

You rescued Boldwood's child ! ' cried her
ladyship, looking at Lashmar's smoke-grimed face,
and from his face downward to his nether garments,
which were torn and frayed at the knees, one knee
rent across, and showing blood-stains on the light
summer cloth. ' But how ? '

By climbing to the top of a four-story building
one of the most heroic acts I ever saw anywhere,
except before the walls of a hill fort,' answered the
Colonel. ' It's a wonder I've brought him back to
you alive. Lady Lashmar.'

The Lashmars were always brave ! ' she said
gravely ; and then, with a certain formality which
chilled the Colonel's soul, she kissed her stepson
on the forehead.

You had no right to risk your life for a demagogue's
brat,' she said. ' Why could not Mr. Bold-wood
rescue his child himself?'

He did his damnedest, I beg pardon, he did
his uttermost, poor beggar, and was killed in the
attempt said the Colonel.

• Bold wood killed ? '

Yes ; he will trouble us no more, mother. He
is gone — and this is his orphan daughter.'

But why in mercy's name did you bring her
here ? Why not at once hand her over to the proper
people ?'

That was precisely my idea,' said the Colonel,
longing for his supper.

The white parlour looked so bright and homelike
and cheery, in the light of a large swinging
colza lamp, under a yellow umbrella-shaped shade.
The table was loaded with good things. The red
Bordeaux wine glowed in thinnest Venetian flasks.
Butler and footman were in attendance by the sideboard,
and there was an odour of savoury viands
from a chafing-dish, which encouraged the Colonel
with the hope of at least a hot cutlet or sweetbread,
if this discussion about the beggar's brat in
Lashmar's arms would only come to a close.

'Pray, who are the proper people to whom a
five-year-old orphan should be handed over ? ' asked
Lashmar deliberately.

Why, the matron at the Union would of course
be the proper person to take care of her.'

'Exactly what I told Lord Lashmar,' said the
Colonel.

And you would have her begin her life
in a workhouse — be reared and educated as a
pauper ? '

'And properly trained for domestic service,'
pursued her ladyship ; ' the very best career for
any young woman. Do j^ou know, Colonel Spilling-ton,
that I pay my third and fourth housemaids
twenty pounds a-year, which their innumerable
perquisites must increase to thirty. The very best
and most comfortable career for any young woman,
Lashmar; and our workhouses nowadays are so
thoroughly well administered that I have not the
least objection to take a servant from the pauper
class. Some of our best girls have come from the
Union.'

This child will not go to the Union while I
live, ' answered Lashmar, with quiet determination.
Are any of the women up, Langley ? '

Only her ladyship's maids,' my Lord,

Her ladyship had two personal attendants. She
required very little service from them, for she was a
woman of active habits, and by no means self-indulgent.
But this dual service was an appanage
of her state ; it was her pride not her luxuriousness
which demanded to be waited upon.

Will you allow me to ask a favour of Barker ? '
asked Lord Lashmar.

Certainly ! '

Barker was the second and homelier maid. A
homely-looking person of five-and-thirty, who lighted
the candles and arranged the furniture — sometimes
even condescended so far as to use a duster — in
Lady Lashmar's private apartments.

Barker was summoned, and came sleepy but
smiling to await her ladyship's orders.

I believe his lordship wishes you to take care
of a child, Barker,' said Lady Lashmar. * You will
have to put it in your own bed for to-night, I
suppose, after you have given it a hot bath. You
had better cut its hair, too, as close as you possibly
can.'

The child has not had scarlet fever, mother.'

Who knows ? Poor people are always leaving
fevers. At any rate, it is most likely very dirty.
Bathe it and crop it, Barker, I beg.'

The shawl fell off as Lashmar handed the
child to Barker, and the little white nightgown
and little bare feet were the best answer to her
ladyship's sweeping conclusion. Both were spotlessly
clean.

What an ugly child ! ' cried Lady Lashmar ;
and then seeing Colonel Spillington standing
forlorn, gazing at the supper table yonder, she
took pity upon him.

Take the child away, and make lier as comfortable
as you can, Barker,' lie said. ' And
now let me give you both some supper. Poor
creatures, you must be dreadfully hungry !'

'I confess to feeling a vacuum said the
Colonel, growing cheerful, as he seated himself at
the table and unfolded his napkin, looking about
him with an interested air.

Lobster mayonaise, chicken aspic, Prussian salad
with plenty of stuffed olives — hum, ha, pretty tiny
kickshaws — and the footman put a hot cutlet,

a Ancienne, before him ; while the butler unwired
a bottle of De Losses's dry champagne. Not so
bad after all.

Lashmar, did you really climb a four-story
balcony ? I know Goldwin's — iron balconies all the
way up, like a gridiron. I daresay I could doit
myself; but it must have been deuced difficult.
I envy you ! '

I hope you may never have the opportunity
or the inclination to attempt anything half so
wild,' said Lady Lashmar, in a biting voice.

It was the first time she had given utterance
to her exasperation ; but the pallor of lier fine
features, the angry li.cdit in her eyes, had indicated
the state of her feelings from the moment
she had seen Boldwood's child in her stepson's
arms. She was wise enough to hold her peace,
however. Lashmar Castle was the house of Lord
Lashmar, and she, omnipotent although she seemed
to the household and the neighbours, was only
there on sufferance. If Lashmar chose to bring
a pauper brat into the castle, to rear her there,
as he might any other domestic pet. it was not

for her ladyship to interfere. This consciousness
of her own impotence intensified her displeasure.

'Victor, you ought to have been in bed
hours ago!' she exclaimed. 'Good-night, Colonel
Spillington, or good morning rather. I will leave
you and Lashmar to take care of each other.'

She shook hands with the Colonel, kissed her
stepson's brow, and went away with her arm
round her boy's neck.

What a glorious fellow Lashmar is ! ' said
Victorian, as he and his mother went upstairs.
So quiet, so unassuming, and so plucky. I wish
I wish his back was as straight as other people's,
poor chap ! He bears his burden so well.'

*I wish he were sane,' retorted her ladyship,
'and then he would not have brought home that
Eadical's imp.'

Oh ! but if he likes to provide for the little
thing, send her to some cheap school, or some
institution — orphanage — don't you know ; he is rich
enough to indulge his benevolence.'

Lord Lashmar did not send the Radical's child"

to a cheap school ; nor did he plague the souls
of his friends by canvassing for votes in order to
get Stella Boldwood elected as an inmate of some
stately orphanage, supported by voluntary contributions,
and smiled upon by princes and princesses.
Stella was not destined to dwell in one of those
vast edifices which philanthropy has reared for the
shelter of the friendless and the orphan. It was
Stella's fate to be reared in the home of an
English nobleman, and to become accustomed to all
those luxuries and elegancies which are, as it were,
the surrounding atmosphere of those born in
the purple.

It was in vain that the great Lady Pitland's
daughter protested against her stepson's folly in
adopting a pauper's brat, and hinted that the
cloven foot of Socialism showed itself in the act.
It was in vain that she shuddered at the degradation
of those ancestral halls. Lashmar was rock.
He was one of those quiet, undemonstrative young
men who make up their minds slowly, and who
can never be argued or cajoled into the relinquishment
of a settled purpose.

'I made up my mind as we drove home last
night, mother,' said Lashmar, gently, gravely,
resolutely, in a tone which her ladyship knew
only too well. ' Spillington and the child were
both asleep. I had ample time for reflection ; and
I thought the matter out thoroughly. I mean to
adopt Boldwood's child, and to bring her up as
my own daughter. There are many reasons in
favour of my project ; there is not one that I
can discover against it. I have long wished for
something to love, some young unschooled
creature, that should be dependent upon me, and
should grow up at my feet, as it were. I am
very fond of Victorian ; but he can seldom be my
companion. He has his education to occupy him
now ; he will have his career to think of by-and-by.
But a friendless little girl, whom I can train
and educate into companionship, will afford me
just the kind of solace, just the kind of innocent
sympathy, which I have sighed for. A little
more than a dog, a little less than an equal. '

You will find the creature a horrible nuisance

before you have done with her. If you should think
of marrying, for instance.'

*I shall never marry, never have children of
my own. By the time this girl has grown up
I shall be declining into the vale of years. She
will be my link with the future. I have been
told lately — you remember my long chat with
Sir William Spenser the last time he came down
to see me — that in spite of my miserable health
I may live to be an old man.'

Lady Lashmar winced palpably ; but she was
sitting at some distance from her stepson, and
her face was turned to the window, so he did
not see that startled look of keenest pain. She
had been telling herself for years past that Hubert
Lashmar could not make old bones — that it could
only be a question of a few years more or less
before her son would fill his place — and now to be
told that the great physician, Sir William Spenser,
had declared that Lashmar might creep on in this
half life of his to old age ! It was a hard thins
to be told this, suddenly, in that cool, calm voice
of her stepson's. She knew that he was the soul

ONE THINCr NEEDFUL

of truth, incapable of misrepresentation or exaggeration
upon any subject whatever.

*And you look to the child of such a man
as Boldwood to be your friend and companion in
after years — the mongrel of a gipsy and a demagogue
! ' exclaimed Lady Lashmar, unable to control
her temper. 'You make no allowance for hereditary
instincts.'

'I believe more in association and education
than in hereditary instinct. The child has a fine
broad forehead, bright well-opened eyes, sensitive
nostrils, thin lips, delicate chin — not at all a bad
subject to work upon.'

I really think she is the ugliest child I ever
beheld,' said Lady Lashmar, rapping the table with
an elephant's tusk paper-knife. ' How you, who
pretend to worship ideal beauty, can be interested
in such a little monster is more than I can
understand.'

She is small and brown, but I don't think her
ugly. Her eyes shone like stars last night. It
is my idea that she will grow up a very interesting
woman.'

You have such odd ideas ! '

Don't be angry, mother,' pleaded Lashmar
with wondrous gentleness. ' Granted that I am
somewhat eccentric — stature has made me in a
mould of her own, you see — but, after all, I have
Tery few whims. And I promise you that this
last caprice of mine shall give you no trouble.
The child shall live in this house; but you need
hardly be aware of her existence. All she will
want will be a couple of rooms on the top story,
where we have a score of rooms that only serve asa
rat-warren.'

'Mice, not rats,' protested her ladyship.

Well, we'll call them mice. It sounds pleas-after
; only they are the biggest breed I ever saw,
and the noisiest. However, my protegee will help
to scare away the mice. I shall engage a maid
for her, and arrange a couple of rooms for her
and her maid, those two pretty rooms in the southwest
tower for instance. She will live on that
top floor, have her meals there, plague no one ;
and when I want her company in my study I can

have her brought down to me as I would any
VOL. I. G

other plaything. You may meet her on the stairs
or in the corridor occasionally. But that is about
the utmost you need see of her.'

This is your house, Lashmar. If you choose to
have it infested by the spawn of Socialism it is not
for me to gainsay you. '

I hope the day may come when you will be
reconciled to my adopted daughter ; when she may
perhaps be a comfort to you as well as to me.'

Never, Lashmar ! I can tolerate her existence
in the house out of deference to you. I should have
to submit if you took it into your head to keep a
rattlesnake ; but I have none of your Utopian ideas ;
and I have not the least doubt that you will have
cause to repent your generous folly before you and
your protegee are three years older.'

We will compare notes three years hence, and I
hope I shall convince you that you were mistaken,'
said Lashmar, with perfect good temper. ' And now,
mother, have you any young woman on your list
who would make a good maid for Stella ? '

There is Barker's niece ; her father is in the
gardens, don't you know. Barker's niece has

been wanting to come here for the last six
months.'

'I should like to see Barker's niece this afternoon.'


Lady Lashmar sighed, and gave orders in accordance
with her stepson's wish. She had not seen
the obnoxious orphan since the previous night. The
child had been in Barker's care, and had been provided
for in the remoteness of the upper servants'
apartments. She had been taken to Lord Lashmar,
and had spent half-an-hour in his study, before
breakfast.

The intruder did not take kindly to her new life.
Again and again, with piteous tears, and childish
unreasoning iteration, she entreated to be taken to
her father. ' Where is daddy ? Take me to daddy ! '
that was the burden of her cries. And Lashmar,
albeit philosophical and strong-minded in most
things, could not find it in his heart to tell this
orphan child the hard and bitter truth. He could
not bring himself to crush her with the word
never.' Childhood so soon learns the meaning of
that fatal word. So with weak tenderness he took

the little girl upon his lap, and drew her to his
breast, and told her that she should see her father
again, some day.

To-day ? Now ? ' she questioned.

No, dear ; not now — not to-day. He has gone
ou a long journey.'

To London ? ' she asked.

A longer journey than that.'

Where ? '

To a beautiful country. You shall go there some
day, and you shall be with him again.'

Let me go now. '

No, dear ; not yet.'

But I loll go,' cried the child, scrambling off
Lashmar's lap, and running towards the door.

Lashmar followed and stopped her; she cried,
and stormed, and struggled with him.

I want to go to my daddy ; I will go to my
daddy.'

He was a quarter of an hour soothing her, and
arguing with her. By the end of that time he
had begun to exercise a certain influence over her ;
she was content to sit on his knee, gazing at him

with those great dark eyes — star-like eyes, as he had
called them. She listened, and seemed comforted.

Tell me your name, little one,' he asked.

Stella.'

Stella ! That is a very pretty name.'

It means a star ! ' said the child. ' Daddy
told me.'

Will you be my star ? Will you live with
me in this house, and play in those gardens out
there, and go in my boat on the river ? '

The little one craned her neck and looked out
of the broad Tudor window at the flower garden
and the green slopes of the park, and the bright
blue water in the valley yonder. It was a lovely
landscape— passing lovely after the arid purlieus
of Brumm, to which those young eyes had grown
accustomed.

No,' said the little one firmly, after she had
contemplated that delicious picture for some
moments. ' I don't want to live with you, I want
to live with my daddy.'

And then with a divinity of patience, with
that exquisite gentleness which is a peculiar

attribute of those who love little children, Lashniar
explained how the journey on which daddy had
gone must needs last for a long time, how summer
and winter must pass before he could come back,
or Stella go to him; but how they should meet
in the days to come.

And you will leave off crying, and be very
good, for his sake, won't you, Stella ? ' pleaded
Lashmar. 'Fathers are unhappy when they hear
that their children have been naughty. You will
be good, and you will try to love me, won't you,
Stella, for daddy's sake ? '

The child made a supreme effort over her
childish heart, choked her sobs and dried her tears,
and trotted by Lashmar's side to the gardens, and
across the dewy park to the river. He took her
in his boat, and rowed about with her for half-an-hour
or so, and took her. back to the castle with
a faint bloom in her sallow cheeks, and a fine
appetite for breakfast, as Barker informed him
afterwards.

He saw Barker's niece after luncheon, and
found her a buxom, chubby-checked young woman

with a fine honest countenance ; so he engaged herat
once to be Stella's special attendant.

The little girl was to be known only as Stella.
That obnoxious name Boldwood were well forgotten.
And then with Barker for his aid and counsellor,
Lord Lashmar ordered the arrangement of those
two rooms in the south-west tower, remote from
the end of the castle where Lady Lashmar's
sumptuous apartments were situated, and on a
higher floor ; so that the chances of the young
voice or the young presence obtruding themselves
on her ladyship were minimised.

One of the two rooms was to be furnished asa
sitting-room ; the other and inner chamber was to
contain two beds, for nurse and child. There was
a plethora of substantial old-fashioned furniture upon
this upper floor; so the re-furnishing of the rooms
was only a matter of adjustment. The view from
these tower-chambers was exquisite. A wide expanse
of wooded park and winding river bounded by
low hills, and in the distance the rustic village of
Avondale, with red-tiled roofs, and low thatched
cottages, and quaint variety of gables, and Norman

church tower, smiling, amidst rich pastures, classing
its simple beauties in the blue bright river. Fora
rural English Midland landscape nothing could
be prettier.

She ought to thrive and flourish in such a
bower as this,' thought Lashmar, and then he gave
Barker's niece — in future to be known as Betsy —
some broad general instructions as to the bringing
up of childhood upon enlightened principles — cold
water, fresh air, regular meals, and good and
ample fond being the chief points. And to the elder
Barker he entrusted the task of procuring the
child an outfit. She might be driven over to
Brumm that afternoon he suo^Qjested, and could
make all her purchases before the shops were
shut, if her ladyship would kindly dispense with
her services for a few hours.

I think I can manage to arrange that with
Celestina,' said Barker.

Celestine was the Parisian and superior maid
who re-arranged Mrs. Monsoon's gowns, and
repaired her ladyship's priceless laces.

Do, like a good soul ; and be sure you thank the

coachman's wife for lending the little one clothes
for to-day. You will please buy everything of the
best, but of the simplest. When she is a year or
two older I may choose her frocks myself, perhaps.
For the present I should like her to be dressed
always in some cream-coloured stuff— some kind of
soft woollen material, and then she need have very
few endearments, and no weight of clothing to
impede her movements.'

Lord a 'mercy, what a mollycoddle ! ' thought
Barker, and then she ventured a remonstrance on
economical grounds.

Cream colour so soon gets dirty, my Lord,' she
said ; ' don't you think now that a neat lilac print,
a small pattern, and rather dark, would be better ? '

Good heavens, no ! Do you suppose I want
her to look like a workhouse child ? I want her to
brighten the gardens by her presence, like a beautiful
human butterfly.'

She is such a plain child, my Lord. She will
never pay for dress.'

I will have her in cream colour,' said Lashmar,
decisively ; ' and you can buy her half-a-dozen

sashes, the broadest you can get — some scarlet
and some pale blue. I will write you a cheque for
twenty or thirty pounds before you go. Buy everything
at Longford's, where her ladyship deals.'

The dearest shop in Brumm, my Lord.'

*The dearest shops are apt to be the cheapest
in the Ions: mn.'

'Ten pounds ought to be ample, even at Pons-ford's,'
said Barker. 'I shall only have to buy
materials, for Betsy is very clever with her needle,
and she will make all the little frocks and things.'

Betsy grinned, and reddened at this praise.

What a capital Betsy ! ' exclaimed Lashmar. * I
shall make the cheque twenty, and be sure you buy
soft and fine stuffs ; I want my little girl to look
pretty.'

That she will never do, my Lord,' answered
Barker with conviction ; ' but me and Betsy will
do our best to make her look nice.'

BY DEGREES THE HUMAN BLOSSOM BLO^\'s.'

The inquest upon Jonathan Bold wood was held
next day, and Lord Lashmar was present. There
were plenty of witnesses ready to describe his fall,
had more than one voice been necessary. The firemen
were exempted from all blame ; they had been
working nobly on the other side of the building
not one inhabitant had perished in that great
populous hive. The one fatal accident had been the
death of the father in his endeavour to rescue his
child.

Xo one came forward out of Bold wood's past
life to tell what the man had been, or to testify
to their interest in him. "When the coroner
asked what had been done with the child,
Lord Lashmar stepped forward and said that he

had adopted her, and would hold himself responsible
for her future welfare.

I don't think there is anyone who will dispute
that privilege with you, my Lord,' said the coroner.
I hope the child will gi'ow up to be grateful to you
for your noble conduct in saving her life.'

There was a murmur of applause in the room as
Lord Lashmar withdrew ; but before he left the
tavern where the inquest had been held, he told
the authorities that he would pay for a decent
funeral, and a grave in the cemetery outside Brumm.
It was his particular desire that Boldwood should
not be buried by the parish.

He attended the funeral in person two days afterwards,
by no means an agreeable duty, since all
the rabble of Brumm turned out to do honour to
their favourite agitator. Bat Lashmar told himself
that the day would come when Stella would question
him about her father's burial, would ask to betaken
to her father's grave : and he wanted to be
able to tell her that he had stood beside that grave
while the clods of earth were cast upon the coffin,
while the words of promise and of hope were spoken.

So Lashmar stood beside the parson as he
shuffled over those sublime words, and his was
the first hand that dropped flowers — summer's
whitest roses— upon the demagogue's coffin. The
crowd pressed forward to stare down into the
grave, and many a grimy hand scattered hedgerow
willing and humble cottage flowers on the
lid of the huge oak coffin. There were women
among the crowd who wept, women who had
never heard the orator, but who felt as if they
had lost a friend. Had he not pleaded the
cause of the poor against the rich ? Had he not
given voice to that deep undertone of discontent
which had been growing stronger day by day
with the advance of education.

The last of the summer roses had bloomed
and faded long before Stella ceased from piteous
entreaties to be taken to her daddy. She was
gentle and obedient to her benefactor ; was
gradually growing attached to him. She took
pleasure in his society, loved the river and the
gardens, the meadows and flowery banks, the
picture books in the library, where she used to

sit upon the lioor quietly turning the leaves of
an illustrated volume, while Lashmar read or
wrote, undisturbed by her presence. She thrived
in Betsy Barker's care, and was happy in the
comfort and the brightness of her new life ; but
young as she was she did not forget. A cloud
would come over her face in the midst of her
happiness, and the tears would roll down her
cheeks as she asked, ' Will daddy iiever come ? '
Sometimes Lashmar regretted that he had not
told her the truth at the very first, and questioned
his own wisdom in not having striven to make
her young mind comprehend the meaning of that
dreadful word 'death.' But having deceived her
so long he could not undeceive her now. He
could but talk in his vague poetic way of that
bright and beautiful country in which they were
all to dwell together some day.

Once she asked the name of that distant land,
And he told her it was Jerusalem the Golden.

Never did she see a stranger in the house or
the gardens without running up to him, looking
up in his face interrogatively, lest by any chance

this should be ' daddy ' come back to her unawares.
The vision of a tall man, with broad
shoulders, resulted inevitably in bitterest disappointment.
The figure seen from a distance,
perchance, had looked so like daddy, she had
run to him, and caught hold of his coat-tails
calling him by that dear name. And, oh ! the
agony of seeing an unfamiliar face, looking
wonderingly down at her!

She had cried herself to sleep more than once
after such a disappointment as this.

She was a very intelligent child, grave beyond
her years, full of serious thoughts and curious
questionings — a young mind alive with wonder.
She wanted to know about the sun and moon
and stars, the earth, and all creatures that dwell
thereon. Those picture books afforded perpetual
subjects for wonder. They were the steppingstones
to knowledge of all things great and small,
from the relics of Agamemnon's tomb to the last
discovery about ants or aphids. Lashmar was
infinitely patient with this human plaything of
his. He would lay aside Plato to answer Stella's

childish questioning, to explain a picture, to tell
her a story. He, to whom books were life itself
the charm and rapture of existence— would shut
his best-loved author, and devote himself for an
hour at a time to the task of satisfying this
eager young mind, impatient with the intensity
of its desire for knowledge.

Bold wood had taught his child a great deal, had
talked to her of subjects far beyond her years. He
had taught her as a man of large brain and lazy
habits would be likely to teach. He had taken heron
his lap and talked to her at random, roaming
from subject to subject ; now telling her some legend
of the old Greek fairyland, and now some strange
fact about the manners and customs of crocodiles.
There was one subject which he had never touched
upon — he had told her nothing about her God. It
was left for Lashmar to teach her to pray. That
first simple form of prayer which he had learnt
years ago from his nursery governess came back to
his memory one evening when the child was bidding
him good-night in the summer dusk.

Stella, I hope you say your prayers beside

your little bed, every night and morning,' he
said.

AVhat are prayers ? ' she asked. ' Betsy said
I ought to say my prayers ; but I don't know
what it means.'

Did daddy never teach you to pray. Stella ? '

She shook her head.

*If it was good he would have taught me,'
she said ; ' he was always good to Stella.'

'Prayer is good for all of us, dear. Daddy
may have thought you too young to pray — too
young to understand about the God who created
you and all of us, and Whom we all ought to love
and to fear.'

Daddy said there was no God ; he said only
fools believed in God.'

'My little girl, if we want to be happy we
must have something higher and better than
ourselves to look up to. We want the consciousness
of a friend and protector watching over us
and caring for us. Happily most of us have that
consciousness : it is born with us, a part of our
being ; takes strange and various forms in different

VOL. I. H

lands, but is always the same instinct — a looking
upward.'

And then feeling that his words were outside
the child's comprehension, he drew her to his
breast, and told her the story of Jesus; told her
that sweet story in its simplest and most human
please — the Holy Child on His mother's knee ;
the baptism in the river ; the Spirit of God
descending from the parted skies in the form of
a dove ; the Man of Sorrows ; the story of the
cross and the grave.

The child listened, her eyes wide with wonder.

Daddy did not know, or he would have
loved Jesus,' she said.

And then Lashmar taught her the first four lines
of that childish prayer which he had learnt from
his governess three-and-twenty years before : ' Gentle
Jesus, meek and mild, look upon a little child.'

Stella repeated the words after him in her
clear, sweet tones ; the first prayer those lips had
ever syllabled. Other prayers followed, the Lord's
prayer first and chief est — and Betsy's conscience
was relieved of a burden.

Stella had lived nearly a month at the castle
before she encountered Lady Lashmar. The dowager
had gone up to London with Victorian and taken
him to Eton, and had spent a week at "Windsor
in order to soften the agony of parting with her
idol. She saw him in the playing fields, she saw
him on the river, aid his young beauty seemed
to her the perfection of ripening manhood. She
talked to him of his future — his career —
emphasising the word with heroic meaning, trying
to kindle the fire of ambition in that young
mind.

As a younger son you are bound to distinguish
yourself, Victor,' she said. * Your poor brother is
Lord Lashmar, he can afford to dream away his
days in a library, but you will have no distinction
except that which you may win for yourself.
You must be the architect of your own
fortunes.'

I wouldn't much mind being the architect,'
said Victor; 'but I don't want to be the builder
not to have to lay brick upon brick, and carry
the hod of mortar, don't you know — not to have

to work my way upward inch by iiicL, as some
poor beggars do, in the church, or in the law.'
'You need have no profession but politics.'
That's deuced slow work, and deuced hardwork,
I'm told. One has to drudge over bluebooks,
and cram statistics, and sit in the House on
summer afternoons to ask questions, when life and
fashion are at fioodtide outside. If I could make
a great speech now, upon some burning question,
at midnight, and wake next morning to find myself
famous ! '

Ah, that is the way with boys, they want to
succeed without working for success ! '

'Mother,' said the boy, coming closer to her
and lowering his voice, ' do you know some of the
fellows here have told me that I should be a fool
to work, because I vitist be Lord Lashmar before I
am many years older. Poor Lash has such shocking
bad health, don't you imo, and it isn't likely
he'll last long.'

Whoever taught you to think that you will
be Lord Lashmar is your worst enemy,' said his
mother severely; 'Lashmar suffers a martyrdom

from neuralgia, poor fellow, but there is nothing
organically strong. Sir William Spenser told him
that he may live to Ije an old man.'

I'm glad to hear it,' said the boy, ' for I'm
very fond of old Lash. He has always been a good
brother to me. As for working, well, I don't like
work, who does ? but I always try to be top of the
tree everywhere, and I shall try to be top of the
tree at St. Stephen's, by-and-by. I shall go in for
aristocratic radicalism.'

Victorian ! ' cried her ladyship, growing pale
with horror.

There's no one succeeds better than your swell
Eat. Look at Maupertuis, for instance. Who,
has got the ear of the House half so well as he
has ? A man born in the purple makes such a
grand effect when he calmly expounds the theories
of advanced socialism ? I shall go in for the kind
of gospel that poor beggar Boldwood preached so
eloquently; only I shall be as mild as Maupertuis,
don't you know, and I shall be the wit of the
House. Nothing tells like wit.'

But wit is one of the few things that cannot

be learnt,' said the mother, smiling fondly at her
bov's arrogance. ' A man cannot be either a tenor-singer
or a wit for the wishing.'

'AVe shall see,' answered Victorian confidently
If I go into the House it will be to make the
members laugh — with me, not at me, mother.'

I would have you full to the brim of ambition,'
said her ladyship, kissing the broad strong brow,
I do not mind your being self-confident — vain,
even — so long as you are earnest and industrious

This was their parting interview. Lady Lash-mar
had never so much as hinted at her own
hope of her son's succession to his half-brother's
honours ; and now she breathed not one word of
the bitter blow which Spenser's favourable opinion
had been to her. She felt now that the hope had
been wicked, unnatural : yet she told herself that
she had always done her duty to her stepson, and
that nothing could ever make her falter in her
performance of that duty. If it had pleased Providence
to relieve him of the burden of existence
it would have seemed to her that Providence had
acted wisely and beneficially alike for Lashmar

and for Victorian. But Lady Pitland's second
daughter had been too well brought up to be
capable of rebellion against Providence. It was
not in vain that she went to church twice on
Sundays, and once on every Saint's Day, not even
slighting the minor saints by non-attendance. She
was eminently orthodox in her ideas, and she
bowed with dignified submission to the Inscrutable.


She went back to Middleshire, and was
cordially received by her stepson, who was at the
station to meet her, testifying to that respect
which was her due. He was standing on the
platform when the train stopped, and her ladyship
thought she had never seen him looking so well.

I shouldn't wonder if Sir William were right.
He looks as if he might live to be ninety,' she
said to herself, and then, with a sigh, she
murmured * Poor Victorian.'

Orthodox as she was it could but seem to
her a hardship that her son, in his strength and
perfection of manhood, should be kept in the
background by this blighted life.

*How brown you have grown, Lashmar,' she
said, as they shook hands ' and how well you
are looking ! '

'I have not had one of my headaches since
you left. I suppose it is because I have lived
more out of doors than I used to do.'

I should advise you always to live out of
doors,' replied his stepmother, with a forced
laugh.

She was grave and silent as they drove home;
excused herself for being dull and stupid on
the ground of fatigue. Not one question did she
ask about Lashmar's proUgee : yet the thought
of Bold wood's child was in her mind as they
drew near the castle. It was on account of this
brat no doubt that Lashmar had been spending his
life in the gardens, bronzing himself to the complexion
of a plough-boy. It was this whim which
had given new brightness to his aspect, a new
impetus to his life. Lady Lashmar was far too
orthodox to be angry with Providence; but she
felt that she might be as angry as she liked with
Boldwood's daughter.

She stood upon her balcony next morning,
wrapped in her dressing-gown, tasting the sweet
freshness of the air that swept over woodland and
meadow, and rippled the wavelets of the river
yonder. Far away in the rose-garden, a quaint
old quadrangle of turf and rose-trees, hedged in
with clipped yew, she saw two figures — Lashmar's
and a little girl in a white frock. The child was
flitting from flower to flower. The man was
sauntering up and down the grass, reading; but
he looked round every now and then at the child,
and occasionally stopped and bent down to talk
to her.

Lady Lashmar stood for a long time watching
them.

^Yas there ever such an absurd infatuation ? '
she said to herself, contemptuously.

It was nearly a week later when she met
the child for the first time in the corridor.
Stella was alone, tripping along gaily, holding up
a lap full of wild flowers — free, independent,
happy. She had just come in fr.mi a morning
spent on the river, in Lashmar's boat.

Her ladyship laid her hand upon the child's
shoulder, and bent down to scrutinise the small
sallow face.

Ugly ? Well, no, not so ugly as she had
thought that night. The small features were too
delicately moulded for ugliness. The eyes were
wonderful — too large, too dark for childish beauty ;
but in a woman they would have been eyes
worthy of Cleopatra.

I shouldn't wonder if the creature were to
grow up into a handsome woman,' thought her
ladyship, 'and then the chances are that Lashmar
will marry her. With his eccentric ideas there
would be nothing extraordinary in such a marriage.
Let me see, she is five — it will be twelve or thirteen
years before she is marriageable. That is a comfort.
And in the meantime she may hinder his marrying
anyone else.'

There was comfort also in this last idea, and
yet Lady Lashmar could not bring herself to regard
the child as anything but a viper.

What is your name ? ' she asked sternly.

Stella,' answered the child, looking up at her

ladyship calmly, unabashed by grandeur of
presence or splendour of raiment, or by the frown
which contracted the questioner's dark brows.

Stella ! a fine theatrical name, upon my word.
I suppose it was Lashmar who called you Stella.'

It was my daddy. He called me Stella. Do
you know where he is ? ' looking up eagerly, with
sudden interest.

Her ladyship was on the point of replying. In
another instant the hard, bitter truth would have
been spoken, had not Lashmar come out of the
library close by and interrupted the conversation.

So you have been talking to Stella,' he said
cheerily. ' Don't you think she has improved in
Betsy's care ? '

'Betsy has dressed her a great deal too fine,'
said her ladyship, with a scornful glance at the
cream-coloured frock and scarlet sash, the scarlet
shoes, and the coral necklace on the little throat,
which had the yellowish whiteness of ivory.

Oh, I like her to look pretty ! She brings stray
gleams of beauty into the dullness of a student's
life. There, you can run away, Stella. Run away

and get your dinner, and come to me again at four
o'clock for your reading lesson. Good-bye till four.'

He stooped to kiss lier, and dismissed her with
a smile. She tripped away, murmuring ' Four
o'clock, four o'clock — go again at four o'clock ina
kind of tune, as if to impress the fact upon
her mind.

Lady Lashmar felt the uselessness of argument
with her stepson. That quietly determined temper
of his had always baffled her in any dispute which
involved earnest purpose on his side. In trifles
he was always ready to give way to her. He
allowed her to reign undisputed mistress of a house
which by inheritance was all his own. He allowed
her to spend as much of his money as ever she
cared to spend in the maintenance of a state which
was far beyond his desires : but wherever feeling or
affection was concerned he had his own way.

Her ladyship had wished to get rid of the old
book-worm tutor when Lashmar came of age. The
man had taught his pupil all he could teach. He
was a shabby-looking Dominie Sampson-wish personage,
whose dingy presence was a blot upon the

elegance of Lash mar Castle. He was receiving two
hundred a year for doing nothing. But when these
views of hers were made known to Lashmar he
informed her that he meant Gabriel Werner to end
his days at the castle.

Werner is too old to go among new faces or to
learn new habits,' he said ; ' he will be very useful
to me as a librarian and secretary. He can take
care of my books and write my business letters.'

He has no more idea of business than one of
those peacocks said her ladyship, looking absently
out upon the terrace where Juno's birds were
spreading their plumes in. the sunshine.

Fortunately I have. I can always tell him
what to say.'

So Gabriel Werner stayed, a quaint old figure,
with shoulders so bent and rounded by stooping
over books that he too seemed a hunchback. Lady
Lashmar sometimes thought that he had cultivated
a hump, by way of mute flattery. He
was a harmless old man, small and pale, with
a large overhanging brow, and silvery hair, which
he wore long, like Milton, to whom he fancied

that he bore a striking resemblance. He had an
inoffensive kind of intellectual vanity, and was
engaged upon an elaborate commentary on Aristotle's
metaphysics, which he feared to publish
lest he should become suddenly famous in the
decline of his life, and sink into the grave
crushed by the weight of his laurels, like Tarpeia
under the bracelets of the besiegers. He contrived
to live at the castle, without obtruding
himself upon its proud mistress. He had his
private sitting-room near the library, where he
dwelt alone when he was not with Lashmar.
Once in a way, when she was in a benevolent
mood. Lady Lashmar invited him to lunch; or,
if she had a learned visitor she would go sofar
as to ask Mr. Werner to dinner, in order
that he might relieve her of her burden, and do
all necessary listening and sympathising in her
stead. Gradually she had become resigned to
the idea that he was to end his days at Lash-mar.
She even knitted warm comforters for him,
which he used to wear, and speak of with
reverence as 'her ladyship's little attentions.*

It was to Gabriel Werner that Lady Lashmar
now turned for sympathy. She joined him on
the terrace that afternoon while he was taking
his constitutional walk, after his temperate
luncheon, trotting up and down with a volume
of German metaphysics under his arm, a book
to which he applied himself for a few minutes
ever and anon, reading a little bit, and then
pacing up and down.

'My dear Mr. Yerner, how well you are
looking ! ' cried her Ladyship, ' ever so much
better than when I left the castle.'

*I think it must be because I have been
more in the open air,' replied the old man,
unconsciously answering just as Lashmar had
answered ;' his lordship and I have been spending
our days on the river during the late glorious
weather ; we have taken our books and our
luncheon '

'And his lordship's latest plaything — that
horrid child,' interrupted Lady Lashmar.

'I can assure your ladyship that the little
girl is a most amenable child, and a very interesting

companion. I never saw so young an
intellect of such scope and development ; it
induces me to think with Aristotle that as in
the young of some of the lower mammals the '

'Of course the child must be sharp, cunning,
old-fashioned. She is the child of sedition and
forethought. The child of a man whose intellectual
powers were employed only in doing
mischief. I am not surprised that you should
think the child clever. A few years hence she
will be a great deal too clever for any of us —
a source of unspeakable mischief — unless you,
dear j\Ir. Veined, can exercise your great influence
over Lashmar ; for you have great influence over
him, my dear sir ; he positively adores you, and
thinks your book will revolutionise European
thought.'

The phrase was large, but when Lady Lash-mar
had her own purpose to gain she always
did things largely.

'You are too kind,' murmured the Aristotelian
meekly.

Yes, dear Mr. Werner,' she hurried on, ' you

must really bring your superior brain to bear upon
poor Lashmar. He is clever, but a mere dreamer.
You must show him the danger involved in
this folly of his — the incubus he is preparing
for himself in the future. What in heaven's
name is he to do with this child by-and-by
if she should turn out badly? And of course
she will turn out badly. I have a profound
belief in hereditary instinct.'

*And I, dear Lady Lashmar, have an equally
profound belief in education. Not for worlds would
I thwart Lashmar in this fancy of his. Remember,
he saved that baby's life at the hazard of his own.
She is his — a God-given boon. He has seemed ever
so much happier since she has been here. She
interests, she amuses him, she takes him out of
himself; and think what a blessing that self-forgetfulness
must needs be in such a case as his
where nature, unjust novella, has been so unkind.'

Gabriel Werner stopped in some confusion. What

if that phrase, unjust novella, should seem personal.

Happily Lady Lashmar had been educated at a

period when young ladies were not taught Latin.
VOL. L I

Do not fear the result continued Werner. * I
will be responsible for the child's training ; and
I pledge myself that education shall conquer evil
instincts, if there is anything evil in that young
character.'

Lady Lashmar pushed the argument no further.
There was evidently no help to be obtained here.

I must go and put on my bonnet,' she said rather
shortly ; * I have a round of tiresome calls to make.
I will leave you to your beloved Plato.'

The Aristotelian shuddered at that hated name.
To think that after all these years of intercourse,
after having had the nature of his studies and
lucubrations so often expounded to her. Lady
Lashmar did not yet know to which school he
belonged !'

For six years of young, fresh life, Stella Bold-wood
was almost entirely happy. She lived in a
world where aL things were new — to the
dweller in the tents of the people — an actual
world of beauty and luxury which knew not
change ; a world of thought whose horizon
widened with every day of her existence. Education

to Stella was as sunlight to the Powers,
or spring time to the birds. Her eager mind opened
to receive the treasures of knowledge; her vivid
imagination shed its own brightness upon every
subject ; and she was taught as seldom children are
taught in this super enlightened age of ours. She
was taught as sweetly and as pleasantly as children
are told the legends of fairyland on a mother's knee.
Lashmar devised his own system of education. She
was to learn nothing in which she was not interested,
to repeat no dry formulae, patronise. She
was to be troubled with none of those abstruse
technicalities which the modern grammarian has
devised for the torture of childhood. The story of
the earth on which she lived was not to be made
odious to her by dry scraps of science, long rows
of figures, altitudes of mountains, lengths of rivers.
She was to learn the beauty and the glory of the
universe unawares, out of picture books and tales
of travel and adventure. Instead of knocking her
poor little head against a row of unfriendly figure
in order to learn the exact height of such and such
peaks of the Andes, or the Himalayas, she was iu

fancy to roam those mountains, to tremble on the
edge of stern precipices, to gather strange flowers
that bloom in their remoteness, to make acquaintance
with strange creatures that dwell in those inaccessible
regions. She would sit for hours at
Lashmar's feet listening to the experiences of some
hardy explorer, and then with her babyish pencil
she would draw fancy-pictures of the wild, lonely
hills, the gigantic lakes, and awful woods, the
world which to her vivid imagination was as familiar
as the meadows and orchards of Middleshire.

Lashmar taught his pupil history in a series of
narrations, beginning with the Bible-stories of that
far-away patriarchal world in which good men
dwelt under the personal protection of their God,
holding constant converse with heaven ; and
working gradually downwards through the dark
mystery of Egypt to the fair dawn of Greece.
He lingered long and lovingly over that fairy land
of Olympus. He was steeped to the lips in Greek
legend, Hesiod and Homer, and all the Homeric
hymns.

And Stella loved to hear these fair myths of a

world that is dead, asked again and again for stories
of Dionysus and Demeter, of Helen and Paris, of
Hector and Achilles, of Ajax and Agamemnon ; stories
terrible and stories beautiful, stories at which her
hair seemed to rise with horror, stories which
brought back the happy smile to the young lips.
In the boat beneath the willows on sultriest summer
afternoons, or beside the winter fire, betwixt afternoon
tea and the eight o'clock dinner, Stella's
education was always going on ; an education of
legend and history, poetry and fact : an education
of oral instruction which exacted no labour from
the growing brain, an education which was always
sowing the seed and never reaping the harvest.
That was to come later.

Gabriel Werner took the child in hand for an
hour every morning. He taught her to read and
write and cipher. That was the only drudgery of
her education. All the rest was learnt at Lashmar's
knee.

Their life crept onward with a monotony which
to anyone, except a student, would have been intolerable.
Lady Lashmar came and went. She

was in Grosvenor Square for the season. She
spent all one summer at Homburg for her gout, taking
Victorian with her. She took him lbr*another
vacation to the Engadine. She spent a month
with him in Paris. But, except for an occasional
week in the picture-seeing season. Lord Lashmar
rarely went to London. He found contentment,
occupation, variety in that matchless library which
was the pride of Lashmar Castle ; and he found
recreation and amusement in the society of his
adopted daughter.

And thus, in the lap of luxury, beloved and
cherished, Jonathan Boldwood's daughter arrived
at her eleventh birthday. She had remembered
her birthday, young as she was, and had been able
to tell her benefactor the exact date, because it was
a day with a name. This dark child with the
star-like eyes had begun life upon Midsummer-day.


Lashmar questioned her sometimes about her
earliest experiences — very gently, lest he should
evoke sad memories, revive her passionate grief
for her father, perhaps. He asked her if her

father had ever told her anything about her
mother, or of his own life.

Yes. He had told her that he was once a
gentleman, that he was born in a great house
near the sea, far away on the Scottish border.
He had told her that her mother was beautiful
and ought to have been rich. This — told vaguely
as a child would relate shreds and patches of
half-remembered speech — was all that Lashmar
could obtain by his questioning.

After all, the past history of Jonathan B ellwood
could matter very little. There was evidently no
one to claim the child ; and that, in Lashmar's
mind, was the main point.

Only one relic of the dead man had been saved
from the fire. A small tin cash-box, with the
initials J. B., had been found among the ashes
and rubbish below that portion of the ruined pile
in which Boldwood's rooms had been situated. It
was identified as his by a fellow-lodger; and waa
ultimately handed over to Lashmar, together with
the key which had been found hanging on his steel
watch-chain. Watch, chain, and key, were given
up to Lashmar after the inquest.

The contents of the casket were disappointing.
It contained papers which the smoke had blackened
so as to be utterly undecipherable. The original
form was there, but reduced almost to tinder.
The matter had vanished. The only uninjured
object was a miniature in a double gold case,
which had better resisted the action of the fire
than the ill-made metal box. The miniature was
an old-fashioned painting upon ivory ; the portrait
of a man in the prime of life. A grave dark
face, with large dark eyes, and a high bald forehead.
Lashmar judged by the peculiar form of
board and coat-collar that the original had been
a foreigner ; the type was un-english. He
showed Stella the picture and asked her if she
had ever seen it before.

Xo, never. What was it, who was it ? '
Lashmar sealed up the sheets of tindery paper
in a large envelope, and subscribed it carefully,
Burned papers found in Bold wood's cash-box,'
with the place and date. He cleaned up the cash-box,
and put the miniature and the papers back
into it, locked it, and tied the key to the handle

then wrote a label, ' This box is Stella BoldwoocVs
property, the only thing saved from her father's
lodgings.' He put the box in a locked book-case
where he kept some of his most valuable books.
A priceless Cameron, an old copy of Rabelais,
and some of the least respectable among the
classics from the printing press of mediaeval
Venice.

OUT OF SIGHT, Beyond LIGHT, AT WHAT GOAL MAY
WE MEET ? '

It was Midsummer Day, and Stella was eleven
years old, an ever-memorable anniversary in that
young life ; so sweet in its summer dawn, so fatal
before sundown.

Lady Lasbmar was in London, Victorian was
at Oxford. He bad hardly spent three months at
the castle during those six years in which Stella
had dwelt there, and he had exchanged scarcely a
dozen words with her. He bad exaggerated his
mother's prejudices against the orphan, and avoided
her as if she had been a toad.

Lashmar and his protegee had their little world
all to themselves, save for their devoted slave,
Gabriel Werner, who still hovered on the brink
of publication, the manuscript of bis great book

still virgin, unsoiled by the finger-marks of the
compositor, and who still forecast with terror the
day in which the world should ring with his
name, and cabinet ministers insist upon making
his acquaintance.

Stella's birthday had been always made in
some wise a festival by her adopted father. He
wanted the child to lack none of those childish
pleasures which fathers and mothers give their
children. She was in after years to recall no
deprivation, no loss of privilege or pleasure. And
this year he felt more than usually anxious to do
honour to her birthday. The time was drawing
near when this happy Arcadian existence, this
easy-going education at her benefactor's feet must
needs be changed for a more conventional form of
life. The time was coming when Stella must be
handed over to feminine care, in order that she
might learn the ways and the accomplishments of
women. It would have pleased Lashmar to have
carried out his work to the end, to have seen his
protegee grow up to ripening womanhood under
his care, to have taught her all things that she

was ever to learn, to have created in lier a
spiritual twin-sister, a second self, the sweet companion
and consolation of his loveless days. But
regard for her interests, the fear that he might
create that modern monster, the philosopher in
petticoats, made him hesitate ; while Gabriel
Werner's suggestion, that in days to come scandal
might cholic the relations of protector and protected,
was not without weight with him. He
made up his mind to seek out some tranquil and
happy household, some perfect woman nobly
planned, in whose fostering care Stella might
develop into enlightened and graceful womanhood.
And then — and then — in the days to come she
might still be his companion and friend, again live
under his roof and brighten his days, the first to
bid him good-morning, the last to say good-night.
She would marry, perhaps ; yes, that would be
best for both of them. She might anchor herself
in marriage to some mild young cleric, who could
be Lashmar's chaplain; so that husband and wife
might live together under his roof. He saw himself
in that far future smiling upon Stella's children,

finding a new star in some baby girl who
would sit at his feet and listen to him in wide-eyed
wonder, just as Stella had done. Surely his
age would not be loveless or lonely ; this waif
snatched out of the fire would be to him a wellspring
of love.

His life had not been all brightness since Stella
had dwelt within his walls. Those sensitive nerves
of his — sensitive to cold, to heat, to fatigue, to
pleasure even — had been racked many and many
a day. The old agony of pain, the old weariness
of prostration had been his again and again ;
but in every new interval of suffering he had
found a growing sweetness in SteUa's sympathy.
The child had a sense of pity and love far beyond
her years, a power to comprehend suffering rarely
found even in a woman. She would sit by her
benefactor's couch for hours — silent, watchful. She
knew every expression of the sufferer's tortured
brow, and could mark those intervals of respite
in which he liked to talk, and in which it was
good for him to have his thoughts diverted into
new channels. Her little feet moved lightly over

the carpet, lier little hands were as gentle as rose
leaves falling upon grass. Before she was eight
years old she acquired a deftness which made
her ministrations pleasant than those of the
most experienced woman-servant in the castle.
She could pour out a dose of medicine, or mix a
tumbler of lemonade with unerring precision. She
was Lashmar's chief nurse in all his illnesses,
which, being for the most part of a nervous character,
involved no degrading office for nurse or
attendant. Gabriel Werner was Stella's subordinate
in the sick room, and was quite as gentle as a
woman.

Lord Lash mar generally breakfasted in his
study when her ladyship was away, and at such
periods Werner and Stella always breakfasted with
him. The breakfast hour was nine, and Lashmar
often spent an hour in the garden before breakfast,
sometimes alone, but more often with Stella
for his companion.

She was with him this morning, proud in the
repetition of her first Greek verb. She had been
learning Latin for more than a year, and could recite

b its of the Bucolics with perfect intonation and precision,
but Greek had been begun within the last
few weeks, and Stella was intensely interested in
the beginning of a language which she had been
taught to consider the grandest tongue that the
peoples of this earth had ever spoken. Had not
Homer recited his wondrous tale of Troy in those
sonorous syllables ? Stella knew the story of
Troy as well as other children know the story
of Need Ending-Hood.

Stella repeated her verb in its innumerable
tenses with very few mistakes, and won a kindly
word of approval from Lashmar.

Most little girls at your age would be learning
French instead of Greek,' he said ; ' but, as
there is nothing in the French language equal to
Homer or Plato, I would rather you should learn
Greek first and French afterwards.'

They went into breakfast together. Mr.
Werner was in the study waiting for them, with
his note-book and pencil in his hand, going
over a passage in his book. He wrote his
manuscript in small scraps, which he revised

and re-wrote again and again, carrying the little
book about with him wherever he went, poring
and pondering over every paragraph, every
phrase ; and by this laborious method he had
contrived to attain an English style which read
like a literal translation from Hegel or Schopenhauer.


The table was bright with flowers, old English
silver, and old English china. A large dish of
strawberries showed crimson against a background
of tea-roses in a great Japanese bowl. The
substantial were all upon a side-table. Lash-mar
was wont to breakfast lightly, on new
laid eggs and strawberries and cream, in this
summer weather, and Stella cared only for
crisp, light rolls and fruit and cream. It
was Mr. Werner whose fine appetite did justice
to the good things on the side-table.

Stella gave a cry of surprise and rapture as
she took her seat. Upon her folded napkin lay
a glittering golden watch, with a slender chain
coiled round it like a serpent. The back of the
watch was enamelled, and on the enamel appeared

the initial S., surmounted by a star in tiny
brilliant.

Oh, what a beautiful watch ! ' she cried ;
whose is it ? '

Yours, Stella. You are so precise in giving
me my medicine when I am ill that I am sure
you know the value of time ; so I thought you
would like to have a time-keeper of your own.'

Stella ran to him, and threw her arms round
his neck and kissed him.

How good you are to me ! you are always
giving me pretty things. But a watch ! I never
thought I should have a watch, like a grown-up
person ! '

'You are more thoughtful and more exact
than many grown-up persons, Stella. You deserve
to own a watch.'

'I will be very, very careful of it,' said
the child earnestly.

She had often handled Lashmar's watch :
had worn it for a week at a time when he was
ill, so she was not afraid to open this one. She
read the inscription inside : ' To Stella, from

VOL. I. K

her adopted father, Lashmar, Midsummer Day,
1872.

That is the best of all,' she said ; ' I shall always
love the watch for my adopted father's sake.'

They were to start upon an excursion soon
after breakfast — an excursion planned in honour
of the day. Fifteen miles from Lashmar Castle
there were the remains of a mediaeval abbey —
extensive ruins, in a very fine state of preservation,
and situated in a beautiful country. Langdale
Abbey was one of the places that everybody
went to see, and it afforded an admirable
excuse for a picnic. Lashmar knew every stone
among the ruins, every wild flower and lichen
that ejrew in the interstices of the stones and
clothed the old walls with beauty. But he was
never weary of Langdale Abbey, and he told
himself that there could be no pleasant way
of spending the day than in a drive to Langdale.

He had lately bought a pair of horses, of
which he was particularly proud, fine up-standing
bays, an exact match in colour, size, form, action
and pace — a pair of horses which would have

attracted every eye in Hyde Park, but which
were hardly noticed in the neighbourhood of
Lashmar Castle where it was an understood
thing that Lord Lashmar always drove the finest
cattle. He was so rich and had so few ways
of spending his money that it seemed only right
he should pay high prices for his horses.

He was an admirable whip, firm, temperate,
with light hands and an unerring eye. He
loved horses, and horses loved him. These bays
were fine, honest animals, and reported to be as
quiet as sheep. Lord Lashmar had driven them
three or four times, and had foimd them irreproachable.
He would never have risked Stella's
safety by placing her behind dangerous animals,
nor would he have imperilled the gray hairs of
his faithful old tutor.

The picnic baskets were packed into the
phaeton in the stable yard, and at eleven o'clock
the carriage came round to the porch.

Stella was ready in the hall, beaming with
happiness, the great dark eyes shining out of
the shadow made by her broad-brimmed hat.

Her short-waisted white frock, broad blue sash,
and long wash-leather gloves made her look like
one of Eeynolds's children. Indeed, with her
dark eyes and thick hair, cut straight across her
brow, she had always a look of Eeynolds's
portraits. The aristocratic old Eector of Lashmar
used to pat her on the head condescendingly,
and call her 'My Eeynolds girl.' He was a
good man, after his fashion, which was narrow.
He could not see any merit in bringing up one
orphan in the lap of luxury. He would have had
the cost of Stella's maintenance given to some
orphanage where it might have been distributed
in the shape of thick bread-and-butter and hobnailed
boots, among many children. Lashmar's
benevolence seemed to him as the costly box of
ointment seemed to Judas — a lavish, unreasoning
expenditure. He was always ready to echo Lady
Lashmar's reprobation of her stepson's folly. Yes,
no doubt he was preparing trouble for himself in
the future. The girl must eventually become an
incubus.

Stella took her seat beside Lord Lashmar in

the phaeton, Gabriel Werner mounted behind, and
the groom leapt lightly into his place when the
horses were in full motion, deeming that his
dignity would have been compromised by mounting
a moment sooner. The bays went with a certain
springiness, which told Lashmar they were very
fresh.

Were these horses exercised yesterday ? ' he
asked of the groom.

No, my Lord, not yesterday. Smiles knew
your lordship wanted them for a journey.'

Were they out the day before ? '

*Xo, my Lord. Smiles thought the weather
was too bad.'

The bays were going splendidly, with no hint
of running away ; but they were very eager, and
wanted to go at the top of their pace. Lashmar
kept them well in hand, and they bowled merrily
along the high road outside the castle. They had
fifteen miles before them.

What nice horses,' said Stella, enjoying the pace.

Do you like them better than Pyramus and
Thisbe ? '

'Pyramus and Thisbe are darlings, but these
go faster, don't they?'

'Yes, they are going faster to-day.'

They had driven three or four miles in the
morning sunshine, between hedge-rows full of
eglantine and honeysuckle, past a picturesque
Middleshire village, with its tumble-down, half-timbered
cottages in black and white, its untidy
straw-yards and mouldering barns. The horses
were well in hand as Lashmar drove past the
little cluster of humble dwellings, and the inn,
with its blurred old sign and dripping horse-trough.
The village seemed for the most part the abode of
sleep or death ; for all the men were in the fields,
and all the children were at school. But here
and there a woman looked out at her door, and
admired Lord Lashmar's horses, the light phaeton,
the groom's smart livery, and the pretty child in
her white frock and straw hat.

About a hundred yards from the village the
road made a sharp curve, and Lord Lashmar saw
himself face to face with that which might mean
danger.

A traction engine in full cry, snorting, panting,
groaning — a traction engine serving as a tug fora
huge waggon of hay, which loomed large above
it, a waggon which should have been drawn by
sleek and placid cart-horses, with plaited manes
and decorative net-work flapping over their honest
foreheads.

The groom stood up and uttered one of those
inarticulate cries which are as a common language
of the stable. The men in charge of the engine
tried to abate the fury of their monster.

Too late ! The horses were in that condition of
freshness which would have made them bolt at a
feather — they lore off in an instant — all their reserve
force in full action.

Sit firmly, for God's sake, Stella ; ' said Lash-mar,
and then to those behind, ' Werner, keep your
seat whatever happens ; John, try to hold Miss Stella. '

The "room wound his arm round the child's
waist. She was looking at Lashmar's face, silent,
awe-stricken. How pale he was, and how tightly
his lips were set ! Yet he did not look frightened,
only grave, intent, anxious.

Are we all going to be killed ? ' she asked
tremulously.

'We are in God's hands, my darling,' he answered.


There was no time for more. The danger was
close upon them. Had there been a clear road the
bolting of the horses would have been as nothing
with such a whip as Lashmar.

But the road was narrow, and they had to pass
that huge bulk of the hay-waggon and the engine.
The drivers were dragging their load as far as they
could towards the hedge, but there was little time
for this, with those frightened horses tearing along
at a mad gallop. Lashmar was holding them firmly,
keeping them fairly straight; but, just as they
neared the engine, it gave one final snort ; the off-horse
swerved, the pole snapped, and both horses
fell in a heap, dragging the phaeton over in their
fall.

Black night closed over Stella's dreams, ending
this birthday of hers in deepest darkness before it
was noon.



After that sudden extinguishment of the actual
world, there came one long dream of horror. One
long dream — a dream without awakening, yet a
vision so entangled that it was, as it were, many
dreams within one dream. oSTot once in that long
labyrinth of unreality did the child recognise the
realities around her ; not once did her senses emerge
from that world of phantoms, and the burden of
shadows that thronged about her bed — terrible
shadows some of them, haunting shapes from the
realm of legend and poetry — Agamemnon in his
bloody bath, Achilles with the corpse of Hector
tied to his chariot. There was one dream in which
she was Hector, dead and bleeding, dragged to the
Grecian ships — the grit and dust were in her throat
and choked her, the thundering hoofs of those
fiery horses deafened her, she was dead yet sentient.
All her studies, and stories, and happy fancies of the
past, personified themselves in those everlasting
hours of delirium — a period in which hours were
exaggerated into ages, and a day seemed an eternity.
Her first Greek verb, her lessons from Virgil, her
scraps of science, her childish knowledge of the

heavens — all the things she had learned became
a torture to her.

She was a star in the constellation of Cassiopeia's
Chair, shining: with her sister-stars in the cold November
sky. Oh ! how remote, and how cold it was
in that far world of night and darkness! how
dreadful to be parted for ever from her friend and
father ! She could see the world she had left, a little
spot in the immensity of the universe below her —
one little spot, faintly luminous, like a glowworm ina
hedge; and there was one speck of brighter light in
that dim world, an electric spark, no bigger than a
pin's point, which she knew was Lashmar's soul. It
shone like a star in that distant earth, brighter than
all the other souls of humanity, because he was the
kindest and noblest man upon the earth. " Like
Christ," she said to herself. She had often told
herself in her childish simplicity, unconsciously
irreverent, that he was like Christ. And now
her agony was the thought of an impassable gulf
between her benefactor and herself. She strained,
she struggled to pass that black abyss ; she stretched
out her arms as if they were wings. Sometimes they

seemed to her as wings, and carried her for a long-way,
whirling onward in darkness : but that glowworm
spot in the far distance came no nearer to her
straining [eyes — that gulf was infinite and impassable
!

Xever to see him again she moaned ; ' never
to see him again. Too far — too far ! '

And honest Betsy, who sat beside her bed
sewing, wondered that the child, who had never
recovered her senses since the accident, should
have this instinctive consciousness of an irreparable
loss.

At last there came an interval in that agony
of delirium. The throng of spectres was clouded
over by a gracious darkness. The weary arms
ceased to strain towards that unattainable point.
The burning lids fell over the aching eyeballs. A
deep and healing sleep followed that feverish unrest ;
and the patient woke to know the kindly face
of her nurse for the first time in ten long days and
nights. of fever.

She saw the sunshine of a summer afternoon
streaming in at her window.

Is it my birthday ?' lie asked, simply. 'Why
didn't we go to Langdale Abbey?'

Aud then, sitting up in her bed, very weak
and white, and wan, she stretched out her tremulous
hands, and asked —

Where is my watch ? '

Here, darling,' answered Betsy, taking the watch
out of a morocco case on the dressing-table, delighted
to gratify her patient. ' There's your pretty watch.
Oh, my, isn't it a pretty one 1 And ain't you lucky
to have a watch, just like a grown-up young lady ! '

The weak little hands wavered as they took
the watch; the exhausted frame sank helpless on
the bed, but the child held the watch before her
eyes all the time, and the tremulous fingers contrived
to open the case.

'Head it,' she said faintly; and Betsy spelled
out the inscription, 'To Stella, from her adopted
father, Lashmar.' * Oh, isn't it beautiful ! ' exclaimed
Betsy, and then she began to cry, and
cried a deluge, as young women of her class usually
can, seeming to have a better supplied reservoir of
tears than the highly cultured.

Don't cry,' said Stella ; ' there's nothing to cry
for.'

She had forgotten the dream of the star, the
pitiless abyss between her and Lashmar, the sense
of everlasting severance.

She lay for some minutes looking at her watch,
holding it in both hands, as if it were too heavy
for one. Then she put it to lier ear, and found
that it was mute.

A quarter to twelve,' she said, ' why did it
stop at a quarter to twelve ? '

Again Betsy dissolved into tears.

'Shoosh, dear,' she murmured, patting Stella's
shoulder, ' go to sleep, my pet, till the doctor comes
to see you. Let Betsy put the pretty watch under
your pillow.'

I don't want to sleep any more ; I want to getup
and be dressed ; you know it's my birthday, and
I am to be all day with Lord Lashmar. How late
the sunshine looks — like afternoon. Have I overslept
myself ? '

You have been very, very ill, dear,' answered
Betsy, in a soothing, preachy-preachy tone, which is

peculiarly exasperating to an intellectual child, ' you
are much too weak to get up. You shall have your
Brand's essence presently and a nice little bit of
toast.'

But it's my birthday,' urged Stella, ' and I am
to dine with his lordship.'

My poor pet, your birthday was ten days ago,
a week before the funeral,' answered Betsy.

The word was spoken unawares. That awe-inspiring,
much-discussed event of the funeral — a
stately and imposing ceremonial, including all the
dismal grandeur of the old school and all the floral
decorations of the new — had been in everybody's
mouth at Lashmar Castle for the last six days. It
was the standard by which time was reckoned.

What funeral ? ' cried Stella, starting up in her
bed with a scared look.

She was so weak that cold drops broke out
upon her brow in the agitation of this question.
Poor Betsy was at her wits' end.

Go to sleep, pet,' she pleaded ; ' the doctor
wouldn't like you to talk so much. Lie down and
go to sleep, lovey.'

But even these endearments failed to soothe the
perturbed spirit.

What funeral ? ' repeated Stella ; ' is anybody
dead ? '

Betsy only patted her shoulder dumbly, with
streaming eyes.

Who is dead ? Not Mr. Werner ? Oh ! he was
so good to me. He is not dead, is he ? '

No, dear, no ; Mr. Werner is quite well. He
wasn't hurt at all, poor dear gentleman,' answered
Betsy.

He wasn't hurt 1 Who was hurt, then ? Was
anybody hurt ? ' cried Stella, her eyes assuming the
wild look they had had in delirium.

You were hurt, my poor precious. You fell on
your dear little head.'

Stella gave a scream, and flung her arms round
Betsy's neck. Memory returned in a flash.

The horses 1 ' she cried ; ' yes, I remember. Oh !
those dreadful horses. Lord Lashmar drove so well ;
but I thought we were going to be killed. He was
not hurt, was he ? Ask him to come to me ; I want
to see Lord Lashmar ; directly, directly.'

Those large dark eyes of hers were growing
wilder and wilder. They looked unnaturally large
in the small, pale face, sorely shrunken from its
childish plumpness during the wasting agony of that
ten days' fever. She tried to get out of bed,
pushing aside Betsy's restraining arms.

Ask Lord Lashmar to come to me. Let me goto
Lord Lashmar.'

Lord Lashmar is out, love,' said the frightened
Betsy ; ' Lord Lashmar has gone to Brumm for the
day, on particular business.'

It was true. Betsy felt she had satisfied her
charge, and saved her soul from the burden of a lie.
It was literal truth which she had spoken, and yet
for Stella it was not the truth: for Stella it was
a miserable, mocking lie.

She was not satisfied, but lay back upon her
pillows too exhausted to struggle. She lay moaning.
I want to see Lord Lashmar. When will he be
back ? Oh ! when, when, when ? '

She sobbed herself into a feverish, restless
slumber ; and she was delirious again that night.

The doctor was much concerned when he came

to see her ia the evening, and was told how she
had recovered her senses for a little while, only
to lose them again.

Did you tell her anything ? ' he asked.

Not a word answered Betsy. ' She wanted
to see Lord Lashniar dreadfully, but I told her he
was out for the day, and she seemed to believe
me; but she made herself very unhappy about
him. She was so fond of him, poor dear, and
well she might be.'

Ah, well indeed I ' said the doctor, shaking his
head. ' I'm afraid she has seen the best days of
her life, poor little thing.'

Mr. Stokes was a kind, simple soul, v/ho had
lived all his life in the village of xlvondale, justa
mile from the much smaller village of Lashmar,
a pretty little cluster of houses on the bank of
the river, nestling round an old Saxon chi-ch
that seemed much too large for its surroundings.
Mr. Stokes knew everybody in the neighbourhood,
and had known the younger generation from their
cradles. He was a skilful surgeon, and was tolerably
shrewd in his diagnosis, though he seldom

VOL. L L

went farther afield than Brumm, and had not
seen much of the great city since he was a student
at Barley's. He knew all about Stella, and
Lady Lashmar's feelings with regard to her.

'I am afraid she is in for a relapse,' he said
after he had taken her temperature. ' A hundred
and five three-fourths. That looks bad. You must
do all you can to keep her quiet. Give her Brand's
essence and a teaspoonful of brandy with a little
yoke of egg alternate half-hours. You'll have to
sit up with her again to-night.'

I don't mind thirty said Betsy. ' I don't mind
anything except hearing her ask for Lord Lashmar.'

The doctor was right. Stella re-entered the
land of phantoms. This time her worst dream
was of a vast and sunless swamp— such a swamp
as that she had read about, far across the Atlantic
the Great Dismal Swamp, where never tree or
flower flourished ; a place of desolation ; impassable,
exhaling poisonous odours, brooded over by dark
clouds, a semi-darkness worse than night.

And she was wading in that swamp for ever
and for ever, weary to agony — the dull agony of

aching bones and burdened brain. Far, far away
a vanishing point in remotest distance, there was
a speck of light— the same speck she had seen on
the far earth when she was a star — and that light
was Lashmar. She vv^as perpetually trying to reach
that distant point, weighed down for ever by the
sense of utter impossibility, yet obliged to try.
The agonising dream seemed to endure for ages ;
long nights of repetition, in which Betsy hovered
over her charge with cup or teaspoon, forcing her
doses of nourishment between the parched hot lips,
with a persistence that seemed sheer brutality;
but that very tangible presence of the buxom Betsy
had no effect upon the visionary world in which
Stella dwelt. The dim and distant light was
always there, glimmering faintly across the wide,
gray waste, in the perpetual twilight.

Perhaps it was the faint gleam of the night-light
in the remotest corner of the room, which
suggested that distant ray shining across the dull
gray level of dreamland.

It was in the niccht that the cjoblia crew rode
rampant over that distracted brain. The days passed

for the most part in a kind of stupor : the patient
lying helpless, apathetic, recognising no one, caring
for nothing, in a state of semi-consciousness which
was neither sleeping nor waking.

From such a condition as this she was aroused
by the howling of a summer storm in the great
oaks, and the sharp rattle of the rain against the
casement. The sky was cold and gray. Stella
knew not if it were morning or afternoon. Memory
was a blank again. She had forgotten all that
had happened since her birthday, had forgotten
the accident which had made that day fatal.

This time Betsy was not at hand to be questioned.
It was between four and five o'clock, and
Betsy had gone down to tea, had gone to expatiate
upon the storm to her fellow-servants, who were all
wont at such times to wish that they lived in
London, where thunder and lightning would seem
comparatively harmless amidst the cheerfulness
and sense of protection afforded by crowded streets
and policemen. The thunder and lightning were
over, or Betsy would not have left her charge.

Stella looked about the room wonderingly

slowly coming back from dreamland, slowly realising
the facts of the external world. Yes, it washer
own room ; there were all those ornaments and
knick-knacks which children speak of comprehensively
as 'pretty things.' The silver casket
on her dressing-table, the scent bottles, the china
monsters, the bright coloured pilgrim bottles from
that legendary Eastern world, of which she had heard
and learnt so much — the cradle of mankind — the
well filled bookshelves, the dolls and dolls-house.
But these last had been degraded from their high
estate to an obscure corner, things to be ashamed
of, that one could ever have been so babyish as to
care much about them.

Yes, it was her own room, that lightsome, airy
chamber, high up among the tree-tops and the
swallows. It was her nest, in which she had been
as free and happy as the birds of the air, more
tenderly cherished than ever nestling by parent bird .

The door leading into the sitting-room was half
open, and there were people talking, she had heard
their voices amidst the rattle of the rain and the
bluster of the storm.

'Shall you send her away?' asked a manly
voice, rich and full, a voice that was not altogether
unfamiliar. It was like her benefactor's, but
stronger, fuller.

No, I shall keep her here. I consider that
a sacred duty, for poor Hubert's sake. But I shall
try to repair his sad mistake in the manner of
rearing her. I shall bring her up as a child of
the lower classes ought to be brought up. I shall
train her to be useful, a bread-winner among a
class of bread-winners.'

Too well did Stella know this second voice.
These were the sonorous tones of that terrible personage
whom she had met from time to time in the
corridors or in the gardens, and who had always
scowled at her, and passed her by in haughty
silence. She knew the face and jSgure to which the
voice belonged, the tall and stately form, the
strongly marked brows and aquiline nose.

Bather rough upon her, poor little wretch, after
having been so pampered.'

That is poor Hubert's fault, not mine replied
her ladyship coldly.

'Well, it was one of those silly things which
your very clever men are apt to do,' said the other
voice. ' I took an intense dislike to the brat from the
hour poor Lash brought her home, like some strayed
mongrel, and not half so interesting. If I were you
I should clear her out of the castle as soon as she is
well enough to budge ; pack her off to one of those
innumerable institutions for rearing up beggar brats
in the fear of their spiritual pastors and masters
upon sound Conservative principles. You'll get
rid of a nuisance ; and there'll be a better chance
of her making a good housemaid than if she is
allowed to stay here where she'll always remember
Lashmar's idiotic indulgence.'

I have told you that I mean to bring her
up under my own eye,' replied her ladyship, ina
terrible voice.

She was a woman who could not brook co n
tradition, would not endure to have her will
gainsaid or her wisdom questioned ; least of all
could she endure such questioning from her own
son. She was a woman who loved to govern,
and to whom the idea of domineering even over

such a helpless waif as Boldwood's daughter
was very pleasant.

I shall bring her up under my own eye,
she repeated ; ' I shall see that she is taught
properly, and that above all she learns to forget
her foolish childhood, and to understand her
position as a friendless orphan, who must learn
to earn her daily bread.'

A friendless orphan ! ' repeated Stella, in a
faint whisper. Of Avhom vere they talking ?
she asked herself. Could it be of her? She remembered
how once when old Mr. Werner was
expatiating upon Lashmar's goodness he had told
her that were it not for that generous benefactor
she would have been a friendless orphan.

And now her ladyship was talking about a
friendless orphan who had been brought up
foolishly.

She will have to begin a new life as soon
as she gets Avell.'

*As soon as she gets well,' repeated Stella.
Yes, it was of her they were talking. They
had got her into their power somehow, those

two enemies. They were going to alter her
happy life. They would take away her Greek
grammar perhaps, stop that new study of which
she was so proud, and which had seemed to
hiring her nearer to Lashmar. He had talked to
her of the time when they would be able to
read Homer together.

Oh ! where was Lashmar ? Why did he not
come and stop their cruel talking ? She clasped
her hands in an agony of despair. She called
out in a faint scream, too weak to cry aloud, as
it were struofdincr in a nightmare dream —

Lord Lashmar, Lord Lashmar ! '

A face — a bright young face, handsome as
Apollo's — looked in at the door, only for a flash.
It gave way in the next instant to the stern
countenance of the dowager.

Are you awake, child ? ' she asked.

Please ask Lord Lashmar to come to me,'
cried the girl piteously.

'What do you want with Lord Lashmar?
Lie down, child ; you are too weak to sit up
yet awhile. I'll send Betsy to you.'

'No, no, I don't want her. I want Lord
Lashmar. I shall go mad if I don't see him ! '

The dowager seated herself in Betsy's vacant
chair by the bed, an awful figure, stern and
terrible as Fate itself.

She was clad from top to toe in black,
densest black, not that rich and glittering
raiment in which Stella had often seen her of
old — a costly combination of satin and brocade
sparkling and flashing with tremulous fringes of
jet. This was a gown of some dull fabric which
reflected not a ray of light. To her very chin
Lady Lashmar was swathed in black crape, and
black crape is to a child's eye of all fabrics
the most hideous.

You cannot see your benefactor. Lord Lash-mar,'
said the stern voice. ' You will never see
him again. Cannot you understand what this
black gown of mine means ? '

He is dead ! ' shrieked the child, and then
remembering that ominous word dropped unawares
by Betsy, 'It was his funeral.'

*Yes, my unhappy child, your benefactor was

killed in the accident from which you narrowly escaped
with your life. The loss for you is a bitter
one in the present, although it may be a blessing
to you in the future. My stepson's foolish indulgence
might have been your ruin, here and hereafter.'

SteUa heard not a word of this little sermon.
She had cast herself on her pillow, and was
sobbing out her heart in the passionate, hopeless
grief of childhood.

Dead! She had never thought that he could
die. Dead! How often he had talked to her of
what would happen when he was an old man;
how she was to be the companion of his declining
years, the compensation for all his losses.

Dead ! Never more to look upon her with
those thoughtful eyes ; never more to speak to her
in that low, tender voice ; never more to touch
her with that hand whose gentle touch upon
her head had always seemed a benediction.

My angel, my friend, my father ! ' she cried.
Oh, God ! be good to me, and let me die too.'

That was her prayer at morning and nightfall,
for many a day to come.

THE NEW CINDERELLA

July, with its roses and lilies, blossoming
limes, and long sultry days, and lingering sunsets
late into the dewy night, was over. It was
August, and though summer was still lovely in
the land, the summer evenings were shortening,
the roses were waning a little, as to the limitless
profusion of bloom ; while here and there
those flowers which are the harbingers of autumn
began to show in the castle gardens : gaudy
dahlias, old-world hollyhocks, flaming sunflowers,
staring at the blue sky with their great round
brown faces in ragged yellow nightcaps, against a
background of gray stone wall.

Stella's new life had begun. It was verily
a new life; so entirely different from the old
one that it seemed to the child as if she had

died and been born again, in the same place,
but with another personality.

And yet though she still had her abode in
Lashmar Castle it could hardly be said that it
was the same place as that which had been her
home in the lifetime of Hubert, Lord Lashmar.
She lived in other rooms ; she looked out of other
windows, at an utterly dissimilar prospect. She
had not entered the library, or those adjoining
rooms in which she had once been so happy
since her benefactor's death. The gardens about
which she had once roamed as freely as the
butterflies were now a closed world for her. She
had no more right to be there than the coachman's
children, or the housekeeper's little niece :
and not one of those well-behaved little persons
would have presumed to enter her ladyship's
garden.

Stella lived in the servants' quarters now, and
looked out of windows which all opened upon
the stable-yard, a great stony desert, whose only
picturesque feature was the pump, with its stone
basin, round which a coachman, with the love

of the beautiful, had planted some nasturtiums.
Those nasturtiums were almost the only flowers that
Stella saw in that month of August. She was learning
to know her place — her place as allotted and appointed
by Lady Lashmar, and that place was the
place of an under-housemaid.

There were eleven housemaids at Lashmar
Castle. That had been the orthodox number as
long as the oldest inhabitant of Lashmar village
could remember. It was supposed that by no
less a staff could the castle be scrubbed and
swept and dusted as it should be. There were
three upper-housemaids, each of whom had
supreme command upon her particular floor. She
was, as it were, captain of that deck. Then
came the five second housemaids ; two for the
ground-floor, with its spacious state apartments
and numerous sitting-rooms; two for the first
floor, and which included her ladyship's suite and
the new lord's suite, and all the important visitors'
rooms ; and one for the upper story, which was
given over to rarely used bachelors' rooms and
rat-warrens. Lastly, there were three drudges

who fetched and carried water and coals, made
the fires and cleaned the grates, slaves who were
treated as the Israelites in Egypt before the
advent of Moses.

Betsy had been reduced to the ranks of the
eleven. She was one of the second housemaids,
and her province was the first floor, where she was
under the special supervision of her aunt Barker,
who had a room of her own in an obscure corner
behind her ladyship's suite, one of those curious
little rooms such as in Hampton Court Palace are
described as the Living's Closet, or the Queen's
Oratory. Under Betsy's eye Stella was to be
trained to all the duties of an upper-housemaid
She was not to go through the baser drudgeries,
the water-drawing and coal-carrying, the black-lead
brush and scouring paper. She was to be
spared that rude apprenticeship, out of deference
to the dead lord's fancy. Nay, should she prove
especially teachable, and handy with her needle,
she might eventually escape housework altogether
and be admitted to the holy of holies, personal
attendance upon her ladyship.

Soli are getting short of breath and unwieldy,
Barker,' said Lady Lashmar ; * by the time that
child is seventeen or eighteen I shall want somebody
to run about for me.' Barker shook her
head, and pursed up her lips.

I don't think Miss Stella will ever suit you
in that way, my lady,' she began.

How often have I told you that she is not to
be called Miss Stella?'

I don't think Stella will ever do for a servant,
my lady. His poor lordship spoilt her too much.
She knows such a lot, and she frets day and night
about her Greek and Latin, over history and
geography, and poetry, and such like. She starts
up in the middle of the night sometimes sobbing
as if her heart would break, and saying that she
is forgetting everything his lordship taught her.
And then she'll go over a lot of gibberish which
she says is Greek or Latin, though I'm sure it don't
sound like anything half so sensible. I don't
believe she'll ever make a good servant, my lady ;
her life has been begun the wrong way.'

She is young enough to begin life again,'

replied her ladyship sternly. ' The greatest blunder
of the present day is the over-education of the masses :
a . blunder which is producing a race of young
women who all want to be doctors and lawyers
instead of wives and mothers ; and a race of young
men who would sooner starve in a paradise of
pen and ink than be prosperous butchers and bakers,
I look to you, Barker, to get all foolish nonsense
out of that girl's head. If I hear any more of her
fretting I shall send her to the workhouse.'

After this Barker could say no more. She
knew the iron temper of that mistress whom she
had served in all faithfulness and submission for
the last fifteen years.

Stella suffered her new life meekly enough,
but almost every hour of it was suffering. Feared
as she had been, amongst delicate, most gracious
surroundings, by a man whose original refinement
had been spiritualised by illness and seclusion, every
detail of this outer world of the servants' hall and
still-room jarred upon her sensitive nerves. The
loud voices, the everlasting clatter, the quarrelling
and jeering — jeering which was meant for wit — all

VOL. I. M

these revolted the keen young spirit. Had she been a
woman she might have put on the armour of philosophy.
She might have retired within herself, lived
her own life of quietness and contemplation amidst the
bluster of these vulgar lives ; but she was a child,
and had not learned stoicism ; she was a child, and
dependent upon externals for her joy or sorrow,
and all things in her external life had been made
bitterness to her, at that time when her heart
wounds were still fresh. Under the happiest
circumstances she would have been broken-hearted
by the loss of her friend and father ; but as it was,
all the conditions of her life intensified her sense
of loss.

She had been banished from those pretty rooms
in which she had lived for five joyous years. All
her cherished treasures, her benefactor's gifts of toys
and trinkets and ornaments had been taken away
from her ; and, worst loss of all, her books had been
taken also. Those books which had been as gates
opening into other worlds, the books which Lashmar
had taught her to love and to understand.

The banishment from that Eden of her childhood

had been effected by the dowager in the
briefest, most off-hand manner. So soon as Stella
was well enough to leave her room, Lady Lashmar
sent her to the still-room. She was to live therewith
the upper-housemaids, and she was to sleep in
the second housemaids' dormitory. Having pronounced
this sentence, her ladyship locked the
outer door and put the key of the tower rooms
into her pocket.

I shall arrange by-and-by what use we can
make of those two rooms,' she said ; ' no doubt
they will be wanted when his lordship fills the
house for the shooting.'

Hubert Lashmar had been no sportsman : and
there had not been a battue in the Lashmar preserves
since his father's time. Victorian had gone out with
a couple of spaniels and a keeper when he happened
to be at home in October : but for the most part the
pheasants had had no enemies except the poachers.
The servants were beginning to perk themselves
already at the idea of big shooting parties and liberal
wails.

So Stella was banished from her tower among

the tree-tops, her casements overlooking dale and
river, wood and hill-side. She was much too unhappy
to think about her possessions, her ' pretty
things' as she had called them, so she made no
moan at this off-hand confiscation of her property.
It was afterwards, when she found herself sitting
in a corner of the still-room, leaning her head
against the wall, hearing the chatter of the maids
as it were afar off, it was then that she thought
of her books, and asked Betsy to fetch them for
her.

Good-natured Betsy was almost as down-hearted
as her charge at the sad change that had come over
both their lives ; for Betsy, as Miss Stella's personal
attendant, had been somebody in the household,
and had done very much as she liked.
As a second housemaid she was nobody, and subject
to be ordered about by her superior officer.
She ran off to the tower, found it locked, and then
went to her aunt Barker, as the only safe means
of communication with her ladyship.

'Might Miss Stella have her books out of the
tower room ? ' asked Barker an hour later, when

she was taking out her ladyship's dinner gown,
while Celestine dressed her ladyship's hair.

Certainly not,' replied the dowager decisively.
Reading for a young person in her position is only
another name for idleness. If she read her Bible
and her hymn book that will be quite as much
reading as she will have leisure for. Middleham
tells me that she has hardly an idea of plain needlework.*


Middleham was the chief of the housemaids,
the oldest servant at Lashmar, older even in service
than the housekeeper or the chef, both of whom
had grown old-fashioned in the same employment.
Middleham was seven-and-forty, and had lived at
the castle since she was twelve. She was an awful
personage, with a bony figure and gray hair. She
could read a little, by spelling out the difficult
words ; but she had forgotten how to write, and she
was proud of it. 'I left school when I was ten,'
she said, 'nowadays the gii^ls go to school up to
fourteen, and come away stuck-up minxes that look
down upon their parents, and are no more use in
their homes than fine ladies. First Standard

indeed ! The only standard in my day was a
broom and a scrubbing-brush. When a girl had
learnt to be handy with those she was a help to
her parents.'

Middleham was a superior needle-woman. Those
great bony hands of hers could do fine stitching
that looked as if done by fairy fingers. She had
sole charge of the rich stores of house linen, finest
that the looms of Belfast could produce ; table
linen into every piece of which the armorial bearings
of the Laslimars were woven. Under the
cold gray eye of Middleham, Stella made her first
essays in plain needlework.

I declare the child hardly knows how to hold
her needle,' said the head housemaid.

Lord Lashmar did not like to see me work,'
faltered Stella tearfully.

Middleham groaned aloud.

You'll have to work now, and if you don't learn
to work well, you'll have to be sent to the workhouse,'
said Middleham, and then looked round
triumphantly as one who had made a pun. The
other housemaids all laughed dutifully. They feared

and hated Middlehcam, who was a fierce foe to followers,
and all ' walking out.' It was popularly
supposed that she had never walked out with
anyone herself, that her innate grimness had kept
followers at a distance. That, like Shakespeare's
Royal Virgin, she had ever walked in maiden meditation,
fancy free : and it may be observed, that at
the time that lovely line was penned, good Queen
Bess must have been about as grim a personage as
Middleham.

Oh, how dull the life was ! how dreary and
monotonous, despite its clatter ! The great dinner
in the servants' hall, the steaming joints, the monster
pudding, the all-pervading smell of beer ; the
male underlings all clustered at the end of the
table, having their own conversation, and their own
whispered jokelets, digging each other in the ribs,
exploding, with full mouths, into foolish, spluttering
laughter. Then the long afternoon ; sitting at work
hemming a kitchen cloth, perhaps, by the window,
that looked into the stony yard, where all the
summer air was scented with stables. How the
child pictured the park and the river, the loved

and lovely river on which she and Lashmar had
been wont to spend long summer days, with books
and sketching block — dreamy days, idle days, sweet,
sweet days ! She could see the shining wherry with
its luxurious crimson cushions, its sheepskin mat, its
boxes and artful contrivances for picnic luncheon or
afternoon tea. She wondered whether the new Lord
Lashmar was enjoying himself in that boat on this
exquisite afternoon. She looked up at the summer
sky, the only thing of beauty which she could see
from her dungeon, a sky of deepest sapphire, with
fleecy cloudlets dancing gaily in the blue.

I do declare you have not done six stitches in
as many minutes said Middleham. 'I have been
watching you.'

The pale, pinched face reddened, and the needle
went a little quicker over the harsh fabric. Middleham
resumed her study of a bad place in one of the
best table cloths. These two had the spacious still
all to themselves this afternoon. It' was cleaning
day on all the floors of the castle, a universal
scrubbing and polishing, which kept the ten housemaids
at work till tea-time. It was only Middleham

who could afford to sit still after having given her
orders. She would walk round the ground-floor
rooms by-and-by, just before tea, and spy out grains
of dust overlooked in obscure corners, or pieces of
furniture that had not been properly polished.

At five o'clock a bell sounded, and the first and
second housemaids came swarming in to tea. The
upper servants had their meals in the housekeeper's
room ; the drudges, under-housemaids, scullery and
kitchen and vegetable maids, herded in a den of
their own, a cool, stony room, off one of the kitchens.
Barker was free of housekeeper's room and
still-room ; and she had the extra privilege of having
her tea carried up to her own little nest, whenever
she was so minded.

How Stella hated that noisy tea-hour, the foolish
jokes and laughter, the cruel chaff" for which she
sometimes afforded the object, the great metal pots
which gave the tea a tiny flavour, the mountains
of thick bread-and-butter, the fishy smell of periwinkles
or shrimps, the litter of cresses and other
green-meat, without which tea was unpalatable to
the housemaids.

It was the hour at which they all unbent,
with elbows on the table, and tea poured into
saucers — the hour at which they talked and
laughed the loudest. They had all forgotten their
dead lord, and were full of anticipations about
the high jinks that would be held at the Castle
now Victorian was master.

I don't suppose there'll be much of a change
yet awhile said Barker, who happened to betaking
her tea in the still-room. 'His lordship is
going away in a fortnight. He has been appointed
First Secretary of Legation at Ye-anna.'

You might have told us that before retorted
Middleham, who was jealous of Barker's superior
opportunities.

I only heard it this morning when I was
waiting on her ladyship. His lordship came into
her room with an open letter in his hand, and
showed it to her. ''I must be off in a fortnight,"
says he. I could see that she was very vexed.
That was all very well when you were a younger
son," she says, " but I don't see the necessity
for it now." " Do you suppose I want to seethe

world any the less because I am called Lord
Lashraar?" says he. "What a queer old mother
you are'"

What a queer old mother ! ' echoed a chorus
of housemaids, with Homeric laughter. 'Fancy
calling her ladyship a queer old mother. He's a
rare one for cheek, is Master Victorian. He's
your right sort for a lord ; he'll stamp 'em down
wherever he goes.'

" Vienne 'as been the dream of my life," he
says, and then goes whistling out of the room,
as light-hearted as you like, leaving her ladyship
blacker than thunder.'

Stella sat amidst their babble, with no relish
for steaming tea in a thick crockery cup, and
with a loathing of shrimps and periwinkles.
Afternoon tea with Lord Lashmar had been a
poem. The quaint old silver teapot — silver beaten
so thin and enriched with such delicate repouss4
work — the semi-transparent cups, the dainty cream-jug
and toy sugar-tongs, the wafer biscuits and
bread-and-butter, the cool sweet atmosphere of
an exquisitely ordered room the flowers, the

pictures, the books, the all-surrounding beauty:
and she had exchanged these things, and the
dear love that made them sweetest, for the
company of these vulgar women who despised
and laughed at her.

Betsy was kind, and the others did not mean
to be unkind. They did not beat or pinch or
starve her ; but they were powerless to comprehend
the workings of that young soul. They
saw the red swollen eyelids, and called her a
cry-baby ; they pointed the finger of derision at
her because she was unskilled and clumsy in
duties that were so easy to them; because she
could not hem a duster expeditiously, or polish
a mahogany table. And again and again came
the reproach against the dead. ' What a pity
Lord Lashmar had brought her up to be such
a little fool ! '

They had not spared her feelings in their
talk of the dead lord. They had freely discussed
the details of the accident — how his lordship
had been thrown head foremost on the hard
high-road, and had broken his neck. It was

instantaneous death, they said. And how Stella
had fallen more luckily upon the grassy border
of the road, and had been brought home unconscious
with concussion of the brain, and then
before she awoke from her stupor, fever had set
in — symptomatic fever, the doctor called it — and
she had been very bad indeed.

But old Mr. Werner and the room had
escaped easily ; the groom with a few bruises and
a good shaking, and Mr. Werner, who fell on the
top of him, without a scratch. Stella asked what
had become of ]mr. Werner, longing for him, as
for the only friend left her ; but she was told
that he had left directly after the funeral, to go
home to his own people, as it was supposed.
There was not even so much comfort as this
left to her.

Night was worst of all. She slept in a little
bed in the spacious dormitory given up to the
five second housemaids. It was a large, bare
room, forming part of a special servants' wing
which had been added to the castle fifty years
before, and which the builder had made as unbeautiful

as iu him lay ; and builders have large
capabilities in that line. It was a long, whitewashed
room, like the common room of a debtor's
prison. The windows looked into a stony well,
on the other side of which was the laundry.
There was not a tree nor a leaf within sight ;
even ivy had refused to grow in that vault-like
atmosphere. And to keep up the prison-like idea
the windows were all guarded with iron bars, lest
pera venture the followers of the housemaids
should break in and elope with their ladies, like
the knights in border ballads.

Stella was sent to bed nightly at eight o'clock,
sent to bed in the sweet summer gloaming, while the
birds were singing so happily in the woods, and the
flowers were only just beginning to close. Middleham
was inexorable as to this hour of departure.

'At eight o'clock you go, or I'll know the
reason why,' and at eight o'clock Stella crept
wearily up the shadowy staircase, and took off
her tear-stained black frock, and said her prayers —
long, tearful prayers — and laid herself down upon
the hard little bed.

Xot to sleep. She was too unhappy to sleep
easily, and she knew that at half-past ten
the live would come, like a band of noisy fiends
let loose from Pandemonium, and would talk of
their Sunday clothes and their young men, and
chaff each other, and perhaps quarrel with each
other for a good hour, before slumber fell upon
the fold. She would lie with closed eyes, trying
not to hear, yet with those delicate ears of hers
listening involuntarily. They were good-natured,
honest girls for the most part ; modest withal,
according to their lights; no more frivolous or
empty-headed than a band of school-girls in a
fashionable seminary ; but their talk, with its
monotonous repetitions, its silly jokes, was torture
to the sensitive child.

The hourly suffering of her days, sleepless
nights, and loss of appetite soon had their effects,
Stella began to look very ill — worse than she had
looked even when she first got up from her bed
of fever. Betsy was anxious about her ; took her
aside and questioned her. Why did she look so
miserable ?

Stella burst into tears, and unfastened lier
soul. She was altogether unhappy. She hated
the still-room, she hated Middleham ; but most
of all she hated the room where she slept, and
the chatter of the maids.

I hardly ever sleep,' she added piteously ; ' I
lie awake all night waiting to see the daylight
between the iron bars.'

That's very bad,' said Betsy, ' we must see
what can be done.'

She went off to her aunt, and the two women
put their heads together. There was very little
use in appealing to her ladyship. Barker knew the
state of her feelings towards her stepson' s protegee.

There was a little room on the floor over the
servants' dormitories, a floor in the roof, which was
mostly given over to linen closets and box-rooms, a
room that had been occupied once by a valet. It
was very small, and had a sloping ceiling ; but the
dormer window commanded a sidelong peep of
the park — just about as much as that fine view
of the sea put forward by a hardened lodging-house
keeper — and Betsy, who knew her charge

better than anyone else, fancied that this little

room would be as a haven of rest to Stella.

James, the footman, who was a handy youth,

might put up a shelf or two for her, and by-and-by

perhaps Betsy would be able to get a

few of those books — lesson books, poetry books,

story books — for which the child's sickened heart

longed so sorely; the only possible consolation

where all human comfort was lost.

There were a neat little iron bedstead and the

necessary furniture, all of the plainest, barest, most

uninteresting order, as duly made and provided for a

subject race ; but when Betsy took the child upto

the little room under the tiles, and told her

that she could have it for her very own, Stella

burst into hysterical tears of delight.

Oh, how good of you I ' she cried ; ' how sweet

of you, Betsy! Somebody loves me still then.'

Of course I love you, you foolish little thing ;

whoever said I didn't ? only I aren't disobey her

ladyship ; but some day, perhaps, I shall be able to

get hold of a few of those books of yours that

you've been fretting about.'
VOL. I. N

Will you, dearest Betsy ? What, my Latin
grammar, and the Greek one too ; and my Virgil,
and the Greek Fairy Tales, and the Lady of the
Lake ? That was his last Christmas present — such
a lovely book. They are all my very own, Betsy.
He gave them to me. Her ladyship is a thief if
she takes them away.'

No, no, Stella, you must not talk like that.
A little adopted thing like you, a poor little waif
and stray, can have no real right to anything in a
great house like this. Only if poor Lord Lashmar
gave them to you it is natural that you should
fancy they are your own, and I'll see what I can
do,' concluded Betsy vaguely.

She brought Stella half-a-dozen books that
night in her apron. The key of the tower rooms
had been given up to Middleham, in order that
those rooms might be duly swept and dusted ; and
Betsy had got the key from that austere personage
by sheer artifice, and had made her raid upon the
books — Virgil, and two grammars, the Greek Fairy
Tales, and Chapman's Iliad, and a volume of
Wordsworth. The Lady of the Lake was a richly

illustrated quarto with splendid binding. Betsy
could not venture to remove so handsome and
ostensible a book, lest my lady should come on
a visit of inspection, and that keen eye of hers
should note the disappearance of the volume. The
others were all shabby little books which had seen
hard usage.

Stella cried over these recovered treasures, in
her tiny room with her dormer casement looking
towards the tree-tops and the stars. Her mind
was refreshed and soothed by the peaceful solitude
of her poor little room. Here there was no coarse
laughter, there were no cruel taunts. She could
hear the owls hooting in the park, the dogs baying
in the stable-yard. That was all. She seemed
to be far away from everybody ; and as she was
altogether fearless she loved her solitude.

And now this child of eleven years oLl set
herself with heroic patience to carry on unaided
and alone the education which had been so cruelly
interrupted by that stern foe to progress, Death*
With her books and pen and ink, and two or
three poor little ends of candle garnered for her

day by day, by the faithful Betsy, Stella sat late
into the night working at Greek and Latin ; happy
even when her studies were dry est, at the thought
that she was carrying on the work her benefactor
had begun.

'When I see him in heaven I shall be able
to tell him what I have done,' she said to
herself.

Her theology was of the simple, confiding kind
which has grown old-fashioned even for little
children. That fair future world was very real to
her ardent fancy. She could picture the woodland
walks of a paradise where it was always summer,
and where she would meet Hubert Lashmar with a
strange light upon his face, like the golden glory
round the Infant-Saviour's head in the famous
Lashmar Eaffaelle — that marvellous picture which
she had so often gazed upon by her benefactor's side.

Those nightly studies, the reposeful solitude of
her remote little garret had a calming influence
upon her spirits. She was less unhappy now in the
day-time, having her books to look forward to at
night, knowing that she was not lapsing into

ignorance, not becoming like those young-women
with whom she was obliged to live. She had her
day-dreams now as she sat in the still-room window,
inhaling odours of stables, and hemming an everlasting
procession of tea-cloths. She had her dream
of the day when she would be grown-up, and well
educated, and would be able to write books, like
old Gabriel Werner, and when she might earn enough
money to have a tiny cottage of her own upon the
banks of the Avon, and to have honest Betsy to
live with her.

That was her chief day-dream. She had fancies
of stories that she might write — stories of beautiful
fatal creatures like Helen, or devoted wives like
Andromache, or wicked, treacherous women like
Clytemnestra. That busy brain of hers had already
begun to weave the multi-coloured web of fiction,
albeit her pen had not yet essayed to give those
dream kings a tangible shape.

Lashmar had told her of an author — a woman
who had reaped thousands and a lasting renown
by a simple story of village life, by reason of lev
power to dive deep down into the mystery of human

nature, to fathom the strange depths of the heart
of man, just as Homer did in those dim days when
poetry began. She, Stella, sighed not for thousands,
only for that lowly little cottage by the river, and
a garden and summer-house, and plenty of books,
and candles to light the long evenings, and kind
Betsy for her companion, they two alone together
and happy.

Lord Lashmar, the new Lord, Victorian, had left
for Vienna without ever having looked on the little
serf who had once been his brother's darling. He
was very sorry to have lost ' poor dear Lash ashe
called him : but he felt not the slightest interest
in Lash's latest fad. Lash had always been full
of fads, poor dear boy. Of course, her ladyship
would do all that was best and wisest for the child.

'You'll make a sort of semi-genteel waiting-maid
of her, I suppose,' he said lightly ; ' have her
taught to clean your laces and make your caps —
whenever the day comes that you take to caps.'

Perhaps that will not be till I aui a grandmother,
Victor,' she answered, smiling fondly at her
beloved; 'when you have a wife and children I

shall feel myself verily a dowager, and then I
suppose I must take to caps. By-tlie-by, dear,
T saw Clarice last week. They have come back
to the Hall;

Indeed ! Puffed ' up by her new dignity asa
presented young person, I suppose,' answered
Lashmar.

No, she was just as sweet as ever, quite
simple and childlike. I am told she was one of
the prettiest debutantes of the year. The newspapers
all said as much.'

The newspapers are always ready to puff a
girl whose father counts his fortune by hundreds
of thousands,' sneered Lashmar. * I don't think
the Brumm people have quite made up their mind
whether Job Danebrook is worth one million or
half a dozen ; but they are all agreed that his
father wheeled a barrow. Xow I think both you
and I retain an old-fashioned prejudice in favour of
good blood.'

There is some very good blood in Clarice Dane-brook's
veins, Victor. You forget that her mother
was a Montmorency.'

One thin trickle of blue blood cannot purify
the plebeian vat, mother. I know very well what
you are hinting at. Clarice is sweet, Clarice is
pretty, Clarice has been well brought up, and had a
genteel mother. She is, moreover, an only daughter,
and will inherit two or three millions. She is one
of those exceptionally good matches which you may
count upon your fingers. The Lashmars are rich,
but they might be richer; would rise to a much
higher note in the social scale if they possessed
those superfluous millions. Fabulous wealth is the
thing people worship nowadays. It is not enough
to be rich — a man to be honoured and talked about
must be inordinately rich. Yes, I perfectly recognise
the truth of all that. But all the same I am
not going to be manoeuvred into a marriage with
Clarice Danebrook. You can trot her out by-and-by,
if you like : and if I fall in love with her I'll
ask her to marry me. If I don't I won't, were she
worth the wealth of Aladdin.'

Do you suppose I would ever wish you to
marry anyone you could not love ? ' said his mother,
masking her batteries. *I know you would only

choose the best and worthiest. You are too proud to
make one of those wretched matches by which some
of your order have degraded their rank of late years.
I should never fear anything of that kind from
you.'

'Well, no, I am not quite an idiot,' answered
Lashmar.

'As for Clarice, she is a sweet little thing, and I
am really fond of her,' continued her ladyship
placidly; ' but I don't think she is quite good enough
for you. She has wealth, but she has not rank; and
there is, as you say, always that unlucky tradition
of the wheelbarrow.'

Dear old mother, we always think alike,' said
Victorian, bending down to kiss the dowager's broad
brow.

His eyes sparkled with suppressed laughter. He
knew her so well — knevv' that she had made up her
mind that he was to marry Clarice Danebrook and
no other, knew that to this end she had made much
of the damsel, and been civil to her very commonplace
mother, and her sternly plebeian father. For
no other than an interested motive would the great

Lady Pitland's daughter have cultivated the society
of a young person of vulgar lineage ; yea, albeit a
thin streak of the Montmorency blood had qualified
the coarseness of the Danebrooks.

Victorian laughed at his mother's manoeuvres,
laughed most of all at the idea that she should think
herself able to throw dust in his eyes ; and he held
himself in reserve for the future. He meant to do
just what he liked with his life. He would have
held himself free to marry a beggar-maid, like King
Cophetua, had he so pleased. But he was not at
all the kind of young man to feel drawn towards
beggar-maids. He was worldly to the core, had
been brought up to consider everything from the
worldling's standpoint. He meant, when his time
should come, to marry well, brilliantly if possible,
to make such a match as should double his present
importance in the world. 'No, he did not think that
Clarice was good enough. Mere millions would not
suffice. People would want to be told who his wife
was ; and for that question to be answered fitly she
should be the daughter of a duke.

It was October when the new Lord Lashmar

came back to the Castle, with a chosen company
of bachelor friends, old comrades of Eton and
Oxford. His lordship came only for a flying
visit, to see his mother, to shoot the pheasants,
and to look about him a little. Lordship at one
and-twenty could not be supposed to care for a
long residence beside that broad reach of the Avon
amidst the decay of autumn woods. Ashen the
pheasants were thinned, Lashmar would be off
again, to Paris or Vienna, as the case might be.
He affected to hate London and London society.
It lacked the glitter and ease of Continental life.
He was not going to that dreary barrack in
Grosvenor Square until he was obliged ; which
would not be before February, when Parliament
would re-open and he would go to take his seat
in the House of Lords.

The dowager was at Lashmar to receive her son
and his friends. She had not left the Castle
since her step-son's death. Her presence had
pervaded the mansion like a dark and brooding
cloud ; or at least it seemed so to Stella, who
shivered even at the distant sound of that voice,

Not once had they two met face to face since
the day when those cruel lips told the child of
her bereavement ; but it was enough misery for
Stella to know that the stern ruler of the house
was within its walls, to hear her deep-toned voice
from afar.

Lady Lashmar was not alone when her son
arrived. She did not want his house to seem
empty and dismal after the brightness of his
continental surroundings. She had summoned
other two dowagers, one frisky, and one strong-minded,
to bear her company. The strong-minded
dowager, Lady Clan Palliser, had two strong-minded
daughters, and these also were bidden.
Their presence made an excuse for having Clarice
Danebrook continually at the Castle, The weather
was lovely. It was not too cold for lawn
tennis. A very feeble cousin of Miss Danebrook,
who was reading for his Divinity examination,
made a fourth. The dowagers had their books
and newspapers, their work-bags, and that everlasting
occupation of letter-writing which holds
all society in bondage.

The frivolous dowager was the famous Oriana,
Lady Hillborough, who had been young and a
fashionable beauty when William the Fourth was
king. She still wore her hair exactly as she
had worn it at that period ; but it was not the
same hair — she had worn out a good many of
those golden tresses, and had spent a small fortune
at Truefitt's since the sailor king had been
laid in the royal charnel house. She dressed as
youthfully now as she had dressed then, and
skipped about a room as gaily, re-arranging the
furniture in that bright airy way of hers, famed
for her exquisite taste in the composition of
those pictures which fashionable drawing-rooms
now offer to the enlightened eye.

My dear, you should have a group of large
palms at the other end of your room,' she exclaimed,
surveying Lady Lashmar's morning room
through her circulars. 'You have nothing to
break the straight line of your end wall. Yes,
of course, I know, those pictures of yours are
priceless, and the palms will hide them; but you
will get the idea of distance, vagueness, don't you
know. The effect will be much finer.'

And then Lady Hillborough wheeled round and
surveyed Clarice coolly, deliberately, through her
glasses, which made her own eyes look as the
eyes of a giant to those who happened to
see them through those magnifying pebbles. Clarice
was standing by the window, wondering whether
lie was to be presented to the new-comer, or to be
ignored, which she would have infinitely preferred.

What a sweet child ! ' said Lady Hillborough
in a loud whisper, when she had stared for about
three minutes. * Introduce her to me.'

Lady Lashmar obeyed, and Oriana took Clarice
by the hand, made another deliberate inspection at
nearer range, and then kissed the girl enthusiastically
on both cheeks.

I delight in pretty people,' she exclaimed. ' Of
course you know you are pretty, child. Some people
try to keep girls of your age from finding out their
own prettiness; but its all wasted trouble. If a
girl were brought up on a desert island she would
know all about her good looks ; she would see herself
reflected in some pool, like What's-his-name, in the
Greek story — Jonquil.'

I tliiuk you must mean Narcissus, Lady Hill-borough,'
said one of the stronger-minded Miss
MacAllisters.

What does it matter, my dear, a narcissus and
a jonquil are much the same thing,' answered
Oriana, who was not learned, and rarely read anything
except the newspapers.

Lashmar and his friends arrived in time for
dinner. He had spent a couple of nights in London,
had arranged to meet his guests at the station, and
to bring them down with him. There were two
newly-Hedged cavalry subalterns ; a younger son who
was going in for a political career, and fancied himself
an embryo Canning ; another younger son who
was preparing himself for the family living ; and a
young man who was nobody in particular, but who
was much better read, and more amusing than any
of the other four.

They were all young, and they were a noisy
crew. Clarice was afraid of them, and they were
afraid of the two strong-minded Miss MacAllisters,
who were intense politicians, and great upon the
Eastern Question, with the complexities whereof

they assailed the masculine mind at every opportunity.
So there was a tacit avoidance of the
feminine society provided by her ladyship.

I thought you would have liked to find some
nice girls here, Lashmar,' she said to her son reproachfully,
after he and his friends had been out
shooting all day, and in the smoking room all the
evening, while the Miss MacAllisters, who scorned
accomplishments as futile, had sat in different
corners of the drawing-room, one reading Herbert
Spenser, while the other devoured Darwin, and ostentatiously
ignoring Clarice Danebrook's little bits of
Chopin and dainty old ballads.

So I should, mother,' answered Victorian
cheerily, ' only I haven't seen any, except Clarice.
She's nice enough, but quite impossible to get on
with. She's so painfully shy.'

Her shyness would be got over in a very short
time if you'd only talk to her.'

Oh, I can't talk to a girl when its uphill work.
The women in Vienna are so brilliant, so easy to
get on with. As for your MacAllister girls I would
as soon converse with a bluebook. One of them

asked me yesterday morning what we were going todo
with Cyprus, in the event of Eastern complications
^ Such a girl as that ought never to be
allowed to set foot inside a country house. In
fact, Oriana is the only agreeable person you have
got about you. I have half a mind to propose to
Oriana, only I'm afraid there'd be a scarcity of
coin.'

The dowager sighed with a vexed air, but said no
more. She had hoped that Lashmar, fresh from the
meretricious charms of fashionable Viennese beauty,
would have been struck by Clarice Danebrook's lily-like
loveliness in all its purity of early girlhood.
She was only eighteen, divinely fair, with features
of most delicate mould, and eyes of heavenly azure.
It was hardly possible to imagine a more beautiful
girl in that particular style of beauty. There was
not a flaw. She was of superior height, exquisitely
graceful, with small hands and feet. Whatever
coarseness there might have been in the Danebrook
mould had been chastened by the judicious union
with the Montmorency. Nobody would ever have
suspected Clarice of plebeian origin ; and yet her

VOL. L

father had coarse, hairy hands, and feet of serviceable
breadth, sandy whiskers, and a potato nose.
He was an admirable man of business, a liberal
master, a staunch friend to the operatives whose
labour had created his millions ; but he had never
tried or pretended to be a fine gentleman, though he
had been born after his father had made a fortune,
and had been educated at Rugby and Oxford.

Clarice was very sweet, and Lashmar gradually
awakened to an idea of her sweetness. He
began to leave his friends in the billiard-room,
or the smoking-room, of an evening, and to sit by
the piano listening to those quaint old ballads, and
those melodious bits plucked here and there out of
the heart of a sonata or a symphony. Clarice was
one of those musicians by instinct rather than by
training who wander from flower to flower with a
sweet capriciousness, stealing the honey out of
every blossom : now a joyous little bit of Mozart, a
rondo or a minuet ; now an Andante, or an Adagio
from one of Beethoven's grandest sonatas ; now one
of Chopin's wild wailing movements, half a dirge
and half a war^crv.

AVhat a jolly lot you know,' exclaimed Lashmar.
I wish you'd sing '* Barbara Allen " presently. I
was outside in the corridor last night when you
were sin!T;in<:j it.'

'■ Mill has a passage here which seems exactly to
hit our present complications said Janie magister,
looking up from her ponderous tome, ' I do
wish you'd let me read it to you, Lord Lashmar.'

;Not for worlds. AVe should inevitably quarrel
if you did. I detest Mill.

But surely at such a crisis as this '

I don't care a straw about the crisis ; we are
always at a crisis. I don't even know what it
means. I get dosed with European politics abroad
till I am simply imbecile upon all political questions.
I want " Barbara Allen." '

Clarice looked up and smiled at him, with her
sweet childish smile. The Miss MacAllisters had
been far from civil to her, and she did not love
them. They resented her inordinate wealth, and
disapproved of her beauty. A rich girl had no
right to be pretty. Lady Lashmar's favouritism was
also an offence* Clarice was petted and flattered

while they were only tolerated — they who had
cultivated their minds, and were able to enter the
arena of argument upon equal terms with the sterner
sex. The misfortune was that at Lashmar Castle
bo I ,^ wanted to argue with them, except the
foolish cousin, whose feeble brain they sometimes
deigned to flood with their electric light. He who
had never been able to grasp any one subject wondered
at the wide range of these well-read damsels,
who despised Paley with the contempt of long
familiarity, and had Butler's Analogy at their fingers'
ends, while the Greek Testament was child's play to
them, and they were ready at a moment's warning
to argue upon any disputed passage.

Clarice sang her old ballads, and Lashmar listened
in a dreamy silence.

Yes, his mother was right. She was a very
sweet girl — somewhat over-childish, perhaps, for
her eighteen years, but passing lovely. Ermine
robes and a coronet would not be too good for that
delicate beauty. He wondered whether hu was
beginning to fall in love with her.

He fancied that she would be an easy conquest

for him. That shy and shrinking manner of
hers argued a foregone conclusion. She had an
awe-stricken way of looking up at him, as if his
presence thrilled her. But he held liiraself in
check, and did not mean to commit himself yet
awhile. They were both young enough to wait.

One morning he let the shooters start without
him, and strolled across the park and through the
fields to the Hall, which was about a mile-and-a-half
from the Castle. He wanted to see Clarice in the
bosom of her family, to see whether her surroundings
were too tenable, the father too suggestive of
the original barrow. He had seen very little of
the Danebrooks in his boyhood. This passion for
Clarice was a new craze of her ladyship's.

The Hall was everything which the Castle was
not. It had been built five-and-twenty years
before, in the midst of a level expanse of meadow
land, which, during that quarter of a century, had
been in process of education into a park. But as
there had been very few old trees to begin with
the park was still barren : a waste of level turf
with new plantations dotted about at intervals. A

fine carriage drive went from the lodsje crates to
the Hall door, assuredly the most uninteresting drive
in the county.

The Hall was an immense red brick house, in
the modern Gothic style, red brick with stone
facings. It was a very fine house, well proportioned,
in fairly good taste ; but nothing that the architect
could do had been enough to subjugate that terrible
air of newness which is the bane of such houses.
There was a huge battlemented tower, which stared
over the surrounding country and could be seen from
afar for many miles ; and there were battlemented
stables and battlemented terraces ; and there were
acres of well-kept shrubberies, and a fish-pond, and
fountains, and spacious conservatories — in a word,
there was everything that money could buy. But
money cannot buy antiquity, unless it takes the past
at second hand. Clarice was very sorry that her
father had not bought a dear old crumbly house, in
the heart of an overgrown old park, instead of
building for himself this modern mansion, with all
its comfortable appliance?, its brand-new luxuries
and conveniences, speaking-tubes and lifts, and hot

water pipes and scientific ventilators. Clarice would
rather have had one ghost than all those speaking
tubes ; she would have preferred lichen-covered
stone walls to hot-water pipes and ventilators.
Clarice fancied the house smelt of newly-made
wealth. It had been furnished at one fell swoop by
a great London firm, and although the picturesque
had been duly considered, it was the modern picturesque,
and lacked the mellow tones of real old
furniture.

Mrs. Danebrook had just come in from her
conservatories, where she snipped off the dead leaves
and damaged a few of the plants every morning
under the delusion that she was helping the head
gardener. She was very stout, and could never
steer herself through a conservatory without knocking
over a pot or two. She was a large, placid woman,
with small, regular features, which must have once
been like those of Clarice, but which were now
almost submerged in fat. She was very fair, with
the lily-like fairness of her daughter, and she had
flaxen hair, which her daughter had carried out ina
richer and warmer tint of golden brown. The

daughter seemed to Lashmar to be a refinement
upon the mother ; but be told himself that as the
mother was the daughter might be five-and-twenty
years hence.

He met his hostess in the ball, and sbe took bim
to her morning room, where Clarice was lolling in
an easy chair by the window, reading a novel, which
was about the highest form of literature wherewith
the young lady ever nourished her ripening mind.
She rose in confusion at might of Lashmar, as it had
been a demi-god entering suddenly ; and the transparent
skin was flooded with a lovely blush.

My mother sent me to ask you over to tennis,
this afternoon,' said Lashmar, inventing a message
on the spur of the moment.

Oh, but I was going in any case,' faltered
Clarice ; 'dear Lady Lashmar asked me last night.'

She vas afraid you would forget all about it
to-day.'

There is no chance of her forgetting,' said the
mother. ' She is so fond of Lady Lashmar. I feel
quite jealous sometimes. I hardly see anything of
Clarice. But it is so nice for her to be at the Castle.'

Mrs. Danebrook, nee montmorency, had an
exaggerated reverence for rank. In the days when
she had been a half-pay colonel's daughter,
struggling to keep up appearances upon the
narrowest means, she had always taken comfort
from the thought that she was descended from
princes. She had held her head high before lodging-house
keepers and small tradesmen; had worn
mended gloves and bonnets of doubtful freshness
with a proud complacency which overcame the scorn
of middle-class prosperity. And when Providence
smiled upon her fresh young charms in the person
of the broad-shouldered, sandy-whiskered proprietor
of the largest foundry in Brumm, who met the
young lady at the Wilmington Hunt Ball and fell
in love with her on the spot, Viola Montmorency
received the advances of the millionaire with the
placid dignity of a princess. Another girl in her
position, conscious of shabby surroundings and an
impecunious father, might have disgusted her
admirer by unwise encouragement. Viola stimulated
his affection by a sweet reticence; and it was the
colonel who brought matters to a head, and anchored

the delighted youth. Jonathan Danebrook had
never had occasion to repent his precipitancy. His
wife had one of those exquisitely easy tempers
which are perhaps only a refined form of selfishness,
but which allow the wheels of daily Kfe to run as
upon velvet. Mr. Danebrook indulged his wife's
every whim; but her whims were of the mildest
kind, and he had in compensation the privilege of
doing exactly what he liked under all circumstances.
Danebrook Hall was therefore a kind of earthly
paradise, in which the fair young daughter moved
like the spirit of youth and gladness, while the
mother represented the calm contentment of
maturity.

While Lashmar was dawdling in the morning
room, turning over a pile of new novels and discussing
their contents with Clarice, Mr. Danebrook came in
from his model farm, fresh and breezy as the October
morning itself, and bringing with him that compound
odour of pigsty and stable which hovers about
the person of amateur agriculturists, and in which
they apparently delight.

It was Lord Lashmar's first visit to the Hall.

and he was to Jonathan Danebrook as a prey, to
be dragged off at once and paraded through
hot-houses and stables, home farm and paddocks,
where the brood mares and their foals
were one of the features of the estate. Lash-mar
was fond of horses, and did not mind the
stables or the brood mares. He would have submitted
even to the piggeries with a good grace if
Clarice had been of the party; but Clarice never
accompanied her father on these agricultural expeditions.
She detested pigs and poultry, cattle
sheds and farm yards. Those pretty little Louis
Quatorze shoes of hers had not been made for
tripping over cobbles, or across a ploughed field.
There was nothing of the typical squire's daughter
about her. She never hunted, and she only cared
for the one well-trained horse which she was able
to ride. She had never handled gun or fishing-rod,
and her only idea of a dog was a Russian
poodle. So Clarice stayed in the morning room
and went on with her novel while Lashmar was
inspecting horses and cows, pigs and poultry, until,
amidst the splendours of a very fine assemblage of

cochin-china, he was agreeably startled by the
sound of a gigantic gong, which might have been
heard half a mile off.

Lunch cried Danebrook ; * come along, Lord
Lashmar, I hope you're as hungry as a hunter
after this long round.'

Upon my word I think I ought to go back to
the Castle for luncheon said Lashmar dubiously.
'Her ladyship likes to have me when I am not
out with the shooters. She'll take it unkindly
perhaps

No she won't, when you tell her where you've
been. Her ladyship has been uncommonly friendly
to my wife and daughter.'

Miss Danebrook is m}^ mother's favourite
replied Lashmar. *I never knew her take so
warmly to any young lady.'

'And Clarice positively worships Lady Lash-mar
— quotes her in everything ; nothing is right
unless it is modelled upon Lashmar Castle

They went into luncheon, and Lashmar, who
had rather despised Clarice for her stay-at-home
metropolitan habits, forgave her when he compared

her pure and delicate beauty with the bronzed
and weather-beaten countenance and roughened
hair of the average country-bred damsel.

After luncheon Lashmar proposed that Clarice
should walk to the Castle with him, and although
Mrs. Danebrook would hardly have seen the fitness
of such a proposition from a commoner she was
willing to stretch the proprieties just a little for
the sake of a noble admirer, and to allow her
daughter to stroll across the fields unchaperoned.
So Lashmar and Clarice went across those rich
Middleshire pastures, as gaily as Phillips and
Stephen, in the sweet half-consciousness of dawning
love, and were received most graciously by her
ladyship.

The Miss MacAllisters and their mother
had driven to meet the shooters, so there was
only Oriana at home, and that dear lady always
slept for two or three hours after luncheon,
a siesta which enabled her to be as fresh
as a debutante all the evening, nay, far into the
small hours, did pleasure offer itself after
midnight.

Las'hmar and Clarice went oft* to the tennis
ground and began a set without delay. The lawn
was just under the windows of Lady Lashroar's
morning room, and she looked up from the
newspaper every now and then to watch them,
pleased at the ripening of her plan. Yes, the fact
was obvious. Lashmar was falling in love. N"©
lesser influence than love would have taken him
to the Hall ; he who had always spoken slightingly
of the newly rich, who detested the magnates and
millionaires of Brumm. Clarice Danebrook's beauty
and sweetness had conquered all his prejudices.

Clarice was indeed fair to look upon, with
the soft curly auburn air fluttering on her low
white forehead, and the gracious lines of her
figure set off by the soft folds of her fawn-coloured
Indian silk frock, a frock of elegant
simplicity, just short enough to show the pretty
little feet in the bronze shoes and fawn-coloured
stockings, a frock whose Quakerish hue was relieved
by a broad sash of Indian red, tied carelessly upon
the left hip. The little toque hat was of the
same Indian red, subdued yet glowing, and admirably

harmonising with the ivory fairness of the
wearer's skin.

They played two sets, and then went wandering
off towards the Italian garden, which was at the
other end of the castle, out of Lady Lashmar's
ken.

It was upon this garden that the late Lord
Lashmar's rooms opened. Clarice loitered to lookin
at one of the windows of the library.

Oh, what a noble room ! ' she cried, peering in
at the spacious apartment, with its wall of books
facing her, crowned at intervals with white marble
busts which gleamed in the shadowy interior. The
room seemed in half darkness as seen from the
bright clear light of the garden.

*Do you know I have never seen the famous
Lashmar library she said, looking back at Lashmar.

I should so like to see it.'

Then you shall,' he answered cheerily.

Strange that her ladyship should never have
taken you in to look at the old Books of Hours
and such like valuable rubbish. But the room
has very sad associations for her, on account of

my poor brother. He almost spent his life in that
room.'

'Yes, I know. How very good and sweet he
was— such a lovely, mournful face. I only saw
him two or three times, but I thought him so nice.
He spoke so kindly, he had such a beautiful manner.
What became of that pretty little dark-eyed girl,
he adopted? I saw her with him one day; such
an interesting little thing.'

Oh, she is still here, I believe, somewhere
in the housekeeper's quarters,' Lashmar answered
carelessly.

'How strange that I have never happened to
see her 1 '

They went in at a glass door, which opened
into the late Lord Lashmar's sitting-room. Nothing
in this or any of his rooms had been altered since
his death. Her ladyship meant to have a general
turn-out of everything, and a complete re-arrangement
of these rooms later on, when the sharp
sad feeling of recent death should have worn
away. She was not altogether without feeling
upon the subject; although she had always wished

for Hubert's early death, as the best possible
arrangement Providence could make for everybody,
dear Hubert himself included.

Long life could not be a blessing in his case.
He would have only felt his afflicted condition
more keenly as the years rolled on.

Clarice looked at the room with a mournful,
awe-stricken air. It was so simply and prettily
furnished ; such charming engravings and photographs
of French and German pictures on the
walls; such novel and artistic china and bronzes
and quaint little ornaments of all kinds, scattered
upon the tables ; such delightful reading-lamps
and reading-easels ; such low, luxurious chairs ;
above all, such a snug, homelike air. It was
difficult to realise that he by whom those things
had all been chosen, whose hand had cut the
leaves of yonder magazines with that elephant's
tusk, thrown carelessly across the books, as if he
had flung it there — difficult to realise that he had
been lying in his grave for months, and would
never look upon that place again.

The walls were lined half-way up with dwarf

VOL. L P

book-cases, and in those were the books of Hubert's
own collecting. Clarice thought that some of these
were passing dry; but that they were on the whole
much better than those valuable volumes which
Lashmar afterwards showed hei' in the great
library.

He showed her the gems of the collection, ina
somewhat perfunctory manner, not caring much
about them himself, except as heirlooms, which fed
his pride of race and place. He was well read
for a young man ; a keen critic of modern books ;
had dipped into most things ; but he had not the
collector's reverence for old books and old bindings.
Clarice looked at them with the wide, wondering
eyes of perfect ignorance. That shabby little
volume in Italian worth a thousand pounds, just
because there were only two of them extant —
this and one other. It seemed ridiculous. She
had been surprised the other day when her father
a thousand pounds for an Alderney cow; but
the Alderney was at least beautiful, a sleek, pitiable
creature, with great pathetic eyes, while this little
Italian book was distinctly ugly.

Her eyes wandered from the book to the room,
which was lovely. Those marble busts, j)l^ced at
intervals along the richly carved cornice of the
book-cases; the splendour of cut velvet curtains
shrouding the windows and making a semi-darkness
in the room ; the two sculptured fire-places, lofty
and imposing — all these things impressed Clarice.
The Hall had been built and furnished with a reckless
expenditure, and yet there was no room in it
that gave this idea of dignity and grandeur. ' One
must begin by being noble before one could have such
surroundings thought Clarice, who worshipped rank.

Suddenly, in the midst of her contemplation of
the room, she gave a little start, and touched
Lashmar lightly on the wrist.

What is that ? ' she whispered.

That ' was a small fragile figure, a little girl ina
black frock, sitting at the further end of the room,
perched high up on a library ladder, reading a big
volume, which it was as much as her small hands
and thin little arms could do to hold in its place,
hugged against her stooping chest.

By Jove ! ' exclaimed Lashmar, ' it is the very

child you were talking of, poor Hubert's protegee,
and he went to the other end of the room, followed
by Clarice, and looked up with a half-amused air
at the queer little figure on the step-ladder.

What are you doing up there, Stella ? ' he asked,
not ill-naturedly.

The uncanny dark eyes looked down at him,
so large, so black, in comparison with the small
pale face; and then the thin black legs uncoiled
themselves from the steps, and the child came down
and faced her new master, still hugging the quarto
in her lean arms. She stood and faced his lordship
and the lovely young lady, looking with those great
solemn eyes of hers from one to the other.

No longer a Eeynolds's child, to be patronised
and admired by the dilettante Eector. Not by
any means a picturesque child in her present
apparel. Her ladyship had taken pains to prevent
any such foolishness under the new regime.

That thick straight fringe of hair, which had
given quaintness to the childish face, had been carefully
brushed away from the broad bare forehead,
by command of her ladyship, who allowed no such

meretricious grace as a '' fringe " in any of her
dependents. The black stuff frock was made with
a Quaker plainness, tight and prim and spare, and a
holland apron carried out the idea of dependence
and servitude. A very plain child assuredly in her
present stage of being.

What book is that ? ' asked Lashmar, pointing
to the quarto.

La ]\Iorte d' Arthur,' she answered.

What, can you read Old English ? '
Yes.'

My brother taught you, I suppose ? '
Yes.'

And pray, who gave you leave to come hereto
read?'

Nobody.'

Frank, at any rate. I suppose you know you
are doing wrong when you come here? '

No,' she answered doggedly. ' I don't hurt the
books ; I am not in anybody's way.'

Do you suppose her ladyship would approve of
your loafing here reading old books , instead of learning
to be useful ?

I don't care what her ladyship thinks. I don't
care whether I please her or displease her. She has
been very unkind to me.'

Oh, but you must not say that,' said Lashmar,
waxing stern. * You have every reason to be grateful
to her ladyship ; but for her, you would be in
the workhouse, perhaps.'

If she was kind I should be grateful,' the girl
answered resolutely, unabashed, looking at him
boldly with those wondrous eyes. * She took away
all my books — the books Lord Lashmar gave me ! '

The dark eyes filled with tears, which were
hurriedly dashed away, as if the child were ashamed
of them.

Poor little thing ! ' murmured Clarice ; and with
a pretty pitiful air she patted the pale wet cheek
with her soft white hand.

But Cinderella shrank from the touch as if she
had been stung.

Don't ! ' she cried angrily.

This last insolence provoked Lashmar's wrath.

You are a very rude little girl,' he exclaimed,
and you must never come into this room again. You

have no right here or in any part of the house except
the servants' quarters. You will have to be a servant
by-and-by, and you must learn to live contentedly
among servants. How did you get into this room ?
The doors are locked.'

I came as you came — through the glass door.'

You have been here often, I suppose ? '
*Yes, very often.'

You must never come again. Do you understand
? '

I understand that you are a cruel man she
answered defiantly, scowling at him, her heart
beating tempestuously with fury. ' I am glad you are
only my dear Lord Lashmar's half-brother. If you
had been really his brother I should have been very
sorry to hate you — but you are not his brother,
and I don't care how much I hate you.'

She had been yearning for love and pit",
thinking that perhaps when the new master came
back he would be kind to her for his dead
brother's sake. She had been yearning for pity ;
and yet she had recoiled from Miss Danebrook's
gentle touch as if from an adder.

'You are a very horrid little person, as unpleasant
as you are ugly,' said Lashmar, going to
the door and unlocking it, and throwing it wide
open ; ' and now march, if you please. Put down
that book, and make yourself scarce.*

She had been hugging the quarto all this time.
She laid it slowly down on a table, and as slowly
walked out of the room, scowling to the very
last.

'I am afraid she is not a nice child said
Clarice, shaking her head.

She is a little demon, a veritable imp of darkness.
I think my brother must have liked heron
account of her outlandishness.'

Just as some people like a daclislmnd' said
Clarice.

A YOUNG rr.OUD WOMAN THAT HAS WILL TO SAIL
WITH

Stella went no more to the library. She had
stolen round one day by the garden when the
family was at luncheon and the coast cl(,'ar, and
finding the glass door open had gone in and read
there for hours, safe in the solitude of locked
doors. Into one had missed her, for she had of
late been allowed to carry her needle-work to her
own little room and to work there in peaceful
loneliness between dinner and tea time. Day after
day she had crept stealthily round from the hall
door to that glass door in the late Lord Lashmar's
study, left open for a few hours daily to air the
rooms; and she had read to her heart's content,
roaming at will among strange tales of fairy land
and adventure, from Spenser to Sir Thomas

Malory and Sir John Mandeville ; and never
had she been surprised until that afternoon
when the new Lord Lashmar caught her in the
act.

She felt herself a detected criminal; and she
hated herself for the self-indulgence which had
brought this shame upon her.

I ought to have remembered that they are
all his books now she thought. She had always
thought of them before as belonging to her dead
friend : she had not fairly realised the transitory
character of all such possessions. They had been
Hubert's books, in her mind, and he had always
encouraged her to read — he would not have grudged
her the bliss of poring over those strange old
stories.

She saw no more of Lord Lashmar, though he
stayed at the castle till after Christmas, and
entertained a good many visitors. The coming
and going of guests occupied the servants much
more severely than the old dull routine of the late
lord's time, and gave Stella more leisure and
seclusion. Soon after Christmas, there came a great

improvement in her life, for Lady Laslimar and
her son went up to Grosvenor Square for the season,
taking with them the greater number of the servants,
Three housemaids, and a superannuated housekeeper,
who usually lived in one of the lodges, were left
in sole charge of the castle : and one of those
housemaids was Stella's faithful friend, Betsy.

Under this new regime the child was free to
roam about the house as she pleased : but she never
re-entered the library. She would have read her
own books again and again to satiety rather than
she would have degraded herself by entering that
forbidden room after Lashmar's insulting veto.

She had not forgotten one of his hard words.
It was not often that she looked in the glass ; but
she never did so look without remembering that he
had told her she was as unpleasant as she was ugly.
Yes, no doubt she was ugly. The glass confirmed
that hard speech ; and perhaps the charge of
unpleasantness was equally well founded. One
happy change came over her life in this wintry
season of the year, when she was free to roam about
the park or down by the river, or across the bare,

bleak fields to the village, if lie pleased. Her long
imprisonment in ugly, uninteresting rooms had made
that newly recovered liberty very precious to her.
She was perfectly fearless, cared not hove far she
went alone, and Betsy was too busy to look after
her, and was always satisfied if she appeared
punctually at meal time.

She revisited all the spots which she had known
with Lord Lashmar. She went to the boat-house
and looked at his empty boats, under linen coverings,
ghastly, as if he were lying in one of them dead.
She wandered along the river bank, stopping to note
this or that landmark, and to remember how utterly
happy she had been in those vanished days.

Would she ever be happy again, she wondered ?
Never, surely, unless her father were to come back
from that far country whither he had gone that
night the house was burnt, the name of which she
did not know. She had often questioned Lord
Lashmar, and he had evaded her questions, not
unkindly, but still firmly.

You will know by-and-by, dear child,' he had
said, and she had felt that there was some mystery

which concerned her absent father, and that she
must be patient.

If he would but come back now — now when she
felt so lonely, so sorely in need of love and sweet
companionship ; some one to talk to her and to
teach her as Lashmar had done.

Comfort, of some kind, was nearer than she
thought. Coming through the little village street
one day she saw a familiar figure standing at the
gate of a cottage garden, gazing dreamily at the
old church tower nestling in a hollow just beyond
that sharp curve and sudden drop in the narrow
road where the village inn stood out conspicuously,
as if on the look-out for accidents to horses and
wheels.

A bent old figure, with bare head and long
gray hah and dim, pale eyes, aged by poring over
dry-adust books. Yes, it was the mild companion
of her happy childhood standing there, a leaf out
of that lovely past which contrasted so strongly
with her present desolation.

The girl ran to him and touched him on the
sleeve

Mr. Verae, dear Mr. Verger, I am so glad !
she gasped breathlessly.

Slowly, and as if with an effort, the dim old
eyes withdrew themselves from the church tower,
and gazed wonderingly upon the pale young face
looking eagerly upward.

Why, Stella ! Are you still at the Castle ?
They told me you had been sent to school. Why
did not you come to see me before ? '

I was not allowed to go out till her ladyship
went away, and I did not know you were here.
They said you had gone to London.'

'They were right, my child,' answered the old
man, with a profound sigh; 'I did go to London.
I was in London nearly four months. A terrible
place, child, a fearful place, when one has lost the
habit of cities, as I have. The din of the crowded
streets deafened me, the strange faces made me feel
distraught. It is a dreary wilderness, Stella, for a
man without friends ; and I had no friends in
London — no, not one. I thought I had many old
college companions, old pupils — men who had pretended
to love me when they were boys ; but time

had chansjecl them into strangers. All doors were
closed against me, very politely, Stella, but they
were shut all the same, and I was alone and old
and stupid, in that noisy wilderness of streets and
squares, and fine shops, and lighted theatres. A
dreary desert for the friendless and poor, Stella.'

But your book,' faltered Stella, remembering
the old man's shrinking from the burden of celebrity,
that will win you new friends instead of the
old ones who may have forgotten you.'

No, Stella, there are no friends to learning nowadays.
Francis Bacon might wander in that stony
labyrinth, die of hunger there for want of a helping
hand. There are no Beacons wanted now-a-days;
learning is out of date. It was to get my book
published that I went to London, Stella. I carried
my manuscript from publisher to publisher, till 1
came to those that laughed in my face when I mentioned
Aristotle, and asked me if I thought he was
a likely kind of author to sell in penny numbers,
or his complete works at a shilling ? I was not to
be beaten easily, Stella. I went to the great men
first ; they were kind and courteous, but told me

the market was Hooded with books upon the great
classics ; that no work of that kind had sold since
Grote and Jowett ; that my magnum opus was so
much labour wasted, except for the pleasure I had
felt in the progress of such an honourable work.
That is the kind of thing the great publishers said tome.
The small ones openly laughed at me — politely
or rudely, as the nature of the creatures prompted.
There was no room in the world of letters for my
great work on Aristotle. I might publish the book
at my own cost if I liked, but it would involve an
outlay of two or three hundred pounds. And I had
thought that the work would bring me wealth and
renown ; I had shrunk from the glare and the dazzle
of my future fame. Dreams, Stella, all dreams ! The
publishers awakened me : and now I know that I
am only a foolish old man, born into this world too
late to be of any use to himself or other people.'

But you have your book still,' said Stella, in
her grave, old-fashioned way — she had grown from
a child to a precocious woman in her solitary studious
life of the last eight months, had changed curiously
in so short a time — * and if it is a great book, as

Lord Lashmar said it was, you must be very proud
of it.'

I love it,' faltered the old maD, with an involuntary
glance at the window of the room that held
his treasure, — * I love it as if it were a child. I am
steadily going over all the old ground again, page
by page, annotating, improving. Perhaps, years
hence, when I am in the dust, a publisher may be
found to print that book — the world may discover
that I have left it an imperishable legacy. But let
us talk of it no more. Come in doors, and rest
yourself, Stella ; it is too cold to be standing here
so long.'

He led the way into a cottage parlour, littered
with the chaotic lumber of a student's days and
nights — a table crowded with pamphlets and papers,
books piled in every available corner, heaped upon
the floor ; dust, untidiness everywhere. The owner
of the cottage had given up the struggle for neatness,
and had allowed her eccentric lodger to have things
in his own way. He was not a troublesome lodger,
needed but little attendance, never grumbled at the
cooking, paid his way punctually ; but his long

VOL. I. Q

night watches were a source of fear to his landlady,
lest in long poring over those dry-adust old volumes
lie should fall asleep and suffer the house to beset
on fire.

Have you been living here long ?' asked Stella,
looking at the chaos, and longing to put things
straight with dexterous womanly fingers.

Only since last November. Lord Lashmar has
been good enough to give me a small pension,
which I accept without compunction, as I know
that my dear pupil always intended to provide for
my old age. But how could he think that I should
outlive him — the old surviving the young ? Yes,
Lord Lashmar has been kind enough to provide
for me, and I like to live here, near the old
home and the old river we were all so fond of.
And you, child, how has it fared with you since
that fatal day?'

Stella was slow to answer. She struggled with
herself in silence for a little while, the dark brows
knitted in a frown ; the crimson of passion
kindling in the wan cheeks ; and then she burst
into tears.

The old man drew her towards him, gathered
her upon his knees, sheltered her wet cheek upon
his breast with almost maternal tenderness.

My poor child ! my poor child ! ' he murmured,
death was very cruel to you and me that summer
day.'

Oh ! if we had only died too ! Why did not
God take us all together ? ' sobbed Stella : and then
in broken sentences she told Gabriel Werner what
her life had been like since he left the Castle — a
life spent among servants, in the bondage of
menial servitude.

'She took away my books too,' Stella went
on tearfully ; ' the books he gave me ; my Greek
and Latin books ; my book about the stars ; and
Scott and Tennyson.'

Inexorable tyrant, to stifle that budding intellect.

But Betsy contrived to get some of them forme.
It was almost like stealing them, though
they were my own — as much my own as this
hand and arm. And I have gone on learning
my lessons, and writing exercises, though there
has been no one to tell me the faults.'

That need be so no longer, Stella. Come to me
every day, if they will let you, and I will go on
with your education. Yes,' cried the scholar, with
sudden enthusiasm, ' it shall be the delight of my
life to train this bright young mind. You' — with
the rapture of conferring an ineffable boon, ' you
shall help me to annotate my book.'

I will ! ' said Stella, * and I will keep your
room tidy, if you will let me. I know how to
arrange books and papers, and keep them all in
nice order, without disturbing anything. I used
to tidy his papers when I was very, very
little, when I could hardly reach up to the
table.'

'Yes, dear, you were always a handy little
thing. I v^ill go on with your education. Come
to me as often as you can; come whenever they
will let you. I am not much of a gadabout.
You will almost always find me at home.'

Stella thanked him with all her heart, cheered
and comforted by this new light. To take up
the thread of her education where Lashmar had
dropped it would seem almost a link with the

past, with the life that had been so sweet. It
would bring her nearer to the dead. She thought
of him always as watching over her from the
spirit world, regretting her degradation. And
it would please him to know that she was
carrying on her education with his dear old
tutor.

She told Betsy everything ; and Betty managed
that by hook or by crook she should have time to
go on with her education. All she had to do
was to satisfy Middleham ; and of late her sewing
had been good enough even for that exacting
personage ; and she had also shown herself very
deft and clever in putting the finishing touches
to best bedrooms and morning rooms, arranging
draperies, filling the flower vases, putting knickknacks
and indescribable elegancies in just the right
places, instead of shoving things about stupidly after
the purblind manner of the ordinary housemaid.
Stella had spent many a morning at this work
when the Castle was full of company, and had
won ]\riddleham's blunt approval.

I thought you were a fool, child, when I first

took you iu hand said the queen-mother of the
housemaids ; ' but I must say that I have found you
a teachable, handy little thing, and very willing to
take pains with your sewing ; which is more than
I can say for those overgrown young women from
the village.'

The all-powerful Middleham being thus conciliated
by patient service, life had been made easier
for Stella, even at the worst, than it had been ; but
it was easiest of all for her now when Middleham
and her staff were in Grosvenor Square, and the staterooms
and best bedrooms were all wrapped in
shadow and silence. Under Betsy's friendly rule
Stella was able to spend the greater part of her days
with Gabriel Werner, and to learn as much as he
felt inclined to teach her. Xor was this little ; for
it was a delight to the old man to resume the
habits of years gone by with so docile, so receptive
a pupil.

So day by day and every day, as the leaves
unfolded and the flowers came peeping forth in the
hedgerows and meadows — first, the season of daffodils,
and then the season of king-cups, and then the glad

die of blue-bells, and onward even to the first of
the dog-roses — Stella lived her own life, and learnt
diligently in the great volume of classic lore, till
even those modern Middleshire copses, that riverside
of to-day, seemed peopled with ideal forms : so
interwoven became the fables of the past with the
realities of the present. And every day the girl's
care helped to make the old student's life more
pleasant, providing for and forestalling his wants,
supervising his modest wardrobe, beautifying his
cottage home, surrounding him with an atmosphere
of womanly love and watchfulness.

Lady Lashmar was in London, in Paris, in Vienna,
with her adored son, following him as a satellite
follows a planet — not with him, but always near him.
He had spoken in the House of Lords, and his
speech had attracted attention ; had been talked
about as a wonderful speech for so young an orator :
and it had been said by some of his party that
Lord Lashmar was a young man who would make
his mark.

Old Lady Pitland's nephew ought to have some -
thing in him,' said the old-fashioned section of the

party: and all Lady Laslimar's particular friends
prophesied that old Lady Pitland's nephew was to be
one of the lights of the future, and as political skies
^t this period were cloudy, lights were wanted,

BUT AS THE DAYS CHANGE MEN CHANGE TOO '

The years had come and gone, and strange things
had happened in the world of history and politics :
wars and treaties, invasions and expeditions, changes
in legislature, in science, in art. New whims, new
fancies, new theories had rippled the river of time :
but here at Lashmar Castle there had been no
stirring events by which to distinguish the passing
years. Life here had been monotonously placid and
tranquil, yet not altogether happy. Lady Lashmar
had drunk of the cup of disappointment in those
slow years. Life had seemed to open with the
buoyant rapture of a wedding march, when Fate
made her son master of Lashmar Castle. She who
was accustomed to rule had thought it the most
natural thing in the world that she should rule her
only son ; not with open domination, but with delicate

diplomacy, with tenderest maternal management.
Bitter had been her disappointment when she
discovered that Lashmar was not so to be ruled.
He was not an undutiful son. He treated his mother
with affectionate consideration; but he was bent
upon living his own life, and that was essentially a
manly, independent life — a life of travel and sport.
Yachting, mountaineering, salmon fishing iji Canada,
bear hunting in the Cockles, deer-stalking in the
Highlands, had taken him far from his mother, and
the possibility of maternal guidance. Within the
last two years he had taken ardently to politics:
but even political life was a life of severance from
her ladyship, who was no longer in the vigour of
health and strength, no longer able to hold her
own in the turmoil of London society — a great deal
faster and more furious, more capricious, fickle,
and volatile than the society of Lady Pitland's
time.

A great change had come over Lady Pitland's
daughter within the seven years that had passed
since Hubert, Lord Lashmar, had been laid in the
family vault yonder, under the old church at the

end of the park. The hand of affliction had weighed
heavily on that proud spirit. Lady Lashmar's health
had given way ; a slow and gradual depression,
indicative, as her physician blandly hinted, of some
obscure inward malady, had crept over that active
mind, working slow and subtle changes, until little
by little, with a gradual transformation hardly
perceived by those who were constantly about her,
the Lady Lashmar of the present had become an
entirely different woman from the Lady Lashmar of
the past. The severe lines of that handsome face
had softened with the premature whitening of those
soft masses of hair, which now recalled the Marie-antoinette
of Delaroche's famous picture. Yet
despite this softer aspect the woman was at heart
the same : proud as Milton's Satan, but with the
melancholy pride of a disappointed life.

There had been times when she regretted her
dead stepson ; regretted the old days in which her
influence had been paramount, and her boy, as a
y under son with his own way to make in the world
had been dependent upon the maternal purse for all
his pleasures and indulgences. She had longed then

for the day when he should stand in his brother's
place. That day had come ; and it had been the
beginning of severance. Her boy was no longer
to be gratified by gifts from the maternal
hoard; he had no longer need of the maternal
influence and counsel in the difficult career of a
younger son. He was his own master, rich,
titled, with very little incentive to the creation of
a career.

For five years Lady Lashmar watched her son's
idle wanderings with disappointment and anxiety.
She began to fear that he was no better than other
young men to whom fortune has given too much, and
with whom ambition is a dead letter. She was
beginning to despair of him, when there came a
political crisis, and Lord Lashmar came suddenly to
the front. The Conservatives had braced themselves
together for a final effort against a Liberal Government
of five years' standing — a Government which
its enemies declared to have afforded the most disastrous
example of misrule ever known in the history
of parliamentary legislature, and which its friends
descanted upon blandly as a reign of peace and

prosperity, and, as it were, a perpetual symposium
of recumbent lambs and lions. Much in this crisis
turned upon the acceptance or rejection of an important
measure in the House of Lords : and it was
then that Lashmar girded up his loins, and stood up
in his place among the gray bearded tribunes, and
spoke as men seldom speak in that austere assembly,
spoke with the fire and freshness, the vigour and the
strong feeling of inexperienced youth. The speech
took his fellow-peers by surprise — all the more since
the young peer had never had that training in the
Lower House without which it is popularly supposed
that no man can ever be a good debater. Lashmar
awoke next morning to find himself a politician with
a reputation. The bill went back to the Commons :
and Mr. Xestorius, smarting under the sense of defeat,
threw himself upon the country, just at that critical
hour when his popularity was on the wane. Nothing
can be more fatal than to dissolve Parliament on an
ebb tide. The Conservatives came in with triumph ;
to their own exceeding surprise.

All this had happened two years ago, and now
Lord Lashmar was a power in the Upper House,

and occupied a position of some importance in the
political and social world. He was one of those
young men of mark about whose matrimonial views
people speculate freely. Society wondered when and
whom he would marry. Who was there good enough
for him in these days of lamentable decadence ? This
question generally resolved itself into a discussion
as to which of the heiresses of the year would have
most money; since it appeared obvious that Lord
Lashmar would require money.

Seven years had gone by since Clarice Danebrook
had played tennis on the lawn under Lady Lashmar's
windows ; and nothing had come of her ladyship's
hopes in that direction. Clarice and Lord Lashmar
had seen a good deal of each other in the London
season which followed those quiet autumn days at
the Castle. They had waltzed many a waltz, had
met in many a crush upon the staircases of Belgravia
and May Fair. They had even ridden side by side
in the Eow, Job Danebrook jogging quietly beside
them on his weight-carrier, thinking of his latest
improvements in machinery, or the possibility of a
strike amongst his operatives.

People had said that young Lord Lashmar was
anchored already. The worldly wise had lauded
Lady Lashmar's good management. Just what one
would expect from a daughter of old Lady Pitland.
But nothing came of these rides and these waltzes
after all. Lashmar went back to the Continent
without having compromised himself by one too-tender
word. There had been magnetic looks and
gentle hand pressures, on the impulse of the moment,
when they two stood side by side amidst the crowd,
nestling together, as it were, under the pressure of
that silken throng, in an atmosphere overcharged
with the scent of gardenias and tuber roses. There
had been looks that had thrilled the simple Middle-shire
maiden ; but nothing had come of those tender
glances from dark gray eyes, under heavy brown
brows.

Lord Lashmar had gone away, deeming that it
was too soon for him to avow himself. He was not
quite sure. He wanted time. And Clarice was
assuredly too young to know her own mind. Precipitancy
in these matters is always dangerous, often
fatal ; but there is seldom harm in delay.

He went, and he left Clarice lamenting, like
Ariadne at Naxos : and, like Ariadne, she found a
consoler.

She had been very fond of Lord Lashmar in
her mild, almost infantine, way : and she had set
her heart upon being a peeress. Perhaps she worshipped
him chiefly because he was a nobleman of
ancient race and high standing. She had seen him
from the first invested with that aureole which her
mother had taught her to revere — the golden halo
of hereditary rank. And now he was gone, and she
felt heart-broken, disappointed, crushed. Her mother
also was disappointed, and did not conceal her
feelings. She told Clarice that Lord Lashmar had
behaved shamefully, and that he was unworthy of a
moment's thought. Xot withstanding which Clarice
thought of him during almost every moment of
the day and many a wakeful hour of the night ;
until the appearance of a new admirer of still
higher rank afforded a spurious kind of
consolation.

The new admirer was Lord Carminow, a marquis,
and one of the most dissipated young men in

London or Paris ; a young man who, a year before
lie met Clarice, lead the reputation of being industriously
engaged in drinking himself to death ;
but who was said to have pulled up, on the brink of
the precipice, as it were and to be in a fair way
to reform. His hand was still very shaky, and he
was still obliged to put cayenne pepper in his
brandy : but he drank less brandy, and his hand
was less tremulous than it had been last year.

Lord Carminow met Clarice and her family at
Schwalbach, whither Mr. and Mrs. Danebrook had
taken their daughter with the idea that iron would
revive her broken spirits. Lord Carminow was there,
also in quest of iron. The marquis and the maiden
drank the waters together, and sat side by side to
hear the band play in the gardens of the little
casino. He was 7wf ^n intellectual young man, and
brain and nerves were alike shattered by long-established
habits of intemperance. At an age when
other men are in the morning of life, he was old
and broken. It was a melancholy spectacle, piteous
in the eyes of Mrs. Danebrook, who never for a
moment forgot that the poor shaking hand belonged

VOL. I. R

to a marquis. She was infinitely sorry for him,
sorrowful, yet not without hope ; for she told herself
and all her intimate friends that if he could only
marry a girl who loved him, he would no doubt
become a new man. He was already on the right
road. All he needed was to have his footsteps
sustained by a faithful arm, his days cheered by
sweet companionship.

After three weeks' acquaintance he proposed to
Clarice Danebrook, and was accepted, with a kind
of haughty carelessness on the part of the young
lady, as if she took this coronet as her due, and
despised the giver; with rapture on the part of
the mother ; but by the father with considerable and
even outspoken reluctance.

I suppose the world will say that my little girl
is making a fine match ! ' said honest Job Danebrook,
but unless you mend your habits, Lord Carminow, she
will be one of the most miserable wives in London.'
Carminow swore that his habits were already
mended; and that with Clarice for his wife there
could be no fear of relapse. The wedding took place
late in the autumn, much to Lady Lashmar's indignation.

She had done all in her power to deter
Clarice ; had told her in plainest language what
manner of life Lord Carminow had been leading since
he left Oxford, and even at Oxford ; but Clarice had
made up her mind to be a marchioness, and she
was marble.

He is very good-natured, and he is a gentleman,'
she said ; ' I can afford to take my chance. I shall
do all I can to reform him.'

You ! ' cried her ladyship, surveying her from
head to foot with a scathing look. ' Poor baby ! you
little know what you are undertaking.'

Clarice took her chance, and enrolled herself forever
among the marchionesses of England. She
endured three and a half years of a most intolerable
existence, before Lord Carminow finished that business
of drinking himself to death, which he had
begun so blithely at Christ Church, in the dawn of
manhood, when many of his fellow-commoners took
toast-antipater for their dinner beverage. He was
gone, and Job Danebrook was gone, and Clarice,
Marchioness of Carminow, was established at Dane-brook
Hall, inordinately rich, and as lovely as in

her earliest girlhood. Mrs. Danebrook lived with
her daughter, and had been left very well off by the
iron master ; but Clarice was mistress in all things,
and a mistress on a very grand scale, modelling herself
upon the great Lady Pitland, about whose little
ways she had heard so much from Lady Lashmar.

There had been no issue of that unhappy union,
and a distant cousin of Lord Carminow had succeeded
to the marquisate — an elderly man with a
large family, who swooped down upon the estate
like a flight of vultures, devouring everything.
There was only a pittance of seven thousand a year
for the widowed Marchioness, an insignificant
addition to her own enormous income. The new
marchioness and her daughters thought she ought
not to have taken that pittance.

And now in these days of her widowhood Clarice
was again almost as a daughter to Lady Lashmar, who
had much need of solace and society in her present
depressed state of health ; need also of much
attendance, wanting to be waited upon with exemplary
patience, altogether a hard and difficult mistress.

She had three slaves, who were always in

attendance upon her — Barker, the patient and homely
maid of thirty years' service; Celestine, the expert
Abigail, with deft fingers and faultless taste in the
confection of a cap or the arrangement of a drapery,
were it only the sweeping folds of an Indian shawl
worn over an invalid's shoulders. Lady Lashmar
had taken to dress as elderly women dress when
they have renounced the pomps and vanities of the
world. She rarely wore anything but black brocade
or velvet, and she wore a cap, and generally had her
shoulders draped with some rich shawl. She looked
distinguished still ; but she always looked old, and
she very often looked ill.

Her third attendant occupied a nondescript
position, was hardly a servant, though she was
treated quite as cavalierly as the lowest servant, and
was not quite a companion. She was a tall and
slender girl, with a pale olive complexion, a small
head crowned with ebon hair, and the most wonderful
dark eyes that were ever seen out of Andalusia.
She was always dressed with a severe simplicity,
in a black cashmere gown, high to the throat, with
a small linen collar, and a long plain skirt. This

was as much a uniform with her as it was with
the housemaids, whose afternoon gowns were just
of the same colour and fashion ; yet no one would
have taken her for anything but a lady. There
was a distinctive grace and dignity in every line of
the tall, straight figure. The head had the imperial
carriage of a Cleopatra.

This was Stella Boldwood, now nineteen years
of age, and promoted within the last two years to
the post of her ladyship's reader and amanuensis.

Not of her own accord, but very reluctantly,
had Lady Lashmar accepted her stepson's proUgee
in this intimate familiarity. The girl had been
forced upon her by circumstances and the officiousness
of her other dependents. The time had come
when she, who had been a great reader, had begun
to feel the fatigue of reading too much for her
broken nerves — the time had come when a chronic
languor made it an effort to her to hold a book or
follow the lines of a page. She was only fit to
recline in her easy chair and listen while some
subdued voice read aloud to her, and the accents
of that voice must be those of refinement,

Celestine was, of course, impossible for English
reading, and the twang of her original
faubourg made even her French detestable to her
ladyship's sensitive ear. Barker was worse. The
doctor suggested Stella, whom he had seen very
often when sitting in the cottage parlour,
where he dropped in once or twice a week to chat
with old Gabriel Yerner. He had attended the old
man every winter during sharp attacks of bronchitis,
and he had seen how Stella excelled as a nurse.

I know something of the young lady,' said
Mr. Stokes.

Please don't call her a young lady, my good
Stokes,' remonstrated her ladyship, 'she has been
brought up among servants, as a servant. You
must remember low I disapproved of my ]door
step-son's folly about that girl.'

You may bring up a fox in a litter of terriers,
but he'll be Reynard all the same at the end of the
chapter,' said ]mr. Stokes. ' That girl is a lady. She
has good blood in her veins, I'll go bail. And she
got her early training from the late Lord Lashmar,
who owns one of the most intellectual men I ever

had the honour to know. You can't undo that,
Lady Lashmar. You may order the girl to handle
a broom and twirl a mop, and she may think it her
duty to obey you, but she is a lady all the same.'

I think all girls are ladies now-a-days,' retorted
the invalid impatiently. ' A great wave of refinement
has swept over our people. Even country
girls are no longer buxom and sturdy and active.
They are all pallid, and languid, and lady-like,
stuffed with science primers and fine notions, and
they want to do as little work as possible. I
suppose we must call this paragon of yours a
lady-help. I want some one to read to me,
but unfortunately I dislike that girl of yours.'

'Prejudice, Lady Lashmar, idle prejudice replied
Mr. Stokes, who always said what he liked to her
ladyship. 'Let her make a beginning, and if you find
her disagreeable you can send her about her business.'

Of course,' answered Lady Lashmar. ' Perhaps
she may be rather more endurable than a stranger.
I abhor strangers.'

So Stella was told one morning that her mission
would be to act' as Lady Lashmar's reader and

amanuensis until farther notice ; and from that hour
she was a slave.

Her life had been easy enough of late years, easy
even to pleasantness. The rule of the uncompromising
Middleham had been made very light for
her, when that autocratic personage found that
she was willing, industrious and conscientious,
and that whatever she did was well done. She
had been able, by early rising, to get her work
done before the one o'clock dinner ; and then she
had been allowed to do what she liked with her
afternoons, always provided she reappeared at
the five o'clock tea, which of late she had taken
with Mrs. Barker in the little room upstairs, a priceless
privilege, since it spared her the gossip and
uncongenial joviality of the still-room. Little by
little the girl had drifted, as it were, into a life of
her own, apart from those servants whose existence
the dowager wished her to share. She had been
among them for a little while, but she had never
been one of them. As she grew into girlhood the
difference between her and them became more
sharply defined. They felt thats she could never

be one of them, and her presence became an
embarrassment. They were very glad that she
preferred solitude to their friendly company, and
a quiet cup of tea in Barker's room to their own
noisy meal. She had always such old-fashioned
ways, they said. Strange that a child should be
such a blue-stocking. But of course that was all
the late Lord Lashmar's doing. He had brought
her up as no child ever was brought up before.
She had been dry-nursed upon books.

As the years wore on Stella was almost happy.
The afternoon hours of every day were spent with
Gabriel Yerner. He was old and feeble, and sometimes
very prosy ; but he was a mine of information,
he loved learning for learning's sake, and he loved
Stella. He carried on her education from the point
at which Lord Lashmar had left off. He cultivated
her love of the classics, reading Homer and Virgil
and Horace with her again and again, dwelling on
the passages he loved, training their beauties
into the very mind of his pupil. He taught her
French and German, and together they read the
classics in both languages. They had nothing to

distract them from their books, no visitors, no
pleasures. In summer time they sat in a quiet spot
on the edge of the river, a little nook below the towing
path, out of everyone's way, under a willow which
Lashmar had loved. In winter they sat opposite each
other by the trimly kept hearth, like two old cronies.
It is wonderful how much reading may be got
through in seven years by a young enthusiast
and a veteran student, when the world has no
claims upon either, and offers no temptations to
youth or age. Stella had read more than many
fairly cultivated men of forty, when she was
suddenly called upon to do suit and service to
Lady Lashmar. From this time her regular studies
with Gabriel Yerner were at an end, and those
gentle cares of hers which had made his old ashe so
easy had now to be performed under difficulties.
She could only steal away from the castle now
and then for a brief visit to her old friend, just
time enough to see to his comforts and to talk
to his landlady, who was kindly but stupid, and
whom Stella had been gradually training into
proper carefulness of her lodger.

You do spoil the old gentleman so, miss
remonstrated the good soul.

Old people require a little spoiling, Mrs.
Chipp. But nobody could spoil Mr. Werner. He
is so good and so unselfish.'

Well, miss, nobody can deny that he is a nice
easy gentleman to get on with, and if I wasn't
afraid of his setting the house on fire I should say
he was the best lodger I ever had ; much better
than they young curates as most people set such
store by ; and a permanence too, which the best
of curates never was.'

'You must be more attentive to him than
ever, Mrs. Chipp, now that I am so seldom here
urged Stella; and Mrs. Chipp promised that the
student should lack no fostering care.

It was with a rebellious heart that Stella entered
Lady Lash mar's morning room on the first day of her
new service. Mr. Stokes had endeavoured to awaken
her sympathy for the stern dowager. He had hinted
to her that the disease from which Lady Lashmar suffered
must sooner or later be fatal, that all the rest of
her life must be spent under the shadow of affliction.

She is very much to be pitied, poor soul,' said
the kindly Stokes ; ' all the more so, perhaps, because
she is not the kind of woman to invite pity.'

Yet even after this appeal Stella felt nothing
but aversion as she stood, tall and straight as a lily
stalk, at the foot of her ladyship's sofa.

She was thinking of that summer afternoon seven
years ago when Lady Lashmar had sat beside her
bed, swathed in inky crape, stern, pitiless, and had
told her of her benefactor's death — how all life and
this bright world had changed to darkness at the
sound of that cruel voice. Yes, it was the same
face — cold, faultless, unbeautiful, looking at her with
disdainful eyes.

She had not been face to face with Lady Lashmar
since that dreadful day. She had lived under her
roof and eaten her bread, and had felt the sting of
her tyranny; but the mistress of the Castle had
been no more visible to her than the Mikado to the
meanest of his subjects. And now she looked at
her oppressor thoughtfully in the June sunlight,
noting the changes time had wrought.

Yes, it was the same countenance, in no wise

softened by affliction ; but the hair was white, and
there were traces of suffering and of premature age.

I require a person to read to me for some hours
daily, sometimes even late at night ; and I am told
that you have contrived to educate yourself with
Mr. Werner's help, and that you know how to read
aloud. Is this so ? '

I have read aloud to Mr. Werner,' the girl
answered quietly.

Often ? '

Habitually.'

There was no waste of words on either side.

Then you can begin at once. There are my
books' (pointing to a revolving book stand within
reach of the sofa, a stand which held about forty
volumes). * Invalids are very capricious, and require
chase of mental food. You can besoin with Charles
Lamb, Elia's Essays — that one upon old china, for
instance. I am in a lazy mood to-day, and would
rather not be called upon to think.'

She was lying on a luxurious sofa, propped up
with pillows. She spent a considerable portion of
every day in this recumbent position, but she was

not coutiiied to her sofa or tu her room ; aud when
there was company at the Castle, or when her son
was at home, she generally dined downstairs, and
held her own with the old air of supremacy which had
been to her as a royal robe. She was not easily to
be beaten even by bodily pain, or the vague languors
of obscure disease. She meant to make a good fight
to the end.

Stella seated herself in a low chair a little way
from the sofa, and began to read. She read Lamb
for an hour, and then she was told to lay aside
Lamb and to take up a volume of travels in
Bokhara, a new book which her ladyship had just
received ; and when the travels wearied she was
told to resume the last poem by Browning, at the
page which her ladyship had marked.

She was allowed to read on like a machine.
She read for three hours without respite, and then
she was told that she might go.

You read very well ! ' said her ladyship, with
cold approval ; ' I daresay I shall want you again
late in the evening. Stay, you can arrange my
pillows before you go.'

Stella bent over the white maries Antoinette
head, and with light and careful touch adjusted the
heaped-up pillows, and then, without a word of
thanks from the invalid, she left the room.

As she went out by one door Barker entered by
another.

Yes, I think she will do ! ' said Lady Lashmar.
She has a sympathetic voice, and reads well. This
is one of my bad days, Barker; I shall not leave
my room.'

At nine in the evening Stella was summoned
again. The lamplight room with its profusion of roses
seemed a revelation of long-forgotten beauty and
elegance, after the puritanical plainness of the servant's
quarters. The golden-brown brocade curtains and
clouds of Indian muslin draping the fine old windows,
the rich carmine of old Sevres vases and candelabra,
the Chippendale whatnots crowded with richly bound
books, the low chairs and dainty little tables offering
every possible form of convenience for books, or
flowers, or cup and saucer; the old Indian screen
and tall young palms in Satsuma bowls. Such surroundings
were new to Stella, after the prim

commonness of the housekeeper's parlour, with its
horsehair sofa, and pembroke table ; and yet she felt
more at home here than in Mrs. Middleham's room.

Lady Lashmar looked wan and faded in the
lamplight, and the sickly white of her complexion
was accentuated by the rich dark tints in her
brown plush tea gown. A diamond and sapphire
brooch fastened her fichu of old English lace, and
the semi-transparent hands glittered with costliest
rings. There was here no intention of letting down
the pride of womanhood or station, even under the
grip of a fatal malady.

You can go on with Balaustian ! ' she said.

Xot a word more. Xo praise or thanks for the

afternoon's work ; no invitation to take a cup of tea

from the old silver salver, placed handily on the

delicious little tea-table beside her ladyship's sofa.

Jonathan Boldwood's daughter was to be treated only

as a serf beneath that roof. She had been reared

there according to the laws of slavery; and there

is no reason that a slave should be treated any better

because he happens to have cultivated his intellect.

She read till eleven, without any sign of fatigue.
VOL. I. s

She had so trained herself during those long afternoons
when she had sat on a stool at the old student's
feet, reading the authors he loved ; saving the poor
old faded eyes. She had read on unconscious of the
passage of time, just as she read now, absorbed by
her own delight in Browning's verse, with its undertones
of deepest thought.

At eleven Lady Lashmar dismissed her, with
briefest good-night.

Her duties as reader went on for months, without
variation. She spent at least half of every day in
Lady Lashmar's rooms, and was often summoned
late at night to sit beside her ladyship's bed, and to
read till three or four o'clock in the morning. She
performed her task with a cold placidity which was
agreeable to the highbred dowager, who detested
fuss, and would have been disgusted by servility or
officiousness. Later on Lady Lashmar allowed her
slave to write all her letters to indifferent persons,
and sometimes even a letter of friendship ; but the
amanuensis was never employed in writing to her
ladyship's son. Those letters were always in the
mother's penmanship.

Stella had filled this office for nearly two years,
and had been of the utmost service to Lady
Lashmar. Yet the stern (^ wager had but in the
smallest measure relented of her original aversion
from her stepson's protegee. She used her as a
companion and slave, but she never forgot that
this thoughtful-looking girl with the large dark
eyes was Jonathan Boldw^ood's daughter, and that
the venom of Radicalism ran in those blue veins
which showed in such delicate tracery upon the
slim white hands and on the ivory pallor of the
forehead. The old prejudice still existed in full
force, and the dowager in nowise relaxed her
hauteur because Stella Boldwood had become useful
to her. In her inmost heart she was angry with the
girl for the very gifts which made her an invaluable
companion. She resented that force of character
which had enabled the child-dependent to rise
superior to her surroundings, and to make herself
a lady in manners and superior to most ladies in
education. She was angry at that native grace,
which gave elegance even to the black merino gown
which was the livery of servitude. Soothing could

vulgarise Stella, or reduce her to the level of her
ladyship's other dependents. Barker had one day-ventured
to suggest that as the girl was now
virtually her ladyship's companion she should have
some prettier gowns — a black silk, for instance, or
at any rate, one of those fine French alpaca which
Celestine always wore, a material which combined
all the lustre and softness of silk with the merit of
never wearing out. But Lady Lashmar replied
angrily that the girl was to wear such gowns as
the housemaids wore and no other.

She is quite vain enough as it is,' said her ladyship.
' I believe she spends hours in dressing that
hair of hers, and training her eyebrows.'

This was a cruel attack upon Stella's pencilled
brows, whose bold clear line gave such character to
the low broad forehead.

Barker was indignant at this ungenerous treatment
of a girl who sat up till two or three o'clock
in the morning three times a week on an average to
beguile the tedium of her ladyship's wakeful nights.
But Stella made no complaint against the inevitable
black merino gown. She was glad when for the convenience

of Lady Lashmar she was transferred to a
pretty little bedchamber on the principal floor, close
to Barker's den, where she now took all her meals,
and which she was allowed to use as her own
sitting-room. She was thus removed entirely from
all association with the other servants : and Barker
was one of those kindly souls who with but the
slightest modicum of education have all the instincts
of good breeding. Stella had never revolted against
the society of Barker, while Barker's niece Betsy
was always dear to her as the friend of her
childhood.

And now it was the end of September, and
Lord Lashmar and a little knot of distinguished
visitors were expected at the Castle, some intent on
the slaughter of the pheasants, others only desiring
rest and respite after the fatigues of a London season.

Among these latter was Mr. Xestorius, the
great party-leader, who having retired from political
life finally, after the defeat of his Ministry, now, like
Dante's swimmer, looked back, breathless after
striving with the waves, upon the raging sea of
politics from the calm shore of domesticity.

Nestorius had been a protege of Lady Pitland
when his brilliant career was in its dawn ; and the
friendship with that wonderful old lady and her
family had never been interrupted, albeit their
political opinions were as the poles asunder. And
now that the politician's distinguished career was
a closed book, and that he had withdrawn into the
haven of private life, without the faintest intention
of ever refitting his damaged craft again to encounter
the buffets of ocean, it pleased Lady Lashmar that
the great man should enjoy some portion of his
well-earned leisure under her roof.

She talked of hit beforehand more than
of any other of her guests, and arranged that
the very best of the best rooms should be given to
him.

There are cases in which rank counts for
nothing,' she said. * Mr. Xestorius must always
be first everywhere. He is not only great as a
statesman ; he has won his laurels as a poet, and
the interpreter of classic poetry ; and our respect is
all the more due to him since he has retired
from office for ever — always a melancholy fact to

consider when a career has been so great, although
so mistaken.'

Is there no possibility of Mr. Nestorius returning
to public life, whenever the Liberals come into
power again ? ' asked Stella simply.

Lady Lashmar gave her a look which ought to
have frozen her.

The Liberals have seen the last of their misrule
she said. 'The country has been taught a
lesson which it is not likely to forget.'

Yet history shows that people always do forget,'
argued Stella. ' Opinion follows opinion, as wave
follows wave ; the world would stagnate if it were
otherwise.'

Pray do not argue. I do not care for ^h. Yerner's
ideas at secondhand,' said Lady Lashmar
haughtily.

She encouraged the girl to talk sometimes,
snubbed her mercilessly at other times, and was
never really kind. Yet it so happened that this
kind of life, slavery as it was, suited Stella's temperament.
Good books and gracious surroundings
were at present her only idea of bliss in this world :

and as Lady Lashmar's companion she had these in
abundance — the best of books, old and new, elegant
rooms to live in, and the right to wander at will in
gardens or park during her brief intervals of leisure.
For the rest she was penniless, had no remuneration
for her labour, not even the wages of an under-housemaid
; and now that Mr. Nestorius and
other great people were bidden to the Castle,
Stella knew that her servitude would be in no way-altered,
that she would see little or nothing of those
great ones. She sat at the little writing table in the
window of her ladyship's morning room, waiting for
further orders, while Lady Lashmar and the beautiful
widow, Lady Carminow, sat on each side of the
hearth, brightened by the glow of a small wood
fire, and discussed the expected visitors.

Eemember, you are on no account to desert me
while these people are in the house,' said Lady
Lashmar, with an imperative air, almost as a mother
talking to a daughter. ' I shall expect you to take
nearly all the trouble of receiving them off my
hands ; you must be almost as the mistress of the
house.'

'It will be very nice,' answered Clarice, with her
slow, dreamy smile. ' I adore mr. Xestorius, though
I know he did his utmost to ruin this country when
he was in power ; hut he is such an orator, the finest
I am told, since Lord Chatham ; and he is such a
thoroughly poetical man, and such a scholar ! His
translation of-aeschylus is quite too lovely. I am
sure it must be ever so much nicer than the
original.'

Stella's lips moved, and a little impulsive movement
disturbed the repose of her attitude. She had
discussed this translation of Mr. Xestorius's with
Gabriel Werner. They had gone over it line by line
and it had seemed to them that the Agamemnon of
Mr. Nestorius was a treason against the Greek playwright,
so fully had the statesman given the reins to
his own vivid imagination ; but it was not for her
to give utterance to her doubts in that room, or to
air her knowledge of Greek before Lady Carminow.

I am getting some new frocks on purpose for
your people,' said Clarice, who was fonder of millinery
than of literature.

The only books she really enjoyed were French

novels, and the newest school of English poetry.
Her intellectual fibre had a certain limpness which
required to be shocked and startled into attention.
She went to sleep over Tennyson or Browning, and
George Eliot made her head ache.

Who is making your frocks ? ' asked Lady
Lashmar, faintly interested.

'Mrs. Marshall.'

She is very good, but a desperate robber. Her
prices are iniquitous.'

But she drapes a gown so deliciously. There
is an indescribable something which is worth any
money she likes to charge. I never grumble at
her bills. I have even gone so far as to shake
hands with her when I have wanted a gown in a
desperate hurry.'

How long is it since you have seen Victorian ? '
asked Lady Lashmar absently, as if her thoughts
had wandered ever so far from Mrs. Marshall's
bills.

'Oh! ages and ages; not since the spring. Yes,
once in the summer, at a crush at the Foreign
Office, We had five minutes together on the stairs :

five minutes that brought back the thought of old
times, before I married poor Lord Carmiuow. I
felt as if I were a srirl assail.'

o o

•' You are not much more than a girl. He was
very attentive, I suppose ? '

Oh ! he said some rather sweet things ; but
sweet things are only the small change of society
now-a-days. They mean no more than the crystallised
violets one nibbles at dessert. Lord Lashmar
is a great man, quite absorbed in politics.'

I hope he will never become a walking blue-book
like some of them ! ' said Lady Lashmar
vaguely. ' I am proud that he should make his
mark in the world; but I should like to see his
domestic happiness secure before I die.'

'Dearest Lady Lashmar, pray do not talk of
dying. You have a long life still before you, I hope.'

'I should be glad to hope so too, if I could,
Clarice; but I can't. I am obliged to adopt the
Horatian philosophy — abjure extended hopes, and
enjoy my life as much as I can in the present. I
want to see my son married, and married as I
should wish ! '

'That is just the one thing you must not hope
for,' answered Clarice, with a touch of bitterness,
as if that placid temper of hers were faintly stirred
by the memory of an old wrong. 'Men never
marry to please their fathers and mothers ; and the
sons who have had ideal fathers and mothers are
almost sure to marry badly. It is only the men
who have seen a cat-and-dog life exemplified in
their parents who are careful in choosing their
own wives.'

It would break my heart if Victorian were to
marry beneath him.'

Oh ! I don't suppose he will do that' said
Clarice, with supreme hauteur. * He will marry in
his own rank, I have no doubt. He has none of
those horrid low instincts which lead young men
to make friends of their stablemen and to admire
chorus-girls. But he may marry a woman who has
been more talked about than you would like ;
although as so many women of fashion are talked
about now-a-days that would hardly be supposed to
matter.'

It would matter very much to me, Clarice,'

answered the dowager sternly. ' I wonder you can
talk so lightly ! '

I only talk as other people talk. Things do
not count now as they used when my mother was
young and Prince Albert was alive. Is it not
strange that one good man's death seems to have
loosened all the bonds that held society together ?
At least, mother says it is so. She puts our
moral decadence all down to the untimely death of
the Prince Consort.'

Stella was often a quiet hearer during such
conversations. Her presence counted for nothing.
Lady Lashmar and Clarice talked as freely before
her as if she had been a footman. She was not of
their rank or of their world, and so was in a manner
non-existent. Lady Carminow would honour her
with a passing nod as she entered the room — the
most infinitesimal thing in nods — and another as
she left; but in the interval between entering and
leaving the room the lovely widow appeared utterly
unconscious of her existence. Lady Carminow, be
it observed, was more thoroughly a peeress than if
she had been born in the purple. The consciousness

of her exalted rank never left her. It was
for this she had suffered the slow agonies of union
with a man she loathed ; for this she had shrunk
shuddering from the ravings of delirium tremens y
endured the unspeakable horrors of habitual intemperance
; and she was bent upon making the
utmost of the privilege she had won so dearly.
The once gentle and pliant Clarice had become
the haughtiest of women, but as she had still
the placid Montmorency temper — the constitutional
amiability of the lymphatic lily-complexioned order
of womankind — people managed to endure her pride
of rank, and even the oppressive sense of her wealth.
Between Lady Carminow and Stella there was a
silent antagonism. Neither had forgotten that day
in the library when Stella had shrunk from Clarice's
pitying touch as if it had been the sting of an adder.
There had been no renewal of compassionate feeling
on Lady Carminow's side. She was jealous of those
gifts which made Stella such a valuable companion
for Lady Lashmar. She resented the girl's superior
cultivation, and spoke of her sneeringly as a blue-stocking.


She can read Cl-reek and Latin. How very-absurd
I It is only a smattering, of course.'

Old Mr. Werner tells me that she knows more
than many a B.A./ said Lady Laslimar. ' My poor
foolish stepson crammed lier with learning from the
time she was able to read. She lias been nourished
upon books.'

What a pity she cannot get a degree. I wonder
you don't send her to Girton or Dunham. She
would be more in her place there than in this
house.'

She is very useful to me. I could not possibly
spare her.'

Oh, but companions can be got by the hundred.
You have only to choose from a column of advertisements.
There is a fresh column every morning
in the Times. I have often looked, thinking I
should like to get some one for mother; some one
who would amuse her all day, and take her quite
off my hands, don't you know.'

'Needy young women in want of homes maybe
had in shoals, I have no doubt,' answered Lady
Lashmar ; ' but it is not easy to get a really good

reader. Stella has a sympathetic voice, and reads
well. I could not do without her.'

*She is not sim]}atica with me,' said Clarice,
languidly. ' I am very sensitive about my surroundings.
I should not like your Stella in my room
after midnight. Those great black eyes and that
pale face would frighten me. I should have an idea
that I was going to be murdered.'

Lady Lashmar smiled, as at the nonsense talk
of a beautiful child. She was very fond of Clarice,
whose loveliness gladdened her eye, and whose
intellectual inferiority was a perpetual compliment
to her understanding. She was hoping great things
from the coming October, which would bring Victorian
and Clarice together day after day in the easygoing
intercourse of a country house. Her own
breaking health would be an excuse for leaving her
son and the lovely widow very much to their own
devices. Lady Carminow would take the place of
the mistress of the house, and Lashmar would have
to consult her about everything. Could he resist
so much beauty and sweetness ? He had been
proof against those charms once : or he had silly



sallied and had lost his chance. If he had not been
proof, if it had been a case of shilly-shally only, and
he had been hard hit all the time, how gladly would
he seize the golden opportunity which his mother
had prepared for him ! It is true that he might
have made opportunities for himself during the
sears in which Lady Carminow had been a widow.
But there are men who will make no effort in these
matters, who require to have fortune flung into
their laps. And then Lashmar had been absorbed
by poetics ever since that famous speech which had
helped to secure the majority that overthrew the
late Cabinet.

Lord Lashmar arrived, fresh from a yachting
excursion in the Hebrides, bronzed and bearded,
broad shouldered, muscular, the manliest of young
men, with a fresh open-air look about him, yet
intellectual withal. It was a fine face, as even
Stella was fain to confess to herself as she withdrew
from the morning room after his lordship's arrival,
leaving mother and son together.

Yes, it was a fine face, but far from a pleasant

VOL. I. T

face, Stella thought. There was the haughty
expression of his grandmother's old Northumbrian
race — the Fits Eollos — who claimed to be descended
in a direct line from those Norsemen who swooped
like a tlioht of sea-birds on that bleak coast in the
dim beginning of English history.

Stella had been told about those Norse robbers
of the long-ago, from whom it was such unspeakable
honour to be descended. Some innate taint of
Radicalism made her slow to perceive the glory
of such lineage ; but she thought to-day that
Victorian, Lord Lashmar, had just the kind of
face which would have looked its best under a
Norseman's helmet, or at the prow of a piratical
craft, with roughened hair blown by the north
sea wind, and keen eyes looking landward, ready
for rapine and carnage, so soon as that light foot
should strike the shore.

She could fancy him holding his own valiantly
amongst the prosy old gentlemen in the House of
Lords.

He gave her a distant bow as she passed him,
a salutation which she acknowledged with an almost

imperceptible baud of the long, slim throat, while
the look iu those dark eyes of hers expressed
absolute dislike. She had not forgotten his parting
speech in the library seven years ago ; or the air
with which he had Hung open the door and told
her to * march.' He would tell her to march again
perhaps, if she should happen to be in his way at
any time. This was the first time they two had
met face to face since that day.

He looked after her wonderingly till the portiere
fell behind her, and he and his mother were alone.

Your protegee has improved ! ' he said. * She
is not half so ugly as she was seven years ago.'

'Pray 'don't call her my protegee. You know
she is a legacy from poor Hubert, an incubus
which his Quixotism has imposed upon me.'

But I take it she is useful to you, or you would
have sent her about her business before now. She
fetches and carries for those two lazy old maids of
yours — Barker and Celestine — 1 suppose i '

She reads very well ; that is the only way in
which she is useful to me. And now, Victorian,
let us talk of yourself and of the future. I hope

you are going to stay here all the winter — till the
House reopens ! '

Would you like me to stay ? '

Of course I would, dearest. What have I to
live for but your society ? Life is a blank when
you are away from me.'

That is hard, mother dear, when I have been
so much away ! You make me feel that I have
been an undutiful son.'

No, no ! you are not to be the slave of a too
exacting love. Mothers are even more tiresome than
wives. It was right that you should see the world :
but now that you have travelled, and have seen so
much, the time has come for settling down quietly,
for assuming your right position as an English nobleman.
All our greatest statesmen have been men who
spent their lives at home. Our people are jealous of
Continental influences, and dislike Continental habits.'

'My dear mother, I am not such a caterer for
popularity as to fashion my manners or my life to
please the mob ; but I shall be glad to spend
more of my days with you now — now that I am
growing middle-aged.'

He had hesitated before those concluding words ;
saddened by the thought that the limit of those
days which his mother and he were to spend
together was already marked by Fate, and seemed
to him now to lie within a definite distance. There
was no longer that vagueness of prospect which
makes the horizon of life seem infinite. He could
not flatter himself, in the face of obvious decay,
that his mother would live to the green old age
of Lady Pitland, who had ruled the world of
fashion at seventy, and had been a power in her own
little world till she was ninety.

That is a good hearing ! ' said Lady Lashmar,
with a smile which altered the whole character of
her face — the mother's adoring smile. 'And you
will marry, I hope, very soon. No anchor like a
good wife.'

I am not in a hurry to be anchored,' answered
Lashmar, laughing ; ' but I have a receptive min d
and am ready to fall in love at short notice now
that politics are off my mind. "What have you
here in the way of beauty, mother mine ? '

The Bishop of Loughborough is to be here in a

week or so, with his two daughters, pretty, fresh
young girls, and both musical. I should not object
to either as a daughter-in-law. Then there is old
Lord Banbury's daughter, the Diana of Northamptonshire,
a frank open-hearted girl, and a superb
horsewoman. She comes with Mrs. Mulciber, an
old friend of mine.'

I am glad you haven't got Banbury himself.
He is a dreadful old driveller. Lady Sophia is a
good sort of girl, but she has made herself a great
deal too public, and is written about in the sporting
papers as if she were a jockey. I think one of
them called her '' Our Soph." " Our Soph's performances
with the Pytchley have been creating the
usual sensation," or something of that kind. I
don't think you would like our Soph for a daughter-in-law.'


Old Lord Banbury was a friend of your
grandfather ! '

Was he ? Then he must have been one of the
few friends my grandfather was allowed to choose for
himself. Lady Pitland would never have tolerated
him on her list. Well, mother ; who he is coming:? ?

There is Mr. Xestorius. The rest are all your
own invitations.'

Oh ! my invitations are rather ad captandum,
given on the spur of the moment. There is mr.
Ponsonby, the famous Q.C. and Conservative Member
Ponsonby-who saved Mrs. Browning, don't you
know, in the starving case that made such a sensation
seven or eight years ago. Ponsonby began
life as a Pad, but is now a High Church Tory —
swears by Laud, adores Pusey, and weeps when
the disestablishment of the Irish Church is
mentioned ; attributes all our Irish troubles to that
destructive measure. I wonder how he and Nestorius
will get on under the same roof ? '

'They have been under the same roof before,'
said her ladyship.

Yes ; but that was a bigger roof, and they were
not upon company manners.'

Mr. Xestorius is always charming. Whom else
have you asked ? '

Captain Vavasour, the society novelist, and his
wife ; such a delightful little woman, airy, fascinating,
eccentric, audacious — just like one of her husband's

novel?. I think she must sit to him for all his
heroines ! '

Perhaps she writes his books ? '

Not she ! Aurelian is one of those delicious
creatures who never do anything for themselves ;
not so much as to fill in a card of invitation, or run
up to the nursery to look at a sick baby. Vavasour
writes all her letters and fills in all her cards, and
she sends her maid to ask after her babies. She
would not be half so graceful and charming if she
were not the quintessence of selfishness. I once
heard a woman ask her what her gown cost.
*haven't the least idea!" she answered sweetly. "I
never ask what things are going to cost lest I should
be afraid to order them." '

Then your Vavasor are in debt, I conclude.'

Enormously.'

'I feel sure that I shall loathe this person.'

1 doubt it. But please don't show your
aversion in any case. Don't freeze the poor little
thing with the pride of the Fits Solos. That would
be to break a butterfly upon a wheel.'

I don't suppose she would care. A woman of

that kind is always case-hardened. Did I tell you
that Lady Carminow will be here for a week or
two ? She wanted to run in and out as she used
when she was a girl, but I have insisted upon
her sending over her trunks. She will help to
amuse Mr. Nestorius.'

No doubt. Mr. Nestorius is impressionable, and
a widower. Lady Carminow would make him a
capital wife.'

My dear Lashmar, he is old enough to be her
father;

Greatness is of no age. Nestorius at fifty
is more attractive than the common herd of
young men ; and for a woman of Lady Carminow 's
ambitious temper he would be especially attractive.
She has secured her coronet. She has made herself
a marchioness, and no one can unmake her.
The next step would be to secure an ex-prime
minister for her husband and slave.'

'That is all nonsense. Clarice is full of
romance.'

Her marriage with a notorious sot would imply
as much.'

'It was a noble feeling which prompted that
unhappy union. She wanted to reclaim him.'

'She wanted to be Lady Carminow. Don't
look so unhappy, mother. I like your favourite
well enough. I once almost thought myself in
love with her, but that was when I was young
and foolish.'

You need not be afraid of her fascinations
now,' said Lady Lashmar, piqued at his manifest
indifference. 'Clarice is much too well off as a
widow to wish to change her condition.'

Precisely. She is one of those sensible women
who can estimate the value of everything. She
knew the value of a marquis's coronet : so much
for the strawberry-leaves, so much for the
pearls. She knows the exact value of her position
as Lord Carminow's childless widow. It is
not very much, bar the title. Take my word
for it, mother, she would marry again — to better
herself.'

Lady Lashmar did not argue the point. She
was bent upon masking her batteries, if possible.
Men are such kittle cattle ; and if Lashmar once

took it into his head that she was bent on matchmaking":
he would set his face against Clarice and
all her charms. She would trust to the chapter
of accidents, and to Lady Carminow's beauty, which
was in its zenith.

That beauty came almost as a surprise on
Lashmar by-and-by, when Clarice sauntered into
the library at afternoon tea-time. He was
unprepared for so much loveliness, albeit he had
talked with her last June for five minutes on the
stairs at the Foreign Office. That girlish loveliness,
svelte, flowing, alabaster fair, had expanded into a
royal beauty. Lady Carminow was much less
slim than she had been in her girlhood, but her
stoutness — if it must be called by so ^^ilgar a
word — was a Juno-like stoutness, and her loveliness
was enhanced by expansion. The alabaster tint
was still more dazzling, it had that transparent
brilliancy which Horace sings of. Her golden-auburn
hair was piled in a coronet above the low
classic brow. The turn of the neck was statuesque
in its perfection, the carriage of the small head was
full of unaffected dignity. The plainly made gown

of lustreless brown silk set off the gracious figure
with a noble simplicity. 'The lovely wrist and
hand looked all the lovelier under a severely
cut sleeve with a narrow cuff of old Mechlin lace.

How strange that we should meet for the first
time in this room,' said Clarice, when she and
Lashmar had shaken hands, and she had ensconced
herself in the most comfortable of all the comfortable
chairs which were grouped about the hearth and tea-table.
' Do you remember that afternoon when you
showed me the wonderful books, and when we found
that poor little savage sitting on a ladder ? '

Indeed, I have not forgotten. I was reminded
of the fact this morning by the sight of my brother's
proUg^e. My mother tells me she has become a
liable young person, and very useful to her as a
reader.'

Clarice shrugged her shoulders, and gave a faint
shiver.

I should not like such a person about me she
said; 'but dear Lady Lashmar seems quite taken
with her of late.'

Dear Lady Lashmar disavowed any such friendly

a feeling for the girl. 'She is useful to me,' she
explained ; * I require some one to read to me, and
she reads well. That is all.'

I am always afraid of self-educated people,' said
Clarice, * they are so arrogant, and so ambitious ;
almost always Eadicals, thinking, poor creatures, that
book learning is the only thing that counts, and forgetting
their hopeless ignorance of everything vje
know.'

'And that naturally means everything worth
knowing,' said Lashmar, smiling at her across his
teacup.

'Well, you will acknowledge that in society
manners and savoir-faire are of much more importance
than Latin and Greek,' said Clarice, with conviction.


I see you are one of those people who think that
the classics are the exclusive property of half a dozen
elderly gentlemen in the universities, who seldom
wash, and who could hardly muster a hair brush
among them,' replie d his lordship laughingly.

Lashmar sipped his tea, and enjoyed the restfulness
of this lazy afternoon hour, when dressing for

dinner seems too far oli' to be thought of as a burden.
He had been the first to arrive ; his guests
were expected by a later train ; so he and his mother
and Lady Carminow had this delicious interval all to
themselves.

It was a new thing for him to take tea in that
grandiose old library, with its bossed ceiling, rich in
gold and vermilion, seeming to repeat the colour of
the Grolier bindings. Hitherto the room in which
Hubert, Lord Lashmar, had lived his pensive unoffending
life had been a sealed chamber, dedicated
to the memory of the dead, as it were a tomb in the
mansion of the living. But within a week of her
son's return Lady Lashmar had made up her mind
to re-open the library as a general sitting-room — a
pleasant place for afternoon tea — a haven in the
evening for elderly people who love quiet, or for
those unmusical souls who care not for the modern
sonata or the modern ballad. It was Clarice who
had talked Lady Lashmar into this innovation.

The library is quite the handsomest room in the
Castle, and you leave it, figuratively speaking, to bats
and owls she said. ' What is the good of fine rooms

Lady Lashmar yielded ; and it was Lady Carmine
who with her own fair hands, and the aid of
half a dozen housemaids, rearranged the room after
the luxurious modern idea. She introduced delicious
little Alma Tadema-cuni-Queen Anne chairs
and tables, tidings half Pompeii, half old English.
She made delightful corners with old Indian screens,
seven leaved, golden, beautiful ; and she set groups
of palms in richest red pottery vases. She knew
exactly where all the prettiest things were to be had,
and what to order. The Genie of the Lamp was
hardly more expeditious in the art of furnishing.

Lashmar was delighted.

"What a sensible idea to use this big old room
for living in,' said Lashmar, lolling back in a nest of
tawny plush, and looking round at the black and
gold screens and vermilion tables and palms and
peacock's feathers.

It was Lady Carminow's idea. You have her
to thank for the change,'

Then I do thank her, most cordially.'

Oh, but it is I who ought to be thankful,' cried
Clarice. ' I delight in arranging a room. I am
almost as officious as Lady Hillborough, who cannot behalf
an hour in anyone's drawing room without
re-arranging all the chairs. Now, Oriana has a genius
for chairs ; but if I have any talent it is for corners.
How do you like that corner with the seven-leaved
screen and the palms ? '

It is simply perfection ; a haven in which to
dream away wintry days, too blissful to regret the
summer ; a nook for a flirtation, for a proposal even.
Young ladies on their promotion ought to be very
grateful to you, Lady Carminow.'

I am very fond of nice girls,' murmured Clarice,
with an air of matronly superiority worthy of a
grandmother.

Afternoon tea lasted a long time upon this
particular occasion. It was dusk when the two
ladies closed their work-baskets and went off to
their own apartments, Lady Lashmar to secure an
hour's rest before she put on velvet and diamonds
to receive her son's guests, who were all to arrive

in time for dinner ; Clarice to waste an hour pleasantly
over Ohnet or Daudet, or the milder Greville.
A few minutes before seven there came a gi-eat
clanging of doors, and the corridors echoed with
strange voices, whereby Lady Lashmar, resting her
wearied nerves as best she might, knew that the
people had all come. She could not help listening
for Mr. Xestorius's voice amidst that Babel of
mistresses and maids ; and she heard a few words
uttered calmly by that mellifluous organ. Depth
and smoothness were the chief characteristics of
the ex-minister's voice. Soft, grave, and yet strong
were those tones which had ruled in the senate,
which had touched the hearts of women. Perhaps
it was this voice which had been the most powerful
influence in Mr. Nestorius's career. He had that fine
flow of language and those ever-musical tones which
enable a man to talk nonsense unchallenged, nay,
rather to make nonsense appear logic, or wit, as
the orator chose.

How reposeful, how soothing sounded that voice
amidst the chatter of the women and the haw-having
of the men. Captain Vavasour was making
VOL. I. u

as much fuss as the noisiest of women, but then,
as he had to look after his wife's luggage and his
wife's poodle, as well as his own portmanteau, there
was some excuse for him.

I wonder how I shall get on with these people,'
thought the dowager ; * they are horribly noisy, and
their voices have a vulgar twang. Thank heaven
there is Clarice to take them off my hands.'

At ten minutes to eight she was in the drawing-room,
and the strangers were being duly presented
to her, as she sat supported on one side by Mrs.
Mulciber, a spreading woman in a gray satin gown,
and by Lady Sophia Freemantle on the other.

Lady Sophia was a tall, well-made young woman,
with the square shoulders which were considered
intolerable thirty years ago, but which are permitted
and even approved nowadays. She was not handsome
; she would have scorned to be so. She had a
healthy, brunette complexion which had been
buffeted by all the winds of heaven, and shone on
by the sun, until it had acquired a permanent bronze
and a harder consistency than belongs to the 'cheek
of beauty. She had regular features, a small, sharp

use, aucl a determined mouth aud chin ; a mouth
that had grown resolute in encounters with obstinate
horses, refusing the same ditch thirty times on end,
to be beaten by Lady Sophia at the thirty-first. She
had a loud voice that had crown stroma in conversations
carried on in the open air, and often
at longish distances — with labouring men at the
further side of a field, and sometimes with tramps
and wayfarers just within hail ; discussions as to
which way the hunted fox had gone ; or as to
whether an animal lately seen was or was not the
hunted fox. There is always a chance of being
deluded by that social impostor — the fox out for a
quiet airing, and only distinguishable from the real
hero by his smug respectable aspect and clean brush.
On horseback Lady Sophia looked better than
one woman in twenty, not only for her willowy
waist or the fit of her habit, but for the admirable
pose of that slim, tall figure, and the perfect adjustment
of the rider to every movement of the horse.
In an evening gown Sophia looked her worst, and
she regarded the whole question of evening gowns
with supreme indifference. Her dark red satin was

at least three seasons old, as Lady Carminow's
keen eye perceived in an instant, and the colour
was much too near the carnation of the wearer's
cheek to be becoming.

Lady Carminow was at the other end of the
drawing-room, half buried in a gigantic chair, and
slowly fanning herself with a great ostrich feather
fan, while she listened to Mr. Nestorius. She was
looking divinely lovely. Her large, fair bust and
shoulders looked dazzling in their Parian whiteness
against the hedge-sparrow velvet of her gown.
Hedge-sparrow had been the fashionable colour of
last season. Women had lived and moved and had
their being only in hedge-sparrow gowns. The
colour was that of a hedge-sparrow's egg, be it
understood, not of the sparrow himself, a turquoise
blue with just the faintest greenish tint, a colour
which became blondes to perfection ; and as most
women are blondes nowadays, or make themselves
so, the hue had enjoyed a tremendous vogue.

If there was a particularly attractive woman ina
room it generally happened that Mr. Nestorius
and she were together. He was said to be a

magnetic man, and it was an attribute of his
magnetism always to draw the nicest women about
him. Pallid faces and thrilling tones have an
almost irresistible charm for women. Your healthy-looking
man, with a florid complexion or a harsh
voice, has hardly any chance.

It was within two minutes of the hour, and
Lady Lashmar was beginning to look angry, when
Mrs. Vavasour came gliding in, clad in a dragging
garment of limp lace and muslin, which might or
might not be a gown. There was that marked
disproportion between the lady and her clothes
which is so often seen nowadays as to be no
longer surprising. The lady was so exuberant, and
the gown so exiguous, that had it not been for an
immense garland of Mareschal Noel roses, which
made a kind of lower-bed across the ample bust,
Lady Lashmar would have been inclined to order
the new-comer out of the room.

As it was she acknowledged her son's introduction
somewhat stiffly, gave Mrs. Vavasour the tips of
her fingers, and only recognised the lady's husband
with a haughty inclination of her head : for it washer

ladyship's opinion that when a married woman
made a spectacle of herself, the husband was more
to blame than the wife.

In those circles in which Mrs. Vavasour moved
it had been often said that she was utterly charming :
but that a stranger required half an hour to get
accustomed to her.

She was certainly pretty ; but that her beauty
was either made or marred by art was indisputable.
The cloud of golden clumsiness which surrounded her
head, seeming almost too ethereal for actual hair,
the definite line of dark eyebrows, and the lashes
clogged with ebon dye, the porcelain whiteness and
the rose-leaf bloom were all from the same source ;
and a child of four years old could scarcely have been
innocent enough to mistake the picture for reality.
But the general effect was considered good, and, as
Mrs. Vavasour's reputation had never been clouded
by the breath of scandal, the lady was caressed
and courted, and her little ways were considered
charming.

Her manner was quite as artificial as her complexion.
She drawled out her delight at making

Lady Lashmar's acquaintance in the latest slang, and
with the latest abbreviations ; Lady Sophia contemplating
her calmly with her hawk's eyes all the time,
as if she had been some new specimen in that animal
world of rats, weasels, stoats, ferrets, polecats, and
other unclean vermin which Lord Banbury's daughter
knew so intimately.

Mr. Nestorius was, of course, entitled to the arm
of his hostess, and Lady Carminow to that of her
host ; Mr. Ponsonby, the barrister, took Mrs. Vavasor,
and good-natured Mrs. Mulciber put up with the
Eector, who had been asked, as it were, to open the
shooting season with a good old Anglican grace,
short and unintelligible. Captain Vavasour took in
Lady Sophia. They had travelled by the same train,
and were as friendly as if they had been brought up
in the nursery together, Sophia's experience of the
hunting-field having given her all the ways of jolly
good fellowship ; but this familiarity with the
fashionable novelist did not prevent her almost
ignoring his wife.

I am afraid Mrs. Vavasour and I can't have
much in common,' she said, ducking to get a glimpse

of that radiant lady athwart a grove of silver
trophies, in the way of racing cups and candelabra.

She doesn't look as if she hunted inwardly adding,

not an outdoor make-up.'

And you do nothing else, I have heard,' replied
the Captain. * Well, it is the highest kind of fame
to do one thing to perfection.'

I write a little in my humble way, but it is
always about hunting,' said Lady Sophia.

'Then you are 'spur-box," of the ** Sunday
Swash-buckler," ' cried Vavasour ; ' I have often
been told as much.'

Yes, I am " Spur-box," ' admitted the lady, looking
modestly downward, overcome by the thought
of her own fame. ' I rather enjoy writing for the
paper. The editor pays me very well ; and there is
only one thing I don't altogether like. He insists
that I should always pretend to be tipsy when I am
writing, or to have been horribly tipsy over night.'

Oh ! but that is de rigueur. It is part of
the policy of the paper. All the contributors are
supposed to exist in a state of chronic drunkenness.
I need not tell you that they are some of the

soberest meu in London, as temperate as you, Lady
Sophia ! '

It is rather good fun, pretending to be hopelessly
obfuscated.'

'What is supposed to be your particular
vanity ? '

Soda and curator. I consume gallons. I am
always talking of my little failings. Sometimes I
go in for green chartreuse, with fatal results. But
the editor wants me to drop liqueurs, which, he says,
have a snobbish tone that offends his Eadical
subscribers. He wants me to take to dog's-nose.
What is dog's-nose ? '

'A compound of beer and gin, particularly
affected by cabman. What is supposed to be your
social status, as Spur-box ? '

Oh ! it is awfully vague. I am as misty as a
mythological personage. I write from all the great
hunting centres. Sometimes I am at the George at
Graham, where I seem to live in the bar ; for the
editor will put in remarks of this own about drinks,
don't you know, and I hardly know my own writing
when I see it in print'

I comprehend. He embellishes. That is hardly
fair!'

I have told him so, but he says that there must
be a single mind directing the whole '

Just so ! as, according to poor old Anchises
when his son interviewed him in the under world,
there was at one time a single soul permeating the
human race — '

Anchises must be dead ! ' said Sophia, who
only caught the classic and familiar name. 'He
won the Derby when I was a little tot. I remember
seeing the race from my father's drag. It was
the year Facile Princeps was favourite, and came
in a bad third. Anchises was a mealy chestnut.'

The conversation went on at this rate all through
dinner. Captain Vavasour hunted, and was fond of
racing ; was hand in glove with men who kept
racers, and had a good deal to say about the turf.
He knew old Lord Banbury's history by heart;
knew what to say, and what to avoid saying. Lady
Sophia did not usually like writing men. She
thought them conceited and uninteresting ; but the
loveliest charmed her. He was in the middle of a

capital story about Jack Russell and the Exmoor
staghounds when Lady Carmine w rose swan-like at
the beck of her hostess.

What a bore ! ' exclaimed Sophia. ' I shall
have to go with the lady-pack.'

And with the lady-pack the fair Sophia departed
wondering whether she would find anyone sociable
enough to join her with a cigarette. She carried
her cigarette case in her pocket, even when she was
dressed for the evening; and, in those pleasant
houses where ladies were tolerated in the billiard-room,
she always smoked. This was her first visit
to Lashmar, and ]airs. !Mulciber had warned her
that it was a severe house.

Lady Carminow settled herself in a comfortable
arm-chair near Lady Lashmar's particular corner,
beside the wide old hearth. These two talked apart
and left the other three ladies to their own devices.
Sophia found the last Saturday Review with a
sporting article, and retired behind that paper.
Mrs. Vavasour shed her artificial radiance upon
friendly Mrs. Mulciber, whom she entertained with
her opinions upon the plays and operas of last

season, a style of conversation which could not have
warmly interested a lady who had not seen one of
them.

But Mrs. Mulciber was one of those admirable
women who always appear to be interested, even
when they are inwardly sinking with weariness.
She was a delightful listener, had very little to say
herself, but said that little in a neat and pleasant
manner. She had made her way in the world
without advantages of birth or fortune, and with
very moderate abilities. Born and bred in the
middle classes, the daughter of a village vicar, she
had contrived to live all her life in the very best
circles, staying now at one country house, now at
another ; now chaperoning an orphan heiress ; now
keeping things straight for an aristocratic household
in which the mistress was a dips-maniac ; anon
looking after a widower's young children, or helping
in the dirty work of a county election. She was
everybody's confidante and everybody's amanuensis.
She wrote a magnificent hand, and she was good
at accounts. She always read the newspapers, and
knew everything that was going on in the world ;

but her travelling library consisted of only two
books — a peerage and a Bible. These she knew by
heart, and here her knowledge of literature ended.
She had no imagination, and never read novels.
Her mind required hard facts. Her notion of leisure
was to sit at a window working high art designs
of an angular ecclesiastical character upon brown
holland, and she was admirable in this wise as
the dragon of prudery in a country house full of
lovers. For the rest she knew all the latest remedies
and palliatives for neuralgia, low spirits, and insomnia,
and was pleasantly officious in such cases.
Her headquarters for the last three years had been
Banbury Manor, where she acted as a deputy mother
for Lady Sophia, whose real mother had run away
with a colonel of dragoons at the mature age of
nine and thirty, much to the satisfaction of old
Lord Banbury, who had tyrannised over her for
nineteen weary years, and was beginning to sicken
of a worm which had never turned.

END OF VOL I.

w^'^'^

4^

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

^.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

DOE: ID-^o- 5

JUL 1 4 1983

L161— O-1096

&C., &C &C.
BY THE AUTHOR OF

'lady AUDLEY'S SECEET," "VIXEN,"
ISHMAEL," ETC.

VOL. II.

LONDON
JOHN AND EGBERT MAXWELL

MELTON HOUSE, 35, ST. Bride street, Lydgate CI Eus

14 A-XD 15, SHOE LANE, FLEET Street. Eg.
1886.

[All right* reserved.]

CHAP.

I. ' Mordant FILLS THE TrUMP OF FaME '

II. 'But all her Ties the Strong Invader Broke

III. ' All her Spirits in a Flame ' .

IV. 'And there in a Net his Heart was Holden '
V. * She took Me to her Elfin Grot ' .

VI. ' Shall not the Grief of the Old Time Follow ]

VII. ' Shall We not Laugh, Shall We not Weep ?

viii. 'Thanks to the Human Heart by which we
LIVE '

IX. * The Oracles are Dumb ' . . . .

X. ' It MEANS that I am a Brute ' .

XI. ' I GO TO Gather this the Sacred Knowledge
XII. ' The Past is Past, and I am Come to Thee '
XIII. ' Here Lodge as in a Sanctuary '

PAGE





9.3






22.3



CUT BY THE COUNTY.
I. *The Shade by which my Life was Crost' . 309

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onethingneedful02bradd

Chapter I.

'Mordant FILLS THE Truer OF FAME'

It was nearly a week after the arrival of the

visitors, and Stella had enjoyed more liberty during

that interval than she had known since she became

her ladyship's reader. She had only been called

upon to write a few letters in the morning, and to

read to Lady Lashmar after ten o'clock in the

evening. These nightly readings generally lasted

till the small hours : but Stella did not mind that.

She was not a person who required much sleep ; and

she was about in the dewy park long before the

castle breakfast time, and sometimes spent an hour

with Mr. Yerner before breakfast.
VOL, II, B

1 1 was Oil one of these early visits that she was
surprised by the entrance of a stranger, who came
unannounced into the cottage parlour while she was
reading .aeschylus to her tutor.

The visitor was no less a person than Mr.
Xestorius, who had unearthed Gabriel Werner the
day after his arrival at the castle ; and in whom the
old man had welcomed an honoured pupil in the 
days of his University career, before he threw
up a fellowship at ]magdalen to marry the girl uf
his choice. Yes, it was Mr. Xestorius who stood
iu the doorway smiling to hear the rugged music of
the Prometheus from those girlish lips.

So you are still at the old work, Sterner ! ' he
said, 'and with a very promising pupil. Will you
present me ? '

sly dear, this is Mr. Nestorius. You have
heard nie talk about Mr. Xestorius.'

Stella bowed, Idiisliiiig deeply. It was the first
time that anyone of iuiportaiice had ever been presented
to hci-. Slip closed her book, rose hastily,
and took up the neat little black straw hat which
wab her invariable head 'scar.

I hope I have not scared you away,' said
Nestorius.

Xo, sir ; it is time for me to go back to the
castle.'

Nonsense, child,' said Verses; ' you told me
her ladyship would not want you till eleven o'clock.
Sit down, and let me tell Mr. Xestorius what a
capital Grecian you are.'

It used to be Edgar in the old days,' remonstrated
the statesman, putting down his hat and
seating himself at the table, covered with books and
manuscripts, loose sheets of that vast work which
was still in progress.

But in those days you were an undergraduate
and I was a don,' answered (gabriel Sterner, shaking
his gray head, which was always just a little
tremulous, ' and now you are a great statesman and
I am a nobody.'

The interpreter of the Stagirite must always
be renowned; said Nestorius, laying his hand upon
a pile of manuscript on the old man's desk.

He had unearthed his okl tutor the day after
his arrival at Lashmar Castle, and had spent a good

many odd half hours at the cottage, talking over
Werner's hopes and disappointments, listening with
heroic patience to complaints against publishers and
the reading public, mild bewailing of fate, comforting,
sustaining, as only he could. If he had been called
a magnetic man, it may be that magnetism was
but another name for an intensely sympathetic
nature.

Stella looked at him with wondering, earnest
eyes, as he sat beside the old tutor's desk. He was
a man for whom life was on the wane. He had
passed the flood-tide of life and fame, and strength
and beauty. After some brilliant successes he had
lived to hear himself called a failure ; and he had
retired from the political arena, ostensibly for ever.
There was to be no return. He had done all that
ill him lay ; and if he had not succeeded in all things,
if some of his grandest ideas had been considered
the vain dreams of an inspired lunatic, he had at
least made himself an imperishable name. ]lis
fame and his personality would stand out for ever
in the history of English politics. And now he
had retired, to enjoy well earned leisure, with all

those delights of the scholarly mind which can only
be tasted by him who is free of all public duties,
who can afford to shut his door on the outer world,
who has neither constituents nor patrons to whom
he dare not deny himself.

Although he had passed the prime of manhood
he was not yet even an elderly man. He was
nearer fifty than sixty ; his hair was still dark, albeit
streaked with gray, a sable silvered. His features
were large and boldly cut, yet with a refinement of
line that made the face eminently classic. The eyes
were gray ; not large, and deeply sunk under overshadowing
brows; but they were said to be the
most expressive eyes in England, terrible in wrath,
almost divine in love. The mouth was large, but
the lips were thin and flexible, high bred lips.
The clean shaved chin was massive. The hollow
cheek indicated thought, and hinted at the night
watches of the statesman and the student. Even
to Stella, to whom his history was almost a
blank, ]mr. Xestorius appeared an interesting
man.

So this is Stella, the young lady of whom I heard

from poor Lashmar years ago, when she was a little
child.'

'You knew Lord Lashmar, sir, my Lord
Lashmar/ exclaimed Stella breathlessly.

Yes ; he and I were great friends, though
my original friendship was with her ladyship's side
of the house. Poor Lashmar interested me ; he was
a remarkable young man.'

He was the best and noblest man that ever lived,'
said Stella.

Within your knowledge, yes. T can understand
and admire your grateful affection for him,' answered
Xestorius gently. ' It was at Harrogate I met him
for the last time. You remember, Sterner. He was
there with you one autumn.'

We only stayed a few days ; the place did not
suit him, and he was anxious to go back to the
castle,' said Werner.

Yes, I remember ; and one of his reasons for
that anxiety was the existence of an adopted
daughter, a child of seven, about whom he talked
to me.'

He was too good to me,' faltered Stella.

'He has bis reward, since you remember bim
with tears said Xestorius. * Yes, be told me ibis
scheme of education, and how receptive he had
already found your young mind, what great things he
hoped from its later development ; and all those hopes
were cut short by his untimely death. But I am glad
to see that Mr. Werner has carried on bis pupil's work.'

mr. Yerner has made my life happy,' said Stella.
I should have been quite miserable without
him.'

'Xot very flattering to her ladyship,' remarked
Mr. Xestorius, looking at her thoughtfully, that keen
eye of his noting the black stuff gown and linen
collar, the utter absence of girlish ornament ; noting,
too, the unnatural gravity of the small, pale face, with
those wondrous star-like eyes ; noting the exquisite
shape of the head, and that coronal of blue-black
hair.

I am grateful for Lady Lashmar's '

She was going to say kindness, but her self-respect
revolted at a word that would have been a lie, and
she ended her sentence with ' toleration.'

And you really read Greek ? ' asked the statesman.

'I read it and love it.*

No modern languages, I presume.'

French and German, and a little Italian.'

You are a very wonderful young person.'

I have had nothing to live for except books. I
should have been idle and worthless if I had not
learnt a good deal from such a kind and patient
master.'

She laid her small, slender hand caressingly upon
Werner's shabby coat-collar, and he looked up at her
with ineffable love in his dim old eyes.

She has been sight to the blind,' he said. * She
has been my consolation, and I have been hers,
under, perhaps, not altogether generous treatment.
And now her ladyship finds that the girl whom she
counted as a burden is the most useful of all her
dependents.'

Yes, I have heard that you are Lady Lashmar's
reader. Lady Carminow told me about you. And
now if you are goini;- back to the castle, we may as
well walk together, and you can tell me a little more
about yourself and your studies.'

The offer of such escort would have been an

honour to a young person of much loftier rank than
her ladyship's reader. Stella put on her hat without
a word, waited meekly while Xestorius and Werner
talked for another quarter of an hour ; and then the
old man followed his visitors to the gate of the little
garden, with its chrysanthemums and late-lingering
roses, and stood watching them as they walked
down the village street, the statesman tall and
erect, the girl slim and straight and tall beside
him.

Lady Carminow never rose before ten o'clock,
never appeared in public until luncheon. It was
one of the privileges she had allowed herself since
her widowhood. She left the raw early hours to
commoner people.

'The days are always long enough,' she said,
with her pretty languid air ; 'I get all my reading
over in the mornings, and then I am free to enjoy
society.*

Lashmar, listening politely to this explanation,
wondered what kind of reading it was which was
performed in the seclusion of Lady Carminow's own
apartment, inasmuch as her knowledge of books,

old and new, seemed of the slightest. But
when a woman is completely lovely all words
which drop from her lips are as pearls and rosebuds.


I am not such a loser as other people by your
absence from the breakfast table,' he said, ' for T am
always off early with the shooters ; but ]mr. Xestorius
has a right to complain. He finds the castle breakfasts
very dull, with only Mrs. Mulciber to pour
out his tea. The bishop's two musical daughters
breakfast earlier, and are off to the music-room for
their morning practice before anybody else
appears.'

Indeed, and I suppose Lady Sophia is with
the shooters ? '

When she has no hunting.'

'And Mrs. Vavasour comes down about the
same time as I do ; we generally meet on the
stairs

'Mrs. Vavasour has a good deal to do of a
morning,' said Lashmar ; * I don't think all her
morning hours are given to reading. A complexion
like hers must be a work of time. I take it that

each eyebrow must require a quarter of an hour, to
say Nothing of failures.'

Poor thing sighed Clarice, ' I always feel so
sorry for her.'

A waste of compassion. She is not at all sorry
herself.'

'But to be a spectacle like that, and to have
people making jokes about one.'

•' People must make jokes about something ; and
better that they should make fun of Mrs. Vavasour's
complexion than of her character. That, I am
told, is faultless.'

Except that she is intolerably selfish, I believe
she is really a very nice person,' agreed Lady
Carminow.

Mr. Xestorius made the walk to the Castle last
as long as he possibly could. He professed himself
enchanted with that pastoral landscape, with its
calm Middleshire beauty, seen in the rich colouring
and under the sombre skies of autumn. He was
interested in the river, and made Stella show him
the late Lord Lashmar's boat-house, and the little
creek that he had been so fond of, the rushy retreats

where lie and this adopted daughter had spent many
a summer day. It was half-past ten when they
arrived at the Castle, and Stella ran off to her room
to wash her hands and re-arrange her hair before
she went to her ladyship.

The statesman was keenly interested in tin's
poor dependent, and took occasion to talk about
her at afternoon tea in the library, where the
shooters where allowed to enjoy themselves in
their muddy boots, and were refreshed with strong
tea and cheered with pleasant talk before they
went off to dress for dinner. Afternoon tea was
much the pleasantness meal of the day at this
particular season, when it was just light enough
to dispense with lamps and just cold enough
to enjoy a wood fire. Lady Carminow, secure in the
consciousness of sound daylight beauty, lounged
gracefully in an oriental tea-gown ; while Lady
Sophia, who knew that a habit was the one costume
which really suited her, balanced herself on the toes
and heels of her neat little boots before the fire-place,
and honoured the company with one of those graphic
descriptions of a run which are so intensely interesting

to the narrator and such an intolerable bore to the
audience.

Mrs. Vavasour, who never sat on a chair
when she could find an excuse for graceful
sprawling, was reclining on the hearth-rug caressing
her poodle, while the bishop's daughters, who
disapproved of the lady but admired the poodle,
showed their experience of society by their polite
attentions to the dog and their cool avoidance of its
owner. Mrs. Mulciber, looking like the Goddess
of Plenty in a tailor gown, presided at a tea-table
richly furnished with every variety of muffin and
bun.

It was one of Lady Lashmar's bad days, and
she was not to appear until dinner time.

I have had a long talk with your poor
brother's protegee,' said !Mr. Xestorius, luxuriously
seated at Lady Carminow's elbow, and enjoying
his second cup of tea. 'She is the most extraordinary
girl I ever met.'

As how ? ' asked Lashmar coldly,

She is not twenty, and she has read more
than most women of fifty. She knows half a

dozen languages, and has an intense appreciation
of classic literature : and yet she has all a girl's
humility, and a perfect unconsciousness that she
is gifted above the rest of her sex.'

But do you call it gifted to be able to take
in half a dozen grammars and dictionaries ? '
asked Lady Carminow contemptuously. * The
wretched girl has been crammed by old Mr.
Werner, an eccentric of the purest water '

*A remarkably tine scholar,' interrupted Nestorius.


And, T daresay, like one of those certificated
schoolmistress one reads of in the papers, the
poor thing will go off her head some fine morning
from too much learning.'

'I beg your pardon, Lady Carminow, this girl
has not been crammed. She has learnt all lie
knoAvs for the love of learning, looks have been
her only companions in this house, Mr. N'crner
her only friend out of it. !She has absorbed the
fruits of his long years of study, she has profited
by poor Lashniar's training, and by Werner's
multifarious reading.'

In a word, she is a blue-stocking of the
first water. You don't mean to say, Mr. Xestorius,
that you, who are so manly a man, can admire
the unwomanly in woman.'

'There is nothing unwomanly in Miss — Miss
by-the-by I did not hear her surname this
morning. She was only introduced to me as
SteUa.'

'Her father's name was Boldwood,' answered
Lashmar, 'but she has been called here by no
other name than Stella. Her father was a
blatant Radical, who preached socialistic and
atheistic opinions to the operatives of Brumm.
No influence so baneful for the uneducated classes
as that of au educated man who has gone
wrong. '

Boldwood, a Freethinker and a Eadical ! '
exclaimed Xestorius. * Upon my word, I believe
the man must have been a fellow I knew at Oxford,
a Balliol man, one Jonathan Boldwood.'

'Jonathan was his name. I'uor old Lash had
an idea that he had seen him in the Oxford
eight.'

Nothing more likely. Bold wood was a great
athlete, and a very clever fellow into the bargain.
It was thought that he would take high honours at
Balliol. But there was a screw loose somewhere.
He turned Radical, and wasted his time at the
Union, where he was famous as a grand speaker.
He read Kant and Hegel when he ought to have
been reading for his degree ; and the end was failure.
He published a pamphlet, which sneered at the
University as an institution and libelled the dons.
The rest is silence. He was not absolutely sent
down, but he was one of the most unpopular menin
the College, and one line morning he disappeared
altogether, leaving his books and baggage and a
sheaf of tradesmen's bills on his table. He was
heard of three years afterwards travelling in Spain,
a student of Romany and the companion of gipsies,
following in the footsteps of Borrow, without the
Bible. I never heard of him afterwards.'

His last incarnation was as a working engineer
in Brumm,' said Lashmar. *It was always supposed
there that he had married a gipsy; but I
had imagined the common type of English racecourse

liomaiiy, not the more romantic Gitaua.
That idea of a Spanish alliance would account for
Stella's dark eyes and blue-black hair.'

'She is a most interesting girl,' murmured
Xestorius, with a dreamy air.

Lady Carminow felt offended. She had no
ulterior views about Mr. Xestorius, but she would
have liked him to languish under the spell of her
fatal beauty ; at least, so long as they two were
staying under one roof. Wherever she was it
behoved her to be first. She had a particular dislike
to learned women, and hated to hear a woman
admired on account of mental graces ; perhaps from
an underlying consciousness that her own mind was
the poorest thing about her.

I must know more of this very interesting
girl ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Mulciber, in her round comfortable
voice. ' Why cannot we have her to tea
of an afternoon ? '

Mrs. ]\Iulciber wished to stand well with ^Mr.

Xestorius ; firstly, because he was a great man in

the abstract, and it would be pleasant to be alle

to describe him as her particular friend ; and
VOL. II. c

secondly, because she did not believe that his retirement
from public life would be eternal. The day
might come when the student would again be
prime minister, and then it would be well to
have gratified the great man's little whims, and
to be remembered as a pleasant, serviceable
person.

Why not indeed ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Vavasour.
It would be capital fun. She would be copy

for Vav. He could put her into one of his
books.'

Vav — pet name of his wife's — looked daggers.
He hated to have his books talked about ;
most of all to have them talked about by Mrs.
Vavasour, who never read them, and who had
the credit of writing them. That suggestion
that everything in life was to be ' copy ' for him ;
that he had no ideas of his own, but must go
about the world character-stalking, was positively
maddening.

'I never put actual people in my books,' he
said.

Quite true,' muttered Nestorius, aside to Lady

Carminow, ' his characters are anything but actual
people.*

It would not be at all right to have the
girl here as a kind of laughing-stock,' said
Clarice, with a magnanimous air, as if she were
defending the absent.

Xot by any means as a laughing-stock, only
as something fresh and bright and original,'
argued ]airs. Mulciber.

But she is only a kind of servant,' urged
Clarice. ' It would be cruel to unsettle her
mind,'

I think her mind is too well furnished to
be unsettled by a cup of afternoon tea,' said
Xestorius ; ' a kind of servant who knows half
a dozen languages is not likely to remain long
a servant. Rely upon it that girl will strike out
some career for herself before she is much older.
She has been in bondage hitherto, but she has made
good use of her bondage.'

Mrs. Mulciber pounced upon Stella in the
corridor on the following afternoon, introduced
herself with affectionate familiarity, and wanted

to take the girl to the library. ' We all want
you to come to tea,' she said. ' Mr. Xestorius
lias been telling us how clever and how nice you
are.'

To her surprise Stella flatly refused.

'I used almost to live in that room when 1
was a child,' she said. ' It is there I most
vividly remember Lord Lashmar — my Lord
Lashmar. His ghost haunts the room. I could
not bear to hear talk and laughter, and to .see
strange faces there.'

'You are a very foolish girl,' said .l\Jr.s.
]\Iulciber, with her kindly common • sense
tone. ' Your life must be hideously dull, a
positive slavery, the hard work without the
privileges of an upper servant ; and here is an
opportunity for improving your position, and
getting your superiority recognised by the very
b(3st people.'

1 don't cai'c for the best people,' the girl
answered bluntly. ' They are nothing to mer
would rather be with ]mr. Mourner than with
the finest of L lady Lasliiuar's friends.'

You forget that Mr. Nestorius is among
those very people. To know such a man is a
liberal education'.

Mr. Xestorius is very clever, and very
kind — but I would rather see him at Mr.
Vomer's cottage than among the fine people
downstairs.'

You are incorrigible,' exclaimed Mrs.
Mulciber. ' Your only chance of ever getting on
in the world is knowing smart people.'

Then I shall never get on, for I hate
smart people.'

As she spoke there was a vision in her
mind of a long-vanished day. She recalled that
afternoon in the library — the girlish graceful
figure clad in tawny silk and scarlet sash ; the
bright beaming face turned to her, the pitying
hand from which she had shrunk as from
something unclean; and her own image in a
black frock, simply made, common. She had
keenly felt the sting of her own unbeaateousness
as contrasted with that radiant vision. She would
have felt it even if Lord Lashmar had not

denounced her as ugly and ill-mannered. She
had been both — she was both even yet perhaps,
although she had been able to get on so well with
Mr. Xestorius. These mighty souls are indulgent
to ugliness and bad manners. Did not Plato and
all the best men in Athens put up with Socrates ?

So did she argue with herself, and nothing
would induce her to accept Mrs. Mulciber's
invitation.

She is what our neighbours call farouche'
said that worthy woman, when she announced
her failure. * She is very much at home with
Homer and Virgil, but she is afraid of us.'

Nothing more was said about Stella. Captain
Vavasour had kindly consented to read a short
story which he had just written for Harper, a story
of the upper currents, and to listen and to criticise
absorbed everybody's attention. Tea, muffing, shortbread,
sentiment, Buddhism, pleasantly occupied
the afternoon hour.

In the evening, the A'avasours started games :
dumb crambo, charades, clumps, the usual kind of
^hinfir. Mr. Xestorius excelled at dumb crambo.

Lashmar detested this kind of fooling, so he went
off to the library and plunged into the thrilling
pages of Hansard. He was interested in a factory bill
that was to come on next session, the everlasting
question of right and wrong between employers
and employed, and he wanted to make himself
master of the subject. It behoved him, as one
having much property in Brumm, to be a friend
of the operative, albeit setting his face steadily
against all innovations that smacked of
socialism.

He had begun to read after ten o'clock, and h?
read on till after twelve, by which time the house -
party had finished their games and retired for the
night, mr, Xestorius yawning tremendously directly
he escaped from that appreciative circle of which
he had been the life. Deep in the report of a case
of trade union tyranny, which had gone almost as
far as murder and quite as far as arson, Lash in ar
was unconscious of the opening of a door near

lira, and only looked up from his book when he
felt a sudden brightening of the light in front
of him.

It was his mother's slave, standing there in
her black gown, with a candle in her hand.

I came to look for a book for her ladyship.
I did not know you were here, my lord,' she faltered,
startled at finding any one in a room she had
expected to find empty.

Can I help you i What book is it ? '

Sir Thomas Mallory. The Mort d' Arthur.'

Why, that is the ver book ,' l)egan Lashmar,

and then stopped abruptly, with a smile, looking at
the pale grave face in front of him, which gave no
answering smile. It was the very book she had
been reading seven years ago, perched on the ladder
yonder at the other end of the room. Involuntarily
he glanced towards the spot, shrouded in deepest
shadow.

There is another copy,' she said ; ' I know whereto
find it.'

She went to a shelf a little way off, and selected
a small octavo.

I have been reading the '' Idols of the King "
to her ladyship, and she wishes to hear the story
of Launcelot and Elaine in the old romance,' she
explained.

It used to be a favourite story of yours when
you were a child, I think,' said Lashmar.

He had been looking at her deliberately while
she found her book and moved quietly towards the
door, looking at her with the thought of what mr.
Xestorius had said about her in his mind.

One thing was certain. The ugly child — if ugly
she had ever been — had crown into a very
interesting woman. He did not know whether to
call her beautiful. The small features were delicately
moulded, but they had not the statuesque
beauty of Lady Carminow's outline. The little nose
inclined to the retrousse, the lips were too thin for
loveliness — sups of Minerva rather than of Venus —
lips of Sibyl or mystic rather than of lovable
woman. The complexion was a pale olive, that
tint which sucrojests bronze rather than marble.
The hair was blue-black, lustrous, heavy'. The eyes
were the most glorious orbs that Lashmar ever

remembered to have tucked upon ; eyes full of
thought and full of pride ; eyes of a queen, and of
a queen who would rule her kingdom.

He looked at her gown, the black merino
gown, with its plain straight skirt and demi-train;
just such a gown as every housemaid at
Lashmar wore of an afternoon. His mother had
not been over-indulgent to her dead step-son's
proUgee.

He opened the door for her.

Do you know that it is past twelve o'clock ? '
he said. * I suppose your duties are over for
to-night ? '

'No 1 I shall be reading for some hours,
perhaps. Her ladyship is such a bad sleeper

Father hard upon you ! '

'Xot at all. I am fond of reading, and I am
always interested in the books her ladyship
chooses.'

She was leaving him with only a slight bend of
the graceful head.

Good-night ! ' he said.

Good-night, my lord.'

She was gone, aud he stood riveted where she
had left him.

*So that is the tawny-visaged brat, with the
goblin eyes, that my poor brother brought into the
Castle in his arms that midsummer night nearly
fifteen years ago,' he said to himself. ' Poor old
Lash ! how proud he would have been of his
bantling if he had lived to see her as she is tonight.
A girl who warms an ex-prime minister
to enthusiasm ; a girl who, for distinguished looks
hind deride of mien, could hold her own in any
coterie in London, Paris, or Vienna. And she
has grown up to tlm under my mother's stringent
rule.'

And then going back to Hansard, and finding it
impossible to revive his interest in trade-unionism
and Mary Anne, he said to himself :

She looks as if she had a temper— just the
same kind of temper that made her flout Clarice,
seven years ago, in this very room. She looks as
if she had nerves. Why doesn't my mother let her
go out into the world ? It is like chaining an eagle
to kee[) her here.'

He heard voices — a grave baritone — a subdued
contralto — on the terrace, under his window, at
eight o'clock next morning, and looking out saw
Mr. Xestorius and Stella walking up and down, in
apparently earnest conversation.

She is as much at her ease with him as if she
had been reared among Cabinet Ministers,' he said
to himself. ' I hope he won't turn her head.'

Xestorius was talking to Stella of her father,
a theme that thrilled her. Xo one until this hour
had ever spoken that name since Hubert Lashmar's
death, and Lord Lashmar had always been reticent
upon this one subject, shrinking from all questioning.


'And you really knew him,' she exclaimed
with delight. 'You were at the University with
him ? '

Yes, I knew him well, and admired his gifts,
which were great. He was an original genius,
and in a world where all things are growing old and
stale that ought to count for much. Is it many
years since — since you lost him i '

mr. Xestorius had a dim recollection of some

tragical story connected with Laslimai's adoption of
an orphan child, aud he touched the subject
apprehensively.

*He is not dead," the girl answered eagerly,
paling at the question. ' At least, I have never
heard of this death ; and I always think of him and
pray for him, and dream of him as living. I see
his face in ray dreams often, though I was such a
child when he went away.'

He went away ! ' repeated Mr. Xestorius
wonderingly.

Yes, very, very far away. I think he must
have gone to Australia ; but Lord Lashmar would
never tell me much. Perhaps he thought I should
think my father cruel for leaving me ; but I knew
him too well to think that. He must have been in
trouble of some kind — great trouble — or he would
not have gone without me. And then came the
fire, and Lord Lashmar saved my life, and adopted
me as his own little girl.'

• Lid your lather leave long before the fire ? '

I can't remember. All that part of my life
seems like a dream. I woke one morning and saw

green trees and gardens and a river. It was like
waking up in fairyland. That was the beginning
of my life at Lashmar. I know my father was very
unhappy. The world had used him hardly, he said,
and I think my mother's death must have broken
his heart. He told me once that she died of a
broken heart. "You are to remember that when
you are a woman," he said. " Eemember that your
mother's heart was broken. Remember this too :
Fathers have flinty hearts." I used to say the
swords over and over again to myself before I
knew what they meant.'

There was some history behind that ! ' mused
Xestorius, deeply interested. ' And so you think
your father went to Australia ? '

Only because Lord Lashmar said he had gone
very, very far away. He would hardly have said
that of America, which seems so near nowadays.*

No ! he would hardly have said as much of
America. But surely if your father were living
he would have communicated with you — he would
have sent some one in search of you — would have
made some inquiries about you, in all these years.'

Oh ! please don't try to make me believe that
he is dead,' the girl pleaded, with an agonised look.
In all these years my only comfort has been to
think of him as living ; winning his way to fortune
in a new country ; waiting until he had made his
fortune to come home to me. That has been my
only day-dream. It is the only hope I have in
this life. Don't spoil it for me.'

Her hands were clasped, her eyes streaming
with tears. Xever since Hubert's death had she
spoken of her father. She forgot that Mr. Nestorius
was a great man and almost a stranger to her. Sho
bared her girlish heart to him.

Xot for worlds would I dispel a sweet delusion,
dear child, even if it is but a delusion ! ' he
answered gently. ' But you must not talk of life
being empty of hope for you. At your age the
future is full of glorious possibilities. Ah, if I were
only as young as you and as gifted ! Come now, be
frank with me. You must have ambition. You
do not mean always to be her ladyship's reader ;
to fossilize in that position.'

'Xo, no, indeed exclaimed Stella, and then

freely as she would have talked to llaluiel \'enier,
she told Mr. Nestorius her dream of the future ;
a cottage beside the Avon, with faithful JJetsy for
her housekeeper, friend, companion; an abundance
of books, and her pen as the source of her income.
All she wanted was a complacent publisher who
would buy her books.

You have an idea that sou could write
if you tried,* said Xestorius, knowing that the
dreams of youth are for the most part only
dreams.

I have been writing ever since T was thirteen
years old,' she answered gravel'.

You began with the first year of your teens.
That was early. AVhat have you written?'

Verses first, stories in rhyme, like Scott's —
I don't mean like his, for mine are not to be
named beside 'marion" or the "Minstrel'' —
only on that plan. I blush to remember all
the nonsense I have written.'

Did you ever slow your verses to Mr. Vernier i '
'Never He is all that is good and dear, and

a great scholar, but lie is very matter-of-fact.

He would have read my manuscript patiently from
the first line to the last, and would have said :
** My dear, this is not so good as Homer," or
something to that effect. I shall never show my
poor verses to any one, but they consoled me
while I was writing them. But I have written
two or three stories, which I do not think can
be much worse than the worst of the novels
Muche sends her ladyship.'

'Let me see one of your stories, immediately,'
said Xestorius eagerly. * What a wonderful girl
you are ; and you have written for years, alone
in your room, day after day.'

Night after night,' said Stella ; ' I had no time
to write in the day. The night has been always
my owen.'

And you began to write, and you have gone
on writing without encouragement, or help, or
counsel of any kind ? You are a wonderful girl
Go and get me one of your books immediately.'

'Will you really be so good as to look at a

few pages and to tell me frankly if it is quite

intolerable rubbish ? '

VOL. IL D

I will tell you the truth in all honour ; aud
if your story is as good as I think it must be, it
shall be published, even if 1 have to turn published
and produce it myself. And that will be the first
step towards independence and your cottage by the
Avon,' added Xestorius, smiling down at her.

Her cheeks glowed and her eyes brightened at
the idea. Except from old Gabriel Werner, she
had received no such kindness since her benefactor's
untimely death. She looked up at the statesman
with eyes that overflowed with grateful tears,
tears of joy fulness this time.

How good you are,' she faltered ; * if you areas
good to other people as you have been to meno
wonder '

She stopped, blushing at her own boldness,
suddenly remembering the gulf between them.

No wonder what ? '

Xo wonder that you are the most popular
man in England, in or out of office. At least,'
falteringly, 'that is what Lady Lashmar said of
you the other day.'

Lady Lashmar is very kind. But I am not so

interested iu other people as I am in you, Stella.
I may call, you Stella, may I not ? You were introduced
to me by that name.'

I have no other name here. My father's name is
forbidden, as if it Averse an evil thing, because he
was a Eadical.'

Stella is enough. It expresses you admirably.
And now go and get me your story. The one you
like best. I will read it before luncheon, and if
you can meet me in the afternoon at dear old
Werner's, I will tell you honestly what I think of
it. Perhaps I shall have to say that you have
produced no situation quite so good as Priam's
supplication to Achilles for the body of Hector.'

Stella smiled, and went meekly to obey her patron.
She returned in five minutes, breathless, bringing a
manuscript, which was thick enough to be formidable.
But it was written very clearly in a neat
and somewhat masculine hand, a penmanship
modelled upon that of the late Lord Lashmar, who
had been as a god to Stella. She had cherished
every scrap of his writing she had trained herself
to write like him.

Mr. Nestorius was not appalled by the bulk
of the manuscript. He was an enthusiast in all
things great and small, and took up every cause
with a like earnestness.

Your story is longer than I expected,' he said ;
I shall not have finished it by this afternoon ; but
I shall be able to tell you something about it.'

He went off to his dressing-room after breakfast,
pretending to have letters to write, drew an
arm-chair to the fire, and read Stellar manuscript.

He had not read twenty pages before he started
up from his chair and began to walk u]) and down
the room rapidly, as he always did when deeply
moved. He felt like a discoverer, almost as
Columbus must have felt when he found America.

The girl is a genius,' he told himself delightedly.
* There is a power in this, there is a
freshness that means genius. She inherits Bold-wood's
originality. His audacity too. This is a
story that people will read.'

It was a story by a writer suckled at the purest
founts — a writer whose fancy had never been wasted
on the visions of minor peers. The girl who had

read Homer and Virgil, and Dante and Goethe,
and Milton and Shakespeare from her childhood,
had started with advantages rarely possessed by
the writing young woman. Her style had never
been vitiated by evil examples, her mental eye had
never been dazzled by tinsel. Her English was
true and clear and vigorous. Every sentence went
home to the mark, like a well-aimed arrow to the
goal. Her thoughts, when not purely original,
were culled unconsciously from the noblest sources.
Her plot, her characters were all her own ; but
shfi had learnt character-painting from Homer and
Shakespeare, plot weaving from those Greek
dramatists who have given us all the elements of
dramatic fiction ; and youth, with its poetry and
enthusiasm, its ardent love and uncompromising
hate, glowed in every page. The story could only
have been written by a young woman ; and only one
young woman in a thousand could have written
such a story.

*The girl has a fortune in her pen,' said Mr.
Nestorius, ' in an age when strong fiction is one
of the necessities of life — like strong drink. Poor

child * she cau afford to shake the dust of Lashmar
Castle from her feet as soon as she likes.'

Yet when he met Stella at Mr. Yerner's cottage
two or three hours later, the great man was laudably
moderate.

Your book will do, Stella,' he said. 'I shall send
it to my own publisher directly I have finished
reading it. There is tragedy coming, I see : the
inexorable fates are dogging your heroine's steps.
Ashy could you not give us a happy ending, like
that of " Alcestis " ? '

I wrote the story as it came to me,' she said :
I felt that when loathe was so happy some evil
must be coming : think how happy my life seemed
when those horses ran away.'

Ah : poor child, your life has been too full of
tragedy. The comedy is all to come — fame,
and fortune, and true love ' — with a faint sigh.
That vivid pen of yours may win you all good
things.'

It has consoled me when I should have been
miserable if I had been obliged to think about
myself,' answered Stella. ' And do you really, really

think the story is worth printing, sir ? ' she asked,
with child-like diffidence.

I am sure of it. Your heroine is not one
of those invertebrate puppets that languish and
swoon through a fashionable novel. She is a
creature of flesh and blood, as much alive as you
arc yourself. She is sm-e to find friends — and
enemies, which is still better ; for foes talk louder
than friends, and talk means fame.'

V

'BUT ALL HER TIES THE STRONG INVADER BROKE'

Lord Lashmar, having a keen and curious mind,
had watched that interview between the statesman
and her ladyship's reader, and had marvelled
much what they had been talking about. There
lead been dramatic action, too, that had puzzled
him. Stella's clasped hands, and face uplifted
appealingly to Nestorius. What could it all mean ?

He thought about it during the morning's
battue, and shot other people's birds with a recklessness
that drew down reproof from his guests.

It isn't English hospitality to take a man's
bird from under his nose,' said Captain Vavasour,
whereupon Lashmar owned that he had been woolgathering.


You'd better wake up, old man,' suggested the
]barrister, * or you may be firing at one of us next.

I've been told that I am rather like an old cock
pheasant. Everybody is like something zoological,
don't you know. Vavasour is like a sheep, and you
have a look of an eagle, or a falcon — fierce, restless,
unsatisfied.'

Mr. Nestorius came in late to afternoon tea, to
find the shooters established round the fire, Lady
Sophia among them, in a corduroy shooting-gown
with picturesque buttons, while the other women languished
in tea-gowns and took credit to themselves
that they were not as that publican. Ever'
woman is proud of her own particular line, whatever
it is. The feminine woman is proud of her pretty
limpness and little affectations ; the masculine woman
is proud of her manliness ; the ignoramus rejoices
that she is not a blue-stocking ; while the bookish
damsel scorns her unlettered sister. Hence universal
self-satisfaction. Women envy one another their
gowns and their jewels, their carriages, drawing-rooms,
and lovers ; but every woman thinks her own personality
the best. Blouzabella would hardly change
faces with Mrs. Angry.

Pray where have you been hiding yourself

all (lay, ]mr. Nestorius ? ' asked Clarice, with an
offended air ; * except for a brief appearance at
luncheon, we have seen nothing of you.'

'Life is not all pleasure, Lady Carminow,' he
answered, with an air of meaning much more than
he said, that little affectation of suppressed feeling
which is the most acceptable flattery to a sensible
woman. 'I had letters to write, and papers
to read all the morning, and I spent the afternoon
with my old friend Werner.'

Why is not ]\lr. Yerner asked to the Castle ? '
exclaimed Lady Carminow, turning suddenly to
Lord Lashmar. ' He is evidently the most attractive
person in the neighbourhood. This is not the first
occasion on which he has deprived us of the society
of Mr. Nestorius.'

'An old book-worm does not generally exercise
that kind of magnetism unaided,' answered Lashmar,
with a faint sneer ; ' but I think to-day there was
a feminine element. Mr. Xestorius has taken it into
his head to be interested in my brother's j^fotcgee,
and I believe she spends all her leisure with old
Werner.'

She was with him this afternoon said
Xestorius. 'Yes, I am deeply interested in her.
I have not been so much interested in any woman
since '

'Xot since your dissolution interrupted Lady
Carminow innocently.

There was an awkward pause, for at the time
of that unexpected and fatal dissolution, it had
been said that Mr. Xestorius was influenced by a
feminine counsellor ; and that if, as his admirers
alleged, Nestorius was a prophet, there was also
a prophetess — a sibyl behind the curtain, giving
forth mystic breathing, words of wisdom, but always
just a little too far in advance of the time.

The statesman seemed sublimely unconscious of
that sudden silence.

Yes ; the girl is altogether remarkable— a
creature of exceptional bringing up and of exceptional
talent. Your brother's influence upon so
young a child is a remarkable fact in psychology.
I must have a long talk with you about this girl
and her destiny, Lashmar.'

•I am quite ready to discuss that thrilling

questions. But I believe she is fairly provided for
in this house, and as she is useful to my mother, I
do not see any necessity for disturbing the status
quo*

This came oddly from a man who only last
night had compared Stella's condition to that of
a chained eaglet.

'That is rather a selfish view of the question,'
said Nestorius. ' I should be sorry to deprive Lady
Lashmar of an admirable reader ; but there are
plenty of mediocre young women in the world who
can read aloud ; and I think Miss Boldwood is a
genius, and ought not to waste the best years of
her life in dependence and drudgery.'

Has she been complaining to you ? ' asked Lash-mar
sharply.

'Not by one word, not by so much as a suggestion
; but she has done me the honour to confide
in me, as a friend of the man who has educated
her. She tells me that her father is not dead —
or that she has never had tidings of his death.'

Her father is as dead as Queen Anne. He lost
his life in trying to save hers, poor beggar. She

was uot five years old at the time, and her
passionate grief for the father made such an
impression upon my brother that he had not the
heart to tell her the truth. He paltered with her,
told her that her father had gone away to a distant
country ; they would meet again — yes, in years to
come she would see him again. He meant in
the land of shadows; she accepted the promise as
gospel truth, and Lash never had the courage to
undeceive her— there was so much of the woman
about him, poor fellow ! He warned all the servants
against letting out the true story of the fire,
threatened me with his lasting displeasure if I ever
blurted out the truth, implored my mother to
be silent : and as neither her ladyship nor I could
endure the sight of his protegee, there was not much
fear that either of us would be talking to her about
her father. I don't think I saw the child half a dozen
times during poor Lashmar's life. For one reason
I was seldom here, and for another his ways were not
my ways. Those three innocents — my brother, old
Werner, and the child — used to lead a kind of Arcadian
existence, like shepherds in a Virgilian eclogue.'

*To undeceive her now would be cruel,' said
Nestorius gravely. * Her idea of her father's existence
is a consoling hallucination. As she grows older and
knows more of the world doubt will arise, and then
sad certainty that they two can never meet more
on earth. I'oor Bold wood, I can see him now,
rushing along Howell in his rag of a gown. A
tall, Herculean figure, a face like a Titan's, ugliness
and power curiously combined. He had fine eyes,
I remember, but not her eyes. They are southern.'

The legacy of the Gitana, no doubt. By-the-by
I found something among my brother's hoards
that may interest you — Boldwood's relics — only
a miniature and some charred papers utterly unreadable.'


Who knows whether we might not get them
read : experts contrive to decipher even a charred
manuscript nowadays. I should like to examine
Boldwood's relics.'

You can do so whenever you like. Such a
philanthropic curiosity ought to be satisfied,' answered
Lashmar smilingly.

He made believe to laugh at the statesman's

kindly enthusiasm ; but he was not the less angry.
Had not he and his mother set their faces from the
very outset against this waif of Brumm gutters,
this spawn of radicalism ; and, lo, she was perked
up before them as the offspring of a Balliol undergraduate,
a man of good family and gentle breeding ;
a fallen angel, but certainly angelic ; one of that
starry host which Burke registers and society agrees
to consider worthy. Such an one may fall very low,
may labour among journeymen, may cast in his lot
with rebels and socialists, but there is always something
of the original blue blood, a narrow streak of
the divine ichor which distinguishes the gently born.
One can forgive so much in a man whose ancestors
were worthy.

Lashmar was deeply wroth with the statesman.
It seemed to him as if Mr. Nestorius had only come
to the Castle to reverse the existing order of things,
to bring the sediment to the surface.

He is the same everywhere and in everything
he said to himself. * He sweeps away all the old landmarks.
He cannot spend a week in a country house
without hatching a revolution

Xot a word did Nestorius say of Stella's authorship.
He had promised her that her literary
attempts should remain a secret between those
two alone— the publisher was to know nothing
of his author's personality. The reading world
was to get neither real name nor nom de plume.
The book was to be issued anonymously. It
would tell its own story.

Mr. Nestorius deserted the drawing-room that
evening, withdrew quietly while Lady Carminow
was playing Schumann, and lulling every one to a
delicious repose, after an admirable dinner, a
dreamy languor broken by low murmurs of conversation.
It was not that the statesman was
indifferent to Schumann, exquisitely played. Music
was one of the facets of his many-sided mind. But
to-night he had another and keener interest. He
went straight to the library, where he found
Lashmar, still toiling at Hansard.

Are you reading up the factory question ? ' he
asked lightly ; * that's a pity. Your full man never
tells in debate. Just get an inkling of your
subject, my dear fellow, and flash out a few stray

facts, at random, like the rays of a ljuirs-e3'e-
lantern. You know what you want, and what
your factory people ought to want. Don't ruin
your case with statistics and hard facts. Touch
and go, man, touch and go.'

I will be as touch and go as I can ; but I
should like to know the extent of the evil I want
to legislate against.*

'My dear Lashmar, you can never legislate
against the liberty of the operative — his divine
right to sell his labour in the best market.'

And to plot murder, and to conspire with his
fellow-workers to bring about the ruin of his
employer.'

'That's all nonsense. I mean the conspiracy.

Murder is an occasional accident. There is no

such thing as conspiracy Thews and sinews are

worth what they will fetch ; and if men can make

more of their labour by co-operation, they are right

to co-operate. The fact remains that the employer

generally gets rich and the workman invariably

remains poor.'

Employers are occasionally ruined.
VOL. II. E

By their own vices or extravagances, not by
trade losses. They spend a hundred thousand
pounds upon pictures and another hundred thousand
in feasting their superior?, and then they go bankrupt.
■ But is the operative to work for less than
his labour is worth in the best market in order
that his employer may build himself a palace and
entertain the landed gentry ? No, Lashmar, union
is strength, and trade-unionism is the only defence
of the penniless against the millionaire. But I
didn't come here to argue, I want you to show
me those papers.'

What papers ? ' asked Lashmar, pretending not
to understand.

Boldwood's relics.'

How keen you are. Upon my word you have
all the eagerness of a boy.' Lashmar rose and went
to a Chippendale cabinet, one of the gems of the
library. It was the place in which his brother
had kept all his private letters, and Lashmar had
explored it six montis after he came into his
inheritance, curiously, sadly. That blighted and
barren life had left fewest memorials. No woman

Lad ever loved the hunchback lord, despite that
sweetly pensive face of his, and a refinement that
was almost womanly. It might have been that
he had in him the power to win love and to keep
it, but he had never tested that power ; he had
kept himself aloof from all feminine companionship
until he took Logwood's orphan child for his
plaything.

The tin case was opened* and the packet of
papers laid on the table.

These can be deciphered, I believe,' said
Nestorius: 'they are only scorched and blackened
by smoke, not charred. I am going up to London
on business tomorrow ; will you allow me to take
these with me and place them in the hands of an
expert for transcription ? '

'If you really think it worth while. They maybe
papers of no importance — letters from duns,
perhaps.'

Boldwood would hardly have kept them in
that tin case unless they were of some consequence.
They may throw a light upon his life abroad —
upon his marriage.'

LIBRARY

UNlVERSmr OF ILUNOe

And on Stella's birth. I understand ! It is
your interest in her which makes you eager to
find out all you can about her father.'

Naturally. My interest is in the living, not
in the dead

He opened the case and looked at the miniature.

'Stella's eyes!' he said, 'and the outline of
Stella's cheek and chin. This must have been
her grandfather.'

You jump at conclusions quickly ! '

'The fact seems obvious. Bold wood married
in Spain. This is the face of a Spaniard. A
Spanish snip made this coat. Oh, I know 'the
country of Don Quixote, from Gibraltar to Biscay.'

That is hardly the portrait of a gipsy.*

Of course not, nor has your brother's protege
any of the characteristics of gipsydom. There is
nothing of the nomad about her. Pride, not craft
looks out of those splendid eyes. She comes of
an old race, rooted in the land. Never came such
an off-shoot as that from a wandering tribe of
low-caste Indians. But these smoke-blackened
letters may tell us something.'

If they can be deciphered.'

If they can be deciphered ? Why, it was bat
the other day when the calcined registers of the
Parisian Record Office were transcribed by Parisian
experts. There can be no difficulty about deciphering
these.'

'all her spirits IX A FLAME*

Lady Lashmar was the last to hear of the
interest which her dependent had awakened in
the mind of her most distinguished visitor, but
she did ultimately hear it from Lady Carminow,
who informed her in one breath that Mr. Nestorius
had been making an absurd fuss about Stella, and
iu the next that it was no wonder he had all
but shipwrecked the country.

He is always in extremes said Lady Lashmar,
with a vexed air. 'It is like asking a firebrand
into one's house. He is all poetry and nonsense.
That pale face and mouse-like demeanour of Stella
have caught his fancy. Of course, she is sly —
those quiet girls always are sly. And she has lost
no time in mnkint;- up to the greatest inn who
has ever come her way.'

Would you think she would have so much
knowledge of the world, brought up in seclusion
as she has been ? '

Cunning takes the place of knowledge. Old
Werner has told her that Nestorius is a power,
and she immediately makes up to Xestorius. She
has a delightful voice, and I like her to read tome,
but I really think I must get rid of her.
I'm afraid she is an agitating person, and with
my wretched health, I cannot afford to be
agitated.'

Lord Lashmar is positively angry at the
ridiculous fuss Mr. Xestorius is making about the
girl,' pursued Lady Carminow vindictively, * I could
see it in his manner at tea yesterday. It is so
like a radical to come into a house and go into
raptures about a servant. I wonder if he will
discover any more geniuses among the housemaids.
I'm sure the girl w!io attends to my bath has a
very intelligent countenance.'

While Lady Carminow was fuming at the insolence
which could see any charms except her
own, the mild Mrs. Mulciber was trying to make

friends with Jonathan Bold wood's daughter, and
was beginning to establish familiar relations with
her.

]airs. Mulciber was one of those quietly-observant
people, who talk very little, and who
never acquire the reputation of being clever.
Society agreed that Mrs. Mulciber was a very
sensible person ; but praise never went beyond
that. She was a nice person to have in the
house at all times, and in sickness she was an angel ;
but nobody credited her with talent. And yet
Mrs. Mulciber had certain arts which were all her
own, and which she had carried to perfection.
She always knew everything that was going on
around and about her : knew people's thoughts,
hopes, wishes, loves and dislikes, almost better
than they did themselves; knew exactly which
way they were drifting even before they had
begun to drift. ]\Iany a matrimonial estrangement
might have stopped short of the divorce
court, many an imprudent marriage might have
been prevented, if people would have listened to
Mrs. Mulciber. But these are cases in which

people rarely will listen ; and thus it is that
things have been going wrong generally ever
since the murder of Agamemnon.

For the tender passion in all its phases,
from the silvery crescent of an awakening penchant
to the broad golden disk of full-grown
love, Mrs. Mulciber had the eye of a hawk. She
saw at a glance that Mr. Xestorius's interest in
the pale orphan with the beautiful eyes was
something warmer and more enthralling than
mere philanthropy. He was a childless widower,
not five-and-fifty, rich, his own master. He had
withdrawn himself from party-strife, and had
leisure to find life empty without love. He was
an enthusiast, a man who had ever seen his
own particular objects and schemes fused in a
rosy light; he was a man with whom to admire
meant to adore; and he had that romantic and
chivalrous temperament which would make an
imprudent marriage more attractive than a prudent
one.

When just such a man, at just such an age,
allows himself to become interested in a girl of

twenty, the result is almost a certainty. Mrs.
Mulciber told herself that it would rest with
Stella Boldwood whether she should become Mrs.
Nestorius ; and who could doubt that Lady
Lashmar's dependent would welcome such a
glorious escape from slavery, to say nothing of
the fact that jNIr. Nestorius was a man whom
women were in the habit of adoring?

Moved by these considerations, ]airs. IMulciber
made it her business to take Stella under her
wing. There was not the least use in Stella being
proud and reticent, bent upon keeping her own
place and having no dealings with Lady Lash-mar's
guests, save that most distinguished of them
whom chance had made her friend. Mrs. ]\[ul-
tiber's friendliness was irresistible. She lay in
wait for Stella at odd times and seasons — in the
garden before breakfast, being ever an early
riser ; in the corridor before tea ; in Stella's own
little den of an evening, announcing herself with
a modest tap at the door.

'Those silly people in the drawing-room aro
playing games. I have stolen away to get a little

chat with you she would say with her friendly
familiar air, and so on, until she had established
an almost sentimental friendship, winding
her arm round the girl's slender waist in a
motherly fashion.

What a willowy figure you have, child,' she said
one day ; * I am sure you must be an elegant dancer.'

'I have never danced in my life.'

Xever ! How hard that seems. And Lady
Carminow, whose grandfather wheeled a barrow,
has danced in all the great houses in London,
and has sat on the dais with the royalties at
the Marlboro' House dances.'

Lady Carminow was born to good fortune ;
but I have never been unhappy for want of
dances.'

No doubt your dancing days are to come —
all your good days are to come.'

Xot all my good days. The best are past. I
never again can be as happy as I was in the library
and on the river with the last Lord Lashmar,
My life wag all happiness then. The world was
utterly beautiful ! '

'Ah, that was only a childish happiness. Weare
all happy in our childhood, or fancy we have
been so, looking back at it. Yes, you have a
charming figure, Stella; but this black gown of
yours, how dingy it is ! Why do you never wear
prettier gowns ? '

*I wear what I am given,' answered Stella
impatiently. 'Surely you must know that, Mrs.
iMulciber. I get my gowns when the other servants
get theirs.'

But you are not a servant ; it is absurd to
talk of yourself as a servant.'

Perhaps it is, because in reality I am a slave.
I have no wages. I have nothing in the world
that belongs to me, and never have lead since the
last Lord Lash mar's death, except a few books
which he gave me, and which her ladyship tried
to take away from me. I got them back without
her knowledge. It was almost as if I stole them,
though they were my own.'

Poor child ! How you must hate this place,
grand and beautiful as it is.'

'No, I don't. I love it, because it is beautiful

and because I was once so happy here. It is
haunted by Lord Lashmar's spirit. I shall never
love any other house as well.'

Oh, yes you will. You will have a house of
your own some day, and you will love that much
better. The sense of possession and independence
is so sweet. I am quite a poor woman, Stella ;
I spend the greater part of my life in other
people's houses ; but I have a little nest of my own
by the sea, just a tiny little box in a narrow
street off the East-cliff at Brighton, where I have
my relics, my scraps of furniture from the father's
vicarage and the poor husband's barrack rooms,
and I really think I am happier within those
narrow walls, with my poor little tea-tray, my
mutton chop, and my slavey to wait upon me
than I am in a ducal palace. There is nothing
like a house of one's own, Stella.'

The girl smiled, thinking of that fair vision
of independence which might, perhaps, be speedily
realised by the kindly aid of Mr. Nestorius. The
cottage by the Avon, the days and evenings of
perfect leisure, and, sweetest of all, liberty, which

she had never known since her benefactor's
death.

True, ]Mrs. Mulciber, one's own house must
be very nice,' she said.

iTou will know that when you are married
and have a home of your own. Ah, who can tell
how delightful a home ! Such wonderful things
happen now-a-days.'

Stella drew herself up proudly, with a defiant
air almost ; tall an d straight and slim, she stood
before Mrs. Mulciber like some young Amazon,
untamed and untamable.

Married ! ' she exclaimed ; ' I shall never marry.
Why, that would be to exchange one kind of bondage
for another. I want to be independent, and free.
That is my day-dream.'

'Ah, you will have another day-dream before
long. I know what girls are, my love. I have
spent a great part of my life in studying girls. I
know their little ways.'

' You don't know my ways,' answered Stella. ' I
am not like other girls. Remember what my life
has been in this house. A happy, over-indulged

child for seven sweet sunlit years, and then the
world grew dark all at once, and I was a servant,
a drudge, unloved, despised. I heard him, the
proud master of this house, talk of nie with his
proud mother. Oh, God, that one piece of flesh
and blood should think itself a creature apart
from another piece of flesh and blood — that poor
clay should look down upon clay. There are
tones in his voice, and in her ladyship's, that
make me feel a rebel and a savage to this day.
Yes, even now, after I have read Plato, and
learnt to understand the pettiness of our common
life. Xo, I can never forget how kindly I have
been treated in this house, and how civilly.'

You will only think of it all as a dream
by-and-by, when you are. happy,' cooed Mrs.
Mulciber.

The girl had evidently no idea of her possible
promotion. The bruised spirit still rankled under
past and present humiliations. There was no
foretaste of future glorification.

Mr. Xestorius was absent three days, during

wliicli interval everybody missed him, the women
sorely. He had been the master-mind in all
things — even in dumb crambo. The sonorous and
sympathetic voice, the earnest gray eyes and pale,
intellectual face, the gentle friendliness with everyone
from high to low, endeared him to all. Yes, he
was a man whose absence made an immeasurable
gap.

Gabriel Werner piteously bewailed that absence.

His coming has given me new life,' he said ;
what shall I do when he has gone altogether ? '

I hope you will take advantage of his invitation
and spend an occasional week in London,'
answered Stella. 'You would see something of
the world, and of your old friends.'

*I am too old for the world, my dear, and
my old friends are too old for me. Their memories
are worn to a blank where I am concerned.
There are few men like Mr. Nestorius, who, at
the very apogee of greatness, can remember a
humble friend of their youth.'

Even Stella missed the statesman's visits to
Yerner's cottage. The old student's conversation,

full of thought and of fact as it always was, had
yet a vapid tone, as compared with that flow of
vi\dd talk, sparkling, undulating, like water leaping
over rocks; full of life, motion, variety;
glinting, dancing buoyantly from theme to theme ;
profound, yet playful ; brilliant, yet intense.
Since the world began, perhaps, or since Socrates
drew all that was best and brightest among
the youth of Athens to follow his footsteps and
hang upon his eloquence, there had never been
such a speaker as Nestorius; and for Stella,
with a mind richly stored, and an imagination in
all the freshness of youth, this talk was almost
as a thing divine ; yea, as that seven-stringed lyre,
which led woods, and stayed running streams, and
made savage tigers follow in sweet contentment.

She welcomed him with a happy smile, when
they met unexpectedly in the park, on the gray
October afternoon that witnessed his return.

I was going to Werner's cottage,' he said,
looking down at her with a smile, which she
interpreted as paternal and protecting, but in
which shrewd Mrs. Mulciber would have seen

VOL. II. F

some touch of deeper feeling. ' I thought I should
find you there.'

1 have only just left him. He will be so
glad to see you again,' answered Stella simply.

But I don't think I will go on there just
now. I am rather tired after my journey, and I
want to tell you some news.'

News for me ! You have heard something
about my father,' she cried eagerly.

No, child, no. It is of yourself. I gave your
story to one of the keenest publishers in town —
told him to make his reader give an opinion
upon it instantly. He was to sit up all night to
read it if need be, for I wanted the manuscript
sent to the printer forthwith. The reader did sit up
for the best part of the night, but of his own
accord, Stella. He declares the story is the finest
thing he has read by way of fiction for the last five
years ; full of power — fresh young power — untrained,
of course ; but the style is incomparable. " Where
did the writer get his style ? " he asked. "It is so
simple, yet so strong ; scholarly, and yet original ;
almost a5 rich and vigorous as Milton's prose." '

I ' am so glad gasped Stella, dizzy with
delight ; ' and so very glad he thought the writer
was a man.'

'Yes, that is always a good sign. Your book
is being set up as fast as the compositors can
work. You will have proofs — they will be
directed under cover to me — bv tomorrow night's
post.'

How delightful ! ' cried Stella, with almost
childlike pleasure, and then, in a saddened tone
she exclaimed, 'And to think that poor Mr. Werner
could not get a publisher for his great book on
Aristotle.'

Ah, my child, great books have to wait. If
Bacon were alive to-day I doubt if any publisher
in London would produce his Noviwi Organum,
except on commission.'

Mr. Xestorius did not add that Stella's novel
was to be produced at his expense, and that the
clever West-end publisher had only risked — aji
opinion.

The statesman was delighted at her girlish
rapture. When a man of five-and-fifty stoops to

admire a clever girl of nineteen, his admiration
has a gentle protecting air, which is very sweet
to the recipient; and from such a man as
Nestorius kindness was like the notice of a god.
Stella felt as if she were living in a new atmosphere,
balmy, reposeful. She felt herself lifted
out of the region of slavery and humiliation.

What has come to you, Stella ? ' inquired
her ladyship, in her coldly level tones, as the
girl took her accustomed seat beside the sofa, at
the hour of afternoon tea, when every one else
was in the library. It was one of Lady Lashmar's
doubtful days, and she thought it not unadvisable
to leave Lady Carminow at the head of affairs
below. She had been vexed to find that her
favourite was making so little progress in Lash-mar's
affections. He owned that she was beautiful,
and thereupon quoted Maud:

Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null.'

This afternoon Lady Lashmar was startled by
the expression of Stella's face. There was nothing
icy there. A lovely carnation glowed on the pale

olive cheeks, the splendid eyes were aflame with
suppressed gladness.

Yes, my slavery is endurable now, for it is
nearly over,' the girl was saying to herself, as she
took up a book and opened it where her ribbon
marked the last reading.

You seem in a state of feverish excitement,*
said her ladyship. * What have you been doing
with yourself since you wrote my letters ? "

I have been in the village — with Mr. Werner.'

That ought not to be a very exciting business.
You are flushed and breathless as if you had
been running,' with a displeased air, as it were
complaining of a human machine that had got
itself out of gear.

I walked across the park very fast. I feared
I might be late.'

You are not actually late, but I was very
nearly waiting,' answered her ladyship. 'Yes,
it is five,' as the Sevres time-piece chimed the
hour, * and I told you to be here at five. l)on't
come to me in this breathless state another time.
And now £^o on with Middleraarch while I take tea,'

Stella read with sublime patience for the next
two hours, read till the dusk deepened ; read on
by lamplight, not knowing what she was reading,
thinking of her own book all the while, and of
what the publisher's reader had said of it. Was
it true, that opinion of his ? Was it worth anything?
Had he only said as much to please Mr.
Nestorius ? Was the book really good ; the style
really pure ? It was a very different kind of
book to this L;reat book which she was reading,
with its sober, majestic phrases, its quiet humour,
all things subdued to a minor key, all human
passions kept in restraint. Her book was more
daring — daring as Shelley, whom she adored. Her
book was narrower, but more intense. Was it
really good? Would people accept that bold incursion
into the region of the supernatural ; those
mystic scenes which she had woven in the quiet
of the night — visions which had seemed almost real
to her in the midnight silence, weird speakers,
whose voices she seemed verily to have heard ?
Her heart thrilled at the thought that if the
book were successful, thousands would read it, and

be drawn near to her mind, never knowing who
or what she was, yet one with her by sympathy.
Were but this little book successful, her bondage
would be at an end for ever. She wanted
so little for freedom. She could live upon so
little, she who had never had any money, or
known what it was to have her wishes gratified
since she was a child. One feeble ray of success
would be light enough for her obscure path. Only
to get out of this great, grand, beautiful house, in
which she felt herself ever so much lower than a
servant, a dependent, an encumbrance. Only to
get away from the possibility of encountering those
proud eyes and scornful lips, which always stirred
her spirit to rebellion. She had schooled herself
to endure her ladyship's cold tyranny : but never
could she so school herself as to look without angi-y
feeling upon the man who had ordered her out of
the library as if she had been a dog. Yes, he had
driven her like a dog from that familiar room, in
which she lead lived so happily through all the
sunny years of her childhood.

'AND THERE IN A NET HIS HEART WAS HOLDEN *

The return of Mr. Nestorius enlivened the tea-meeting
in the spacious library, where deepening
shadows softened the dazzle of gold and colour
into a harmonious blending of many tints, just as
half-a-dozen faces photographed rapidly one upon
the other produce a combination-face of greater
beauty than the handsomest of the six. Mr.
Nestorius was not a man who overwhelmed either
the House or the salon with floods of talk.
He was not one to say with Gambetta, je les ai
submerged; but he talked well, and voice and
conversation together had a rare and potent charm
for feminine hearers. Lady Carminow handed him
his tea-cup with a caressing smile.

We have been perfectly wretched without you,'
she said.

And that is how you gratify your .vanity at
the cost of our suffering ? ' she answered laughingly,
perfectly aware that Lashmar was admiring
her from his stand in front of the fire-place, where
he made one in a trinity of shooters.

Xo one could deny that she was lovely. The
ivory and blush-rose tints of her complexion were'
set off by a tea gown of sea-green plush, with
artfully introduced touches of coral-pink gleaming
here and there amidst the green ; and even the
little foot, in its coral stocking and sea-green
slipper was a point in the picture, poised lightly
on the dark red velvet hassock. The flowing folds
of plush just defined the perfect curves of the
somewhat ample form. A sensuous beauty, perhaps
; but are not goddesses sensuous ? — save,
indeed, Lady Sophia's prototype, the huntress?
Diana, who was never known to make herself
agreeable to anybody, and who avenged herself for

her much-vaunted celibacy by killing other people's
children.

Yes, Lashmar's admiring eyes recognised that
perfection of earthly loveliness, the charm of
delicate colourless, the flowin<]j lines and Gracious
curves, the alabaster wrist, and long, Titian-usque
hand fluttering lightly over the low, round table,
with the vermilion tea-tray and ivory-and-gold
cups and saucers. Could any woman be lovelier
or fitter to reign over such a house as Lashmar
Castle, or to bring life and light into that dingy
old barrack in Grosvenor Square, which required
at least fifteen hundred pounds expended upon
decoration and sanitary improvement before it
would be habitable ?

She was rich, too — ricci, and very rich — and
this was an important consideration to a nobleman
who had five farms unlet out of thirteen, and
whose eight tenants wei'e all in a complaining
vein. The Lashmar rent-roll had been diminishing
ever since Hubert's death ; and although Lord
Lashmar had other resources, and might be considered
a rich man, there is always an idea of

poverty in any diminution of income ; while, if Mr.
Nestorius and his brood were ever to get the upper
hand again, the war against the landed proprietor
would doubtless be renewed with redoubled vigour.

Assuredly Lady Carminow's wealth was not an
attraction which any man in the present day
could afford to ignore or to despise. Lashmar
was not in love with her; but he began to think
that he had been very much in love with her in
the days that were gone, and that he was
beginning to drift that way again. Perhaps he
thought so all the more this afternoon, when he
saw Xestorius seated at her elbow — Xestorius, who,
albeit fifty-five years of age, had more than the
charm of youth, whose voice had ever been as
music in woman's ear.

The most dangerous man in England,' thought
Lashmar ; ' all the more because he looks so
thoroughly respectable.'

Lashmar told himself that Lady Carminow had
made up her mind to take a second husband, and
that if she did not marry him 'she would inevitably
marry Nestorius.

'I cannot allow lier to go over to the oppositions
he thought, and he went across to the low
round table, found another creepie stool, and
seated himself opposite Mr. Nestorius who seemed
to be making himself mightily agreeable.

Mrs. Vavasour, also in a tea-gown — something
Japanese and fantastical, with a cloud of gauzy
cru lace about her throat and chin, had her little
knot of admirers, among whom were Mr. Ponsonby,
the barrister, and the pompous old Rector, who had
called Stella his Eeynolds' child, and had forgotten
her existence afterwards. This gentleman often
dropped in to tea at the Castle, and dined there
whenever he was asked. He loved smart people,
and he liked to hear himself talk. Mr. Vavasour
was discussing the lines of an intended novel with
Lady Sophia, who, on the strength of her connection
with the Sunday Sioash-huckler considered
herself quite a literary person.

'And your plot— tell me your plot,' she asked
eagerly.

Plot, my dear soul, nothing so d^modt as a
novel with a plot nowadays. We leave plot to

the men who write melodramas for the Delphi —
the old, old, old incidents shaken up in the old
bag, and tumbling out haphazard in acts or
chapters. Nothing of that kind for me, Lady
Sophia. !My novel is a novel of character — my
chief incidents, well — a little look in the twilight
eyes meeting eyes across the deck of a steamer
off Alexandria, or in a church at Venice — an angry
word in the second volume — a fan dropped and
picked up in the third. Those are the three central
points — the three piers of my bridge — for the rest
touch-and-go, Lady Sophia, all touch-and-go. Wit,
satire, sentiment, introspection, self-communing,
sparkle and play of words, lighter than thistledown.'


Your books are delicious,' murmured Lady
Sophia, who did not care a straw for any novel
without murder, arson, and bigamy. 'But I have
sometimes thought that if you would — just for
once in a way — make your heroine poison her
father, or your hero drown his wife, it would be
nice. Even in "Daniel Deronda'* now, which is
such a very superior book, there is drowning.'

The one blot upon a great work, my dear
Lady Sophia said the fashionable novelist, coiling
up.

I read that chapter twice over. Grandcourt
and Gwendolen are too lovely. I always like
the wicked people best.'

There should be no wicked people in a book
no positive blacks and whites, only delicate
tertiaries. You don't meet wicked people in
society : " Most women have no characters at
all." It is those no-character people who are so
difficult to depict ; and it is in painting them that
the novelist shows himself a master of his art.
Dickens's people and Thackeray's people are the
broadest caricatures : Pecksniff — Becky Sharpe —
the brothers Cheery able— Colonel Newcome — daubs,
my dear lady, daubs as coarse and glaring as
the pictures of the fat woman and the living
skeleton outside a booth, when tried by the standard
of modern excellence.'

Stimulated by the idea of rivalry, Lord Lashmar
threw a shade of tenderness into his talk with Lady
Carniinow across the tea-cups, which was very

pleasant to the lady. She was quite as much
in love with him as it was in her nature to
be in love with any man. She had never forgotten
her girlish flirtation with him, or the sweet things
that he had said — sweet, meaningless little speeches,
which charmed her without altogether compromising
him. She had never forgiven him for his
desertion ; but anger was latent, not active. She
was ready to forgive him directly, to forgive and
to adore him to her utmost capacity for
adoration, would he but return to his allegiance,
throw himself at her feet, and own her as the
mistress of his sou].

Surely I am good enough even for him,' she
said to herself.

This afternoon there was a shade of tenderness
in Lashmar's voice and manner, which seemed to
her like the first note of subjection. He had
struggled against her power, and now he was
beginning to yield. Those beautiful azure eyes of
hers looked smilingly into his, full of promise.
She was his to take when he pleased — a rose in
fullest bloom and beauty that he might wear on his

breast only for the gathering. And how could
he doubt that if he did not pluck the rose some
wiser man would ?

He drew his creepie-stool a little nearer to
the fair tea - maker, bringing clay - bespattered
corduroy in contact with the lights and shadows
of sea-green plush, silken shining folds that
reflected the glow of the burning logs yonder.

AVhat have you been doing all day ? ' he
asked.

Nothing. Do you know that Lashmar is
the abode of dulness for your lady visitors, while
you men are all shooting pheasants. I felt
tempted to drive over to Brumm and take my
afternoon tea at a coffee palace, and hear the
operatives talk politics, just to get a sensation of
some kind, so weary was I of this Castle of
Indolence. But as I couldn't do that I walked
over to the Hall and had a chat with mother,
who insisted upon my going to look at some
unhappy beasts that are being educated up to
the next cattle-show with oil-cake and all sorts
of abominations ; and then my poor mother began

to cry, and said that the shorthorns reminded her
of my father, not because of any likeness, but
because prize cattle were one of his fads, don't
you know — and she has taken to all his fads,
out of reverence for his memory. She pretends
to be keen upon getting prizes, though I know
she pities the animals, and doesn't care a straw for
the fuss and glorification of the thing. • I hurried
across the fields to be in time for tea — and soli,
by-the-by, Mr. Xestorius, I saw you walking in
the park with Lady Lashmar's reading gird.'

Nestorius flushed ever so slightly, with a vexed
air.

Yes, I met Miss Boldwood in the park.'

Is that your idea of meeting ? To my eye
you seemed to be walking with her — but then I
am ridiculously short-sighted.'

'I had met her — I turned back — and, at the
moment you saw us, I was walking with her.
Will that do, Lady Carminow?'

'It will do very well indeed, so long as Miss

Boldwood is not spoiled by such distinguished

notice.'

VOL. 11. G

Were you telling my brother's protegee the
result of your experiments upon those papers ? *
asked Lashmar.

'Xo; but I will show you the result this
evening, if you like,' answered Nestorius coolly.

Is it a startling result ? Does my mother's
dependent turn out to be a princess in disguise ? *

We have not got so far as that ; but there is
quite enough in the transcription of those papers
to interest you, and to assise you that Boldwood's
wife was something better than a gipsy.'

I am prepared to be interested,' said Lashmar,
with a contemptuous air, as if he thought the
whole thing a farce, and Nestorius's enthusiasm a
sign of approaching senility. * Why not produce the
papers at once — they might interest Lady Car-minor,
who complains that I provide no amusement
for my lady guests

*The records of the dead — of a broken heart,
perhaps — are hardly to be discussed at a tea-table.
I'll bring them to the library to-night, when the
evening's frivolities are over, and you and I can
look through them quietly, before we go to bed.'

As you please,' answered Lashmar : ' you are
the master of the situation.'

Do you know Spanish { *

Hardly a word of it.'

Then I am master of the situation, for the
transcriptions are all in Spanish, and I shall have
to translate them to you.'

It was half-past eleven when Xestorius and
Lashmar went to the library — the former carrying
a little portfolio with the papers he had brought
from London. The evening had been livelier than
usual, and Lashmar had hardly left Lady Car-minor's
side — to the delight of his mother, who
watched the two from her arm-chair by the fireplace,
where she sat iu a kind of semi-royal state,
with Mrs. ^lulciber for her lady-in-waiting.

Yes, it was coming at last, the realisation of that
long cherished dream of hers. She would see Job
Danebrook's estate united to the Lashmar acres,
to say nothing of that much larger fortune in the
shape of funded property which the iron-master
had laid up for himself before he retired from

business. She would see her beloved son attached
to his ancestral home by the ties of domesticity,
his stake in the country trebled, his social and
political importance extended by increased wealth.
And Clarice, the creature whom she had moulded
to her own liking, would be her daughter ; yes,
daughter in love, as well as in law. She would
hold her son's wife as a daughter— she, whom no
girl-child had ever called mother !

Mr. Nestorius seated himself near a reading-lamp,
and opened his portfolio.

First, let me restore the original papers,' he
said, handing Lashmar a packet. ' They are there,
unreadable to the ordinary eye. You will keep
them in trust for Stella. Here are the copies.
Four are love-letters, pure and simple, written
by the future Mrs. Boldwood to her husband.
The fifth and last is from Mrs. Bold wood's father,
and is dated two years after the date of the
other four, and was written, as I understand it,
just before Stella's birth. It is a letter that may
have helped to bring about the mother's untimely
death,'

'Will you be good enough to read them tome
? ' asked Lashmar, hating himself for never
having learned Spanish. Such an easy language too
a mongrel tongue, half French and half Latin — a
language he could have acquired in a fortnight. He
had scampered through the Peninsula, allowing his
courier to do all the talking for him ; and he had
come to seven-and-twenty years of age without
having read Cervantes in the original. And now
he had to sit like a school-boy and let that universal
genius, Nestorius, expound these letters to
him.

N— ynm, n — yum, n — yum ! ' began the statesman,
murmuring gibberish, as he ran his eye over
the page. * Perhaps it is hardly worth your while
to hear the love-letters. Such things are always
alike.'

I will have every word,' answered Lashmar :
'if you don't read them I shall think you don't
know Spanish.'

'That is a challenge,' said Nestorius, 'so here
goes.'

He cleared his throat, and began :

" Alas ! dear one, I know not where or when
I can hope to meet you again. Not in the
church, or on the way to church. It is too
dangerous. Sita never leaves me — and I had
hard work to prevent her telling my father of
our last meeting. I will be in the garden between
seven and nine o'clock every evening. If there
might be a chance that way, it would be so sweet
to see yon again, just for a few minutes by the
little door, while Nata has gone into the house
on some errand. You know how watchful she is
and how she always brings her sewing out into
the garden to sit with me. There is so little for
her to do in the house of an evening. My father
is almost always out of doors, at his club or with
his friends.

*show can you talk of your shabby coat,
dearest ? Do you think I value people for their
coats ? And if you are ever so poor now, you,
who are so clever, are sure to be rich some day.
Or if you are always poor it will make no difference
to me. Sita says my father has a large
fortune ; but I have never seen any sign of riches

ia our house. AVe have no fine furniture, or
plate, or jewels — only the things that my great
grandfather had before the Peninsular War. We
have all we want, but no more. If you could
only see my father and talk to him, and get his
consent to our marriage, I should be the happiest
girl in Madrid.

" Yours everlastingly,

"'IXEZ.'"

The next letter was more impassioned, and
glanced at past meetings — at vows interchanged.
The next, again, was a still wilder out-pouring of
a girl's all-confiding love. Xo more talk of the
father's consent. All was surrendered to the
lover : ' Whatever may be your fate, I will share
it ! I will go with you to the end of the world : '
A second suitor had appeared — of noble family,
wealthy, middle-aged, favoured by the father. The
girl shrank from him with loathing, flung herself
into the arms of her out-at-elbows Englishman :
Take me away from them, dearest,' she pleaded,
or my father will make me marry that man. He

raged with anger when I told him that there was
some one else I cared for. He swore he would
lock me up till my wedding-day. Take me away,
Juan, make me safely your wife before he can
lock me up. No, dearest, I am not afraid of
poverty with you.'

The last of the four letters was the briefest,
arranging: a rendezvous which was to end in an
elopement.

Then, after an interval of two years, came the
father's letter — brief, icy, incisive :

'You chose your own path in defiance of me.
You may keep to it. Whether it lead you to the
hitter or the fjrave is of no matter to me. You
disobeyed and you deceived me for the sake of
an English adventurer. You have your recompense
in your adventurer's love. You say that he is
still devoted, and that by the labour of his hands
he earns your daily bread. You are better of['
than you have any right to expect to be; you,
the disobedient, deceitful daughter. You tell me
that a child will soon be born to you, and that
you would win my forgiveness for yourself and

bespeak my love for that unborn child. I answer
you, that I have plucked you out of my heart,
that you are for me neither loved nor hated, but
non-existent. As for your unborn child, there is
no beggar's brat about to be spawned in the alleys
of this city whose birth will be more indifferent
to me.

♦ X. 0.'

These initials were the only signature. The
only address was Madrid. Difficult to trace the
writer by such indications.

'Are the language and orthography those of
an educated person ? ' asked Lashmar.

Undoubtedly.'

'And the date would agree with that of
Stella's birth. Then we may dismiss the idea of
a Gipsy origin.'

I think so. This " X. 0." may have belonged
to the professional or the commercial classes.
There is nothing in the girl's letters to imply that
her people were noble ; and, indeed, her father's
eagerness to marry her to a suitor of good birth

indicates that such a marriage would have been
promotion.*

And this vindictive father is perhaps the
original of the miniature.'

Most likely answered Nestorius, closing his
portfolio. ' The costume is that of five-and-twenty
to thirty years ago. A Spanish girl's elopement
with an Englishman must have occasioned some
talk at the time, even in so large a place as
Madrid, and by careful inquiry one might find
out all about the business, I take it.'

'Very likely; but the game is not worth the
candle. This vindictive old wretch has positively
renounced his granddaughter — nothing would be
gained by unearthing him.'

Who knows ? Nineteen years may have
made a considerable difference in his feelings. If
he is still alive — a lonely, miserable old man —
be might be very glad to acknowledge the granddaughter
of whom he wrote in such brutal
terra.'

My dear Nestorius, it is so like you to seethe
thing in that rosy light. You have but to

take up an idea — to be interested in a question —
and that fiery spirit of yours breathes around it
and wraps it in a luminous atmosphere in which
all outline is lost. How much more likely that
the old brute is dead and rotten ; or, if alive, so
much the more a brute by the passage of those
nineteen years. Anyhow I shall not turn sleuth-hound
and hunt him. What are you going to do
with those copies ? '

Keep them.'

They can have no interest for you.'

They can have none for you, as they are ina
language you don't understand.'

I am on the point of taking up Spanish. It
has always been a reproach to me that I am notable
to read Don Quixote in the original.'

111 give you a translation of these letters, and
keep the Spanish for my pains.'

Upon my soul one would think you were
smitten by that girl of my brother's.'

I am not smitten by her, but I am deeply
interested in her fate. Good-night.'

Good-night," answered Lashmar moodily.

There is something particularly exasperating
about that man,' he said to himself, as he lighted
his candle. * I should like to know whether he
is or is not in love with Lady Carminow\'

'SHE TOOK ME TO HER ELFIN GROT '

After that evening Lashmar yielded himself
to the allurements of Circe, in the person of
Lady Carminow, \vith less reserve than he had
shown hitherto, and in proportion as his attentions
grew more marked Clarice became more enchanting.
She had been piqued by his coldness ; there was
a smothered anger in her mind, linked with
the memory of past ill-treatment. He could
only atone to her by utter subjugation — by
lying at her feet, as it were, her slave;
and now it seemed to her that he was subjugated,
and she began to forgive him. The consciousness
of triumph became her. That splendid nullity of
hers began to assume life and colour.

Lady Carminow grows in beauty every day,'
said Nestorius, who was a connoisseur in loveliness,

and could admire a hundred woiueu without
giving his heart to one.

He had married early in life, married
above him, gaining wealth and social status by
his marriage. He had been an excellent husband
to a somewhat silly wife. He had
nursed her when she was sick, and buried her as
became them both ; and now he was free to choose
another wife where he pleased. It seemed to the
people who envied or hated him as if he could have
had the choice of all England, so devoted were Englishwomen
to him whom so many Englishmen loved.

Yes, she is superbly handsome,' answered
Lashmar ; * but I don't think she is your style.
You prefer something more original. Fenella, for
instance, or Mignon — or that pale girl with the
large eyes — my mother's amanuensis.'

Your mother's amanuensis is not half so
handsome as Lady Carminow.'

'But you admire her more. She is more
interesting.'

'To me, yes.'

To me she is positively repellent. There is

something impish about her. I should have
detested Fenella — a dumb creature with monkeys
tricks, leaping over banisters, and always
turning up unexpectedly in odd places ; and
Mignon is worse, for she is more disreputable.
This girl reminds me of both.'

She is like neither. Those two were all
passion : this one is all intellect. They had coarse
undisciplined natures : she has a grand, calm soul,
steadfast and strong, and self-respecting.'

That is to say she would not leap over
banisters or dance upon eggs. She has fiery blood
in her veins, for all her calmness of soul, the blood
of the fiercest demai^ocjue who ever stirred the lambs
of Brumm to rapine and revolt. The blood of her
runaway Spanish mother, too, all quicksilver.
Beware of her, Nestorius.'

I will beware for her, not of her ; guard her
from evil, if I can, but never fear evil from her.'

Hear him, ye gods,' exclaimed Lashmar ; ' it
is all in the man's temperament. He sees all things
in the rainbow light of his own imagination. Tie
is like Titania when the spell was upon her.'

Assuredly Nestorius was not in love with Lady
Carminow. Laslimar had to fear no rivalry in that
quarter : and by this time Lashmar had decided that
destiny meant him to be Lady Carminow 's husband.
He had escaped the doom once, had plucked himself
out of the web : but this time he felt that he
was caught. Even were he to make a good fight
for freedom, get away a second time, he would
have to come back in the end. He must dree
his weird.

I would rather be her second husband than
her third,' he thought, 'and as it is written that I
am to marry her, I had better propose at once.*

He said this to himself, yet did not immediately
propose. There was a lurking repugnance
somewhere in his mind, a reluctance which he could
not explain to himself. He was angry with himself
for not being more in love.

*I was born of a cold nature,' he thought.

He could account for his tepid emotions by no
other theory than that nature lead made him colder
than other men. He fancied that he had even an
aversion from women, and that he would have

ended his days a bachelor were it not that self-interest
and his mother's incessant prompting urged
him to marriage. He had everything to gain from
a union with Lady Carminow, and it was sheer
wantonness in him to hang back : and yet he
put off from day to day the utterance of those fatal
words which would seal him as a slave for ever.

What is any married man but a slave — a helot —
a hireling?' he asked himself. 'First the slave of
his wife, and then the slave of his children ; and
pushed into his grave, perhaps, by the follies of his
grandchildren. The father of a family never can
know which of his children is to be his bane — which
egg will produce the worst viper. He is responsible
for the faults and follies of the whole brood, to
the third and fourth generation, if he live long
enough. Even after he is in his grave theorists
will point to him as the root of evil — will excuse
his descendants' delinquencies on the ground of
heredity or atavism. And yet my mother moans at
the idea of my not marrying, not having sons to succeed
me, as if it were the direst calamity — certain
loss instead of certain gain

VOL. IL H

This was a pessimistic view of the matter ; but
of late Lord Lashmar had inclined to pessimism as
the only true gospel. He was discontented with life
and with himself. He told himself that it was
all on account of those five empty farms, and that
the canker was only in his pocket.

'How happy Hubert was,' he thought, as he
paced up and down the library one morning, after
he had let the shooters go out by themselves, on
the plea of letters which must be written by his
own hand. The shooters had been gone a couple
of hours and he had not dipped his pen in the
ink. In another hour the luncheon gong would
be sounding, and he would have to go and say
sweet things to Lady Carminow, who appeared at
luncheon with all the freshness of Venus Anadyomene,
and expected a good deal of attention.

He had promised to drive to Brumm with
Clarice and Mrs. Mulciber that afternoon, to
go over the great Danebrook ironworks, of which
Lady Carminow was sole proprietor. Her name
was on all the carts and waggons, ' Clarice, Marchioness
of Carminow.' Lashmar had never been

over these mighty works, aud he hated seeing works
of any description — hated the thud of the engines,
the smell of the furnaces, the grime and dust upon
everything, and was not very fond even of the
operatives, though a humanitarian age insisted that
they should be to him as brothers.

He felt also that this exploration of the works
was in some measure a sign of his bondage. He
would be looked upon as Lady Carminow's future
husband. It was like putting his name to this
own death-warrant. But into the dust and the grime
and the heat and the glare he must go, having
given his promise all too lightly last night in the
reposeful atmosphere of the drawing-room, where
tomorrow's energy seemed an inexhaustible fund.
And now tomorrow had come, and he felt that an
afternoon at the works would be ineffable boredom.

'Yes, my brother Hubert was the happiest
fellow I ever knew,' he said to himself : ' happy
in spite of great affliction, for he always lived his
own life— did not go this way or that like a sheep
before a drover, as we wretched creatures all do, we
enslaves of custom, fashion, self-interest. How

well I remember him, in this room day after day,
calm, restful, reading, meditating, writing a little.
I must get his literary remains published, by-the-by ;
they would make an interesting volume. What
a dull, empty life it seemed to me then ; and now,
by heaven, I almost envy him. He lived not alone,
but with the giants of the past. His companions
were Titans. And I — I have not looked at Homer
since I left the University ; I have not opened a
volume of Shakespeare for more than a year. I
am steeped in blue-books, and party pamphlets,
and newspapers, the chaff of the day and hour,
strewed on the wind and forgotten a year hence.'
He recalled his brother's figure sitting at the desk
yonder, the crooked shoulders hidden in the deep
arm-chair, one delicate hand supporting the pale
bent brow, the other on an open page of Greek or
Roman poet, Elizabethan dramatist or modern philosopher.
The radical's brat had been near him
always in those last years, sitting at a table a
little way off, writing a copy or an exercise, or
at her benefactor's feet poring over a fairy tale.
They* two had looked so happy together, and yet

it had always seemed to Victorian a most unnatural
association.

And now the presence of that girl in the house
worried him. Their chance meetings had been of
the rarest ; and yet he was always expecting to
meet her on the stairs or in the corridors. He was
always surprised when he went into his mother's
room without finding her there.

He had made up his mind that she was sly,
an intriguer, a dangerous element in the house.
How quickly she had contrived to get that foolishly
impressionable Xestorius into her web; and
Mrs. Mulciber, a woman of the world who ought
to have known better, was always sounding her
praises. She had hoodwinked his brother when
she was a mere child : and now the serpent had
grown up, and her guile was of a still deeper cast.

Brumm and the outskirts of Brumm looked a
little more detestable than usual to Lord Lashmar
that October afternoon, although Lady Carminow
was sitting opposite him, clad in ruddy brown
velvet and sable tails, with a little sable bonnet
that harmonised deliciously with her rich gold-brown

hair. If the beauty of a woman or the
luxury of a barouche on Cee springs could have
sufficed him, he might have been happy ; but on
this particular afternoon he beheld even Lady
Carminow's perfection with a jaundiced eye.

Your velvet and fur will not be improved by
iron and coal dust,' he said, with a disparaging
glance at her rich apparel.

Oh, I have had this gown for ages. I should
be rather glad to spoil it.'

Lashmar's eyes, in sheer absent-mindedness,
noted the figures on the pavement : two half-clad
factory girls fluttering by in cotton, hugging
their shabby little shawls across their narrow
chests, as they faced the east wind ; and it struck
him that the radical's howl against the inequality
of fortune was one of those themes which would
never lack listeners. Granted that every scheme
which would equalise wealth is alike absurd and
impossible ; yet there the contrast is, always before
men's eyes, always calling out to them for redress
— somehow, somewhere.

Those two girls looked rather enviously at

One can't help feeling sorry for them,' murmured
Mrs. Mulciber.

Yes, with that gentle, passive sorrow, which
hurts nobody and does nobody any good,' answered
Lashmar, with quiet scorn. 'If one of us were
like that little Norfolk dressmaker now, who being:
one day suddenly moved to pity for a poor
wretch in jail, took up her cross, and for ever
after devoted her life to the help and solace of
jail-prisoners ; bore with them, comforted them,
prayed for them; died in her patient slavery.
That is what real pity means ; and how very little

there is of it.'

Lady Carminow did not pursue the argument.

She was looking straight before her towards a gi-eat

black gateway, gloomy as the entrance to Tartarus.

They were in one of the dingiest streets in

jBrumm — Dauebrook Lane, so called after the
great Danebrook Iron-works, where Mr. Dane-brook
had established in this Midland centre
works which rivalled in their magnitude those of
Darlington, and competed with the Krupps and
tie Cockerills of Germany and Belgium. Lady
Carminow could hear the chink of the steam-hammers
) and she always heard that sound in this
place with a faint thrill of pride. She had broad
acres which gave her a position among the landed
gentry, and of those she was proud ; but these
works were her kingdom. Here was the source
of her wealth, and here she reigned supreme.
The vastness of those Plutonian halls, the multitude
of blackened faces, the clang of the engines,
the roar of the furnaces, where the keels of
mighty iron-clads and the connecting rods and
cranks of large locomotives were welded and
fashioned, impressed her woman's fancy with an
idea of power. The factory was like an arsenal:
and she seemed to herself strong as a Goddess of
War, when she made her slow progress from hall to
hall, preceded by deferential foremen and officials.

It pleased her to think that Lashing would
see her amidst these surroundings. She had
given no notice of her coming, and it seemed to
her as she alighted from her carriage in the great
black quadrangle that the manager, who ran to
receive her, was less effusive than usual. He was
not less deferential ; he bowed before her and
spoke with bated breath, as to a queen ; but he
had a troubled look, which Lashmar's quick eye
perceived.

'I'm afraid we've come at an awkward time,'
he said; 'you've some gigantic job in hand,
perhaps, in the throes of completion.'

'Xo, it is not that, my lord,' answered the
manager gravely ; ' that kind of thing never puts
us out of gear. But it is hardly a good time
for her ladyship to visit the works. Our men
are on the eve of a strike.'

Lady Carminow laughed softly, pleasantly, as
at an irresistible joke,

That is a very old story," she said. ' I have
heard that all my life. My father used to say
as much almost every time he came from the

works. The men were always hatching mischief.
The strike was always coming ; but the strike
never came.'

'mr. Danebrook had an extraordinary influence
over the men, an exceptional power of managing
them. He contrived to ward off the strike —
partly by that personal influence, partly by concessions
; your ladyship has refused to '

'To accede to demands which I consider 
my father would never have
granted.'

'Your father would have gone with the times,
Lady Carminow. He was too wise a man to try
to stem a rising tide.'

*If some of us don't stand firm against that
tide it will be over all our heads before long,'
said Lady Carminow, looking like Bellona.

Lashmar would hardly have given her credit
for so much spirit — or obstinacy — he did not know
which to call it.

The men have held on, though they are worse
oft' as to current wages than other iron-workers
in Brumm. They have held on for the sake of

those admirable funds which ;Mr. Danebrook
established for sickness and old age. The prospect
of bonuses and annuities has kept our men
faithful to us at a disadvantage ; but there is a
very unpleasant feeling arising in the factory,
an idea that the richest works in all Brumm pay
the worst wages. In most other firms like ours
work is done by the ton, by a ganger who undertakes
the job, and employs men under him. This
plan saves the firm a good deal of responsibility,
and the men like it better, because they can earn
more money, while an intelligent ganger may
make a small fortune.'

'I will have no middle men in my business,'
said Lady Carminow.

The manager bowed submissively.

Your ladyship knows best,' he said ; ' but I
assure you there is a danger in getting old-fashioned.
A system which answered admirably ten years
ago is beginning to work awkwardly now. There
was a time when we hadn't a single union man
on the premises ; but labour was scarce last
winter when we had some of our biggest jobs in

hand, and we were obliged to let in some of the
union men. And now we must either give them
what they want, or prepare for a strike.'

'If they strike we can get other men, I
suppose ? '

'Xot a man — in England.'

'But we can get them from Belgium.'

The manager shrugged his shoulders dubiously.

'Belgian ironworks are in a very prosperous
condition just now. I doubt if there are men to
be had.'

'And if these men leave us they forfeit all
claim upon my father's funds ? '

Naturally.'

'Then they will not go said Lady Carminow.
Assuredly not the old hands, who have touched
bonuses already, and have been working for annuities
in the future. No man will forfeit the
reward for which he has been working.'

'Anger is short-sighted, Lady Carminow.
Radicalism has been gaining ground in this place
ever since I can remember. Twenty years ago
our hands were better off than any other workmen

in Brumm. rout wages have been going up, and
our wages have remained the same. We point to
our bonus system, our workmen's buildings, sound
and cheap and well cared for, our annuities to
the aged ; but the modern workman is hardly
grateful for these advantages; he doesn't much
care what kind of hovel he pigs in, but he wants
high wages, a drinking bout every pay-night
rump-steaks and onions for supper. He doesn't
care about the future. You had better go with
the tide, Lady Carminow, and let me raise the
wages before the strike comes.'

I would much rather shut up the works
replied Clarice. ' Please do not let us discuss the
question any longer. I have brought my friends
to see the works, noL to hear the usual doleful
prophecies about strikes which never come. The
Danebrook men know they are better off than
any other men in Brumm.'

She led the way, walking rapidly past the
manager's office into the heart of the citadel. He
had hardly time to snatch up his hat, give a
hurried direction to one of his clerks, and et in

front of the little procession. A foreman appeared
almost by magic, and amidst the din of huge
engines, and in the heat and glare of giant
furnaces, Lord Lashmar surveyed the source of
Job Danebrook's fortune. He saw the half-finished
blocks of iron conveyed from shop to shop by
the 'traveller,' a curious kind of steam monster
working upon an overhead railway, thirty feet
from the ground. He saw the huge unshapely
mass of white hot faggots drawn from the roaring
furnace by the steam crane, plucked as it were
from the mouth of hell; just such a demoniac-seeming
spectacle as he had beheld years before
at Woolwich Arsenal, where he went as a boy to
see the drawing of a gun. He saw the mighty
steam-hammer fashion that iron protoplasm into
form, weld and shape it into use and meaning;
but amidst all the uncouth grandeur of the scene
ho noted the sullen faces of the men ; heard
more than one muttered sarcasm from smoke-blackened
lips, as the great lady swept by in her
splendour of velvet and fur. He kept as close
as he could to her side all the time, ready to

defend her should there be auy hint of violence.
He felt that the men were disaffected ; and he
was very glad when, after seeing a monotonous
repetition of strange forms, and breathing noxious
fumes of coal and red-hot ii'on, he was allowed
to escape into the outer air. The smoke-charged
atmosphere of Brumm seemed fresh and clear after
those fiery vaults through which they had passed.

After the works had been done, Clarice insisted
that her friends should see the workmen's houses,
for which privilege Mrs. Mulciber was particularly
eager.

I confess myself a very stupid person wherever
machinery is in question,' she said, * but the
dwellings of the poor are my delight. I am a
member of the Dado Society, and I think I have
made many a humble home happy by the introduction
of an artistic wall-papering and a sage-green
delf jar here and there on a bracket. It
always makes me sad to think of the many who
have to live without canoes.'

I'm afraid oui' Brumm people would laugh at
the Dado Society,* answered Clarice. * They have no

idea of beauty. You will see the most revolting
objects in their rooms — artificial flowers under
glass shades, bead mats, crochet anti-macassar,
things that make one's blood run cold.'

Poor things ! ' sighed Mrs. Mulciber. ' The
day will come when the influence of the Dado
Society will permeate this outer darkness, I hope.'

The workmen's houses formed two spacious
quadrangles, opening one into the other through
an archway, like a college. They had been built
by Mr. Danebrook, and were of a sensible height,
only three stories, with balconies to all the rooms,
and a colonnade under which the children could
run about in wet weather. There was also a
spacious building, called the recreation house, in
which the children played in the day-time, and
where the adults amused themselves of an evening.
There vere baths and warehouses, and all modern
accommodations and improvements. The architecture
was utilitarian and substantial. There was
no attempt at the Gothic or the Jacobin in any
portion of the building. It was frankly ugly from
gaiTet to basement; but the rooms were aD li^h

and airy, the passages and staircases were wide
and well ventilated.

They went into two or three different sitting-rooms,
Lashmar feeing himself an intruder, Mrs.
Mulciber in her glory, descanting upon the sweetness
and light which the Dado Society could
bring into these benighted dwellings. Clarice,
calm and queenly, entering and leaving without
apology; here and there telling a mother that her
children were not a credit to her in those dirty
pinafores, or a housewife that her floor looked as
if it had not been scrubbed for a month.

You have nice rooms, if you would only learn
to keep them nice,' she said to one woman.

Wages are too low and wattles too dear for us
to have much heart for finishing over the rooms,'
replied the matron, with a sulky air, bending down
to stir the fire with her back to the visitors, and
then lifting the lid of a saucepan which sent forth a
hot-blast of onions and grease.

Mrs. Mulciber tried to insinuate a suggestion
of a bracket, or of the wonderful dado-isti effect
that might be produced with a little distemper.

VOL. II. I

Your husband could do it himself, my dear
soul, don't 5^ou know,' murmured the lady. 'Justa
pail of whitewash and a little red '

My husband would chuck the whitewash over
my 'ed if I was to art him any such rubbish,'
answered the matron fiercely. * We don't want
no deposes here ; we wants higher wages and less
humbug. Bonuses, indeed, and 'deities; we've
got too Ions: to wait for the bonuses, and we shall
all be dead and rotten before the 'deities falls
doo.'

Clarice felt that the atmosphere was uncongenial;
that her father's system, which had answered
admirably while he was there to administer things,
was not working smoothly just now.

'The place is stifling,' she exclaimed; *you all
keep your rooms much too hot. I suppose that
is because you get coals for nothing.'

*We'd need get something for nothing, when
our husbands and sons are wearing their flesh off
their bones to keep other folks in velvet and fur,'
grumbled the matron, as her visitors departed.

Lady Carminow went back to her carriage, deeply

disgusted with the want of loyalty in hei people
She had gone over the same ground with a party of
friends a year ago, and had been received as a queen,
the children bringing her a bouquet, the women
curtseying and smiling, dazzled by her beauty and
splendid raiment, the men deferential, eager to wait
upon her footsteps and answer her questions.

The change was appalling, and might presage
some hitherto unimagined evil.

'The working classes are becoming detestable,*
she said, as she leant back in her carriage, exhausted
and depressed.

They are not always as pleasant as they
might be,' replied Lashmar. * There is no place in
the world where I feel so much out of my element
as in Brumm. Half an hour in this hole always
makes me fancy the old order is ending and that
we shall all have to turn up our sleeves and work
at the furnaces before long.'

Those people positively adored my father,' said
Clarice discontentedly.

Ah, but he was one of them, you see, or made
himself one of them,' replied Lashmar. ' I dare say

he wore a shabby coat in the factory, and went
about among the men, handling cranks, and not afraid
of greasing his hands. You have the air of coming
from a totally different world, of looking down at
them from an immense altitude. That's what they
don't like.'

I shall never go near them again,' said Clarice.
They may be very sure of that.'

She was deeply offended, touched in her
womanly pride of beauty and grace. Never before
had men looked upon her save with admiring eyes.
Those sullen faces haunted her as she drove home
through the twilight : and Lashmar, who might
have been comforting and tender, held his peace,
and sat silently gazing at the misty autumn fields.

She had wished to show him her power as a
queen in that black kingdom yonder, and she felt
hurt and humiliated by the uncomfortable turn the
whole thing had taken.

'SHALL NOT THE GRIEF OF THE OLD TIME Follow ? '

It was between six and seven when Laslimar
found himself at home again. Afternoon tea was
over, and the shooters had departed to bath-rooms
and dressing-rooms, and there was the sound
of a piano and a very thin soprano voice from the
drawing-room, whereby Lashmar opined that Mrs.
Vavasour was indulging in a ballad, alone or in
company. He went to the library, intending to
enjoy a quiet half-hour with the newspapers before
he dressed.

The room was only lighted by the burning
logs in one of the two fire-places, and a single
lamp on a reading-table. The curtains had not
been drawn, and as Lashmar crossed the room
towards the lamp-light he saw two dark figures
pacing slowly past the windows.

He opened a casement and looked out. A
man and woman were standing a little way off in
earnest conversation. The woman, black-robed,
bare-beaded, tall and straight and slim, was Stella.
The man was Xestorius.

He was bending to speak to her, until it seemed
to Lashmar that his lips must almost touch her
hair. His hand was on her shoulder, as if he had
been pleading or arguing with interest meaning.

Suddenly Stella released herself from that
detaining grasp, knelt for an instant at his feet,
and clasped and kissed his hand with quick,
passionate gestures, then rose as quickly as she
had knelt, and rushed a\vay to the other end of
the terrace.

Only southern blood would have shown its
feeling in such impassioned movements. Strange
as the act was, it seemed in no wise false or
theatrical. All was natural and spontaneous. To
Lashmar, who had seen the girl silent, statuesque
in her immobility, this new aspect of her character
was startling in the extreme.

Has she gone suddenly out of her wits ? ' he

asked himself, angrily. 'Has Xestorius infected
her with lunacy, or is she playing a deep game ?
Yes, that is it, no doubt. She means to hook our
enthusiast. He is more impressionable than
Ulysses, and she is as crafty as Calypso. Those
silent women with lowered eyelids are always sly.'

He went out into the c(loamincc. Autumnal
mists were rising all over the park. Night was
coming up from the valley and the river like a
palpable presence, a mighty winged monster
spreading wide pinions over the earth, curtaining
and covering homestead and meadow, man and
beast, diffusing a false air of peace and silence
and solemnity over all things.

There was no peace in Lashmar's breast, which
was white hot with anger. Why he should be
angry he never stopped to ask himself.

The hussy,' he muttered ; ' the artful, incorrigible
hussy ! This is the kind of woman
who leads wise men to ruin, who subverts class
distinctions, who creeps into foolish women's
houses and steals a husband's heart from his
lawful wife.'

He saw her standing alone at the end of the
terrace, above that tennis lawn where he and
Clarice had played so often in days gone by.
Nestorius had gone back to the house. She was
leaning wearily against an antique vase, gazing
into the nidit.

He could not command his temper ; that white
hot feeling in his breast must needs have some
relief. Silence, calmness, were alike impossible.
There is an unreasoning anger which must be
satisfied, even at the loss of self-respect, which
is surely the heaviest price that any man can
pay for self-indulgence.

He walked quickly to the spot where Stella
was standing, he placed himself by her side, but
was not able to see her face, which was turned
from him.

Well,' he began, in his harshest voice, ' you
have taken the measure of our statesman, Miss
Boldwood. He is a man peculiarly susceptible to
flattery, especially a woman's flattery, and your
little bit of melodrama just now must have delighted
him.'

She turned quickly and faced him, white as
death as it seemed to him, in that dim light. Her
face gleamed upon him like the face of a ghost.
The large dark eyes, wet with tears, alone had a
look of life.

Were you listening and watching us from
some corner, Lord Lashmar ? ' she asked contemptuously.


She had assured herself long ago that this
man hated and despised her, and that it was a
duty she owed to herself to despise him. It was
in her nature to feel and to do all things with
an exceptional intensity. As she had loved her
benefactor with all the force of her young heart,
so she hated her benefactor's brother. She was
ready to be insolent to him at the slightest provocation.


I was neither listening nor watching ; but I
went to that window yonder to see who was
promenading the terrace, and was just in time to
see you fling yourself at our statesman's feet and
kiss his hand. It was very prettily done, and I
have little doubt it will have the desired effect.*

Indeed. Pray what effect do you suppose I
wish it to have ? '

'My dear Miss Boldwood, when a young lady
throws herself at a gentleman's feet, the obvious
conclusion is that she wants to bring him to hers.
It is taking a short cut to a denouement that
hangs fire. And in the case of a young lady
whose attractions are much greater than her fortune,
and a wealthy widower, impressionable but
wavering, one can conceive no better coup demain
than that with which you have just surprised
our friend Nestorius.'

You think that I want to catch Mr. Nestorius
as a husband ? '

What else can I think, having seen what I
saw just now ? '

You are very quick in jumping at conclusions,
Lord Lashmar.'

'When the conclusion is so obvious the jump is
inevitable, and it is a very small jump — only a gutter.
Do you suppose that I have not understood your
game for the last three weeks ? That I have not
marked your manoeuvres, your lonely rambles

across the park, aud accidental meetings ^vith Mr.
Nestorius on the way; your piteous revelations
to him, your tears for the father whom you lost
too long ago to have the faintest real feeling
about him, always remembering how much you
were a gainer by his loss ? '

A gainer ! ' she cried, ' to eat the bread of
dependence in your mother's house. Do you
think that is gain ? '

It is at least better than being a factory girl,
which you would have been in all probability had
your father lived."

Had he lived ! Do you know for certain that
he is dead ? '

I know as everybody else knows — that he
perished in the attempt to save your life,' answered
Lashmar, forgetting everything but his head-long
anger ; * and I know that my brother, who was
worth a dozen demagogues, risked his life to save
a child whose face he had never seen. You have
good need to be grateful to him.'

Dead ! ' she faltered ; ' your brother told me
that he had gone away to a distant country. I

thought, as I grew older, that he had left England
because life here was too hard for him ; that he
had left me behind, intending to send for me if
things went well with him in his new country.
And then I thought that Fate had still been against
him, and that he was waiting for the tide to
turn, waiting to be rich enough to send for his
only child ; and now you tell me he was killed
the night of the fire — killed in trying to save me !
Oh, it was cruel, infamous, to deceive me so,'
she cried passionately.

*It was your benefactor, the man who was
more than a father to you, who told the lie.'

Yes, but when he was gone — when I was
older, better able to face sorrow, when I had to
bear a hard, bitter life, when no one would have
been pained by my tears — why was I not told the
truth then ? Neither you nor Lady Lashmar have
been so anxious to spare my feelings that you
need have kept this grief from me. You have let
me go on year after year, feeding on a false hope,
dreaming a mocking dream.'

It was an oversight on my mother's part and

ou mine,' said Lashmar ; ' we ought to have told
you the truth. My brother Hubert had a foolish
sensitiveness on the subject, a morbid dread of
your tears ; but with us it was otherwise. We
did wrong in not telling you. However, you have
been in some wise a gainer, as your pathetic case
has made a profound impression upon Mr. Nestorius
; and that last touch of pathos — your belief
in your father's existence many years after his
death — has quite subdued him.'

*!Mr. Xestorius has been very good to me, and
I am deeply grateful to him; but if you think
that I have schemed to win his regard '

'I do think that you have so schemed, and
that you have gone very near winning your game
not quite, perhaps — but your last move was
admirable, and I anticipate the pleasure of congratulating
you upon your promotion before
Xestorius leaves the Castle.'

Is that all you have to say to me, Lord
Lashmar ? '

'Yes, that is al], until I offer you my congratulations.'


'I thank you for your kindness and consideration.
It is almost equal to that with which you
sent me out of the library seven years ago.'

*0h, you were a child then, and I am sorry
to say you were a very unmannerly child. I
hope you do not harbour resentment after all
these years, because I was a little rough with you
that afternoon.'

'I do not harbour resentment. I do not care
enough about you to resent your conduct to mein
anything — no, not even your cruelty in trying
to strangle every ambitious thought of my mind,
every hope, and every dream, when your brother's
death made my life desolate. I despise you too
much to be resentful.'

'You despise me. That is rather strong.'

'I know of no words strong enough to express
what I feel, when I remember how you have
treated me — when I compare you and your
brother.'

Ah, there is a difference, is there not ? But
Hubert was cast in a different mould. He ought
to have been a woman. I am a man.'

I would not boast of that, if I were you, just
after you have been unmanly enough to insult a
friendless girl.'

Friendless ! What ! when you have Xestorius
as your friend, your adorer, your future husband,
if you play out your game as well as you have
begun it ? Do not talk about friendlessness.
Calypso is never without friends.'

She turned from him and walked quickly
towards the house ; he followed as quickly, and
opened the library window for her to pass through.
The action was polite, yet it reminded him of that
other action, seven years ago, when he had flung
open the door for her and told her to ' march.'

She had not forgotten. She turned on the
threshold, and looked at him with flashing eyes.

'Why don't you tell me to 'marche?' she
said, * as you did tllafrother day. This time there
is no need of your order. I am going to march.'

And so, with a short, angry laugh, she left
him.

What a she-devil,' he muttered. ' It is her
Spanish blood, I suppose, and Boldwood's blood.

A nice mixture! Yes, upon my soul, a very
pleasant brew ! '

He went back to the terrace, and tramped up
and down till after the warning gong had sounded.
Then he rushed to his dressing-room, and scrambled
through his toilet ; and to dress hurriedly was a
thing he hated.

What on earth did the creature mean when
she said she was going to march,' he asked
himself, as he bungled with his cambric tie.

SHALL yVE NOT LAUGH, SHALL eye NOT WEEP ? '

Never had Lord Laslimar felt less inclined to
play the host than upon this particular evening.
He was so thoroughly out of temper that it was
an effort to him to be even decently civil. Voices
jarred upon his nerves, truisms and platitudes
almost maddened him, and Mrs. Mulciber's gentle
prosing about the Dado Society, and the awakening
of the love of the beautiful in the mind
of the artisan, made him feel murderous.

One relief, and one only, was afforded him.

*Did you know that Mr. Nestorius was going
away, Lashmar?' asked his mother in the five
minutes before dinner.

Xo. You don't mean to say that he is gone ? '

'Yes, he left an hour ago, in time for the
8.15 from Brumm. He sent me a hurried

VOL. 11. K

little note — business of State — something to do
with the coming elections.'

Oh, he had had a telegram, no doubt. No,
I had no idea he was going to leave us.'

I am dreadfully sorry sighed Lady Carmine.
* He has been a little distrait lately, but at
his best he is quite the most delightful man in
Europe.'

That is a large order,' said Lashmar. ' Pray,
have you met all the delightful Europeans ? '

I have met all the typical men,' replied
Clarice reprovingly ; * the men who are held upas
examples — Parisians, Viennese, Belgians, Italians,
Spaniards ; one meets the best people of every
nation, don't you know, in diplomatic society. I
think I know all the men who have reputations,
and not one of them has the fascination of
Nestorius. It is a kind of glamour.'

*What a happy word!' exclaimed Mrs. Mulciber.
' Yes, it is glamour.'

Everybody agreed that the word fitted Mr*
Nestorius like a glove. It was by glamour that
he had secured majorities, wriggled himself out

of difficulties, and led the British nation by the
nose ; and then they all went into dinner and
enjoyed themselves just as much as if the clamours
had been there.

Lady Carminow was on Lashmar's right hand,
as usual; but she found him a very disagreeable
companion.

How tired you look !' she said. ' I'm afraid the
ironworks worried you.'

Not at all ; the ironworks are delightful. I
envy you the sense of power you must feel when
you survey that army of blackened faces; you
must feel like Zenobia before she was conquered.'

*Zenobia never was beaten,' interjected Lady
Sophia, across the table. She never could hear a
classical name without referring it to the Racing
Calendar. ' She was one of the finest 
that Lord Zetland ever owned. He sold her
to Count Grange for a pot of money, on the
strength of her Newmarket successes, and she won
the Grand Prix the year after.'

Lady Lashmar retired soon after the ladies
left the dining-room, and it was about ten o'clock

when Lord Laslimar, on his way to the drawing-room,
was startled by a tremendous ringing of
his mother's bell, a summons so violent that he
took fright and hurried at once to her ladyship's
room, expecting to find her attacked by some
direful illness.

She was not ill ; but she was in a towering
rage, and turned upon her offspring as a tigress
on her cub.

Where is Stella ? ' she asked.

*I have not the faintest idea. Is she not to
be found, that you inquire so vehemently ? '

She is not to be found anywhere in this
house. She was to have read to me at half-past
nine. It is the first time she has ever disobeyed
my orders.'

She is getting too grand to obey orders. Perhaps
she has gone off with Mr. Nestorius.'

What do you mean ? '

Surely you have seen what has been going
on under your eyes. The gentleman is impressionable
— the lady artful. She has been trying
to secure a wealthy husband. She has brought

him to book, perhaps, and is off and over the
border. They can be married before a Registrar
in Brumm, or in London, tomorrow morning.'

Nestorius could not be such a madman ! '

'Who knows? He would not be the first to
count the world well lost for love. If she has
gone you may be sure he is concerned in her
departure. She would not have the pluck to go
out into the world alone — without the slightest
knowledge of life outside these walls — without
friends or money. But is it so certain that she
has bolted ? She may be only outstaying her
time with old Werner, listening to some bookish
twaddle.'

*We can very soon ascertain that,' said her
ladyship, striking the spring bell which summoned
her personal attendants.

Before it could be answered, Barker came in
with the latest intelligence.

Stella had been seen to leave the Castle with
a little carpet bag ; one of the housemaids had
met her on the back staircase and had asked
her where she was going. * Going away,' she

had answered. ' For a holiday ? ' ' For ever.' The
housemaid had concluded that Miss Boldwood had
been dismissed by her ladyship, and had not considered
it necessary to mention the fact till she
heard Barker making inquiries.

My servants are a regiment of fools,' said
Lady Lashmar. 'Pray, ab what hour did the
housemaid meet this iirirl ? '

'A little before nine o'clock.'

That will do for the present. Barker,' — whereupon
the patient Barker vanished.

'Sertorius left at seven, and was driven
straight to the station. He can have had nothing
to do with this girl's running away,' said her ladyship.


He may have inspired it, may have planned
to meet her in London.'

*Xo, Lashmar, Nestorius is above all things a
gentleman ; he would not wrong that girl even in
thought. He would not compromise her by a
scandalous elopement-or take a base advantage of
his residence in my house. You must think of
some one else.'

There is no one else. It is horrible to think
of that girl : alone, friendless, utterly ignorant of
the world, penniless, not knowing which way to
turn for a meal.'

He had been savagely angry with Stella that
afternoon, had deemed no words too hard or too
bitter, had scorned her as a schemer and an adventuress
of the lowest type; and now that she
was gone from him, for ever perhaps, utterly
beyond his reach, he thought of her in her helplessness
with strangest, tenderest pity ; thought of
her as a mother who had been led away by anger
might think of a rebellious child ; pictured her, in
her ignorance of life, falling a prey to the scoundrelism
that lurks in great cities, to the traps
and snares set for innocent feet.

We must have been infernally cruel to her,'
he exclaimed, * that she should be driven to do
this thing.'

I don't know what you mean by cruelty. For
the last two years, since she has been my reader
and secretary, she has led the life of a lady. She
has not soiled her delicate fingers. She has had

lier own sitting-room, her meals served to lier
alone, as if she had been a gentlewoman. She has
been allowed to carry on her education at her own
pleasure.'

Granted ; but have you treated her kindly ?
After all, even Boldwood's daughter is a thing
of flesh and blood, with instincts and feelings,
able to be. glad and sorry. She would encroach,
no doubt, if treated too kindly ; but do you think
we have been too unkind ? '

*I do not know what hoe may have been. I
know that for my own part 1 have always been
civil to her ? '

Civil ; yes, that is the word. But I believe
there are some natures that cannot exist upon
bare civility. There are souls which revolt against
luxuries enjoyed upon sufferance. You did not
do much to brighten her life, did you ? She had
to fall back upon books as the only possible
delight; and for a young creature to have no
other joys than she can get from books seems
rather a dreary business. You did not dress her
over-smartly either, or gratify her youthful yearning

for prettiness and bright colours. Her soul
must have sickened at that perpetual black gown

*Are you mad, Lashmar, that you preach tome
like this ? '

'Xo, I am only remorseful, very remorseful.
Great God ! if we should have driven her into
danger! Wliy, she knows no more of the outside
world than a baby. But perhaps she has only
gone to the nearest shelter; to old Werner's cottage.
I will go and hunt for her there.'

You go ? '

Yes, I would rather go myself. I shall be ina
fever till she is found. I have been a wretch,
a cold-hearted, vindictive brute. 1 have been systematically
uncivil to her ; I who know how fond
my poor brother was of her ; I who, for his sake,
ought to have been kind. She had a bad influence
upon me, somehow; she stirred something
evil in my nature. I hope I shall find her with
Veer.'

*I daresay you will, and you will exalt her
idea of her own importance by going after her in
person. You had much better send a stable boy.'

'No. I want a smoke in the open air. I'll
go myself.'

He went, being a young man who always
took his own way. It was an infinite relief to
him to get away from those cold questioning eyes
of his mother's, and to get out into the cool night
air, the fresh, free October air blowing up from
the river and swirling the newly-fallen leaves
about him as he tramped across the park. Never
had he been so disturbed in mind as he was
about the flight of this girl. She was nothing to
him, absolutely nothing, he told himself. It was
only his guilty conscience which was punishing
him. He had allowed his prejudice, his dislike,
to go too far. He had seen her suffering under
his mother's icy tyranny, and had made no
remonstrance — he who was young and prosperous
and happy had done nothing for friendless and
oppressed youth, — he who called himself a man
had never pleaded for womanhood deprived of all
womanly joys. And to-day he had gone further,
had attacked' a defenceless girl with most insulting
speech. He had been brutal, offensive, un-gentlemanlike.

What was it to him if she had
angled for a rich husband, schemed for home and
position, for all those things which had been
withheld from her? Was it his place to be
angry?

If he should find her with his brother's old
tutor, he was prepared to humiliate himself, to
apologise for his unwarrantable anger, to promise
her fairer treatment and a happier home in the
future, to pledge himself that her life as a woman
should be brighter than her girlhood had been.

The lamp was burning in the old bookworm's
parlour, but he was alone with Aristotle and the
rest of the learned dead. He had heard nothing
of Stella's flight — was in the deepest distress at
hearing of it. No, she had never told him any
of her troubles, but he knew she was not happy,
had never been happy in her home at the Castle
since her benefactor's death.

'Her ladyship has a very fine character,' he
said apologetically ; * but she has never understood
Stella. The girl is altogether exceptional;
she has genius, Lord Lashmar, original genius,

The only person who has ever understood and
appreciated her — except my humble self — is Mr.
Nestorius.'

Mr. Nestorius is in love with her,' said
Lashmar sharply. * That is what understanding
and appreciation mean in his case.'

Well, it may be so,' replied the student
thoughtfully. ' He certainly was profoundly interested
in her. He seemed to take a delight in
her society, would linger and linger when she
was here, and hang upon her words. Perhaps it
was on her account he came here so often.'

Of course it was on her account. I tell you,
Werner, he was over head and ears in love with
her.'

He is old enough to be her father.'

What of that ? A man of his temperament is
never too old to fall in love. What are we todo,
Werner ? How are we to find this girl ? '

He might as well have appealed to the shade
of Aristotle. The old man was sorely distressed
at his favourite's flight, but he had no suggestion
to offer.

'I would walk bare-foot to London, if that
would help,' he murmured.

But it wouldn't help. "WTiat we want is a
bright idea. I'll telegraph to Xestorius the first
thing tomorrow morning. If he had no hand in
her flight he may help us to find her,'

THANKS TO THE HUMAN HEART BY WHICH WE LIVE '

She had gone, she had shaken the dust of
that unfriendly home from off her feet, and had
gone out into the more unfriendly world, penniless,
without so much as the means to buy a loaf
of bread. She had left a house that had become
intolerable to her after that scene on the terrace.
Those brutal speeches of Lashmar's had stung her
like scorpions. She had not been clever enough,
riisee enough to understand that such unreasonable
anger from such a man was the highest
tribute man can pay to woman — the tribute of
passionate, unwarrantable jealousy, which implies
love as passionate. She only felt his scorn, his
injustice; and her dominant thought was to escape
from him for ever, never to see that dark,
imperious face again.

What a face it was ! She had pictured Achilles
with just those eyes, that dark, bent brow, those
scornful lips, those quivering nostrils breathing
rage, the very incarnation of anger — and Achilles,
though she could but think him an unreasonable
person, was her ideal hero. Hector, with all his
virtues, had never so deeply moved her. "While
Lashmar . was talking to Yerner, the fugitive was
far upon the road to Brumm, carrying her little
ba^j, with a change of linen and half-a-dozen of
her most cherished books — Homer, Virgil, Shakespeare.
The books made the little bag a heavy
burden for so long a distance. She shifted it
from hand to hand very often, and sometimes
almost groaned under the weight. She was tramping
on to Brumm, knowing not how she should
act when she got there. But Brumm was the
city in which her father had lived and died. He
had been known there, and had been popular
among the lower classes. Somewhere in that
great town, perhaps, she would find some one who
remembered the demagogue, and who would be
kind to his daughter. Hubert had told her once

that her father lead been a great orator, that but
for the violence of his opinions he might have
been a great politician.

It did not occur to her that she would be
pursued or hunted for by any one belonging to
the Castle. She fancied herself secure in her
insignificance. Nobody had ever cared for her
there, after the last Lord Lashmar's death. She
had been useful to her ladyship as a reading
machine, but that was all.

She had left the Castle in a tempest of angry
feeling, had left without any scheme for her
future, without thought of what she would do
with herself when she was outside those doors;
she had fled as a captive eagle escapes to the
wild sky and the trackless mountains, like that
Siberian eagle to which Lashmar had compared
her; but in the long and weary walk to Brumm,
upon the lonesome country road, under the dark
October sky, she had ample leisure to consider
her future.

The outlook was not cheerful. She had no one
in the world who could help her, unless she should

stoop to appeal to Mr. Xestorius : and lie was
just the one person to whom she felt she could
not appeal. He had asked her to be his wife,
had been eager to devote his life to her, and she
had rejected hint ; she could not ask him to
provide for her future. Her good old friend,
Werner, was as helpless as a child ; she could
not burden him, nor could she have accepted
a home under the shadow of Lashmar Castle.
Her eager desire was to escape altogether from
that old life and its association? ; to hide herself,
to lose her identity, if it were possible.

Her chief hope for the future was in her pen.
If Xestorius had not been deceived by his regard
for her, she had written a book which must
sooner or later win her fame and money. She
felt that it was in her to write many such
books — to write upon many subjects. Her pen
had been her friend and confidante for the las"
seven years. It was as natural to her to write
as to live.

Secure, therefore, of being able to earn money

in the future, to win for herself that snug little
VOL. IL L

home she had so often discussed with Betsy
Barker, she had only to bridge over the difficulties
of the present, to earn or beg a home and
a crust. Lashmar had told her that but for his
mother's charity she would in all probability
have been a factory girl. Even that thought did
not appal her. She was ready to work in any
factory that would find her employment. She
would have her evenings for her books and her
pen. Life would be harder, but not more joyless
Clan it had been at Lashmar Castle.

At last the sweet odours of the country-side,
me perfume of wildflowers, the cool freshness of
newly ploughed earth, gave place to the fumes of
furnaces, a pervading taint of soot and sulphur.
The flaring lights cf Brumm shone yellow against
the dark blue of night — the town was near at
hand. There were the wildernesses of the suburbs,
the unbuilt-upon building lots, the waste places,
the desolations, the fields that were no longer
fields, the half-finished streets to be passed ; and
then came the goal, a shabby street that seemed
endless, a straggling, sordid, hopeless-looking

street, stamped for ever as the abiding place of
labour and poverty, with here a poor little shop
and there a bloated, blazing public-house ; 'with
factories looming large and black ; factory gates
shut for the night, lamps extinguished, labour
done, and groups of men and women clustered
here and there, weary after the weary day.

It was not a pleasant place to come to for a
soul that loved the country, and had dwelt amidst
woodlands and the ripple of a river. Here was
the same river, flowing sluggishly under an old
smoke-blackened bridge, which Stella had to
cross on her way to the heart of the town. "What
a murky, hideous river it was, that stream she
had so loved ten miles nearer its source ! Could
ten miles make such a difference ?

She had been only four years old at the time
of the fire ; yet she had an instinct that told her
in which direction that great block of buildings
had stood, the big house from which she had looked
out of a window high up in the very sky, as it
had seemed to her then, a window that looked
straight out at sun or stars. She had loved to lookout

of the window in those long lonely days.
It had been her only joy when her father was
away.

She had dim memories, too, which helped her
to find the place of her infancy. She recalled
the prospect she had seen from the window in
the sky. A little way off. across a field or two
there had been a place full of white head-stones,
and funeral urns, and weeping figures in white
marble — ghosts, they had seemed to her in the
twilight. She had been scared by those white
phantoms sometimes, and had left the window
shudder"

She knew, therefore, that the huge barrack-like
lodGfiDGj-house had been on the same side of the
town as the cemetery ; and it was towards the
cemetery she made her way.

It was after eleven o'clock, and most of the
shops had closed by this time ; but at the corner
of a narrow street she found a shop-door open, and
the light shining on the pavement in front of it.
She looked in timidly, and saw two women, one
elderly and stout, the other thin and waspish

looking, of that doubtful period between eight-and-twenty
and eight-and-thirty, in which unmarried
womanhood is apt to turn to shrewishness. The
shop was of the humblest order, known as a
general shop, furnishing almost everything except
butcher's meat, and of exceeding usefulness in a poor
neighbourhood.

Stella looked from the thin daughter to the
stout mother, and it was to the latter she addressed
her questions.

There used to be a large lodging-house for
working-people near the cemetery,' she faltered.
'It was burnt down a good many years ago. Was
it ever built up again ? '

Of course it was,' answered the younger
woman sharply. ' If you'd gone twenty yards
further you'd have seen it straight before you.
It was rebuilt, and it was made twice the size
it was at the bef^inninsj.'

Was this shop here at the time of the fire ? '

Yes, twenty years before the fire,' answered
the mother. ' sly daughter was born iu this
very house. I've lived in it nearly forty years.

It was a new house when my husband came
into it, and he had to make the business hit by
bit;

As you have lived here so long, perhaps you
may remember a man called Boldwood,' said Stella
tremulously.

It was the first time she had ever pronounced
that name to a stranger. It seemed a kind of sacrilege
; but she felt that her only chance of finding a
friend in this great dreary town was through her
father's memory.

Boldwood — Jonathan Boldwood ; yes, I should
think I do remember him, drat him ! My husband
was almost cracked about that man, and used to goto
hear him at every meeting, and come home with a
pack of nonsense in his head. I hate your radicals,
always knocking everything down, and never setting
anything up. Radicals have driven all the country
gentry away from Brumm ; and there aren't half the
carriages there used to be in the streets when I was a
girl. Radicals have brought in Co-operative Stores,
and ruined small tradespeople. Radicals have sent
the English nobility abroad to spend their money,

because they don't get the respect that's due to then*
at home.'

What's this, old 2:ir], off acraiii ? I never did
hear such an old 'woman to talk politics, and knows
no more of 'em than a baby,' said a round good-natured
voice from within, and a round-faced, good-natured
looking man in shirt-sleeves and linen apron
rolled in from the little parlour behind the shop.
What's sent mother into high strikes to-night ? ' he
asked his daughter.

This young person has been asking about
Jonathan Boldwood.'

Why, what do you know of Jonathan
Bold wood, lass? '

He was my father.'

Your father ! What, are you the child
Boldwood tried to get out of the burning house
when he lost his own life, poor chap, in trying
to save the little one ? '

'Yes,' sobbed Stella.

And then the young hunchback lord saved
yuu, and took you off to Lashmar Castle, and
'adopted of you. 1 know there was no end of talk
about it at the time.'

Yes ; but he has been dead for many years,
and I have been very miserable in dependence upon
fine people.'

*Ah, there spoke old Boldwood. Xo dependence
for him. Ke was a free and noble spirit.
God bless him! They say its only Papists that
pray for the dead. Now I'm no Papist, and I'm
no churches; but I say wherever Boldwood is,
God bless him. And so you've got sick of your
fine home, lassie ; and you've come to look up
your father's old friends in Brumm ? '
Had he friends here — many friends ? '
Yes, many friends — there wasn't a workingman
in Brumm that didn't call him friend; but
not sui friends as could be of much use to him.
Most of 'em was poorer than himself. He was
proud too, and wouldn't have taken a favour from
any of us. We all knew that he had been born
a gentleman. Let's have a look at you, lass,'
scrutinising her keenly under the glare of the
unshaded gas; 'no, you're not like him— there's a
look, perhaps, only a look of him somewheres iu
the face, but it ain't so much as a likeness. Poor

Bold wood — yes, he was a grand talker, he was.
If he'd been alive now we'd have got hin into
Parliament. Wouldn't he have astonished the
milk-ands watery gentlemen who grind in that
mill. And what are you doing in Brumm at
such an hour as this, my lass ? '

I have come to look for work.'

'What kind of work?'

'Any kind that will give me food and shelter
time to find the work I can do best.'

What kind of work is that ? '

'Writing. I want to be a writer.'

She answered this strange shopkeeper a^
frankly as she would have answered an old friend.
The man had known and esteemed her father ;
and there was something in his blunt, unpolished
friendliness which gave her confidence. Perhaps
in all that big populous town she had crossed the
one threshold in which she was safest. The
grocer's daughter looked somewhat critical and
suspicious, but his wife had a kindly, motherly
air, which promised help.

A writer, ay. Bold wood was a writer. He

used to write letters to the Independent. Such
letters ! they lashed the Conservatives like a .
And so you can write, my lass.
Story-books, I suppose, and such like.'

Yes, I have written a story ; but till I can
live by my pen I want to get work in a
factory.'

'Ah, my girl, you don't look much like factory
work. Why, you look so slight one could blow
}'0U away. You look too much the lady. You'd
better have stayed at Lashmar Castle than turn
factory girl'

I could not stay there.'

They turned you adrift, perhaps. '

Xo, but the place became too hateful. Don't
question me, please ; I have done nothing wrong,
unless it was wrong to come away from a hou^rc
in which I was miserable.'

Come now, lass, did they ill-treat you, beat
you, starve you ? '

No, they only made me wretched. I suffered
patiently enough for many years ; suffered the
want of all kindness and sympathy ; but the time

came when I made up my mind not to suffer any
longer; that bread-and-water in a garret would
be better than dainty food in a grand house
where nobody loved me. I am quite a stranger,
and I shall be quite alone in this big town ; but
I shall be able to live my own life, to win independence
; I shall cease to eat the bread of
charity.'

I see, you have a proud spirit. Well, there's
some factory work that's lighter than others,
though it's all hard. I'll see if I can get you
work tomorrow, if you like It oughtn't to
be very difficult, for there isn't a Eat in Brumm
that wouldn't befriend Boldwood's daughter.'

'I shall be very grateful to you,' said Stella;
and then turning to his wife she said, * If you
would be so kind as to tell me where I can get
a respectable lodging. It must be cheap, for I
shall have no money except what I can earn."

A lodging ! Do you mean to say you have
no home in Brumm?'

Xo ; I only left Lashmar Castle this evening.
J talked all the way here. I have no money,

and unless people will trust me with a lodging
I must walk about in the fields all night'

'Or go to the casual ward at the Union.
Jonathan Boldwood's daughter shall do neither,'
said the <]frocer. 'Look here, mother, there's
Bill's room. You give this young woman a
shake-down in Bill's room. It's too late for her
to be looking for a lodging. Time enough to
think of that tomorrow morning.'

'You are very good faltered Stella.

She had been standing until this moment, her
feet aching after her long walk, her arms strained
by the weight of the little carpet bag. There
was a stool in the shop, and now she ventured
to seat herself, feeling that she was really among
friends.

Chapman, her new protector, shut and bolted
the shop door. It was a very small shop,
crowded with small wares ; odorous of cheese,
bacon, herrings, and even of onions, a rope of
which hung in a corner, in friendly neighbourhood
with a pile of quartern loaves. Pickle jars, cheap
jam, and every variety of tinned provisions with

By this time even the old-maidish daughter
had assumed a friendly air.

Come into the parlour and rest yourself she
said. ' We've had our bit of supper, but perhaps
you'd like a crust of bread and cheese.'

Of course she would,' said Chapman ; ' can't
you see how white and tired she looks poor child
regular done up. Bring out the loaf, Polly,
and a bit o' pickle, and a mug o' beer.'

*Xot any beer, thank you, just a little bit of
bread-and-butter, if you please.'

The little parlour was neatly kept. There
was a stand of geraniums in front of the window,
with a bird-cage hanging over it. The room had
a curious look to Stella after the stately splendours
amidst which she had lived, but it was
more home-like than the still-room at Lashmar,
and she liked the Chapmanss better than the upper
and under housemaids with whom she had spent
one weary period of her life.

Polly's heart softened to her as she sat there
ill the gas-light, looking so pale, and faint,
and helpless, so utterly different from the robust
young women and the obese matrons who
patronised Mr. Chapman's shop. She looked like
some wan, white flower that had grown in the
depths of a wood, remote from the sun. Polly
was a devourer of periodical literature, and she
began to imagine a romantic history for Boldwood*s
daughter, who had come in among them in
such a sudden mysterious way. The name ont
history of Jonathan Logwood were not unknown
to Miss Chapman. She had gone with
her father to hear the demagogue at open-air
meetings, when she was a young girl. She had
been moved by the enthusiasm of the crowd, and
had felt that this strong, rugged-looking man,
with the deep sonorous voice, was in some wise
a hero, and had admired him, hardly knowing why.
And now she looked with interest at this girl
with the large dark eyes and small pale face,
which in its delicate fashioning had a deeper charm
than mere sensuous beauty. She seated herself

on the little liorse-Iiiur sofa bells Stella, and drew
closer to her, while Mrs. Chapman was bustling
about between the table and the cupboard where
the provisions were kept.

'It must have been very nice living at Lashmar
Castle,' she said, devouring Stella with her keen,
inquisitive eyes. * I saw the place on the outside,
and the gardens and statues and fountains and things,
one bank holiday, when a lot of us drove that
way in a break, and tea'd at the inn in the village.
What a lovely old house! I don't think I should
have wanted to run away from such a home as
that

I don't think you would have been happy ina
house where nobody cared for you.'

Ah, but didn't somebody care for you — wasn't
there some one who cared too much, perhaps —
some one above you in station — a lord, perhaps —
some one you could have loved with all your heart
only you mustn't ? '

'I don't know what you mean,' answered
Stella, drawing herself up haughtily, and beginning
to think that Miss Chapman was even worse than

the housemaids. ' The only person I ever loved
in that house was the last Lord Lashmar, who
died when I was a child.'

Ah, he was good to you, wasn't he ? I've
heard the story many a time — just like a novel,
only it goes to one's heart more. But the present
Lord Lashmc.r ? Hasn't he been kind to you ?
What a fine man he is ! I've seen him drive his
four-in-hand through Brumm. Such a handsome
fellow, just what a lord ought to be. Wasn't he
kind, like his brother?'

He was the very opposite of his brother in
every way. Please don't talk about him.'

Don't tease her, Polly,' said the mother,
cutting a slice of bread-and-butter : ' don't you see
how tired she is, poor child ? and she don't want
to be worried. Now, my dear, try and eat a bit
of supper, while I go up and get your room ready.
It's clean anyhow. That I'll answer for.'

The little bedroom on the half flight, which
had been the son's room — son now away on a big
engineering job in the Mediterranean — was as
clean as soap and water and unstinted labour

could make it. Stella lay down to .rest in the
narrow bed, so utterly weary that she felt like a
child in its mother's lap, helpless, careless almost
of all things except that sweet sense of rest, un-anxious
as to what the morrow might bring forth,
leaving all to Providence, which had been so kind
to her to-night. The room was very small : it
seemed to Stella like a box, the sides of which
were close enough for her to touch with her outspread
hands; but it was a friendly shelter, and
she was too tired to wonder at being in a strange
place.

She slept deliciously till seven, when she was
awakened by much movement in the house. She
got up and dressed herself and went downstairs,
where she found the Chapman family breakfasting ina
snug little kitchen, with whitewashed walls and
a dresser rich in cheap crockery. Stella was
welcomed to the breakfast-table, and introduced to
the family cat, which was a personage of distinction
in the household, and which took kindly
to the stranger.

They know their friends,' said the good-natured

VOL. II. M

Chapman. ' I've seen that cat swell out his tail as
thick as a German sausage at the sight of a
stranger; and spit and snarl he do, as bad as a
rattlesnake. Don't you, Tom?'

Tom rubbed himself against his patron's legs
in acknowledgment of this idiosyncrasy. He was
black and big and sleek, and had white stockings
of miraculous purity, considering that he spent
most of his life under the grate.

'Do you know, Miss Boldwood,' began the
grocer, in a hearty tone, * me and my missus
and Polly here have just had our little mag
about you ; and we've come to the conclusion that
there ain't no use in your writing about factory
work. It ain't in your line, and you wouldn't dono
good at it. What is there now as you could
do ? There's pens — and there's pins — and there's
lucifers. Fancy them pretty little fingers toiling
at lucifers ! You wouldn't be half as clever at it
as the Lrumm girls who've done it from their
cradles. You'd find you wasn't in it, as the saying
is, and you'd feel humiliated and down-hearted.


'I must bear that,' said Stella firmly. 'I
have to earn my bread somehow.'

Somehow, yes, that's where it is. You ain't
bound to earn your bread in a factory. If you
feel it's in you to write pretty stories, and make
your name as a writer, why not begin at it ? '

Stella sighed and shook her head.

I've read over and over again of the difficulty
of befjinninof suck a life she said. ' It is almost
impossible to earn a living at the first. There
must be years wasted — a long apprenticeship to
labour, disappointment, and dependence. Now, I
have no one to help me. I must earn my bread
while I am try in <]^ to write something that may
bring me money later.'

Ah, but you can't do that while you're earning
your bread in a factory, my lass,' said Chapman:
don't dream of such a thing. It ain't to be done.
A factory will take it out of you. There'll be
nothing left in you for inventing pretty stories.
Now if you could get a bit of copying to doit
'ud be different.'

There is a common idea that money may

always be made by copying or translating. People
have the vaguest notion of what there is to be
translated or copied. No one asks himself or
herself why this perennial flow of Trench novels
or legal documents — whence they come and whither
they go ? — but the idea prevails that the woman
who can put French into English, or copy a
manuscript in a fair round hand, may always find
genteel employment.

Yes, I could do copying or translating,'
answered Stella. ' I know two or three languages
French, German, Italian, Latin, and Greek.'

Lord a' mercy on us ! '

One language helps another when one is fond
of languages,' said Stella modestly. ' Lord Lash-rear
taught me the beginning ; and when he was
gone, I taught myself. My books were my only
friends.'

"Why, you ought to be able to make a fortune.'

And you have written stories ? ' asked Polly
deeply interested — * regular novels ? '

Not so long as ordinary novels. Stories about
as long as one volume of a novel. They are very

foolish, I dare say ; but it was a kind of happiness
to me to write them. They took me out
of my own life.'

Yes, I can understand that,' said Polly': ' they
lifted you up into a different world where all
things were beautiful. I have felt that often when
I have been reading — sitting here in this little
kitchen ! have fancied myself in some lovely
drawings-room where the curtains were all velvet
and lace, and where the ladies threw out a cloud
of perfume as they glided about — and where there
was the sound of a fountain from the conservatory,
and palms. I do so love palms ! I never saw one,
but the very look of the word is lovely. And then
when I look up and see this old kitchen of ours,
and the Dutch clock, and the warming-pan there,
all so common and homely, I feel as if I had
wakened out of a delicious dream.'

Yes, and that's how you neglect the housework,
or let any one stand in the shop till they're
tired o' waiting to be served,' said the practical
Mrs. Chapman. ' I do think as how novel-reading
is the bane of a young woman's life.

There's times for everything, and novel reading
ain't no harm at the proper time,' said the more
liberal husband. ' Of an evening, when the day's
work is pretty well over, I'd rather see my daughter
with her nose in a novel, than hear her wag her
tongue about her neighbours, and talk of things
which she didn't ought even to know about, much
less talk of A novel's safer reading for a respectable
young female than a newspaper any day.'

Have you your stories with you ? ' asked
Polly.

Stella blushed at the question.
'Yes, I brought all my papers with me in
that little carpet bag.'

Would you mind letting me read one ? I'm
not much of a judge, but I've read a good many
novels that I've got from the Free Library,' pleaded
Polly.

If you would like to read one — '

I should cf all things : and, father, don't you
think Jem Barsby might help Miss Boldwood in
some way. lie's a clever young man, and they
think a lot of him at the office.'

Jem Barsby was a hanger-on or admirer of
Polly's, who was not actually engaged to her, had
not been promoted to the proud position of keeping
company, but who was allowed to walk out with
her occasionally, as a worthy young man, who
knew his place and might be trusted, which confidence,
seeing that Polly was seven years his
senior, was not undeserved.

Jem was a printer's reader and factotum at the
office of the Independent, and ranked as a literary
man among the Chapmanss and their circle.

Now it seemed to Polly that Jem's influence
ought to smooth the paths of literature for any
beginner.

Do let me have a read of one of your stories,'
entreated Polly.

I tell you what it is, Miss Boldwood, you'd
better stay with us for a week or two, while you
look about you,' said honest Chapman. 'Jonathan
Boldwood's daughter shall never want for a home
while I've a roof over my head. ye're homely
people, mother and me ; but I'olly there has cultivated
her mind a bit, and shell be company for

you. Stay with us as long as you like, my
dear.'

Mrs. Chapman added a kindly word of lier
own to confirm the invitation, and Polly put lier
arm round Stella's neck and kissed her.

I don't often take to anyone, but I have took
to yop,' she said ; ' and I think it's because you've
got a mind. I worship mind.'

Stella's eyes filled with sudden tears.

You are all so good to me,' she faltered, ' and
I value your kindness all the more because it is
given for my father's sake — my dear father, whose
face I can hardly remember. Till yesterday I
used to hope and dream about seeing him again
that he would come back to me from the other
side of the world — and yesterday I was told low
he died in the attempt to save me.'

She burst into a passionate fit of sobbing, and
it was some minutes before she could tranquillise
herself, even with the aid of Tolly's comforting hugs

*Yes, I will stay with you, if I may, kindest
friends,' she said ; ' I shall be happier— more at
peace here than I can be anywhere else.'

More at peace, yes ! it was peace she sighed
for. At the Castle lie had not been at peace.
There hed been a passionate revolt for ever going
on in lier soul, a revolt against that servitude
which she bore so meekly, a sense of wounded
pride which a princess of the blood royal might
have felt. And she had never suffered that agony
of inward shame so acutely as when Victorian was
at the Castle, this very presence under that roof
moved her to rebellion.

So the friendly compact between the demagogue's
daughter and that honest and somewhat
mild Radical, Mr. Chapman, was sealed. Stella
was to occupy the little room on the half-flight
as long as she liked, and was to have as mam-little
stone bottles of ink out of the shop, and
as many of those steel nibs, which Mr. Chapman
bought at sentence a gross and retailed at four
a penny, as ever she chose to consume ; she was
to be free from the burden of sordid daily cares, and
might scribble away to her heart's content, filling
the little room with spirits as vast and wonderful
as the Afritc tl:.it came out of the fisherman's bottle.

Polly spent the whole day devouring a manuscript
story, and wholly absorbed in the fiction,
and even offering the writer the tribute of an
occasional tear.

Jem Barsby dropped in at tea-time — not the
elegant five o'clock tea of polite life, but a solid
seven o'clock meal which marked the close of the
day's labour, and served at once for tea and
supper. At this autumnal season sausages were
supposed to be in their prime, and bloaters still
meritorious. Very savoury was the board which
Mrs. Chapman spread in her cosy little kitchen
where the family meals were usually eaten ; with
one ceremonious exception made in favour of
Sunday tea, which was always served in the parlour.

Jem listened intently to the account of Miss
Boldwood's literary proclivities, and to Polly's
glowing description of the story she had just been
reading.

We ought to be able to find something for
you to do at our place,' said Jem grandly, with
the air of a sub-editor at the very least. ' Do
you think you could manage a London letter ? '

'Lor,' Jem, why, she's never been in London
in her life.'

'Ah,' sighed Mr. Barsby, 'that's against it,
ain't it ? — or else if she had a nice smart way of
putting any little bit of news or scandal she could
pick up, I might get our folks to start a " Lounger
at the Clubs," don't you see ?'

The Chapmanss saw the possibility of this, had
Stella been altogether a different person.

Or if she'd been thoroughly up to trap about
the theatres, now ! Half a column of green-room
gossip three times a week would go down like
butter-scotch with our subscribers.'

But, my dear Jem,' remonstrated Polly, vexed
at her admirer's obtuseness, 'Miss Boldwood is a
novelist — a born novelist. She has written the
loveliest story I have read for ever so long.'

Ah : but that's a big line. I don't see a
chance for her with that game. Why, our proprietors
give their thousands and fifteen hundreds
down for a foolUton, and they want big names.
If she were only to make a success now, they'd
have her tomorrow. Perhaps if she was to knock

off a little story for the Christmas Number I
might get our chief to look at it : and if he were
to like it, and could find room for it : there'd bea
fi'pun' note in Miss Boldwood's pocket, and it
would be getting in the thin end of the wedge
into the bargain.'

I'll try,' said Stella ; ' it is very kind of you
to interest yourself for me.'

THE Oracles AEE DUMB.'

Lord Lashmae's telegram to Mr. Nestorius, sent
as soon as the village post-office opened on the
morning after Stella's flight, brought no reply
until late in the afternoon, when there came an
answer from a ducal seat in the neighbourhood of
Edinburgh, to the effect that Mr. Xestorius would
be at Lashmar Castle next morning.

He is not afraid to face us,' said Lashmar,
relieved by this reply ; for in spite of her ladyship's
conviction to the contrary, he had been
tortured all last night and all that day by a
rankling suspicion that Xestorius had induced
Stella to elope with him, and that his intentions
were not altogether honourable.

Lady Carminow did not attempt to hide her

disgust at the fuss that was being made about
Stella's flight.

I had no idea that Lady Lashmar's reading
girl was the most important person in the house
she said at luncheon, when Lashmar, who was
utterly unskilled in concealing his feelings, fretted
and fumed at the non-arrival of any reply to his
telegram, and the non-result of his own inquiries
in Brumm, where he had spent the morning
tramping about with a detective.

She is very important to my mother,' answered
Lashmar moodily ; ' no one else can read as well ;
and to be read to is the only relief for my
mother's nerves.'

You should write to ]airs. Dallas for a good
reader. I daresay in her elocution classes she hasa
dozen girls who can read better than Miss
Boldwood.'

I doubt it : with her reading was a gift —
voice, enunciation, all were perfect. To hear her
read Milton was like church music. I happened
to go into her ladyship's room one morning in
the middle of " Lycidas," and I stopped on

the threshold, spell-bound, till the poem was
finished.'

*\Yhat a pity you did not secure her by a
more binding engagement sneered Clarice ; * you
should have made her Lady Lashmar, and then
she would have been always on the spot to read
to you and your mother.'

Lady Carminow's womanly instinct understood
Lashmar's feelings better than he did himself.
She had not been without suspicions upon the
subject before to-day. There had been something
in his manner of speaking about Stella that indicated
hidden fires. And to-day she knew for
certain that he had fallen iu hoe with the
creature, was under the very same unholy influence
that had bewitched Nestorius, the charm of
a pale, strange loveliness, and eyes of dark, unfathomable
depth.

Lashmar reddened angrily, but refrained from
speech.

Why didn't you consult a clairvoyant ? * drawled
Mrs, Vavasour. ' You would only have to take
a bit of one of the young woman's frocks to a

good clairvoyant and lie or she would be able to tell
you where this young person is and all about
her.'

Unhappily I have not any good clairvoyant
in my visiting book answered Lashmar curtly.

Oh, but there must be one in Brumm ; there
are always clairvoyants everywhere. Instead of
going about that great straggling place with a
stupid detective you should have found a clairvoyant,
and had her — the best are always women
put into a mesmeric trance.'

'There may be something in your idea, Mrs.
Vavasour,' Lashmar replied more amiably. * I'll go
over to Brumm this afternoon, and hunt for some
modern Witch of Ensor. If I am imposed upon,
it will be only so much time wasted. Nothing
could have been more hopeless than my exploration
with the detective.'

I cannot help being amused at your simplicity
in supposing that this young person has gone no
further than the nearest town,' exclaimed Clarice,
with open scorn. * Is it not much more likely that
she is in London or Paris ? '

If you will take the trouble to comprehend
that she had absolutely no money when she left
the Castle ' began Lashmar angrily.

'But I cannot comprehend that. She may
have had no money from you, or from her ladyship;
but is it so certain that she could not get
money from some one else ? I am sure, judging by
Mr, Nestorius's air when those two were walking
in the park together at dusk the other evening,
if she had said " Lend me fifty pounds," he would
have rushed to his cheque-book that instant.'

I do not think — little as I know of her — that
she would ask Mr. Nestorius for fifty pounds, or
for five pounds.'

Yet the suggestion startled him, remembering
that little scene on the terrace, which implied
some very warm feeling, such as grateful affection,
for instance, on Stella's part. Perhaps she had
taken a gift of money from Mr. Nestorius in
order to flee away from a hateful bondage.

'Whatever evil thing she has done, or whatever
harm may happen to her, it all must lie at our
door,' he thought, meaning himself and his mother.

VOL, IT, N

Lady Laslimar had not appeared that day. She
was much troubled by Stella's flight, and sorely
missed her quiet ministrations ; but she was
troubled far more by the way in which Victorian
had taken the event. Why should he be so
grieved, so angry ? He, who had affected to
despise and dislike his dead brother's protegee

That sucfLrestion about the mesmerist came
from a very foolish person, and was, doubtless,
utterly foolish in itself; but Lashmar had fretted
himself into a mood in which he felt that he
must be doing something, no matter what, by way
of hunting after the missing girl. Yes, he would
go and lind out a clairvoyant, if there were
indeed such a person to be found in Brumm.
Natural means having failed, he would try the
supernatural. lie ordered his phaeton, and then
went oir in quest of that scrap of raiment or personal
belonging which Mrs. Vavasour had told
him would be necessary to bring the seer en
rapport with the subject of her search.

Thinking over the past, that long-ago period
of his half-brother's death and his own sudden

elevation from the playing fields of Eton to the
ownership of Lashmar and all its belongings, he
reoierabered the orphan girl's dangerous illness
and Betty's devotion to her. He had seen Betty
about the house from time to tine, and her
appearance had always recalled that tower room
and a conversation between him and his mother
one stormy afternoon, while the child lay in the
inner chamber, ill of brain fever. Recalling that
conversation now, he remembered his own hardness,
his utter want of sympathy with that young
life — his powerlessness to comprehend the greatness
of her loss. He had urged his mother to
send her to some orphanage or charity school, he
remembered ; and it had seemed to him that it
would be sufficient for her to be well fed and
decently clad in some school uniform, and taught
the humblest drudgery, by which she might earn
her bread when she came to womanhood.

Yes, he had been hard, unsympathetic, cruel, with
the inherent cruelty of selfish boyhood. How different
from that tender nature of his brother's, which he
had once despised and which he now began to admire.

He went to the corridor outside her ladyship's
rooms, and knocked at the door of that small
apartment which was sacred to Barker.

I want to see your niece, Barker ; the young
woman who used to look after Stella.'

Betty was sent for, and appeared with swollen
eyelids and all the traces of a night of tears.

What have you been crying about ? ' asked
his lordship sternly.

I could not help it, my lord ; it was such a
blow If she should have drowned herself '

Drowned herself ! ' cried Lashmar, in an awful
voice. ' How dare you say such a thing ? '

Drowned herself ! His heart seemed to stop
beating at the thought of such a calamity. A
girl driven from that house by a long series of
unkindness on his mother's part, sheer brutality
on his own side ; by cruel speeches and shameful
taunts ; driven to suicide as the nearest, easiest
refuge. The river was so near; and she had so
loved the river, had spent so many a summer day
upon that tranquil stream ! How well he remembered
seeing her sitting in the sunshine, a childish

little figure, squatting on a Persian rug at the
bottom of the punt, while Hubert reclined near
her, surrounded with books, lounging through the
summer day in studious indolence. Victorian had
passed them many a time among the rushes,
wandering with his rod, fly-fishing, scorning his
brother's repose, wondering at the smoothness of
a man who could spend his days in the company
of a child and a dog or two.

Drowned herself! He recalled the deadly pallor
of her face, the angry light in her eyes as she
told him that she was ^oimj, to ' march.' What
if that pale intent look heralded a desperate
resolve ? And then memory went farther back,
and recalled the scene of seven years ago, when
he had turned her out of the Library because she
had been rude to Clarice. What a wretch he
had been to her from the very beginning ! He
could respect her now for having repulsed Clarice's
velvety caress and soft purring pity. Those
childish eyes had seen into the artificiality of the
young beauty's character, had not been hoodwinked
by sweet false smiles.

Drowned herself ! No, he would not think that
dark thought. And yet vivid imagination pictured
her lying among the rushes, her streaming hair
caught and tangled amidst the wild sweet flowers
that thrive beside the river, those starry eyes,
glazed in death, gazing upward to their kindred
stars ! Oh, God ! if lie had done this thing,
driven to that wild act by his foul tongue,
would he not stand for ever accursed as her
murderer — as a fool who had a precious jewel
left in his care, and who trampled upon it and
flung it away ?

I will have the river dragged to-night,* he
thought, * secretly, after dark. I'll go out with
the men myself. There shall be no talk, no
scandal.'

Then, after a hurried turn or two in the
corridor, he went back to the spot where he had
left Betty, who had been quietly crying and
wiping her poor inflamed eyes all the time.

I want you to give me something that
belonged to Miss Bold wood,' he said : * something
she has worn, or was fond of.'

Betty stared at him ia Blank wonder. What
motive could he have in asking such a thing, he
who had never shown the slightest kindness to
her poor dear ?

But Betty came of a race in whom obedience
to superiors was an instinct, and she did her best
to comply with his lordship's strange demand.

Perhaps you would like to see her old
rooms?' she faltered. 'There's lots of things
beloniriDcr to her there.'

Yes, let me see the rooms.*

He ran up to the tower, followed breathlessly
by Betty. The rooms had been left undisturbed.
Lashmar Castle had never been so full of visitors
as to necessitate the occupation of this tower.
The sitting-room and bedroom were exactly as
they had been in Stella's childhood. Stella's
pretty little white-curtained bed stood ghostlike
in one corner, and there was Betty's simple
pallet in another. There, too, in sitting-room
and bedroom were all those toys and ornaments
which Hubert had lavished on his adopted
daughter : the peacock's feathers, and Indian fans,

and Chinese slippers, and ivory chessmen, and
the silver casket with its modest collection of
trinkets.

There's been nothing touched since his
lordship died,' said Betty.

You mean that Stella never had any of these
things in her possession after my brother's death ? '
interrogated Lashmar.

No, my lord. Her ladyship sent her to sleep
in the housemaids' dormitory at the other end of
the Castle ; and this room has been kept locked
up ever since. Her ladyship thought the rooms
might be wanted some day for visitors, and then
there were alterations to be made ; but till her
ladyship gave fresh orders everything was to be
left as it was.'

But these things belong to Miss Boldwood,'
said Lashmar : ' they are her personal property.'

They were certainly given to her,' replied
Betty meekly ; * but with a child of her age of
course that doesn't count.'

But it does count,' muttered Laslimar ;
nobody has the right to break faith with a child.

If my brother gave her these things they were
hers.'

It was her ladyship's wish that nothing should
be removed from this room,' said Betty, * and there
the things are just as they were left after his
lordship's death. I did take upon myself to
bring away a few books : she fretted after her books
so sadly, poor child, and her books were the only
pleasure she had. Suc'i a child to read and such
a child to learn I never saw. Night after night
she used to sit up, with her poor little ends of
candle — the half-burned candles are the under-butler's
perquisites, you know, my lord, and he
used to give me a few odd bits — poring over her
grammars and her dictionaries, till I thought she'd
wear her poor eyes out. And at the same time she
did all the sewing that was required of her, and
never disobeyed the head-housemaid in anything.
It was a hard life for such a young creature to
lead.'

Yes, it was too hard a life. Her ladyship
should have sent her to school. This was no place
for her,' said Lashmar shortly.

He did not want to impugn his mother's
conduct, least of all in the hearing of a servant.
And yet he felt there had been cruelty. lie
recalled that stormy afternoon — the last — the only
time he had ever been in this room — and that
he himself in hardness had out-herded Herod.
He had been even more cruel than his mother
had suggested some charitable institution, poor
food and coarse raiment, daily toil and the livery
of dependence. He lead thought anything good
enough for that life with which he had no
sympathy. It had never entered into his thoughts
that this existence, which lie would have dealt
with offhand, was gifted with exceptional intellect,
richly endowed by nature, and of a force to stand
against unmerited misfortune. He recalled that
tall, willowy form, the perfect carriage of the
head, the grace and dignity of every movement.
Expression and ill-usage had been powerless to
degrade nature's gifts. The girl had grown up
a lady in spite of her surroundings. Tyranny
had failed to humiliate her.

No, she has not destroyed herself,' he thought.

He would not let liiraself tliiuk so poorly of
her. Such a ricci young life would not be
lightly Hung away at the first keen sense of
wrong. A girl who had endured years of bondage
and risen superior to all repressing influences was
not likely to drown herself in a fit of temper.

Miss Boldwood took a bag away with her,'
he said, after a long silence, during which he had
been looking idly at those objects which had
been the treasures of a happy childhood : the
trinkets and playthings and curiosities from far-off
lauds. 'Do you know what was in it?'

'Only a few of her books, my lord, just those
she was fondest of — I miss them off the shelf
in her room — and a change of clothes, perhaps —
nothing more. It was only a small carpet bag.'

I should not think her wardrobe was very
extensive,' said Lash mar. ' She always wore the
same gown.'

'She had just the same as the rest of us, my
lord. Three gowns a year — two every day and one
uttermost.'

One uttermost gown ! Oh, the pretty

vanities of girlhood ! To be reduced to this ! Oh !
shade of Queen Elizabeth, with a hundred gowns
in her wardrobe what time grim death snatched
her from need of earthly raiment, save one poor
garment of woollen ! One uttermost black stuff
gown in a year, and two for common wear, * the
same as the rest of us,' which meant upper and
under housemaids : perhaps the very scullery and
vegetable maids had as much in the republic
of servitude. No wonder she had fled from
such barbarity. No wonder either that she lead
angled for a rich husband.

I want you to give me a piece of one of her
every-day gowns,' said Lashmar, approaching the
subject somewhat awkwardly ; 'just a scrap of the
stuff, cut off anywhere — a cuff, for instance.'

Yes,' my lord, answered Betty, as if he lead
asked for a glass of water.

You can go and fetch it while I stay here.'
Betty curtseyed and went off to obey.

He was glad to be alone in this tower sitting-room
; to be free to walk to and fro and look about
him : out of the window yonder, over the elm

tree tops towards the blue broad reach of river ;
or at the bookshelves aud dainty contrivances
within; the work baskets, aud desk, aud picture
books, and the life-size photograph of his dead
brother yonder — only the fine intellectual head,
looking out of a dark background.

No wonder she loved him : no wonder she
hates me,' he said to himself.

Betty came back with a black merino cuff cut
neatly off the sleeve, and pinned in a sheet of
note-paper.

'This came off one of her every-day gowns,
I suppose, one that she has worn a good deal.*

Yes, sir, I took it off the oldest of her gowns.
The stuff is almost threadbare.'

'That will do.'

He put it in his pocket, wondering what the
discreet Betty was thinking behind that serious
countenance of hers. The phaeton was at the door
when he went down to the hall. He only stopped
to inquire if there were any telegrams ; and finding
no tidings from the suspected Nestorius he drove
off at once on his way back to Brumm.

On arriving at that commercial centre, Lord
Lashmar went straight to the police-station. Had
there been any news of the niiosiug girl since
the morning ? Xo, there had been nothing heard
of any young person answering to the description.
The want of a photograph of the party was
mentioned as a stumbling block. The police-officer
seemed to consider it strange and even
scandalous that in a Christian land any young
woman could have grown up without having
been photographed.

Lashmar asked if there were any person professing
to be a clairvoyant resident in Brumm.

The sergeant thought not. Clairvoyance was out
of date. Mediums and thought readers and gentlemen
who wrote upon slates were all the rage
now-a-days. There was no call for clairvoyants.
There wasn't a living to be made in that line.

Much disgusted at these replies, Lord Lashmar
drove off to the hospital, where he saw the head
physician. That gentleman was not an enthusiastic
believer in mesmerism or any ism of a distinctly
unprofessional character. He had heard of uu

professed mesmerism or clairvoyant in that part of
the world of late years, * and a good job too he
added bluntly.

Lashmar drove off, still more disgusted : he had
expected broader views from the faculty. He had
the threadbare black cuff in his breast pocket, just
above his heart ; but where was the gifted creature
who could give him tidings of her who had worn it ?
Why could not he, who was so intensely troubled by
this girl's disappearance, project his mind into space
and seek her out wherever she might be ? "What
poor creatures we are, hemmed in for ever by the
narrow precincts of actual existence !

There was nothing for him to do but to go back
to the Castle, as soon as his horses' mouths had been
washed out.

He left the phaeton in the hotel yard and
sauntered listlessly along the street, looking at shop
windows and window-bills in sheer vacancy of
mind ; and it was in this condition that he almost
ran into this old acquaintance, Mr. Stokes, of
Avondale, the family practitioner, who attended
Lady Lashmar in all her slighter disorders, and

lias even been allowed to sue lit Idd^sliip'ti only
son safely through the regulation diseases of
childhood. Stokes was an enthusiastic angler,
and he and Victorian had often gone fly-fishing
together in the Etonian's summer holidays.

You are the very person I want to see,' said
Stokes. ' I heard of you at the hospital just now,
inquiring for a mesmerist. I'd been up thereto
see one of my parishioners in the surgical
ward : compound fracture — very pretty case ; and
old Petty fer told me you had been inquiring fora
mesmerist. What a very odd game ! '

'It isn't a game at all,' answered Lashmar with
an irritated air, not at all relishing Stokes's lightmindedness.
* I have a particular reason for
wanting to find a mesmerist, and I thought Dr.
Prettier a prejudiced old fool.'

'He is,' answered Stokes pleasantly. * You
were quite right there. I don't know anything
about mesmerism now-a-days. We seem to
have gone beyond it, somehow. But if a medium
can be of any use to you, I think I can introduce
you to one of the best in England, I was going

to the Lion ou the chance of finding you when
you very nearly capsized me.'

How kind of you, Stokes. A medium { You
mean spirit-rapping, and that kind of thing ? '

I believe it is something in that way. I have
never seen the young lady perform, but I am
told she is really wonderful.'

Is she a public performer — a person who
exhibits her supernatural powers for money ? '

Nothing of the kind. She is a young woman
who lives with a very eccentric old lady on the
outskirts of this town ; an old lady who used to
live near Avondale, and whom I have known
from my boyhood. She was my father's patient,
and she is my patient, and she's as mad as a March
hare, but perfectly harmless. Her latest craze,
taken up nearly twenty years ago, is Spiritualism.
She discovered remarkable gifts in a little girl
who used to run errands for her dressmaker
motherless and fatherless waif, of whose actual
parentage nobody can give any account. Old
Mr?. Minchin was so struck with this child, then
about nine years old, that she adopted her, and

YQL. II.

the two have been playing the queerest pranks
in the spiritualistic line ever since. The old lady
is as tough as crocodile's hide, and is likely to
live well on into her second century ; but I'm
afraid the girl is doomed. She is highly hysterical,
and slightly epileptic ; and I believe she has
worn out her young life in calling up spirits
for old Mrs. Minchin. If you would like to
see her '

I should above all things interrupted Lashmar.

I think I can manage it. Have you time to
drive as far as Thorleigh ? '

Thorleigh was one of the genteel suburbs of
Brumm, on the edge of the country. Time indeed ?
Lashmar felt as if he had time to q;o to the moon.

He took the doctor back to the hotel, and they
both got into the phaeton and drove off to
Thorleigh to see what could be done with old
Mrs. Minchin, who was not always disposed to be
civil or communicative. Her moods were understood
to depend on the spirits. "When they were
placable she ran over with amiability.

Lashmar had always ridiculed spiritualistic performances

and pretensions of all kinds. For
mesmerism or clairvoyance he had a faint, half-hearted
belief ; but for the floaters in the air, and the
sappers on the underside of tables, and the flourishes
of spirit hands — generally turning out on investigation
to be mortal feet — he had no respect whatever.
And yet so weak is humanity, that, impelled
as it were by that threadbare cuff in his breast
pocket, he burned with impatience to behold and
to interrogate Mrs, Minchin's supernaturally endowed
protegee.

Beyond the modern suburb of Thorleigh, with
its smart villas suggestive of retired tradesmen,
there was a straggling old village of shabbiest
cottages, and beyond the village there was a bleat;
stretch of common, and on one side of roscommon,
remote from the high road, and
approachable only by a muddy lane, stood the
house of Mrs. Minchin.

It was an old and gloomy-looking house, ina
large neglected garden, and seemed altogether
a fitting tabernacle for wandering spirits to go in
and out of. Lashmar and Stokes were shown into

the most dismal (Irawiug-rooiu the former had ever
seen — a large low room with a faded wall paper,
and furniture of the ponderous school, just old
enough to be hideous, and not old enough to be
interesting. There was no fire, and the room
smelt of mildew.

Here they waited a quarter of an hour in the
hope of at least seeing Mrs. Minchin, if not the
medium; but the elderly parlour-maid, who had
token Mr. Stokes's message, reappeared after that
lapse of time and informed him that Mrs. Minchin
was engaged in a stance, and could not see anyone
that evening.

It was almost as much as my place was
worth to knock at her door with your message,'
she told the doctor, 'but I was anxious to oblige
you. She will see Lord Lash mar tomorrow
afternoon at four o'clock, if he would like to call.'

Lashmar begged the servant to tell Mrs.
Minchin that he would wait upon her at four
o'clock precisely ; but that if she could find it in
her heart to receive him sooner a telegram to
that effect would add to his sense of obligation.

And you can tell your mistress that
his lordship is a staunch believer,' added
Stokes.

NothiuLj would induce her to see liii if she
didn't think that answered the servant. ' We all
have to be believers here.'

What, the cook and all ? ' asked Lasbmar,
tickled in spite of himself at the idea of a
household of spiritualists.

'Oh, yes, my lord, cook's a believer. But
cooking don't count for much in this house, and
no cook would stay here that wanted to keep
her hand in. I don't think missus ever knows
what she is eating.'

There was no more to be done. Lord Lashmar
left his card — which would have been a thin'^^
of beauty and a joy for ever to any householder
in those smart villas yonder, but which was as
nought to a lady who had intimate relations with
far more distinguished members of the peerage : to
wit, Lord Bacon, Lord Byron, and Lord Brougham,
with the last of ^\hom she had held iona
conversations as to his conduct in the famous

Caroline trial, while the poet had apologised to
lier for the holier passages of his ' Don Juan,'
and the philosopher had communicated newly
developed theories which went far beyond anything
in his published works.

Lashmar drove Mr. Stokes back to Avondale
through the autumn dusk, amidst odours of damp
fallen leave?, newly upturned earth, and weed
burning.

'How is your poor brother's prott'<jky the little
maid I attended through a bad attack of brain
fever?' asked Stokes by-and-by, for the sake of
conversation. * I was surprised tu see what a
fine-grown young woman she had become, when
I met her in the park the other day.'

Lashmar felt glad that his countenance was
hidden by the shades of night as he answered :

Well, the fact is we are in some trouble about
her. She has chosen to leave us abruptly,
without explanation or apology ; and — and — weare
infernally anxious about her,' added Lashmar,
forgetting himself.

*0h, but I don't see why you should be

anxious. If she has acted ungratefully that is
her look out. I suppose she has gone to some
situation that she likes better. Girls are so
frivolous. But I am disappointed in her ; for I
always thought her a head and shoulders above
the common type of girl.'

'IT MEANS THAT I AM A BRUTE.'

Mk. Nestorius's telegram was in the hall when
Lord Lashmar returned to the Castle, and Nestorius
himself arrived at half-past nine o'clock next
morning, startling the select few who remained
after the shooters had gone off to their sport.
Neither Lady Carminow nor sirs. Vavasour appeared
at this early meal, and Lady Sophia always accompanied
the shooters when there was no hunting ;
so the select few on this occasion consisted of Lord
Lashmar, Mrs. Mulciber, and Captain Vavasour,
who had stayed at home to work at a new novel
in which all his dramatis persons were gradually
coming to life at an average of eleven descriptive
pages for every character.

On these burst Nestorius, haggard and pallid
after a sleepless night in the Scotch mail.

Have you found her ? ' he asked agitatedly.

Xo, nor any tidings of her,' answered Lashmar,
rising. * If you will come to the library I will tell
you what I have been doing.'

Mrs. Mulciber looked deep' disappointed. She
liked to have her finger in every family pie, and
she thought she knew a good deal more about Mr.
Nestorius's feelings for the missing girl than anybody
else in the Castle. She was eager to comfort
and give advice, to make the statesman her own in his
hour of trouble, just as she had so impounded many
other important personages; but here was Lashmar
carrying off her prey.

She started up from her chair, and moved quickly
to the door, as if to cut off Xestorius's retreat.

If I can be of any use,' she cooed softly : ' Stella
and I were great friends. I don't think there is anyone
else in this house in whom she confided as freely.'

Xestorius fixed her with his keen grey eyes.

Do you know where she has gone, or why she
went ? ' he asked decisively.

Mrs. Mulciber hesitated, preparing a diplomatic
answer.

Viii Jou't,' said Nestorius, answering for her ;
then you can't help us,' and he followed Lord
Lashmar out of the room.

I could at least have advised them,' murmured
Mrs. Mulciber, going back to her breakfast. *It
has been my fate to see so much of the side-scenes
of life.'

You must have had the most interesting
experiences,' said Vavasour, finishing off a grouse.
Let us make ourselves comfortable while those two
fools fuss and twaddle about that dark-eyed girl,
with whom I believe they are both in love. And
I take it she has run away in order to bring one
or other of 'em to the point. I want you to tell me
all the little details of Lady Banbury's elopement.
It is just one of those stories that a touch-and-go
novelist can work upon : and the details are everything.
Imagination can jive the broad lines of
a story, but it is hard fact to which one must
go for details — the one touch of nature, don't you
know ? — like that story of the lady at Brighton, who,
after she had just left her husband's house to bolt
with her lover, leaving the door open behind her,

faltered, and turned in a fit of remorse, and would
have gone back — only the wind blew the door, and
it shut in her face. Dramatic, wasn't it ? Yet a
novelist would hardly have invented the blowing
to of the door.'

'Why, in heaven's name, did she leave this
house ? ' exclaimed Nestorius, alone with Lashmar
in the library. ' What made her do such a thing ?
She seemed to me tolerably contented with her fate
resigned to live on as she was living, till lev
literary talent found an opening and gave her
independence ; and yet,- within a few hours of my
leaving her, she rushes away as if she were driven
by the Furies. What can it mean ? '

It means that I am a brute,' answered
Lashmar, standing before Xestorius with downcast
brow and a dogged air ; ' yes, a brute. I have always
been a brute to that girl, from the hour when my
poor brother first brought her into this house to the
hour she left it, driven out of it by my foul tongue.
You do well to talk of the Furies. That girl has
been my Nemesis. She has brought the sin of pride

of birth, the overweening confidence in caste, home
to me. She has made me feel what a poor worm I
am, and that in gentlemanly feeling I rank lower
than the lowest iron-worker in Brumm. I set my
face against her from the first ; I was resolved to
see nothing but evil in her; I was hard, cold, cruel,
pitiless, saw her youth blighted by hard usage and
never entered one plea in her behalf. And then
when I came back to the Castle the other day and
saw her grown to graceful womanhood, saw her
strange and spiritual beauty, I was angry with
myself for admiring her, I was angry with her
for being so superior to her station, for giving tie
lie to all my prejudices. The more I found myself
yielding to the spell of her mystical beauty the
more I set myself against her, wrestling with the
inclination to see more of her, tearing myself from
the room when she was reading to my niotlio'-,
shunning her at all times and in all places as if
she had breathed infection. And yet I could not
pluck her from my heart; and her image haunted
me ; and I started up out of my sleep fancying that
her voice was in my ears, those deep, low tones

which gave new melodies to Keats and Milton. I
hated myself for falsifying every principle of my
life, which was to see perfection only in the wellborn
; and every grace that attracted me to her was
ail offence against my pride, and made me more
resentful of her existence. It was in this mood that
I watched you and her the night before last from
yonder window. I saw her throw herself at your
feet and kiss your hand, and I was mad with rage at
the spectacle. I accused her of trying to entrap
you with an offer — playing for high stakes ! '

You accused her of trying to entrap me ! ' cried
Nestorius. ' Did you do that, Lashmar ? How
wise and far-seeing you young men are! What if I
tell you that I had just asked hp.r to be my wife,
asked her with as earnest entreaty as ever man made
to the woman of his choice ? I had so asked her,
and she had refused me. It was friendship, gratitude,
which she offered me on her knee — all
unworthy as I am. Love she could not give me.'

*She refused to marry you — she, my mother's
slave : '

Yes ; it is strange, is it not ? She has not see

enough of the world to have learnt how to sell
herself to the highest bidder. She has curious
primitive notions that a woman can only give
herself in marriage to the man she loves ; and
she does not love me

She is a strange being,' murmured Lashmar,
walking to the nearest window, and staring out
into the garden, with his face averted from Nestorius.

He had taunted her as an adventuress and a
husband huntress. This right-minded, resolute
creature, who had refused the utmost promotion
to which a girl in her position could aspire, a rich
indulgent husband, highly placed, famous, having all
qualities calculated to charm women, except youth
why had she so flung away high fortune, wjiy
refused such a helpmate ? Simply because she
did not love him. Was her young heart a blank
then, or was there any one else ? Yet who else
could there be for her who had lived like a bird in a
cage — who had never, since his brother's death,
been in the society of any men of refinement except
Nestorius and old Werner ? There could be no one

else : her heart must be still unawakened to the
mystery of woman's love.

You are very merciful in your silence he said
after a long pause, returning to the front of the
fireplace where Nestorius was standing. * But no
upbraiding you could bestow upon me could intensify
my sense of my brutal folly. I was like
a child destroying a butterfly in wanton rage at
its beauty. If she were here I would ask her
pardon on my knees. I have been miserable from
the hour of her flight — the abject slave of remorse.
All kinds of horrors have presented themselves
to my mind — even the idea of suicide — that she
might have rushed down to the river and flunf^
herself in '

X?, no,' interrupted Nestorius quickly ; ' 1
have no fear of such sinful folly. Her mind
is too well balanced, and she has that inner
consciousness of genius which is almost as an
armour against the arrows of Fate. Her dominant
idea was that she would be able to support
herself by literature, to pour out her wealth of
thought and fancy in fiction. She had her day

dream of a cottage near the Avoid, with an old
nurse of hers for housekeeper aud companion.
She had a scheme for the future, and in leaving
this house you may be sure she went with the
intention of working out her own destiny in that
manner. I am not afraid of any folly on her part.
sly only fear is for the dangers to which her
absolute inexperience of the world might expose
her.'

She was penniless said Lash mar, * unless —
as Lady Carminow suggested — she had borrowed
money from you.'

Did Lady Carminow make that suggestion ?
How like Lady Carminow ! Iso, she had no money
from me, poor child 1 '

You say she has literary aspirations,' said
Lashmar; 'and you imply that she has talent
for writing.'

She has more than talent, Lashmar. She has
genius — original genius, rarest gift in these days
of imitative art. She has genius as original and
as unique as that of Charlotte Bronze, the untutored
child of those lonely Yorkshire moors you and I know

SO well. But I will not ask you to believe this
upon my assertion. You shall judge for yourself ;
if you will allow me to ask for my letters here.'

Lashmar rang the bell, and Mr. Nestorius
letters were brought, among them a packet of
printer's proofs, which Xestorius opened, unrolled
and arranged in sequence with the deftness of
hands accustomed to dealing with proofs.

'Head for yourself,' he said, ' when you have an
hour's leisure : that is the beginning of Stella's
story; I read the whole of it in manuscript.'

What can she write about, she who has seen
nothing of the world ? '

'Blind John Milton had never seen hell, and
John Keats had never seen a Titan ; and yet
they contrived to write about such things with
very fair effect,' answered Xestorius.

It seems then that she confided all her plans
and aspirations to you — her manuscripts even.
You were privileged in receiving so much of her
confidence.'

I am her tutor's old friend, and she knew that
I sympathised with her. Those two facts brought

VOL. II. P

US at once cyt rapport. Well, now, Lashmar,
what have you done towards finding her ? '

Lord Lashmar gave a detailed account of his
efforts in Brumm. He blushed like a girl when
he came to the story of his hunt for a clairvoyant,
and his call upon Mrs. Minchin. ' It was utter
foolishness of course, inspired by a silly woman.'

Yes, no doubt it is all foolishness answered
Xestorius thoughtfully ; ' and yet how we all
hanker after it, that mysterious something,
beyond the border-line of hard fact. But our
aspirations after the supernatural have been
vulgarised by modern charlatans, until it is
hardly possible to define the distinction
between the conjuror and the sibyl. I'll go
with you to the sibyl this afternoon, if you
like — pour passer le temps — after we have seen
the police and heard what they have done for
us. And now I am off to my old friend Werner,
who may be in Stella's confidence.'

He was not on the night she ran away. I
went to him soon after we missed her.'

He may have heard from her since.'

'If he has he ought to have let me know,'
answered Lashmar hotly. 'He must have seen
how distressed I was about her disappearance.'

'Your distress must have surprised him very-much
if he did see it said Nestorius, with a touch
of scorn ; * for I do not think he had an exaggerated
idea of his pupil's importance in this house.'

Had you not better breakfast before you go
out again ? ' asked Lashmar.

Thanks, no, I had a kind of breakfast at the
station ; I'll see Werner, and then come back
for a bath before luncheon. They tell me I am
to have my old rooms again.'

Of course ; there has been no new guest worthy
to occupy them.'

Nestorius mused somewhat sadly upon his
interview with Lashmar as he walked across the
park in the bluster autumn morning. What a
fitful, selfish, masterful spirit young love seemed to
the man of mature years who loved with an unselfish
tenderness and capacity of self-sacrifice unknown
to youth. And so it was love, after all — dominant,

unconquerable love — which had impelled Lashmar
to bitter speeches and affected scorn. He too had
felt the strange witchery of that bright creature's
personality, had been conquered and had struggled
against the victor.

Did she care for him all the time ? ' Xestorius
asked himself. ' Was it for his sake she refused
me — was it for love of him she was cold and
deaf to my prayers ? I pressed her hard, tried
to fathom the depths of heart and mind, but
could discover no secret lurking there. Womanly
pride is so close an armour.'

And then, after long musing —

Yes, she loves him. It was that which made
the sting of his insolence so sharp. She loves
him — caught by that young grace of his, the
darkly handsome face, with its strong lines and
eagle glance, the pride of youth and strength,
and undisciplined power ; the radiance of a young
spirit that has never known Fate's reverses. Yes,
she loves him. It was his image that kept her
young heart sealed against me. He stands at
the door and keeps me out. Middle age has

no charms. She would reverence gray hairs —
perhaps deem it an act of duty and devotion
to give up her life to an old man : but I, the
hard, active man of the world, can have no
claim upon her affection, no spell for her imagination.
I stand without the pale

He found Gabriel Werner with an open letter
before him, brought by that morning's post.

It was from Stella. There was no address, but
the postmark was Brumm.

You may see this letter, for it contains a
message for you,' said Werner, after he and
Nestorius had exchanged a few friendly words,
the old man much surprised at the statesman's
return. 'It is for your eye, but no other. Be
sure you do not mention it to Lord Lashmar.'

'Certainly not, if she desires otherwise.'

You will see.'

Nestorius read the letter, in the fine clear
hand he knew so well from the girl's manuscripts
She had always striven to make her stories look
as attractive as neat penmanship could make them.
The idea that they would ever take the still

more attractive form of print had seemed so remote
a hope. And in this wise she had cultivated
writing as a fine art.

Do not be unhappy about me, dear friend and
master,' she wrote. * I have done that which is
best for my own happiness. My life at Lashmar
has been a very hard one ever since my benefactor's
death, and something occurred yesterday to make
it unbearable. I could not stays in that house
another hour.

'Providence has been very good to me, and I
have found new friends and a new home with
kind honest people, a home in which I can work
at literature until I am able to win my independence.
Directly that is won I shall come back to you, and
carry out the dream of my life, which is to have
a cottage and a pretty garden by the river you and
I love so well — the river by which I spent so many
happy days in my childhood, and which always
recalls the memory of the dear friend I lost.

Please tell Mr. Nestorius that I thank him withall
my heart for his goodness to me, and that I am

happy to leave the fate of my first book in his
hands. If he who has such experience in literature
will correct the proofs of my story, it will be one
more favour for which I shall be deeply grateful.
If the book should be a failure I shall be more
sorry upon that kind friend's account than upon
my own.

'God bless you, dear friend, and be sure that
absence wil not lessen my affection for the teacher
to whom I owe so much more than my loving care
can ever repay. But I look forward to the hope
of having you by-and-by for my abiding guest in
Dreamland Cottage.

Don't you think that would be rather a good
name for my house, if ever I am happy enough
to own one ?

Your ever grateful pupil,

Stella.
Pes. — On no account let any one at the Castle
—except Mr. Nestorius — know that you have
heard from me.'

Thank God she has not fallen amoncj thieves,'

said Nestorius, when he had read this letter. And
yet in the next moment his heart sank within him
as lie asked himself whether any girl so utterly-inexperienced
as Stella could be trusted to discriminate
between fair and foul ? Whether these
new friends of homely class, found with such
strange facility, might not be wolves in sheep's
clothing? Her youth and beauty and ignorance
of the world's Avays were so many sources of peril.
"What if the kind homely soul who had so readily
extended a sheltering wing, were some matron of
the order cheerily indicated by the honourable Tom
Shuffled, when he offers a haven for poor Mary.
Nestorius's blood ran cold at the thought of the
pitfalls that gape for unwary feet in such a city
as Brumm. And yet again he told himself that
there is a semi-divine instinct, which warns purity
against contact with the impure — an instinct finer
than worldly knowledge, a shred of that cast-off
robe of glory which the spirit once wore in the
world from whence it came. Stella's keen intellect
and vivid imagination would serve her instead of the
1; knowledge of unholy things. The demon of impurity

would betray his loathsome presence in a glance ora
tone, and she would flee from the Destroyer as from
a fiery furnace. God so guards the spirits of the pure ;
and Una riding her lion is but the type of a lofty
soul passing scatheless through the habitations of evil.

Notwithstanding which comforting belief Mr.
Nestorius made up his mind that he would hunt
every street in Brumm until he had found Stella
and her new friends. The mind of such a man
is like a grand organ with a double set of keys.
There is the keyboard of the enthusiast and
believer, the keyboard of the sceptic and matter
of-fact man of business. It was by his power of
playing on both these two key boards with equal
skill that Mr. Nestorius had been able to influence
society of every grade and men of every temper.

He went back to the Castle and got rid of the
grime and dust of a long railway journey, and
issued forth from his dressing-room refreshed and
rejuvenated, but he did not stay to luncheon. He
left a little note for Lord Lashmar to the effect that
he had an appointment in Brumm, and that he
would meet him at half-past three in the coffee-room

of the Lion and Lamb, when they would go
together to the cave of the sibyl.

Having thus stolen a march upon Lashmar, and
left himself free to pursue his inquiries unhelped
and unhindered, Mr. Nestorius hired a fly in the
village and drove to Brumm, where he first took a
hasty luncheon, and then did three or four hours'
private detective work on his own account, exploring
street after street, inquiring closely in all manner of
shabby respectable neighbourhoods where such a
girl as Stella might naturally seek for an inexpensive
lodging; visiting the Free Library and
interrogating the librarians ; strolling in that dreary
pleasure-ground known as the People's Park ; but
by a strange fatality avoiding just that one long
narrow street on the way to the cemetery, and
that one particular chandler's shop in which the
Chapman s had their dwelling-place.

He was weary, disheartened, and altogether disgusted
with himself at half-past four o'clock when,
punctual to the very minute, he entered the hotel
coffee-room and found Lashmar drooping despondently
over a local newspaper.

The police had been able to tell him nothing.
It was as if the earth had opened and swallowed
the girl for whom they were searching.

She must have gone to London,' said Lashmar :
that is the only place in which any one could so
completely vanish from human ken.'

Xestorius knew she had not gone to London, but
he held his peace.

They were alone in the coffee-room, where there
was no fire, and where the newly lighted gas was
singing a dismal chorus.

I have been reading her story,' said Lashmar.
It is delightful — so new, so powerful — altogether
fresh, and simple, and fervent and true. To think
that Boldwood's daughter should be a genius, and
that kind of genius ! Xot a vehement partisan of
Eadical politicians, a shrieking claimant for woman's
rights ; but a poet, a dreamer, a weaver of fancy's
most enthralling web. How she will scorn us and
the cage in which we kept her! How she will laugh
at her tyrants when she has burst upon the world in
all the charm of her originality, and ha won thousands
for her friends ! Such a book niust make a hit.'

That was what the publisher's reader told me,'
answered Xestorius quietly. * Publishers' readers
are sometimes wrong : three or four of the tribe
rejected Miss Bronze's "Jane Eyre," audit is said
that " Vanity Fair " went a-begging : but this gentleman
was very positive. " Take my word for it this
book will go," he said. " It has all the fire and freshness
of youth, and all the grace of a highly cultivated
style. The writer must have fed her fancy with the
very finest order of intellectual food. There is no
taint of garbage from the first page to the last."
Knowing how Stella had been trained by your
brother and poor old Werner, I thought this criticism
argued some power of judgment on the part of the
publishers reader.'

Yes, she has been fed on the best food. I
have laughed at seeing her poring over Homer or
Virgil. My mother told me that girl knew
Milton better than anyone she ever met except
John Bright, and that she had Shelley and Keats
interwoven in her memory. She has an extraordinary
power of memory, my mother says, and
a fine ear for melodious combinations of words.

Perhaps she has something to thank her Ladyship
for in her two years' drudgery as a reader. My
mother never cared for inferior writers, and the
mill in which Stella worked ground only the finest
corn.'

Fate . weaves in a loom whose mechanism
we know not answered Xestorius gravely. ' The
education of submission may have been the best
education for genius ; but it was not a joyous
experience.'

No. she has been badly treated. Do you think
J shall deny that after my free confession this
morning ? ' asked Lashmar bitterly.

'I think you are full of generous instincts —
marred by perverted pride,' answered Nestorius,
with his unflinching air. 'I think you have
treated this girl abominably; I think you have
made her suffer damnably ; and that by way of
revenge she will make you the noblest wife an
English gentleman need ever hope to win for
himself.'

You think she will ever be brought to forgive
me ? ' faltered Lashmar excitedly.

I think you are both passionately in love
with each other, and that it needs but one look
and one word from you to heal every wound
you ever inflicted upon that pure and generous
heart.'

Oh ! it is you who are generous, it is only
you who are noble,' cried Lashmar.

I have lived twenty years longer than you,
and I have learnt one of the lessons that time
teaches,' answered Nestorius gravely. ' I have learnt
the wisdom of renunciation. Xot another word,
Lashmar. I am too old for sentiment. Let us
go and interview this witch of yours, and see if
she can enlighten us.'

I GO TO Gather THIS THE SACRED KNOWLEDGE.'

Lashmar had his phaeton at the door, and
they drove off to Thorleigh common and the
muddy accommodation lane which led to Mrs.
Minchin's dreary abode : a lions built in the reign
of George the Fourth, square, unpicturesque, flat
and uninteresting, such a house as the small
country' squire of that aesthetic epoch deemed
all sufficient for comfort and delight. It was one
of those houses of which even the house-agent
could say nothing better than that it was roomy.

They were shown into the dismal drawing-room.
Again no fire. It was natural that the
spirits should be indifferent to atmosphere, but
Mrs. Minchin must surely have suffered as a
mortal, if ever she sat in that damp and chilly
apartment.

Tliey waited about ten minutes, which seemed
fifty to Lashmar's impatience, and then the
door opened — Lashmar starting at the sound as
if it had been the veil of the temple rent in
twain, so highly strung were his nerves — and two
rather commonplace-looking ladies entered the
room. The first was a little old woman in a
skimpy black silk gown, a sort of gown which
Buck old ladies wear from year's end to year's end
till it drops to pieces ; a little old woman with a
narrow pinched little face, and watery eyes
with red rims to them, and a sharp nose. The
second was a girl of middle height, very fair,
with insipid flaxen hair, dull and dead looking as
tow, and the most expressionless countenance
Lashmar had ever seen. It had no more meaning
than a log. If this was the mortal with whom
spirits loved to hold commune, they had indeed
strange predilections.

Lord Lashmar introduced himself, and
then Mr. Nestorius. At that distinguished
name the little old lady brightened, and became
slightly flustered: but the name evolved no

ray of intelligence in the wooden visage of the
girl.

I hope your lordship's distinguished friend
does not come here to scoff said Mrs. Minchin,
looking at the distinguished friend, and not at
Lashmar.

Mr. Xestorius explained that there was
nothing father from his thoughts than scoffing.
He was a man open to all impressions, an
earnest inquirer into all creeds. If the spirits
revealed themselves they would find him sympathetic.


You look it said the old lady, gazing up at
him admiringly. ' I can see faith and enthusiasm
in your face. Begin, Griselda, begin,' she added,
with an excitable air.

Your young friend's name is Griselda ? ' asked
Nestorius.

Her real name is Sarah Anne Curtis,' replied

Mrs. ^linchin. ' Griselda is the name the spirits

gave her when she first came to live with me.

I think it must have been chosen because of her

patience in waiting for hours in silence and
VOL. II. Q

contemplation. It is the name by which she is
known in the spirit world.'

Nestorius and Lashmar were both gazing
earnestly at the young lady so baptised. It taxed
their faith considerably to be told there could
be sympathy and communion between this stolid-looking
creature and the world of disembodied
souls. Xever did any human countenance seem
more of the earth earthy.

Have you been long in communication with
the spirit world ? ' asked Lashmar.

A slight but curious twitching disturbed the
wooden composure of Griselda's face as she replied,
like a faint reminiscence of St. Vitus.

Griselda told them how the spirits of the
dead had been her frequent visitants from the
time she came to live with Mrs. Llinchin ; how
they had held converse with her, and had revealed
secrets which she dared not impart to mortal
ear. She trembled visibly as she spoke of those
revelations, and the twitching about her pale,
expressionless eyes became more marked.

In all these spirit communications have you

ever received any message of practical value ? '
asked Xestorius ; but this question seemed outside
Griselda's power of apprehension. She only
stared blankly at the inquirer.

Those communications are not to be measured
by the common standard,' said Mrs. Minchin
tartly. 'If you mean to ask-whether the
spirits have ever named the winner of the Derby,
or prophesied a rise in railway shares, no —
decidedly no ; and I should cease to believe in
them if they lowered themselves by any such
paltering with grosser things.'

Then I fear the spirits will not be able to help
me,' said Lashmar. ' I am troubled by the disappearance
of some one who is very dear to me. Do
you think the spirits will tell me how to find her ? '

Try the slate, Griselda,' said Mrs. Minchin,
and the medium silently proceeded to obey.

First she drew forward an old - fashioned
Pembroke table, covered with a green cloth of
particularly Philistine pattern. She took off the
cloth and put up the flaps of the table, leaving all
clear beneath. Then from another part of the

room she brought two ordinary school slates, a
small basin of water and a sponge, and carefully
washed both slates before the eyes of Lashmar and
Nestorius, who watched as intently as if this slate-washing
had been the most delicate of surgical
operations.

When the slates had been dried, Griselda allowed
the neophytes to examine them while she produced
a crayon box containing some odd bits of slate
pencil, about the third of an inch long.

Will the spirits write upon the slate with one
of these pencils ? ' asked Nestorius.

Yes, a spirit will write. You can choose a piece
of pencil.'

Thanks ; may I mark it ? '

Certainly.'

Nestorius took out his pen-knife and notched an
N upon the butt-end of the pencil.

The girl placed four chairs round the table. Then
she put one slate on the top of the other, with the
marked pencil lying in the hollow space between the
two frames. Then Mrs. Minchiu, Nestorius, Lashmar
and Griselda sat round the table, holding each

others' hands, the medium giving Lashmar her left
hand while with her right she held the slate under
the table, her right thumb showing above the table.
Griselda then told Lashmar to ask a question.
Have you the power to answer my question ? ' he
asked.

There was no reply. It seemed as if the spirits
were offended at the sceptical tone of the inquiry.

They waited for some time in silence, and then
the medium suggested that Lashmar and Nestorius
should change places ; whereupon Nestorius placed
himself next the medium, and held her hand in his.

Two minutes afterwards they heard a violent
scratching on the slate. When they looked at it
there appeared the following words : —

'Between great minds in all worlds there is
communion. — Nelly.'

The left hand of the medium had been held in
that of Xestorius all the time ; the thumb of her
right hand was visible on the table. It was — or
seemed to be — impossible that the hand so engaged
could have written on the slate.

The message was flattering to Nestorius, but

somewhat futile. The signature had a frivolous
air, which repelled Lashmar.

Who is Nelly ? ' he asked discontentedly.

She is one of my guides,' answered Griselda
gravely. 'The spirits are here, and will answer.
Ask what you \vill. You can write your question
on a slate if you like, and no one here need know
what you ask.'

She gave Lashmar another pencil out of her
crayon box, and, unseen by the rest, he wrote his
question on one of the slates.

Is it necessary that the slates should be underneath
the table ? ' asked Nestorius. ' Could they not
be held above it ? '

Yes,' answered Griselda ; ' above the table if
you like.'

At her direction they all stood up in a circle and
held the double slate above the table. For some
minutes there was silence ; then there came the
scratching sound as before, and Lashmar felt the
vibration of the slate as the pencil travelled along
it. Then came three sharp taps with the j)eiicil,
signifying that the message was finished.

Lashmar turned the slate with feverish eagerness.
The spirit message was written in a corner, the
writing the reverse way of the medium's position.
If she had written those characters, she had written
them upside-down ; but it seemed to Lashmar and
Nestorius impossible that she could have written
them. Standing as they all stood, holding the slate
above the table, it seemed beyond the power of the
cleverest prestigiator who ever lived to produce
that writing, or direct that pencil.

Look for her among the dead ! '

That was the message. Lashmar turned white
and sick as he read. Conjuring, trickery, parlour-magic,
sham of whatever order the thing might be,
his heart sank within him at a reply which seemed
the fulfilment of his darkest fears.

He held the slate towards Nestorius, pointing to
the words with tremulous finger, and the statesman's
pale cheek blanched a little as he deciphered them.

Have you any other question to ask ? ' inquired
Griselda, with an exhausted air, while Mrs. Minchin
looked on rapturously, proud of the effect the spirits
had produced.

No, I will ask no more,' said Lashraar. * It is
holding communion with the devil.'

And then he faltered a hasty expression of gratitude
to Mrs. Minchin, looked with undisguised
horror at the wooden-faced medium, bowed hastily
to both and hurried out of the room.

'Don't be frightened or disheartened said
Nestorius, when they were in the hall, waiting for
his lordship's phaeton to drive up to the porch,
there may be nothing in it — a mere clever trick,
perhaps, which we are not able to discover.'

'Trick or no trick, it is diabolical,' muttered
Lashmar. ' How came that devilish pencil to put
my worst fear into words — a fear I have hardly
acknowledged to myself ? Such things must come
from direct traffic with Satan. I begin to think
our ancestors were not such fools as we take them
to have been when they burnt witches. And as for
Urbain Grander, 1 dare say he thoroughly deserved
the stake.'

THE PAST IS PAST, \SJ) I AM COME TO THEE '

Look for her among the dead ! ' Those words
haunted Lashmar like the cry of the Banshee.
They kept repeating themselves in his ear all
through that seemingly eternal evening as he sat
at dinner, and heard the frivolous babble of his
guests around him, as meaningless as the prattle
of a streamlet over its pebbly bed, and later in
the drawing-room, where Lady Carminow played
nocturne and mazurka, polonaise and waltz, with
untiring persistence, expatiating meanwhile on the
merits of a new Hungarian composer to a knot
of admirers clustered round the piano.

So wild, so pathetic,' said one.

Yes, there is a kind of subtle, undeveloped
melody,' added Captain Vavasour.

Yes, it is undeveloped music,' agreed Mrs,

Mulciber. 'That is just the word. A melody
hinted at rather than expressed.'

It seems to my uneducated ear as if the man
had always been trying to hit upon a tune and
had never succeeded,' remarked Lady Sophia
bluntly.

I am afraid, Lady Sophia, that neither you nor I
are educated up to the subtle gradations of modern
music,' said Nestorius, leaving the piano. ' The
touch is too delicate for us — the shades too fine.
We want the bolder colouring of the old masters,
Mozart, for instance. There is never any mistake
as to what he means.'

Lashmar turned his back upon that group by the
grand piano, and moved restlessly about among the
furniture, now taking up a book from the table,
only to throw it down again unopened ; now standing
with his hands in his pockets, staring idly at a
vase of Parma violets, or a bowl of late roses. At
last the babble grew intolerable to him, and he
went off to his mother's room.

He had not seen her since the morning. He
had been with her for a few minutes before breakfast,

and had found her very low and nervous, too
ill to appear among her guests.

If I feel equal to the exertion I shall go down
to dinner,' she had said ; but the dinner hour had
come and with it a message from her ladyship
excusing herself.

Lashmar found his mother sitting by the fire in
her morning room, with her book-table and reading-lamp
beside her, but with no appearance of having
been reading. She was seated in a despondent
attitude, gazing dreamily into the fire. She started
at her son's entrance.

Well, have you heard of her ? ' she said at
once.

Xot a word. She has disappeared utterly. Both
Xestorius and I have hunted for her all through
Brumm. The police can do nothing to help us.'

Then I su oppose we must resign ourselves to the
idea that she has gone for ever,' said her ladyship.
She has been very ungrateful.'

'Oh, mother, what cause had she for gratitude—
except to my brother ? What kindness have you
or I ever shown her ? '

We have given her such a home as she could
have had nowhere else. We have given her the
opportunity to educate herself to the highest
point. But for our kindness she would have had
to earn her bread by the sweat of her brow. She
must have been a domestic servant or a factory girl.'

She would never have remained a servant or a
factory girl. She is a genius, mother.'

And then Lord Lashmar told his mother about
the proofs that he had read, and of Nestorius's and
the publisher's praise.

What then ? ' asked her ladyship. ' That book
is the fruit of refined surroundings, of years of
elegant leisure. Do you suppose that in service
her genius — if you please to term it genius —
could ever have been developed ? Do you think
there are no gifts strangled and blighted by adverse
circumstances — no great intellects among servants
and factory girls ? I tell you she had the strongest
reasons for gratitude — and yet knowing herself
useful, almost invaluable to me — to me a sick
woman, she leaves me without compunction,
without a word of regret.'

Then you do miss her, mother ; you are fond
of her,' exclaimed Lashmar, with flushed cheeks
and brightening eyes.

The dowager looked up from the fire for the
first time, and scrutinised lier son keenly.

Fond is too strong a word,' she said : ' I like
my servants ; I become attached to them even,
when they are useful and faithful ; but I am
never fond of them.'

But she is not a servant ; she is gently born,
has been highly educated, is gifted far above other
women. Oh, mother, be human if you can. You
know this girl has crept into your heart, however
hardly you may have striven to keep her out.
You know that you miss her sorely, that she has
grown dear to you.'

'Necessary to me, perhaps victorian, but not dear.'
Yes, she has become dear to you,' pleaded
Lashmar, kneeling by his mother's chair, throwing
his arm round her as he had done many a time
in his boyish days when he wanted some indulgence
at her hands, but as he had done rarely of late
years. ' Yes, mother, say dear to you — for my sake.'

For your sake victorian ! What can you mean ? '
For my sake, mother ; yes, for my sake. This
friendless waif, this orphan daughter of a demagogue
and destructive, this spawn of the radical gutter
is just the one woman I will have for my wife.
It may be that I shall not win her — I who have
done everything to make myself hateful in her
eyes ; but if I miss her, I will have none other.
I will go down to my grave a woman hater.
Yes, the hater and reviler of such women as
Lady Carminow, beneath whose alabaster bosom
never glowed one generous emotion : as Mrs.
Vavasour, who paints her face a quarter of an
inch thick : as Lady Sophia, the type of our
modern Amazon, who unseen herself by manly
sports and men's society, and never, from the
time she wore pinafores,, has thought as a woman :
as smooth-tongued Mrs. Mulciber, time-serving,
self-seeking, the trafficker in society's small vices
and large foibles, garnering up her riches out of
other people's worthlessness. One woman, and
one only, have I seen straight, truthful, original,
independent; scorning fortune when it was at

her feet, flaring to live her own life iu the teeth
of adverse circumstances. Such an one will I
honour and reverence. She and no other shall
be my queen.'

Lady Lashmar looked at her son's impassioned
face with absolute horror. ' Is this madness ? ' she
murmured. 'Why, I thought you hated the
girl.'

So did I, mother. God knows I tried my
hardest to hate her, schooled myself to believe
that I detested her, would not suffer my eye to
linger upon her face, or my memory to recall her
gracious presence. And yet in spite of it all she
drew me. It has seemed like witchcraft ; but now
I begin to understand that it was simple force
of character, the influence of a pure, untarnished
soul upon one that had been blemished and
clouded by contact with the world. I believe
that Providence meant her for me — that my
brother trained her for me — that all things have
tended unawares to one happy ending — she is
to be mine ! '

If you do this thing, Victorian— if you, my son,

with your opportunities, marry so far beneath
you, I suppose you know that you will break my
heart ? '

I know that T shall do nothing of the kind,
mother sweetest. There will be a feeling of
disappointment no doubt. You would have preferred
to see the Lashmar coffers replenished with the
wealth which Danebrook made in the iron trade.
You had rather I had married the ironmaster's
daughter, albeit that on her father's side she comes
from a much lower grade than Boldwood's
orphan child. But this regret once past, you will
rejoice in your new daughter, since she has been
as a daughter to you already, though you did not
know it.'

There was a pause, a silence which seemed long,
Victorian still on his knees by his mother's chair.
He had been prepared for a violent outbreak,
for ungovernable anger; prepared to hear himself
denounced and cast off as an unworthy sou. But
to his surprise the dowager sat for some moments
with her hands shading her eyes, and her lips
silent. He almost thought that she was weeping.

I have missed her sorely,' she said at last,
'yes, sorely. She comforted me with that low,
sweet voice of hers ; her reading has been a kind
of music which soothed my tortured nerves.
She has been very sweet, infinitely patient,
as sympathetic as I would ever allow her to be.
But you are right in your accusation, Victorian.
I was never kind to her. I was always afraid
of being too kind, of letting her see how necessary
she was to me. We are made of hard stuff, you
and I, Victorian. We come of a hard race, a race
with whom pride of birth has been ever a kind
of religion. It is difficult to stoop, when such
pride as that is bred in our bone, the heritage of
a thousand generations. And for my son to
marry a girl of no parentage — a domestic in his
mother's house ! '

Her father was an Oxford graduate ! '

My dear Victorian, consider the herds of Oxford
graduates, down to the sons of Oxford hair-dressers.
People will ask who your wife is. How can you
answer them ? '

I will leave the answer to time and the lady

VOL. II. B

who bears my name. Her beauty and her genius
should be an all-sufficient answer. But she is not
mine yet : I am talking like Alnaschar. God knows
where and when she and I may meet. I am
haunted by a hideous foreboding, tortured by
the maddening iteration of six miserable words.'
What words ? '

" Look for her among the dead." '
And then he told his mother the story of the
slate-writing, and how he had tried to look upon
the whole thing as a folly, but had been distracted
by the import of words which seemed to interpret
his worst fears.

Was it my brain that impelled the pencil ? ' he
said. ' Had my thoughts any electrical power
which transmitted meaning through a self-acting
slate pencil ? It seems live madness.'

Lady Lashmar was one of those hard, clear-headed
people who would have looked a sheeted
ghost straight in the face on the stroke of midnight,
and would have said, * You are only an optical
delusion, and I am not going to be scared by you.*
She smiled in gentle scorn at her son's simplicity.

My poor Victorian,' she murmured, ' to think
that you who were once so sensible should fill
your mind with such follies ! On the eve of a
general election, too, when you want all your
wits about you.'

Lashmar walked up and down the room in
silence, for a few minutes, and then came back
to his mother's chair and stood looking down
at her. She had resumed her contemplative
attitude, and sat gazing at the fire, in deepest
melancholy.

'You are not very angry with me, I hope,
mother,' he said softly.

She had been a devoted mother to him, concentrating
all her hopes and dreams upon his
image, risking all upon that one cast of the die.
He felt he owed her more than the common duty
which all men owe their mothers.

^ No, Victorian, I am not angry with yoa. I
am only angry with Fate, which fashions all
things so differently from our dreams. To think
that this ghi whom we both despised should have
changed the very current of both our lives. AVhat

can I say to you ? If you choose to marry her
I cannot hinder you. I am deeply disappointed
and deeply chagrined, that is all. I feel that
my life has been a failure.'

'You will not feel that, mother, in the days to
come, when my wife is to you as a daughter.
When, with God's blessing, you shall see her
children rise up and call you blessed. Good-night,
I will not stay with you another moment. We
have talked too much for your strength already.
Shall I send Barker ? '

'Barker,' repeated her ladyship with a sigh;
*yes, I suppose she had better come to help me
to bed. She is a good soul, but when I am ill
she always makes me worse.'

Look for her among the dead ! ' All through
the long sleepless nights those words haunted
Lashmar with a mechanical, senseless repetition.
He had not allowed Nestorius to know how much
that slate-writing had troubled him, or the kindly
statesman would have put him out of his pain by
some assurance of Stella's safety. No, he lay

tossing to and fro, ignorant of her fate, imagining
every form of horror that a morbid mind can
picture to itself in the dead hours of the night,
when shadowy evils are rife in the overcharged
brain. He thought of the river — dank weeds
entangled in the blue-black hair. He thought of
the express engine thundering along the dark rails —
a slight guiish form flung down upon the iron
way — a flash, and the young life annihilated, the
very semblance of beauty gone.

And by every agony of fear, by every hour of
separation he loved her so much the more.

Look for her among the dead ! ' Was it the
announcement of some hideous doom ; or was ita
riddle given him to read; or was it a chance
combination of scratches upon a slate, meaning
nothing but trickery and imposture ? Was it fora
clever piece of conjuring thai he was racking
his brain and torturing his heart ?

He determined on going to Brumm directly
after breakfast next morning. He would
endeavour to see Griselda alone, free from the
influence of old Mrs. Minchin, to whom he was

inclined to impute evil propensities smacking
of brimstone. He would question that strange
girl closely, would throw himself upon her generosity,
appeal to her womanly feelings and get her to
relieve his mind, if it were indeed but a trick of
the prestigiator's skill which had caused him
such gnawing anxiety.

He went to his mother's room immediately
after leaving his own, but was not able to see
her. Barker informed him that her ladyship had
had one of her bad nights, and was trying to get
a morning sleep. Her ladyship's bad nights were
a speciality, and meant insomnia of the worst kind.

Lady Carminow appeared at the breakfast-table,
which was altogether an unusual thing.

I am going home directly after breakfast.
Lord Lashmar,' she said. 'I am dreadfully sorry
to leave this dear old house and so many nice
people ; but my mother is not quite so well, and
I feel I ought to go to her.'

Not quite so well ' seemed rather a vague phrase
to Lashmar, who did not even know that the
lady had been ailing.

I am very sorry,' he murmured absently.

Mrs. Mulciber was in despair. Xestorius,
sipping his tea, and taking furtive dips into the
newspaper beside his plate, declared that Lady
Carminow's departure would be as the extinction
of the sun, or something to that effect. Lady
Sophia did not even pretend to be interested.
She was in hat and habit ready for the fray,
gobbling her breakfast ravenously in order to be
off to a distant meet.

'I hope you have not forgotten my flask,
Bower,' she observed to the under-butler who
was carving a ham near her.

No, my lady. '

'Nor my sandwich case.'

They have both been sent out to the stables,
my lady.'

Ta, ta, everybody,' said the fair Sophia,
snatching up her hunting crop and hurrying out
of the room. ' If you don't want to find every
trace of the hounds vanished by the time you
get to Chipping Danbury, you had better come
with me, Mr. Tonsonby,' she said to the Queen's

Counsel, who was luxuriating in a savoury mess
of kidneys and mushrooms seething before him
in a silver dish over a spirit lamp.'

Haven't the faintest idea where Chipping
Danbury is, and ain't going to spoil my breakfast,
Lady Sophia, for any pack in England. I shall
lind the hounds, wherever they are. You may be
sure of that

Lady Sophia banged the door and was gone.
'I'm not going to jog along nine miles of
turnpike road with that pretty prattler,' remarked
the barrister to Lashmar in an undertone.

He finished his breakfast in a leisurely way and
dawdled in the hall while his hat was being
brushed. There is a special Providence by which
such men always fall in with the hounds.

Lady Carminow left the Castle at eleven o'clock
with a splash of carriages, servants, and imperials,
as if she had been starting for Italy. Lashmar,
relieved at her departure, became intensely civil,
and danced attendance upon her to the last
moment.

I am sure you are glad I am going,' she said.

Indeed I am not. I fear my poor mother will
miss you. She has so few people whom she really
cares for. Now you are going it would be better
if all the others were to go. She is not equal to
entertaining people, and you have been an admirable
deputy.'

Thanks for the compliment. Perhaps the
others will follow my lead. Yes, I am sure it bores
her ladyship to have people in the house ; but for
your sake she would make any sacrifice — yes, any
sacrifice repeated Clarice, looking at him earnestly.

Yes, she is very good to me,' answered
Lashmar gravely. 'I am sorry that her desires
and mine should ever run counter. But life is
made up of such contradictions.'

'Da you shoot to-day ? ' asked Lady Carminow,
while he arranged the sable rug over her knees.

No, the pheasants will have a holiday so far
as my gun is concerned, I am just off to Brumm.'

Again ? one would suppose you had a share
in some great business there.'

I wish I had — the Danebrook ironworks, for
instance.'

Oh, you need not wish for that. It would
only bring you trouble. I had a most worrying
letter from the manager this morning, harping
upon the ill-feeling of the men and urging me to
alter the whole of that splendid organisation
which my father took such trouble to bring to
perfection.'

Nothing in life is stationary. Lady Carminow,
and we live just now in a period of abrupt transitions.
A system which was accounted liberal in
Mr. Danebrook's time would be now considered
the regime of a despot. If your manager is a
sensible man, it might be wise to take his advice.'

'That I shall never do. I Avill never truckle
to democracy. The Danebrook Works must
stand or fall as Job Danebrook planned them.'

Lady Carminow^ little suspected how near they
were to the latter alternative. When people say
they will stand or fall by a principle, they are for
the most part assured that to fall is an impossibility.

The barouche drove off with its fair occupant.
A cart was being loaded with imperials and
bonnet boxes in the stable-yard, and there was

a wagonette for her ladyship's servants, her
two maids, and the tall footman who went on
her messages, and carried her work-basket and
music books.

Lashmar drove to Thorleigh common and
called upon Mrs. Minchin.

The spirits were not propitious, or rather
Mrs. Minchin had a nervous headache and was
unable to see any visitor. Lashmar asked the
maid if it would be possible for him to see Miss
Griselda alone, and he emphasised the inquiry
with a sovereign. But the servant told him that
Miss Griselda was never allowed to see any one
except in the presence of Mrs. Minchin ; that
she never left Mrs. Minchin's roof except to walk
in the garden ; had never been outside those
walls within the servant's memory ; never was
allowed to go to church — the servant dwelt on
this point as if even in that gifted and advanced
circle she felt some hankering after old superstitions ;
iu fact, lived from year's end to year's end in
Mrs. Minchin's society and under Mrs. Minchin's
ken, and had to get up at any hour of the night

to communicate between that old lady and the
spirit world.

*It isn't a cheerful life for a young person,'
said the maid. 'I don't think Miss Griselda is
long for this world. They say mediums always
die young.'

Lashmar left his card, with a pencilled request
to Mrs. Minchin for another interview with the
medium; and then he drove away, cursing that
dismal house as he had cursed it the day
before ; deeming the whole spirit-system diabolical,
and yet wanting to know more about it.

Were those words that had so tortured him
the result of accident ? Could chance so closely
tit in with his own thoughts, so briefly and
directly give expression to his fears ?

He left his phaeton at the ' Lion and Lamb,'
and went wandering about the gi-eat busy town.
He was too disgusted with the police to go to them
again yet awhile. He went about on his own
account.

Presently it struck him that he would Eke to
see the building from which his brother had

rescued the child, and which had been re-erected
after the fire. He had never seen that dreary
outskirt of Bnimm in which Goldwin's was situated.
It lay in the opposite direction to the road by
which he entered the city, and in a region which
had no attraction for any explorer : one of those
shabby, sordid, newly-built quarters, which have no
interest save to the tax-gatherer, the city missionary,
or the philanthropist.

That new town of Brumm seemed as a new
world to Lashmar as he threaded its everlasting
streets and terraces of squalid houses, where all
the window sashes, door steps, and garden railings
were of exactly the same pattern, and where the
only difference he saw in any of the houses was
in their measure of shabbiness and dirt, all
starting from the same point of positive dirt and
shabbiness. What a dreary world it looked in
the gray October day. What odours of indiscriminate
foulness it exhaled — what a dismal monotony of
ugliness it exhibited — and yet here babies were
born and reared to men and women, and here
men and women lived and sickened and got well

af]jain, and struggled on to age, and died and were
fetched in the workhouse coffin ! The one inevitable
end of us all was perchance the only event
that disturbed the dull level of such existences.

He had no difficulty in finding Goldwin's.
Goldwin's had doubled in size since the time
of its rebuilding, and whereas at the date of the
fire it had stood gaunt and grim and new-looking
amidst a desert of unlet building land, it was
now hemmed round by streets of smaller houses,
and reared its formidable height above the surrounding
bricks and mortar, like an old three-decker
amid a fleet of fishing smacks. The building was
not fifteen years old, yet looked grimy and shabby
enough to have been standing there for a century,
if any pile so ugly could have been conceived by
our ancestors, albeit they had a fine instinct for
the ugly in architecture.

There stood Goldwin's, with its long lines of
windows all of the same pattern, and its iron balconies
one above the other, giving it the appearance of a
gigantic iron cage, as it were the prison-house of
unconnected poverty. Lashmar stood on the

opposite side of the narrow street gazing up at
that barrack and picturing his brother's distorted
figure, those long lithe arms of his drawing him
upward from story to story, the slender fingers
clinging to yonder railings. The lord of broad lands
risking life and limb to save one little child, whose
face he had never seen.

It was a noble thing to do thought Lashmar.
'I ought to have valued her for the sake of that
great deed. Decent feeling, the respect due to my
dead brother, should have made me kinder to her.'

He had no hope of finding Stella amidst that
aggregate of struggling humanity. The police had
been here at the beginning of their quest, and had
assured themselves that no such person as the
fugitive from Lashmar Castle had applied for a
lodging at Goldwin's. He expected to get no
information here, and yet he hung about the place
in his despondency, not knowing where to go or
what to do next, feeling impelled to do something,
were it only to wander from street to street, in
the vague hope of meeting the fugitive face to
face at some unexpected corner.

Presently he saw a respectable elderly woman
with a market basket on her arm, going in under
the archway which opened into a stony quadrangle.
He followed and accosted her.

slay I ask, madam, if you have been long a
resident here ? '

The matron turned and confronted Lashmar in
some confusion, startled by the stately address,
the tall upright figure and darkly handsome face,
and that indescribable, inexpressible air which is
ordinarily the result of good birth and a West-end
tailor. Not often, no, not even when an election
was on, did such a young Alcibiades enter beneath
yonder arch.

Yes, sir, I have lived here over twenty years,
almost ever since the houses were built.*

Then you remember the fire here.'

Yes, indeed, sir ; and I have good cause to
remember it, for my poor little bits of furniture
were all burnt, things as I'd had from poor mother,
and as belonged to her father before her, which he
was a farmer in a small way in Herefordshire, for
we never belonged to these parts, none of us didn't,

you see, sir,' explained the lady, as if it were a
merit not to be a native ; ' and not one single stick
insured, though I'd been thinking and talking of

taking out a policy not a week before '

Lashmar tried to stem this stream of autobiography.


Very sad,' he murmured. ' Did you happen to
know a man called Boldwood ? '

'Boldwood, that lost his life in the fire ? Lor' bless
you, sir, everybody knew Mr. Boldwood. He was
a great man, my husband used to say, a man that
ought to have been a cabinet minister ; a man that
had poor people's interests at heart, and would
have fought our battles, if he'd ever come into
power. And quite the gentleman too, though rather
rough looking and careless about his clothes ; and
such a loving father to his little girl. She was
adopted after his death by the last Lord Lashmar^
and has been brought up like a lady.'

Had Boldwood any friends in Brumm — any
people in comfortable circumstances, for instance,
who were interested in him and his little girl ? '

Not as I ever heard of, sir. He was a reserved

VOL. II, s

kind of gentleman — never mixed with the other
lodgers in the club room. He always kept close
in his own room, never spoke much to anybody ;
and I don't think he could have had any visitors
without my knowing it, for our rooms were in the
same corridor as his, and I had my children ruining
about, in and out on the balcony, and I was always
on the move, so I must have seen any one going
backwards and forwards to his rooms.'

Can you show me the position of his rooms ? '

Yes, sir. The block was rebuilt just the same
after the fire. But me and my husband moved
down to the ground floor. We'd had enough of living
up in the clouds.'

You saved your own children — easily ? ' asked
Lashmar.

No, sir. It weren't easy. My husband carried
'em down stairs, through the smoke and flame, and
I was too 'mazed like to think of other people's
children till we'd got out into the street, and looked
up at the great burning house, and felt our lives were
safe. And then I says, " Where's Boldwood's little
girl?" and my husband says, "She's all right, you

may depend. Boldwood's not the kind of man to
lose his head in a fire." We never gave a thought
about the meeting in the Town Hall; and the chance
of Boldwood's being away. I hope you don't think,
sir, that I'd leave a motherless child to be burnt
to death if I had the power to save her ? '

Lashmar assured the matron that he had no
such thought ; and then they went back into the
street, and she pointed out two windows on the
fourth story.

The little girl used to sit out on the balcony all
day in summer time,' said the woman. * Boldwood
had put up an extra rail, to make it safer for her,
and had divided off his bit of balcony from the
rest with wire netting, so that she sat there all
alone like a bird in a cage. He didn't want her
to mix with the other children, and she didn't seem
to want to play with them. She was very shy,
and when they spoke to her she answered in a
foreign language. She had her little toys, and
she seemed to amuse herself contentedly hour
after hour : but I always felt sorry for her in
those long lonely days, when her father was away,

Certainly a sad aud solitary iu fancy, followed
by a desolate girlhood.

She used to watch the funerals goincj by to the
cemetery,' said the dame, who had no desire to
cut short the conversation, albeit the rudiments
of her husband's high tea were lying in her basket,
and the day was wearing towards afternoon.
There weren't near so many houses about herein
those days. It was almost open country, and
she could see everything that went along the road
to the cemetery, and used to sit and watch and
watch, and wonder and wonder. I could see it
in her face, sometimes, when I stopped to look
at her. But she never asked me no questions.
She little thought how soon her daddy that she
was so fond of would be lying in that cemetery.'

Is it near here ? ' asked Lashmar.
Not half a mile.'

I'll go and look at Boldwood's grave. Good-morning,
madam. If you wil accept a trifle byway
of '

He did not further explain himself, but dropped
some loose silver into the matron's willing hand

and left her curtseying on the pavement. Was
there ever such a gentleman — so noble-looking,
so free in his manners, and so open-handed ?

Lashmar found his way to the cemetery, which
had been placed remote from the town in the first
instance and was still well in the outskirts. It
was a noble cemetery, as to spaciousness, though a
little monotonous as to art. But trees and shrubs
had thriven, the place was neatly kept, and on
Sunday evenings this garden of death was a favourite
resort for the sober and serious among the working
people of Brumm, the people who liked to go to
chapel, and take their quiet walk after chapel.

Boldwood's grave ? The man at the lodge was
not a political enthusiast ; had never heard of
"Mr. Boldwood ; could give no information as to
his last resting-place.

So Lashmar wandered up and down till he
found the handsome headstone which his brother
had erected to mark the demagogue's grave.

'In memory of Jonathan Boldwood, a man of
advanced opinions and strong sympathies with
the poor and the oppressed, who perished in the

endeavour to save his infant daughter's life, and
who was much beloved and regretted by the
working classes of this city.'

By their works ye shall knows them.'

This was the epitaph which Hubert, Lord
Lashmar, had caused to be engraved on the
Republican's headstone.

Victorian stood looking at the words in a dreamy
forgetful ness, listless, tired, physically and mentally.
Would he ever find her whom he sought — would he
ever?

In the impatience of his temper, in the intensity
of all his feelings, it seemed to him as if he had
been looking for her for ages, had exhausted every
mode of search, and must needs despair. He had
driven her from him and she had gone. ' You told
me to march,' she had said to him, recalling his
speech of the past. 'You need not tell me that
this time. I am going to march.'

And she had marched, into infinite space*
whither he knew not ; and he stood here in this
place of graves, stood desolate and lonely among

the dead, and despaired of ever seeing lier face
again.

Look for her among the dead ! ' That ^yas
what the oracle had said. And he was here
among the dead, had been impelled here, as it
were, by some blind instinct, not knowing why he
came. He started with a thrill of horror, and
looked about him for a new-made grave, forgetting
how brief the time since she had left the Castle.
Scarcely time enough for death and burial. Yes,
there was a new grave near Bold wood's headstone:
a narrow mound of raw yellow clay, roughly
fashioned by the grave-digger's spade. He stood
looking at it with fixed eyes, like a man struck
by epilepsy, for a moment or so, till an approaching
footstep startled him from that trance
of fear.

He turned and saw a tall slim figure drawing
near, that black-robed girlish form which he had
seen so often in the corridors at Lashmar, and
had shunned, apprehending an indefinable danger,
the peril of his peace of mind, which was
ever disturbed by that presence.

He had looked for her among the dead, and
had found her living, lovely as when she had
last looked upon him in her pride and anger.

She bowed gravely, startled for a moment,
but composed herself instantly with wondrous self-command,
and Avould have passed him, but he
stopped her.

Stella,' he said, holding out his hand.

'Lord Lashnmr ? ' interrogatively, and without
accepting the offered hand.

Stella, will you not forgive me ? I have
been seeking for you ever since that night. I
have desired nothing on this earth so much as
your forgiveness. Will you not forgive me ?
Will you not shake hands with me ? By your
father's grave.'

That plea was irresistible. She gave him her
hand without a word. It was the first time
their hands had ever so met. His grasp tightened
upon the little hand, and he drew her nearer to
him, she shrinking all the while, looking at him
with frightened eyes, half angry, half wondering.

They were alone in the place of graves— alone

amidst the populace of the dead: no one swithin
sight or ear-shot.

'Stella, I have but one plea for pardon, but
one excuse for my brutality the other night, for
my coldness, my neglect, my absolute unkindness
in all the years that have gone over us since my
brother's death. My excuse for my conduct that
night is, that I was mad with jealousy ; my excuse
for years of unkindness is, that I have been the
slave of caste. I have tried not to love you,
and I love you more passionately than ever I
thought to love any living woman, were she
peeress or princess. All my pride of birth, all
my greed of gain, are flung to the winds. I love
you, Stella, and live only to love you. Say, sweet,
am I forgiven?'

She had turned giddy with the suddenness of
this surprise, fainting under the shock of an
unspeakable happiness. Her eyelids drooped, and
there were flashes of light across her eyeballs, and
a rushing sound in her head. Her cheek lay ghastly
white against her lover's shoulder, as he caught
her to his breast and just saved her from falling

My beloved, say I ain forgiven. Say that I
may hope.'

Her pale lips tried to answer, but were too
tremulous for speech. There was a pause, aud
then the heavy eyelids were slowly lifted, as with
a painful effort, a soul coming back to life and
consciousness, and the large dark eyes looked up
at him.

I have hated myself so bitterly for loving you,'
she faltered ; ' I have scorned myself for loving
the man who despised me.'

Ah, then we are both content,' he said,
kissing her. 'We have both struggled, and we
have both been beaten by Fate, which is stronger
than either of us. My beloved, I am ineffably
happy : there is not in this world a man more
deeply blest. And now come back to the Castle
and read to my mother, who has been pining for
you : and bo to her as a daughter. She too has
tried to shut her heart against you, but I suspect
that she too loves you. She knows everything,
dearest, knows that you are to be my wife, if I
can win you.'

Will she not be angry with you for such a
choice ? ' asked Stella.

'Xo, she bore it like a lamb. Don't you know that
her strong point is common sense, and sensible people
always submit quietly to the inevitable. Come,
dearest, we can get a fly somewhere outside the
cemetery, and drive to the hotel where I left my
phaeton. We shall be at the Castle in time for afternoon
tea. I believe her ladyship will be delighted.
She began to find out your value directly you were
gone.'

Stella explained to him that she could not
possibly leave Brumm thus abruptly. She had
found kind friends and a home there, and her
friends must not be left with discourtesy. Her
feminine instinct told her that to be driven back
to the Castle in Lord Lashmar's phaeton would be
to create a scandal. If she was to return thereat
all she could not return too quietly.

If her ladyship really wishes me to go back
perhaps she wil be kind enough to write me a
line, and to send a conveyance for me tomorrow,'
she said.

She shall do so. Yes, perhaps it would be best.
But it shall be to-day, not tomorrow.'

They went out of the cemetery together, and
through the streets of Brumra, talking: to each
other as if they had been lovers of a year's standing.
The love pent up in either breast, the passion long
held in check drew them together in a moment.

They met as rivers meet, and mingled as rivers
mingle. The shock of the meeting was tremendous,
but the union was instantaneous and complete.

The Chapmanss' shop was not very far from
Goldwin's, nor a long way from the cemetery.

Stella explained that since she had dwelt in
Brumm she had gone daily, and sometimes twice
a day, to her father's grave.

'It was the only thing 1 could do to be near
him,' she said.

'Ah, it was my cruelty which told you of his death.'

It was better for me to know the truth,' she
answered gently. ' All my dreams about him
were childish dreams. I ought to have known
that if he were living he would have come for me
or sent for me. He would not have Lived away

from me all those years aud made no sign. And
I honour him more and more — love him more I
cannot — for the sacrifice of this life. What am
I worth that two such noble lives should have
been risked for me ? '

You are worth all the world to me, Stella,'
answered her lover fondly ; ' and Nestorius tells me
that you are going to be the most charming storyteller
— if I were an American I should say
romanist — of the age, and to delight all the world.'

Mr. Nestorius is too kind.'

And he asked you to be his wife — he, the man
whom women have adored — and you refused him.
Why did you reject such a man, Stella ? '

She was silent, the pale cheeks kindling with
a sudden blush, the eyelids drooping.

Why, Stella ? why ? ' he urged.

Because I could care for no one in the world but
you,' she answered falteringly. ' You who seemed
so far off and so cruel.'

But who loved you passionately all the time,
Stella ; loved you and fought against his inclination ;
tried to be wiser than Fate. If you knew how

laboriously I endeavoured to fall in love with
Lady Carminow you would understand how
potent was that other influence which drew my
thoughts away from her.'

They were at Mrs. Chapman's corner by this
time — a corner shop in a street of small, shabby
little houses, out of which opened right and left
other streets of just the same pattern.

There is no private door,' said Stella ; ' would
you mind going through the shop ? '

I should adore it. I have never seen a shop
of the kind,' laughed Lashmar.

He had to bend his head a little under the
treasures hangftig from the ceiling, bacon, candles
onions, lemons in nets.

What a dear little shop ! ' he exclaimed, ' and
so well found. It is like the steward's cabin on
my Norwegian yacht.'

Stella led him into the parlour, that sacred
chamber so rarely tenanted in the day-time. The
Chapman family were taking four o'clock tea
in the kitchen.

Stella went into them and told them how

Lord Lashmar had come to thank them for their
kindness to her, and how her ladyship wished her
to go back to the Castle.

I think I shall have to leave you this evening,
or tomorrow at least,' she said shyly , ' but I shall
never forget your kindness or cease to think of
you as my friends. And I shall come to see you
sometimes if you will let me.'

Of course we will, my lass, and always glad
to see your pretty face,' said the genial Chapman,
looking up from a breakfast cup of steaming tea.

Lord Lashmar here ! ' exclaimed Polly with an
awe-stricken look. ' Didn't I tell you so ? Oh,
you naughty girl, to try to deceive Fine.'

May I come in, sirs. Chapman ? ' asked Lashmar,
showing himseK in the doorway between parlour
and kitchen.

Oh ! your lordship, such a poor place,' faltered
Mrs. Chapman, and the whole family stood up,
including the printer's reader, who had been shelling
shrimps for his beloved.

Lashmar shook hands with Chapman just as
affably as if he had been electioneering, as that

worthy citizen remarked afterwards, and thanked
the whole family in heartiest fashion for their
goodness to Miss Boldwood.

'She will have another name before long, I
hope,' he added, glancing fondly at the blushing
face, 'and when she is Lady Lashmar she can
take care that her housekeeper deals at Mr.
Chapman's for bacon and bloaters and things,'
with a vague reminiscence of the mingled odours
he had received as he passed through the shop.

Oh ! my lord, you do us too much honour,' said
the grocer. * But I hope your lordship will always
remember that it was Jonathan Boldwood's daughter
we set store by, not the future lady Lashmar.'

'And Jonathan Boldwood's daughter will not
become ungrateful because she changes her name,'
answered Lashmar. ' And, now, dearest, I will
leave you with your good friends for a couple of
hours longer. The carriage will be here for you by
six o'clock, I hope. Good-day Mrs. Chapman.'

He shook hands all round, even with the
printer's reader, who was a rabid Eadical in the
abstract, but admired a nobleman in the flesh.

Polly felt that hand-shake was an event in her life,
something to remember and talk about in years to
come. There was no doubt about it there was a
something, an indescribable air about blue blood ;
which may be taken to mean that Polly had never
before seen a man who had been trained in the
Eton playing-fields, and had rowed in the Oxford
eight ; nor yet a man clothed by Poole or Small-page.


Didn't I say so, now, Miss Bold wood ? ' repeated
Polly, when his lordship had gone. 'Didn't I see
through you the other night, for all you kept your
secret so well ? '

'I had no secret to keep, Polly. Please don't
laugh at me, I can't bear it,' said Stella feebly.

It was with difficulty she kept back her tears.
Mrs. Chapman patted her on the back, as if she
had been suffering from a crumb in her wind-pipe :
Polly wreathed an affectionate arm round her
waist as she sat by the family tea-table.

"Ave a few scraps, Miss Boldwood,' said the
printers reader, who was somewhat faulty in his
pronunciation, though he knew the English

VOL. II. T

language when he saw it iu type, and had brought
rainy a patrician to Look on the burning question
of the objective case.

Well, I Congratulate you with all my 'art, my
dear Miss Boldwood/ said Mrs. Chapman.

How handsome he is too,' sighed Polly : * the
very image of Guy Livingston.'

HERE LODGE AS IN A SANCTUARY '

Stella obeyed her lover, and gathered together
her manuscripts and those few cherished books
which were nearly all the possessions she had
broiu\fc away from Lashmar Castle. She packed
the little back which had made her arms ache so
terribly in the long tramp from Lashmar to Brumm.
and awaited the letter and the carriage that were
to be sent at his lordship's bidding.

Would her ladyship condescend to write to her,
she wondered, were it only so much as one line to
desire her return — that proud, self-contained mistress
who had ever treated her as a slave, a being of
inferior race, with whom she could have no
sympathy ; who had accepted all her ministrations,
her patient watchings, the tender touches of light
hands bathing the aching brow ; who had let this

girl sit beside her bed night after night, and had
never by word or token given love or gratitude in
return ? Would she stoop so low as to request the
runaway slave to go back to her servitude ? Would
she endure the thought that this poor helot was to
be her son's wife ?

Stella told herself that Lady Lashmar would not
brook such an alliance, that she would not suffer
her presence under these altered circumstances, and
that no letter and no carriage would come from the
Castle in quest of her, however urgently Lashmar
might entreat his mother iu her behalf.

God help me,' she said to herself on her knees
beside the pallet bed in the little room on the half
lli'iht, ' am I to sow dissension between mother and
son, part them perhaps for ever, they two who have
been all the world to each other ? Ought I not
sooner to give him up, my newly beloved ? But I
love him so dearly, so dearly ! '

She prayed fervently, with tears — prayed that
she might be guided and inspired to do what was
wisest and best for him her newly beloved.

New as a lover, but not newly beloved. Was

he not the hero of all her childish fancies, the
embodiment of every heroic form that national
poetry had revealed to her ? Odin — Achilles — each
mythic name had clothed itself in his shape. And
in the stories of her own weaving, those fictions with
which she had comforted herself in the loneliness
of her own prosaic life, did not the hero always
speak with his voice, and wear his form -^ Cruel
hard, and proud had her heroes ever been ; long-suffering,
submissive, Griselda-like, her heroines :
loving in silence, unrequited, unloved. Her own
thoughts and feelings had coloured all those early
efforts at romance weaving ; unconsciously she had
spun the thread of each story from her own heart.
And now she sat in the little room and waited to
see what new thincc Fate would do for Ler — Fate
which had lifted her into elysium since the stroke
of noon ; which might condemn her to despair before
the stroke of midnight 1

She sat and waited, and towards six o'clock
began to listen for the sound of carriage wheels in
the street below, it was dark, but she had not
lighted her candle.

Six o'clock and no carriage. She heard the hour
struck by one church and two factory clocks. A
quarter past, half past, and still no sound of wheels.

No, it was quite evident her ladyship had
refused to write, were it so much as a single line.
Lashmar was at a loss how to act, his mother
having refused to receive her runaway servant.

Hark ! carriage wheels, decidedly carriage
wheels, and the rhythmical trot of a pair of horses.
Stella ran into the front room and looked out.
The blaze of carriage lamps seemed to illuminate
all the street. It flashed in upon her as she
stood at the window.

The carriage was her ladyship's own chariot,
the horses were her own particular seventeen-hinders,
grand, upstanding bays, which in that
shabby little street looked almost as large as a
pair of elephants.

Had this state vehicle been sent in mockery,
Stella wondered, scared at the spectacle ? Was it a
piece of practical irony on the part of Lady
Lashmar ?

A footman opened the door, and the dowager

herself ali«>htecl, moving slowly and feebly, leaning
on the tall footman's arm a little as she descended
to earth, but tall, stately, and regal of aspect in
her long black velvet mantle bordered with darkest
sable.

Stella went downstairs to receive this most unexpected
visitor — went white and trembling to greet
her ; while the Chapman family, who lead flown to
the door expecting a fire-engine, and one small
girl, with a large jug, who had come for three-pennyworth
of golden syrup, stood at gaze, aghast
at this aristocratic vision.

'Stella, I have come to fetch you,' said her
ladyship, in the easiest manner. 'You were very
foolish and very impetuous in running away
because of a few uncivil words from an impulsive
young man. Put on your bonnet while I thank
these kind people for having taken care of you.'

The Chapmanss entreated her ladyship not to
overpower them. They had done but that which
they would do willingly for any respectable young
female in distress ; how much the more for the
daughter of Jonathan Boldsvood, who had spoken

such noble words for the cause of the poor. These
honest people were altogether overcome by the
apparition of the dowager. She appeared to them
much more awe-inspiring, more august in her
splendour than that noble-looking gentleman, her
son. There had been in him a free-and-easy air
which had taken off the edge of this grandeur.
But this tall, pale, elderly lady, with the aquiline
nose and white hair, and flowing velvet mantle
heavily bordered with fur, seemed to them a being
apart, the very embodiment of aristocracy.

Stella did not detain her ladyship long amidst
the odours of rank bacon, strong butter, American
cheese, and onions. She reappeared in two or
three minutes, carrying her bag of books.

'Let John take that, my dear,' and the powdered
youth, who had been hovering on the
threshold, sprang forward to relieve Stella of her
burden.

She kissed Mrs. Chapman and her daughter,
shook hands with the general dealer, and followed
her ladyship to the carriage, what time the
small customer, jug in baud, still stood at gaze

and waited patiently for her golden syrup, deeply
interested in the spectacle. Never before in that
street had those young eyes beheld a pair of high-steppes,
powdered footman, and flashing carriage
lamps.

Another minute, and the horses were trotting
along the narrow street, and Stella was folded
in Lady Lashmar's arms.

My child, I have had to bear the disappointment
of all my long-meditated hopes ; but I find
that God has been crowd to me even in frustrating
my plans, and I have found the daughter best
calculated to make my declining years happy.
Oh, Stella, I have tried not to love you, but first
you made yourself necessary to me, and then, in
my desolation and loneliness, I discovered that
you had made yourself very dear to me.'

Lady Lashmar, can you really accept me as
your son's wife ? '

'Yes, Stella, I have thought out the question
deliberately, and I can take you to my heart and
rejoice in my new daughter. I have tried very
hard to love Clarice, and I have never quite

succeeded. There has always been an arrive pense
a suspicion of her heartlessness and shallowness.
I have loved you in spite of myself, almost as
Victorian loved you. My heart and my intellect
have both been conquered. Stella, I have been
cold and repellent. I have been cruel even.
Can you forgive me, can you be to me as a
daughter ? '

Oh, Lady Lashmar, I only wanted to be
allowed to love you,' faltered the girl, her cheek
against the dowager's shoulder, her waist encircled
by the dowager's arm.

The permission is freely given, child. Love
me your hardest, love me with all your might. I
may not be spared many years to enjoy your
love — to see you and Victorian happy together —
to live in a new atmosphere of love. It will
be the Indian summer of my life.'

mrs. Mulciber was in the hall when the
dowager and Stella alighted from the carriage.
Domestic convulsions were her natural element.
She came on board the family ship at such times
like a pilot, and thought no barque could get

safely to harbour without her assistance. She
took Stella in her arms, and cooed over her with
a sound as of an elderly wood-pigeon.

'My sweet girl, did I not tell you it would
be so ? ' she murmured.

Oh, Mrs. Mulciber, you told me something
quite different.'

Did T, dear ? About Mr. Xestorius ? Ah,
to be sure I did. But I was right, you see. I
knew you were destined to make a great marriage.
And now run and dress for dinner.'

*I have dined with my friends in Brumm,'
answered Stella. '1 shall have some tea in my
own room, thanks.'

Mr. Xestorius had heard from Lashmar how
the fugitive had been found — among the dead ;
and how in that place of death the bond
of union had been sealed between the living.
He and Lashmar had talked gravely together fora
little while, and then Xestorius had bid him a
kind and quiet farewell, and had driven to the
railway station on his way to London.

Will you not stay ? AVould you not like to
see her ? ' pleaded Lashmar.

No, my dear friend, the wound is too new.
I love her too well to be able quite honestly and
frankly to rejoice in her happiness yet awhile.
Years hence, when you are a family man, I may
once more be your guest and hers. Old Dr. Time
has an ointment for all wounds.'

Stella did not appear at the eight o'clock dinner,
as officious Mrs. Mulciber would have had her
appear, accepting at once all the importance of lier
position as Lashmar's promised bride. She had
some tea in Parker's sitting-room, and was wept
over by the warm-hearted Barker, and slipped back
into her old life as naturally as if she had only
left the Castle for a few days' holiday.

'Will you come down to the drawing-room
with me and be made known to my son's friends ? '
asked her ladyship.

Not for the world, dear Lady Lashmar,' she
pleaded: 'let me be just what I have been, your
reader and amanuensis. Only love me a little, if
you can. It is so sweet to be loved.'

Her eyes tilled with tears as she spoke, and

for the second time Victorian's mother took her to
her bosom and kissed her.

I cannot help loving you,' she said. 'Yes, it
is sweet to be loved. You have been patient and
faithful to me without reward, poor child. Henceforward
give me love for love. There shall be no
debt unpaid between us.'

Lady Lashniar dined in her own room, pleading
fatigue as a reason for not joining her guests, and
the downstairs party, freed from the dazzling
splendour of those two stars, Lady Carminow and
Mr. Nestorius, and inspired by Victorian's high
spirits, gave themselves up to an almost rollicking
joviality, which scandalised the chief butler and
his subordinates. It was the merriest dinner party
there had been at the Castle since the assemblies
of the shooters. Lady Sophia and Captain Vavasor
kept up a cross fire of anecdote and epigram ;
sirs. Mulciber cooed and murmured in her host's
ear, telling him how she had admired Stella from
the first moment of beholding her ; how she had
tried to win, and, as she hoped, had succeeded in
winning the sweet girl's friendship ; and how she

had seen from the first that hu ami Stella must
inevitably be attached to each other.

'The very fact that you never spoke of her,
and that she never spoke of you, convinced me of
it,' she said. 'That is an infallible sign.'

I see. Silence is the great test. Well, I can
talk of her now, and I feel as if I could talk of
nothing else. But I must not be egotistical. Fora
man to talk of his betrothed is almost as bad
as to talk of himself. He bores his friends
just as much. Had you a good run, Lady
Sophia ? '

Detestable. A horrid ringing brute that kept
us jogging up and down the same lanes for an
hour and a half, and then went to ground. "VYe
dug him out, I am happy to say.'

I remember an old dog fox in the Campagna

' began Captain Vavasour. Whereupon

everybody began to talk at a tremendous rate, as
if he had opened the flood-gates of conversation.
They all knew that old dog fox and the dismal
long story he carried by way of bru&li, and they
flung good manner to the winds.

What about Lamington's speech at Chester
yesterday ? '

Did you see the Times leader upon Snooks ? '

What a success they seem to have made with
the new play at the Lyceum.' And in this wise
they chopped Captain Vavasour's Roman fox.

Never again will I mention a fox in that
man's hearing,' said Lashmar, after dinner in the
smoking-room : ' not even Ben Jonson's Yolpone,
nor the great Whig Statesman. His Campagna
story's intolerable, and I believe he would tell
it three times a week if we gave him the opening.'

My dear fellow, he would tell it every day
and twice a day if he could get hearers,' replied
i'onsonby. 'And I don't believe he ever hunted
in the Campagna or anywhere else.'

A little later Lashmar saw his male friends
amusing themselves in the billiard room, while
Mrs. Mulciber and the rest of the women were
sitting round the drawing-room fire, deep in the
discussion of the last big scandal in the great
world, and indulging in as many repetitions of
he said ' and ' she sake ' as if they had been

washerwomen. Seeing,' his guests thus content
and happy, he slipped away and went to his
mother's room, where he found Stella and the
dowager sitting opposite each other by that hearth
where Lady Lashmar had sat and brooded in her
loneliness last night.

He drew in his chair between them, and they
three sat there for an hour, talking of the future,
perfectly happy and at ease. And then he bade
his mother and his betrothed good-night, with a
kiss and a benediction for each. He looked in at
the drawing-room where the very same scandal
was still being discussed, in tones of deeper
solemnity; and then he went back to the billiard
room and made believe to have been only absent
ten minutes or so.

How are you fellows getting on ? ' he asked
What's the score ? '

'Only just begun. This is the third game
since you went away. Vavasour has been licking
me horribly. I believe he is a professional in
disguise.*

In his new and strange happiness — so strange to

a proud, self-contained nature, which for the tirs.t
time surrenders itself to its twin soul and ceases to
dwell apart — Victorian did not forget the poor, pale
oracle who, by some mysterious faculty, had foreshadowed
his meeting with his beloved.

He had found her among the dead. "Whether
those scratches upon the hidden slate — so utterly
unexplainable in their mode and manner of production
— had but by accident hit upon a kind of prophecy,
or whether there were indeed some touch of
supernatural power in that very commonplace-looking
adept, Mrs. Minchin's protegee, Lord Lashmar
did not take upon himself to determine. But in the
fulness of his own content he felt a pang of
regretful compassion for that fading life of the
oracle, and her dismal bondage to a hard task-mistress
; and he wished, were it possible, to do
her some kindness.

He drove once more to the gloomy old house
on Thorleigh Heath, and once more was admitted
into the dreary .looking drawing-room, where Mrs.
Minchin came to him. Xot a word did he say
as to the fulfilment of a prophecy. He did not
VOL. II. u

want to add fuel to the flame of Mrs. ]\Iiiichiii's
lunacy.

I am leaving Laslimar tomorrow,' he said ;
and before I go I should like much to offer some
substantial token of my interest in your young friend
Griselda. Will you allow her to accept this
cheque for a hundred pounds V taking a sealed
envelope from his breast pocket. 'It may serve
as an addition to any little provision which you
have made for her in your will.'

I cannot accept it for her. And I am sure
she would not accept it for herself,' answered Mrs.
Minchin, with an icy air. 'She is above all
considerations of earthly dross. She has no
pleasure in the things that please other women.
The world outside these walls has no interest for her.'
May not that be because she has never been
allowed to see the outer world or to taste its
pleasures ? ' asked Lashmar. * Do not you think
it is a hard thing to take a young life like hers
and imprison it within four walls — to let the
young soul beat itself out against prison-bars, like a
bird in a cage ? *

Her soul has never been fettered replied the
old lady, fixing him with an eye that glittered,
like the Ancient Mariner's, with an unholy light.
Her soul has soared beyond the boundaries of
earth into the infinite of the spirit world. Would
you substitute earthly pleasures, play-houses, racecourses,
dances, for such joys as she has known ?
She who has held communion with the souls of
the mighty dead ; to whom the voice of Socrates is
more familiar than any living voice. She who
has received the confidences of great spirits which
have been ripening towards perfection for two
thousand years. She who has listened to Confucius,
who has absorbed the wisdom of Buddha.'

But in the meantime her health has been
sapped, her physical powers have dwindled,'
remonstrated Lashmar : ' she has been dying inch
by inch.'

'Call it not death but promotion. Every day
brings her nearer to her spirit guides — they are
calling her hourly. As her thread of earthly life
wears thinner the link between her soul and the
spirit-world strengthens, her inspirations are more

marvellous. Xo, Lord Lashmar, she will never
need your bounty, nor will she need any provision
of mine. Old as I am I shall outlive her.'

*If you do it will be murder. Her death
will lie at your door,' said Lashmar indignantly.
You have no right so to waste a young life for your
pleasure

For my pleasure ! ' echoed Mrs Minchin indignantly.
' It is in the cause of science she has
wasted herself, as you in your enlightenment would
call it. She has dedicated herself to the advancement
of psychology, to the generalisation of
humanity, to the glorious cause of spirit against
flesh. She is perfectly happy. She has not a
wish unfulfilled.'

'Let me be assured of that, Mrs. Minchin. Let
me see her and let me speak to her — in your presence,
if you like. I should be relieved to hear
from her own lips that she is contented with her
fate.'

Mrs. Minchin complied without a word. She
raff a bell three times, and soon after the third
rinj^in" Griselda entered the room.

Her countenance wore the same expressionless
and apathetic look it had worn before. She
advanced to meet Lord Lashmar, and allowed her
limp cold hand to lie in his for a moment or so
by way of greeting. She showed neither surprise
nor pleasure at seeing him.

Griselda, I want you to accept a little gift
from me— a gift of a hundred pounds, which
you can spend in any way you may fancy said
Lashmar, watching her closely as he spoke, to
see if she looked to Mrs. Minchin for guidance
before replying, to discover if she were indeed a
free agent.

By not a sign did she betray her slavery, if she
were a slave. Xot one ray of cupidity lighted up
her waxen features.

I do not want any money,' she answered simply.

But you are not over-well, I hear. A change
from this dull house to some pleasant lively place
by the sea would do you good. Pray, take this
money and spend it for your health and comfort,
I am sure Mrs. Minchin will allow you to accept
my little gift,'

I do not forbid her,' said the old woman.
She has other guides than me.'

No, 1 do not want any money,' answered
Crriselda, without the faintest expression of grateful
feeling. * I do not wish to leave this house. The
spirits come to me here. They might forsake mein
a strange house.'

'But your health is suffering.'

That cannot be helped. I have been told how
loiii]f I have to live.'

And you are contented, happy ? ' interrogated
Lashmar.

Yes, I am as happy as I can ever be in this
world. There will be a greater happiness, a newer,
wider life when I am free, like them.'

Lashmar felt that argument was vain. He could
but pity the young fanatic, and feel intense disgust
for the patroness who had worn out that young life
for the gratification of her own fancies and theories.

If ever you have need of a friend outside
these walls you have only to write or send to me,'
lie said. ' You will not forget — Lord Lashmar,
Lashmar Castle.'

Then there are two Lord Lashmars,' said
Griselda, looking at him fixedly.

How do you mean ? '

•' There is one in the spirit world. Do you
remember the second message on the slate the
day you were here last ? '

Yes.'

'That was signed Lashmar. You were too
excited by the message, and you did not look
at it long enough to see the signature. It was
very dim, but I was able to read the name —
Lashmar.'

Guests and host were all gone by the end of the
week, each to his or her several destinies. Lashmar
to make speeches in the endeavour to enlighten that
great mass of the washed and unwashed, who were
?on to exercise their elective function and to
return Whig or Tory, as the tide of popular
opinion flowed this way or that. He was to come
back for a week at Christmas ; and then he was
to go away again and appear no more till he came
in the season of woodland primroses and budding

hedges to claim his bride. Lady Lashmar had
stipulated that lie should wait six months. He
was to "ive himself this much time in which to
be sure of himself and his own feelings, and he
was to sive her this much time in which to take
her new daughter to her heart.

T want her to grow to me ; I want her to be
verily as my daughter before you give her the
right to call me mother', she said; 'and when
once there is this bond of love between us
neither you nor she shall ever have cause to
dread the influence of the proverbial mother-in-law.'


I have no fear of that, mother. I know
how noble you are, and that when once you have
accepted a position '

I shall perform the duties of that position.
Ye, Victorian ; but in this instance I hope to
render something more than duty.'

Tyishmar was too grateful to rebel. He steeped
himself in the political vortex, and tried to give
wines to the days an I hours which divide 1 him
from the realisation of all his hopes.

Lay Lash mar had a month of serious illness
during her son's absence, throughout which Stella
nursed her with unwearying patience and care :
and day by day and hour by hour the bond
grew closer between them, and the proud, reserved
nature opened its treasure-house of tender
feeling.

Ah, Stella, my Stella, you have given me
n3w hope? and new joys in spite of myself,'
muir cured the dowager once, in the deep of night,
when Stella had been sitting for hours beside her
bed. ' After all, love is the one thing needful
for us poor mortals in our earthly pilgrimage —
the one star to guide us through earth's dark
labyrinth — and in loving one another we learn to
love our God, who has told us that He is Love.'

'Dear Lady Lashmar '

Call me mother ; never again by any colder
name.*

*Dear mother, you have filled my life with
gladness. I never could have been happy with
Victorian if you had denied me your love.'

Lady Carminow lead not remained in England
to assist at the triumph of an obscure rival.
Sh had taken advantage of good-natured Mrs.
Danebrook being ' not so well,' to whisk her off to
Aix-les-Bains, as rapidly as if she had been provided
with Medea's fiery chariot, and from Paix,
when the weather grew colder, they went on to
Montreux, and from Montreux to Bellagio, and
thence to Florence.

And in one of the noblest palaces of that favoured
city Lady Carminow set up her court, and
surrounded herself with worshippers and sycophants
of the highest quality, spending Job
Danebrook's hard-won wealth with a royal lavishness
which enchanted everybody.

From her Italian retreat, the Sultana of the
Danebrook Ironworks held occasional communication
with her vassals through her grand vizier,
the manager of the works, whom she regarded
as a particularly troublesome, officious, and pigheaded
person, with a passion for giving unnecessary
and even impertinent advice.

I make it a rule never to take any no ce

of anything he says,' she observed, to one of her
friends, a civil engineer, with whom, as a practical
man, she sometimes discussed the prospects of the
iron trade.

But may not his advice be worth taking
once in a way?' suggested this gentleman,
were it only as the exception which proves the
rule.'

'Oh, if I were once to give way to his ideas
I should never again be mistress of my own
property. I believe he is a very worthy person,
and that he understands the iron trade ; but he
is a horrid Radical. The very air of Brumm is
infected v»ith revolution.'

In the face of this calm and sweet-tempered
obstinacy the manager could do nothing. Vainly
did he write his views upon the necessity of
marching: in the van lather than in the rear of
Progress. Vainly did he inform her ladyship of
increasing signs of disaffection and ill-will among
her army of workers ; vainly warn her of the peril
to her fortune involved in this question. Lady
Carminow was as obstinate as George the Third

in his treatment of America, and the result was
somewhat similar.

One winter midnight the city of Brumra was
scared by such a conflagration as had not been
seen under that murky sky for more than lialfa
century. Men and women thronged the streets,
strangers drove into the city from outlying towns
and villages, little children were taken out of
their beds and lifted up at windows to see the
red havoc flaring against the dark of night.
Every steeple and chimney-shaft stood up out of
the mass of roofs like a pillar of flame, luminous
with the reflection of yonder fire. The great
Danebrook Ironworks and all their dependencies —
model dwelling-houses, clerks' offices, store-houses,
stables — were burning, and no power of fire-engines,
which Brumm or the neighbourhood could muster,
could in any wise avail against the might of that
gigantic conflagration.

The fire had broken out in a dozen different
places, almost simultaneously. No one could
doubt that there had been deliberate and

elaborately plotted arson ; and the traces of that
crime were found afterwards in several directions,
while it was also discovered that one of the conspirators,
just a little less ruthless than his
fellows, had sent an anonymous scrawl to the
head stable-keeper, warning him to get his horses
out of the way soon after dark that evening.
This message the stable-keeper had brooded over
for hours, and had obeyed only just in time to
save his stud of magnificent cart-horses from
perishing in the flames.

The loss to Lady Carminow was computed at
nearly a million. Mr. Danebrook had been his own
insurer. The only policies upon the whole
establishment were those small policies which
insured the furniture of the operatives, and which
Job Danebrook had always insisted upon — paying
the premiums himself, and deducting the amount
from wages.

Happily there were no lives lost. It was
supposed afterwards that a signal of some kind
had been sent round from house to house at half-past
ten o'clock, and that all were on the alert.

ready to make their escape before the moment of
danger. Deliberately, audaciously as the work
of destruction had been carried out the conspirators
were never brought to book. There was
a prolonged inquiry, aud the police did their
best : but among nearly fifteen hundred disaffected
workmen it was not an easy matter to bring the
crime home to individuals.

Seven men were arrested on suspicion, and a
mass of evidence was brought together : conversations
held in public-houses aud club-rooms
were repeated in detail — circumstantial evidence,
as to the purchase of paraffine and other combustibles,
was sifted and re-sifted — a hundred and
fifteen witnesses were examined aud cross-examined
— the men were remanded, and again
remanded, till newspaper readers began to tire of
the Great Danebrook Arson Case : and the result
was nil

So; the great Danebrook Ironworks came to an
end like a tale that is told. Lady Carminow
decisively refused to rebuild or to hear anything
more about iron,

If I could be grateful to those wretches for
anything it would be for this fire she said, with
her grand air. ' It is such a comfort to think
that I am no longer in trade, and that I shall
never again have my carriage blocked by a
hideous procession of grimy waggons with mis
name painted upon them.'

Victorian and Stella were married in Easter
week. It was an early Easter, the season of
primroses and hedgerow violets and wood
anemones. Such self-sown flowers seemed most
in harmony with such a wedding — an union of
hearts that had grown to each other unawares,
overstepping all boundaries of rank and circumstance.
Never was there a quieter wedding,
seldom a prettier one, according to the few
spectators, who were all rapturous about it afterwards.


Stella was given away by her future mother-in-law,
who had all the imperial grace of a
portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds, clad in white-samnite,
Anglice, in a large white velvet mantle

bordered with white fox, and ;i white velvet
bonnet \vith ostrich feathers. The tall thin
figure, silvery hair, and Marie Antoinette
countenance vere wondrously set off by that
white velvet and fur. It was said that the
dowager was a more interesting figure than
the bride, although she looked lovely in
her simple white casliniere gown and fox-fur
jacket, and little white toque, dressed ready to
start on her honeymoon journey to the land
of Don Quixote, where Lashmar was to
take her in search of a grandfather and a
pedigree.

He had shown her the copies of her mother's
letters, and they had planned this Spanish journey
together. He was to take her to all the fairest
spots in that romantic hud, all scenes richest in
historical associations, and cities rich in treasures
of art ; and it was oily as it were en passant
that they were to hunt for the traces of her
parentage.

They were saved all trouble upon this score,
for within a fortnight of their marriage Lashmar

received a Spanish letter addressed to his townhouse,
and forwarded to him on his travels.

It was from a lawyer in Madrid, who wrote
to inquire whether the lady whom he had married
was Jonathan Boldwood's daughter by his marriage
with a Spanish lady, or whether she was the offspring
of a prior or a subsequent marriage. If she
were indeed the sole offspring of Jonathan Bold-wood's
marriage with a young Spanish lady, whom
he carried off from Madrid, and was supposed to
have married at St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, London,
in August 186 — , the said daughter was sole heiress
to Don Xavier Alvarez, merchant, who had lately
died intestate, and who had left papers relating
to his daughter's elopement, and letters written
to him by her, in the care of the writer, his legal
adviser.

Lashmar answered the letter in person, taking
his bride with him. The Spaniard was an elderly
man, and remembered Stella's mother.

There is no doubt as to jour lady's parentage,'
he said. ' She carries the proof of it in her face.
But there will be legal formalities to be gone

VOL. II. X

through before she can enter into possession of
her inheritance, which is in various forms of investment,
partly in vineyards and other landed
property, and partly in stocks and shares.'

The formalities which appeared to be necessary
to complete the identification of the inheritrix
lasted nearly six months, and at the end of that
time Stella became possessed of about fifteen thousand
pounds variously invested

'It is more than enough to renovate that old
barrack in Grosvenor Square,' said Lashmar who
was eager to see his young wife take her place in
society.

And to buy an annuity for dear Mr. Werner,
so that he may feel quite independent,' added
Stella.

Gabriel Werner had been brought back to his
old rooms in the Castle since Stella's marriage
and re-instated in his post of librarian, with power
to add from time to time to that magnificent
collection of old books which had made Lashmar
Castle famous.

Lady Lashmar's novel was published anonymously

a few weeks after her marriage, and more
than justified the opinion of the publisher's reader
and the admiration of that still finer critic, Mr.
Nestorius.

It was the book of the season, a book which
a great many people read and which everybody
talked about, those who had only read the
reviews talking loudest.

The freshness of the style, with its passionate
flow and youthful vigour, was curiously contrasted
by touches of archaic learning which set the critics
wondering about the writer. Before the book
had been out a month there were plenty of
people ready to affirm that it was written by
Mr. Nestorius ; and some even went so far as to
produce circumstantial evidence in proof of that
authorship.

Firstly, the book was produced by Mr. Nestorius's
publisher. Secondly, it had leaked out that
the proofs had been sent to Mr. Nestorius.
Thirdly, nobody less accomplished — of less all-round
cleverness — could have written such a
book.

There was, however, a small section of the
reading public — chiefly women — who knew by a
fine instinct that this story of passionate, unrequited
love could have been written only by a
woman ; since only to woman is Love the One
Thing Needful.

CHAPTER I.

'THE SHADE BY WHICH MY LIFE WAS CT.OST '

As English landscape. It seemed to Weldon
Stukely that he had seen nothing so beautiful
for the last seven years; and yet he had been
where Nature has lavished her richest colouring,
and her grandest forms. He had been a sojourner
in the ancient world, the cradle of civilisation,
of religion, language, science, art, poetry, and war —
the immemorial East, from which antique Greece
with all her glory was but an offshoot. He had
been a traveller in the Himalayas, had looked
upward at the unapproachable summit of Mount

Everest: and now as the little hired landau from
Scadleigh station came round a curve in a wooded
road, and the village green, with its pond and
herd of lazy kine, standing breast deep in the
shining water, its old inn, and horse trough,
and sign post, and three fine elms spreading their
broad shadows on the patch of grass between the
porch and the highway, and the labourers in
their russet-brown frocks lounging on the stout
oaken bench in front of the rough-cast wall — it
seemed to the returning traveller as if this simple
rustic landscape, this little picture of homely
village life, surpassed all the loveliness of the
tropics. And yet it was such a common-place
scene — a scene we all know, which needs perhaps
the glamour of a summer sunset, the feeling of
eventide repose, to make it beautiful.

Thank God for England,' said Colonel Stukely,
as he looked at the village green.

While he was looking back at it the fly drove
in at the gates of Darnel Park, and a large
matron was curtseying and smiling at him at
the gate of her tiny lodge garden, a garden so

crammed with flowers as to leave uo room for
the sole of a foot.

How d'ye do, Mrs. Rabble ? ' said the Colonel,
heartily as to an old friend. 'As young as ever,
but not any thinner, I see.'

Mrs. Rabble laughed and shook her head.
She had been a slim slip of a girl once upon a
time, but it was so long ago that she had
forgotten the sensation.

Darnel Park was one of those places which
leave within the mind an impression of perfect
beauty, especially when seen for the first time
in the summer sunset. It was full of fine old
timber, and had those undulations and inequalities
of surface which make a domain picturesque.
The house was as old as Sir Christopher "Wren,
a delightful age for a country gentleman's mansion,
as it allows of lofty ceilings, spacious rooms,
plenteous light and air. Fine old oaks and
beeches dotted the broad sweeps of grass, plantations
of larch and Douglas fir sheltered the park
from the outer world ; while on one side of the
house there was a wide expanse of broken gro unda

region of deep hollows and craggy banks,
mighty thickets of rhododendron and azalea, which
Colonel Stukely called the jungle.

He was an expected guest at Darnel, but he
had arrived by an earlier train than that by
which he was supposed to travel ; hence the
hired fly, and hence also the fact that on alighting
at the hall door he was told, apologetically,
by Purden, the old butler, that Sir Allan and
Lady Darnel had not yet returned from their
drive.

There was a flower show at Walton, Colonel,
and Sir George and my lady were obliged to be
present. Your rooms are ready. Colonel. Shall I
show you to them at once; or would you like to
see Miss Darnel first? She is in the morning
room expecting you.'

Miss Darnel,' cried the Colonel eagerly.
'Miss Grace, you mean?'

'No, sir; Miss Darnel — Sir Allan's sister,
Colonel. I believe from a strict point of view,'
added the butler, gravely, deliberately, apologetically,
'our own young lady is Miss Darnel, but

Sir Allan's sister would never give in to it. I
should never have the pluck to allude to her as
Miss Dora.'

Purden was an old military servant of Sir
Allan's. He had known the Colonel when Stukely
and Darnel were brother officers, and felt himself
privileged to chatter.

Oh,' said the Colonel, ' Sir Allan's sister is
in the morning room,' as if the reminder of that
lady's existence came upon him somewhat as a
shock. 'Yes, I will go and see Miss Darnel
before I go to my room. My man will bring my
portmanteaux on presently. T was in too great a
hurry to wait for him.'

He followed Purden along a corridor, and into
one of those gracious, home-like interiors which
are the slow growth of generations ; panelled
walls mellowed by time, old Sheraton furniture,
old Indian china, flowers in profusion ; and
on a scarlet Japanese table by the window an
old - fashioned mahogany tea - tray, with brass
handles, a George the Second tea-pot, and cups
and saucers fresh from the royal factory at

Worcester. Beside the tea table, with her face
toward the door, smiling, expectant, sat a lady
whose aspect was certainly not calculated to repel
or alarm any man.

She was a little woman, fragile, graceful
fashioned, with a small face delicately tinted,
light brown hair and dark brown eyes — tine eyes,
penetrating, just a little imperious, the distinguishing
feature in a face which might otherwise
have been insignificant. She was daintily dressed
in a pale grey gown of some soft gauzy material,
the low tints of which harmonised exquisitely
with her delicate complexion. Colonel Stukely
knew that she was eight and thirty ; but a
stranger would as easily have believed that she
was only eight and twenty. Happy result of
having taken the utmost care of one's self under
all the varied circumstances and agitations of
life.

She welcomed the traveller with a gentle
cordiality, a little touch of suppressed emotion,
which ought to have been delightful to any man.
But the Colonel was not enthusiastic. He had

thanked God for the English landscape just now;
but he had not the air of thanking Gcd for
Dora Darnel. He seated himself in the low-remorseful
chair she suggested to him ; he took the
offered cup of tea from her hand; but he was not
demonstrative of delight in their meeting.

• I daresay you are rather surprised to find
me here, en permanence,' she said, ' after Allan's
marriage ?"

The Colonel looked embarrassed for a moment
or so; and then his natural gallantry came to his
aid.

I am surprised to find you still Miss Darnel.
Our unworthy sex has been singularly blind to
its own best interests.'

Your sex has not been neglectful of my
claims, Colonel,' answered the lady, laughing. 'I
have had opportunities of changing the name of
Darnel — which I honour — for other names for
which I do not care a straws But I am not one
of that silly herd of women who marry because
they would rather be called Mrs. than Miss, who
want a house of their owen, forsooth ; which is

only another word for a burden of their own, a
grinding care that shortens the lives of half the
women in England. I am always angry when a
girl, newly engaged to a man with nothing a
year, talks to me of the delight of her having
a house of her own. No, I am too contented
with my fate as Dora Darnel ever to wish to
change that name for another.'

I am so glad,' the Colonel blurted out
unawares, for he had been troubled seven years
ago by a lurking suspicion that Miss Darnel
meant to marry him. 'I am so really glad you
appreciate Allan's fine character, and that you
are happy under his hoof. It assures me upon
one rather delicate point, namely, that you and
the new wife get on nicely together.'

Dora Darnel's face hardened for a moment,
and then grew placid again. She had a sweet
smile, a very sweet smile; but it was an idea of
some physiognomists that the smile was too deliberately
sweet to be quite genuine.

'Lady Darnel and I get on admirably,' she
said. 'She found me the mistress of this house,

possessing my brother's entire confidence as administrator
of all household affairs, and finding
that everything went as if by machine ly, she
was good enough — '

Not to oust the engineer. She showed
herself wise as well as amiable by taking that
line,' interrupted the Colonel, returning his cup
for a second supply.

She certainly acted with discretion,' returned
Dora, * for I do not think the poor thing had
ever seen the inside of a well-appointed house
before she came to Darnel.'

That's rather rough on her,' said the Colonel.
Do you mean to say that your brother has
married a person who is — well — not quite a
lady ? '

'I do not go so far as that. Colonel Stukely:
but my brother has named a woman of very
charming manners, whose antecedents are a profound
mystery to me and all our little world
in Wiltshire."

The Colonel looked grave, distressed even.
His old friend had been reticent about all the

details of his new alliance — had onl)- told his
comrade that he had married one of the noblest
of women, and that he was utterly happy in his
marriage. That might mean anything or nothing.
Every man thinks the woman of his choice the
noblest of women ; more especially if she is under
a cloud when he marries her. Every man is
utterly happy in his marriage for the first six
months. So argued that old soldier, Weldon
Stukely.

•Do you mean that Lady Darnel is not — received?'
he gasped, after a pause.

She is received, but she is not liked answered
Dora, leaning her pretty chin on her tapering
hand, and looking the image of disinterested consideration.
' People are cold. You know what
county people are — how suspicious of anyone
outside their own set, anyone not reared on their
own soil, whose life they have not known from
the cradle. People have been told absolutely
nothing about Lady Darnel. We do not know
who her own people are, or who her husband's
people were. She appears to be an isolated

person, without a relative or a friend — Clare,
widow of Captain Stuart ; no regiment, no
locality, nothing to identify that one particular
Stuart among the multitude that bear the same
name. That was all the advertisement of her
marriage told the county; that is all I, Allan's
sister, have ever been told about his wife. Can
you wonder that the county people do not take
to her ?'

I can wonder at their stupidity if Lady
Darnel is half as charming as I imagine her to
be,' protested the Colonel warmly.

She is very charming. Perhaps if she were
less attractive people would be less curious, less
inclined to suspect evil. So handsome a woman
ought to be able to reveal her antecedents, or
else—'

She is your brother's wife, Miss Darnel. You
at least ought to respect her,' said the Colonel,
waxing angry.

My dear Colonel, why fly into a passion ? '
exclaimed Dora innocently. ' You have asked me
questions, as an old friend of my brother's, and

I have answered them frankly. Another time I
shall know how to be diplomatic'

'There is cne fact I gather from your answers,
and that is that you are at one mind with the
county in not liking Lady Darnel.'

'Was there ever such a man for jumping at
conclusions V said Dora. ' If this is the way you
Indian officers treat your Sepoy no wonder they
sometimes mutiny. Pray have I said that I
don't like Lady Darnel V

'Well, perhaps not in so many words. Suppose
we change the subject, and you tell me
about little Gracie, my god-daughter and plaything.
I hope I am to see her this evening V

I expect to see her every minute. There is
a tennis tournament at the Vicarage, and she is
one of their best players — could not possibly be
dispensed with — or she would have been at home
to welcome her godfather. You will find her
very much improved, I think.'

'Not improved out of her old self, I hope.
My dear little Eobin Goodfellow in petticoats —
the wildest, merriest lass, and the pluckiest little

horsewoman in Wiltshire ! Don't tell me that
you have made a regulation young lady of her.'

'We have done our best to make a lady of
her, Colonel, however you may disapprove of the
transformation. She ran wild at Darnel for a
year after Allan's marriage. Lady Darnel was
absurdly indulgent, quite the cleverest policy
in a stepmother. She let the girl do just what
lie liked, and Grace would have become the
scandal of the neighbourhood for her free and
easy manners and want of cultivation if I had
not interfered.'

Oh ! ' said the Colonel, ' you interfered, did
you ? '

*' It was my duty, as Grace's nearest female
relative. At my suggestion my brother took her
to madame Sartori's finishing school at Passyy. It
is hardly to be called a school. Madame Sartori
is a most accomplished person, who takes a few
pupils — a chosen few. Only girls of good family
are received ; and they are trained under madame's
own eye. I was educated by her myself ; and I
can vouch for her care and vigilance.'
VOL. II. Y

Poor Gracie ! I can fancy her under Madame
Sartori's vigilant eye. A wild wood-flower imprisoned
in a Guardian case. I can imagine Madame
Sartori — elderly, snuffy, suspicious. Poor Gracie !
And how long was she subjected to the Sartorian
process ? '

She spent two years in Paris, with occasional
holidays at home. Time result is eminently satisfactory
to Sir Allan.'

And are Grace and her step-mother still
good friends ? '

They are — or pretend to be — intensely fond
of each other.'

I cannot imagine Grace pretending anything,
unless Madame Sartori's process has made her a
new creature.'

Madame Sartori has transformed a hoyden
into a young lady.'

Oh, what a pity ! ' sighed the Colonel.
England swarms with young ladies ; but your
true hoyden is a rare growth, a plant that can
only flourish in the genial soil of a happy home,
a gracious flower that withers under the breath
of the schoolmistress. I am heartily sorry you

ever sent my Oracle to school. I hate girls'
schools.'

'madame Sartori's could hardly be called a
school,' repeated Miss Darnel. ' I was under her
care myself, and I ought to know the value of
her training.

Colonel Stukely looked at the speaker curiously.
Yes, she was undoubtedly the outcome of the
carefulness training — moved, spoke, smiled by rule.
Could enter or leave a room gracefully. Had no
awkward tricks of speech or deportment. Played
a little, sang a little, danced elegantly, spoke
French and Italian with perfect intonation, a
precisian in all things.

Trained too fine,' thought the Colonel.

Just then a light, swift figure flitted across
the lawn, and bounded in at the window, a figure
all in white, soft white woollen stuff, bordered
with pale blue, the most charming thing in
tennis frocks. This was Grace Darnel, a tall slip
of a girl, with sunny hazel eyes, and rippling
auburn hair, Ljvcly mouth, and perfect teeth ;
other features inoffensive; a true English type.

Gracie,' said the Colonel, after he had taken
both her hands and shaken them heartily for a
minute or so, contemplating the fair young face
with fatherly affection, * Gracie, they tell me you
have grown into a young lady, and that my little
Eobin Goodfellow is gone.'

'Then they have not told you the truth,
godfather. I shall always be Eobin Goodfellow
for you,' answered the girl, smiling at him.

And then after a little pause she said —

*I am so glad you are come home, more
glad than I can tell you.'

She said this with an earnestness which half
suggested some hidden meaning. The Colonel
looked at her scrutinisingly with his keen, kind
eyes — eyes that had looked just as steadily in
the face of mutiny and murder in the days that
were cone.

Miss Darnel had glided from the room, and
they two were alone together.

'Why, Grace, that sounds as if you were not
quite happy,' he said anxiously.

*Who is quite happy in this world?' retorted
Grace, with a touch of petulance. 'It is an impossible

condition. We are told in chiircli every
Sunday that we are not intended to be happy —
though why we should be born for the express
purpose of being miserable is more than I am
able to understand. But I am very happy at
having you back again, godfather. There is no
alloy to that gold

''My dearest child, do you not suppose that I
am just as glad to return ? And now tell me
everything. Eemember what changes have taken
place since I last saw Darnel, and that I come
back to you a stranger in knowledge of your
domestic affairs, though no stranger in feeling.
Tell me about the step-mother.*

Hush, godfather, we never use the qualification
'step' before the word mother. I call Lady
Darnel my mother, and by no other name. She
is the first woman who ever gave me a mother's
love. You know that my own dear mother died
when I was a baby, and that I have only her
picture to love. There is no disloyalty to her in
being fond of my new mother.'

Then Lady Darnel is nice, that is a grand point.

'Lady Darnel is simply perfect as wife and
mother; and before you have been in this house
twenty-four hours you will be over head and ears
in love with her. Father won't be angry. He is
too proud of seeing her admired.'

I am charmed to hear such an account ; and
yet Miss Darnel spoke of her just now with a
certain reservation V

When did you ever hear Aunt Dora speak
of anyone or anything without a certain reservation.'


'But, Gracie, with such a mother, and such a
father, you ought to be supremely happy.'

Grace blushed, and looked up at him shyly.

Don't you know, Colonel, that there comes a
time in every girl's life when even father and
mother are not quite all the world to her.'

I understand,' said Weldon Stukely. ' There
is a lover in the case.'

The very sound of the word, blurted out
pointblank in the soldier's hearty voice, seemed to
appal Grace Darnel. She glanced at the window,

• Xot one word, not one breath,' she whispered,
clasping her hands entreatingly. * It is a secret.
Nobody knows. 'My father would never forgive —
Hark ! there is the carriage, and I must rush off
to dress for dinner.'

She was gone before he couhl say another
word. He went out after her, and met Sir Allan
and. his wife in the hall.

Sir Allan had retired from the army ten years
ago, upon the death of his father, from whom
he inherited Darnel Manor and half-a-dozen of
the best farms in the Vale of the White Horse.
He had retired invalided, and he was slightly
lame even now from the effects of a bullet in
Cabal. Weldon Stukely and he had been together
at Eton, as brother officers had fought side by
side in the Crimea, and had borne the heat and
burden of the Indian Mutiny. They had been
comrades and friends in the golden days of you'll,
and they loved each other like brothers. Their
meeting was full of quiet tenderness, undemonstrative,
as became two Englishmen.

AVeldou, my wife,' said Sir xVUun, and the
Colonel turned to greet Lady Darnel.

She was a beautiful woman, in the prime of
womanhood, just eleven years Sir Allan's junior.
The tall, graceful figure, the finely-cut features,
low broad brow, and dark grey eyes, had a look
of quiet dignity which well became the mistress
of Darnel Manor. Not a woman this for the
county to cut, thought Weldon Stukely. Not a
woman to awaken suspicion in the minds of the
most punctilious of village rectors or the most
prejudiced of squires. She looked like a woman
born to command homage, to inspire affection,
an ideal wife and mother.

She was simply dressed ; more plainly than
women of her station are wont to dress upon
public occasions ; but the finely moulded figure,
the beautiful face, gave importance to the black
forward gown and neat little chip bonnet. People
at Darnel had an idea that everything Lady
Darnel wore came direct from Paris, and that
this simple attire of hers was more costly than
other people's finery.

'Catch a woman of that stamp saving her
husband's money,' they said to each other, over
their afternoon teacups.

Nobody had ever explained what particular
stamp or character of person was meant by this
vague phrase; but it was an understood thing
that Sir Allan Darnel had married a nobody,
and that it was in the nature of things he should
come to rue his marriage. The county had not
been taken into Sir Allan's confidence when he
married ; the favours of the county had not been
solicited for the new firm ; and the county was
therefore of one opinion, expressed freely among
the feminine portion of the community.

There is evidently something,' said the
county.

It will all come out before long,' said the
county.

Everyone was sorry — laboriously sorry — for Sir
Allan; all the more so because Sir Allan persisted
in not being sorry for himself. He went up and
down the village beaming with content. His
voice was the cheeriest in the hunting: field. He

was in excellent spirits at (Quarter Sessions, and
inclined to let offenders off lightly, from very
lightness of heart.

'Why should we be hard upon these poor
devils i ' he would plead. ' Their lives are so
miserable, and ours are so happy.'

'There will be some painful scenes at the
Manor before we are many years older said the
county. • Poor Sir Allan is an absolute fool ; and
a wife of that kind will naturally take advantage
of such a husband's weak indulgence.'

I am told that Mason charges five-and.thirty
pounds for a forward gown like that she wore on
Tuesday,' said the Dowager Lady Brutus.

The forward gown wa.^ made by a little dressmaker
in l^imlico, who had worked for Lady
Darnel when she was Mrs. Stuart; but the
county had its own sources of information, which
were almost always false.

'Welcome to the ]\Lanor,' said Sir Allan's wife,
with her hand in the Colonel's. ' I hope you are
j]joinf]j to stay with us for a low time.'

I hope lie is going to stay with us till lie

finds a snug little place of his own within a
couple of miles, and that he will settle down
there for the rest of his life,' said Sir Allan.

In one of his latest letters the Colonel had
talked of wanting to buy a place near his friend's.
His period of service was over, had been extended
to the uttermost limit by especial privilege
: but that limit was past, and the stalwart
soldier, in the prime of manhood, had to lay aside
his sword, or turn it into a ploughshare.

'Yes, Allan, I mean to settle near you, if I
can, and to look after my goddaughter. That is
about the only business I can find in life henceforward.'


Unless you follow my example,' said Sir
Allan cheerily.

Lady Darnel had left them. Sir Allan conducted
his old chum to the rooms that had been
prepared for him— bedroom, dressing-room, and
study — three of the prettiest rooms in the spacious
old house ; a study with a bow window overlooking
the pastoral side of the park, where Lady
charnel's particular herd of Jersey cows browsed

peacefully iii the low western light, fetlock deep
in the rich grasses of late summer. The bow
window had been broken out thirty years before,
and was considered a blot, from an architectural
point of view; but it made that cosy little study
the nicest room in the house.

It was seven o'clock when Sir allan left his
guest, and the Colonel had an hour in which to
dress for dinner in a leisurely way that gave him
full scope for meditation. Naturally it vv^as of his
friend and his friend's wife that he thought.

She is very handsome,' he told himself, * and
she is a good woman. I would stake my life that
she is true as steel. But she is not happy. There
is the rub. There is a mystery. 1 don't wonder
the county people talk. A woman in Lady
Darnel's position — with such a husband as Allan —
and such Jersey cows ' — his glance wandered involuntarily
to the fawn-coloured, black-muzzled herd
in the pastures yonder— * a woman in Lady
Darnel's position ought to be happy : and if she
is not — well, if she is riot, there is a reason.'

He recalled that calm, finely cut face, its proud

repose, its look of serious thought. Xo, and
again no, it was not the countenance of a happy-woman.
Allan might rejoice iu his destiny, might
deem himself blessed among men : but there was
a secret canker gnawing the heart of Allan's wife.

Stuart ? ' muttered the Colonel presently,
Widow of Captain Stuart ? What Stuart, I
wonder ? '

And then he began to recall the men of that
name whom he had known in the service. They
were numerous; but he could remember none of
them likely to have left a beautiful widow. And
why had not her husband's regiment been mentioned
in the advertisement ?

There must be some screw loose,' said the
Colonel.

He found the three ladies and his old chum
in the drawing-room when he went down: no one
else.

*I would not have anybody asked for to-night,
Weldon,' said Sir Allan ; for I knew that you
and I would want to talk: and it's hard lines for
other men to sit by while a couple of Anglo-indian

fogeys go over their old stories together.'

Dinner was announced almost immediately.
The Colonel took Lady Darnel to the diningroom,
and sat between her and Grace, while
Miss Darnel occupied the other side of the snug
oval table in solitude. Sir Allan and his
daughter were in high spirits, full of old reminiscences,
hunting and horses, Grace's ponies
and Grace's dogs, which seemed to be legion ;
the old men and women who had died since
the Colonel went back to India; the changes
in the village, the new school-house.

'Talking of schools, how is it you have not
told me anything about Paris and your experiences
there ? ' said the Colonel. ' It must have
been a tremendous change from Darnel Park to
the Bois de Bologna.'

Grace blushed furiously, and was silent fora
moment or two.

Did you like Passyy and your French schoolmistress
V asked the Colonel

I detested being sent there,' replied Grace,
Hashing an angry glance at her aunt, whom she

had never forgave for that act of interference,
which had in some^vise changed the girl's destiny,
and I saw no reason why I should be sent to
school — at my age. But I got to like the place
pretty well afterwards. Madame Sartori is a
silly old woman ; but she did not ill-treat us,
or interfere with us much. Her house was
Liberty Hall. And I was sent there to be drilled
and trained as if it had been a reformatory. That
was a capital joke.'

She laughed a bitter little laugh, and her voice
lead a hard tone which Colonel Stukely did not
like. Was this his sweet ingenuous Gracie ; the
girl who was the soul of simplicity and truth?'
He felt that there was a change — an evil
change — wrought by that accursed Parisian
school. He bad always hated Paris ; he had always
hated girls' schools. If heaven had given
him daughters he would have let them grow up
in the meadows, like those Jersey cows — in the
hunting field — on the river. He would have had
them taught reading and writing, perhaps, in the
winter evenings. Xo more. He woidd at any
rate have reared a healthy brood.

In my time Madame Sartori was quite the
most perfect person in her ways with girls,' said
Dora Darnel.

'Ah, but your time was so very long ago,
Aunt Dora,' answered Grace. * There has been
time for Maman Sartori to outlive all her gifts
since then.'

Nor in my time did anyone ever think of
calling her Maman Sartori.'

'Ah, girls were so dull and prim twenty
years ago retorted Grace. ' Youth has only
learnt to live since the last decade. American
girls have taught us our rights, and how to enjoy
them.'

Gracie ! ' exclaimed her father, with a reproachful
look. 'You are not talking like my
daughter.'

I beg your pardon, father,' the girl answered
hastily, ' but I always feel mad when people talk
to me about that horrid villa at Passyy — with its
shallow gentility — and its shams of all kinds.'

'Then I am the offender,' said the Colonel,
for it was I who started the subject. I shall be
wiser in future.'

'You were not prepared for the effects of
American emancipation,' remarked L)ora, in her
soft girlish voice, a voice that had never been
heard raised in anger within the memory of anybody
at Darnel Manor; and yet that dove-like
murmur was associated with some of the bitterest
speeches that had ever been spoken at Darnel.

Lady Darnel came to the rescue, and turned
the conversation into a new channel by questioning
the Colonel about his last campaign ; whereupon
the talk became animated again, and went on
pleasantly until the ladies withdrew, and the two
old friends were sitting opposite each other alone
in the lamplight.

Light your cheroot, Weldon. I suppose you
stick to Colonel Newcome's old weed — or will you
have one of my cigarettes ? ' inquired Sir Allan,
offering his exquisitely embroidered case, the sort
of thing with which a man like Allan Darnel is
provided to satiety by his womankind.

'And now, dear old fellow tell me frankly

how do you like her ? '

Thank God, I can afford to be frank. To
VOL. II. z

see Lady Darnel, for the first time even, is to like
and admire her. She is beautiful, she is charming,
she is all I should wish my old friend's wife to be

only '

Only what, "Weldon ? You have discovered a
drawback already.'

Not to Lady Darnel's merits. But it struck
me that her health and spirits are not quite so
good as you and her friends would wish.'

You are right. No, my poor Clare is not in
robust health. There is something — a depression
a nervous excitability sometimes. I doubt if
Darnel Manor agrees with her. AVe have lived
here too exclusively, perhaps, since our marriage,
I have been thinking seriously of taking her to
Italy for the winter. No, her spirits are too
variable for good health, or for ease of mind. But
there are reasons — cruel memories of the past
which in a measure account for this. I have not
yet told you the story of my marriage, Weldon.'

You told me very little ; only that your
marriage was a love match, and that you were
supremely happy. That was enough to satisfy
your friend.'

But I should have told you a good deal more
if it had not been for my aversion to letter writing.
It was a longish story to write, and a painful
one ; so I thought it would be easier to tell you
all about it when you and I were smoking our
cigars face to face, as we are to night

Don't tell me one word, if there is a shade of
sorrow in the recital,' said the Colonel earnestly.
I am content to know that Lady Darnel is a
good and beautified woman. I desire to know
nothing beyond that.'

*My dear fellow, it will be a relief to talk to
you. I want you to appreciate Clare, and to
understand her : and you can only do that when
you know her sad story.'

The Colonel bowed, and filled his glass with
Neville.

Do you remember hearing eleven or twelve
years ago of an officer of the 19th Afghanistanss, a
man called mckenzie ? '

The man who shot the sentry ? Certainly I
remember hearing of lira. Everybody heard of
him — a terrible case.'

The man who shot the sentry was my wife's
first husband.'

Good Heavens !'

Yes ; he was her first cousin. Stuart Mac-kenzie,
a man who began life brilliantly, who was
a celebrity in his way for two or three seasons,
as one of the handsomest young men in London.
Perhaps that spoiled him. His father died before
he was of age, and he succeeded to a handsome
fortune, which he began to squander directly it
came into this possession. Clare's mother was a
widow, a woman of the world, had been a beauty,
lived only for society, and cared very little for her
daughter. I have Gathered as much as this from
Clare's reluctant admissions, rather than from
actual statement, as she has been loth to cast the
faintest reproach upon lier dead mother.'

I know the kind of woman,' said Stukely,
not by any means an uncommon type.'

Clara was only seventeen, and had not yet
been introduced into society, wore school-girl
frocks, practised Beethoven, and read Schiller
with a good old governess, while her mother went

to parties. They spent the Louduii season in a
West End lodging, and lived for the rest of the
year at Torquay, where Mrs. Molyneux, Clare's
mother, had a house of her own. The widow's
means were limited, and just sufficed for this
kind of life ; and I daresay she looked forward
with a dread to the expense of launching a pretty
daughter, still more perhaps to the idea of being
outshone and aged by the daughter's appearance.
Anyhow, she kept Clare very close ; and when
Stuart Mackenzie proposed for his cousin, Mrs.
Molyneux received him with open arms, and
forced on the marriage with all the strength of
a mother's influence. Clare, who was at first
reluctant, was gradually persuaded to think herself
very fond of her cousin. He and she had been
playfellows in her childhood, and she had liked
him very well then. It was flattering to think
that one of the handsomest young men in London
was over head and ears in love with her. The
idea of immediate escape from the governess, the
German poets, and the dulness of London lodgings
was pleasant still. The prospect of a voyage

to India was sheer enchantment. The girl gave
way. The marriage was hurried on, as the
Afghanistanss were under sailing orders within
six weeks. Clare spent her honeymoon in Italy,
and sailed with her husband from Trieste in a
great troop-ship a fortnight after her wedding-day,
and six months before her eighteenth birthday.'

'Poor child

'The life in India was gay and bright enough
at the first. There had been rumours of war,
but nothing came of those rumours. India was
supremely quiet in that long lull which followed
the suppression of the Mutiny. Gradually, slowly,
the sickening truth dawned upon my poor Clare.
She had married a profligate, a spendthrift, and
a gamester. She shrinks with horror from all
memories of that hateful life ; yet there have
been times when it has seemed a relief to her
to talk to me about those days, when the
over-burdened mind has thrown off some part of
its load; and at such times I have encouraged
her confidences. Her husband was one of the
most popular men in India Iron a social standpoint,

during those first few years. He was
brilliant, fascinating, clever, open-handed : but he
was a thoroughly bad man all the same, and his
wife was the chief sufferer by his vice?. Then
came a change. Intemperate habits told their
usual tale. He grew nervous, excitable, short-tempered,
most of all when he had been unlucky
at play ; and play was his nightly amusement.
He became very unpopular with his brother
officers ; and the feeling of the mess at last came
to a point which rendered an exchange inevitable.
Mackenzie exchanged from the famous Afghanistanss
into a line regiment quartered in the south
of Ireland.'

*A dreary change, I should think,' said Stukely,
whose happiest years had been spent under an
Indian sun, to whom the ways of Indian life
were the familiar ways, and those of Britain
strange.

'A change that wrecked him for ever. In
India there were some restraining influences — caste,
society, the knowledge that the eyes of great men
were upon him ; but in that shabby little Irish

town there were none. He sank into a dull
apathy — abandoned every ambition of an honourable
man — sulked with his wife — was foolishly
indulgent one day, brutally harsh the next, to
their only child, a boy of seven, and the wife's
solitary consolation. He had spent nearly all his
money. He had thrown away all his chances of
advancement. He knew this ; and the very knowledge
that he was a ruined man made him reckless.
He drank to drown care — drank till his brain grew
soddened and dull — drank until delirium tremens
became a chronic malady. Oh, the horror of

those days, as Clare describes them. The ever
recurring evil, which she dreaded in every hour of
her life. She was his nurse when he was ill.
She screened him — she apologised for him — she
enabled him to keep his position years after his
own folly would have forfeited it. They went
from station to station— now at home, now abroad
and it was on their return to that dull old
town in the south of Ireland that the catastrophe
occurred which gave Stuart Mackenzie's name a
criminal notoriety.'

I remember. It was at Mallow the murder
occurred

'The crime was hardly to be called a murder.
for the wretch was mad when it happened. He
had been laid up for a week with an attack of
delirium tremens which was a little worse than
any previous experience in the same line. His
orderly was a good fellow, young, stalwart, plucky,
and Clare and the orderly contrived between them
to nurse him and to keep everything dark,
though his paroxysms were at times so violent as
to need all the orderly's strength and all Clare's
courage to grapple with him. Things went on
like this for a week, by which time both servant
and mistress were fairly worn out, while there
were no signs of improvement in the patient.
The doctor knew what the complaint was, but did
not know half the violence of the attack, so careful
was Clare to conceal the worst symptoms — a
mistake, as she discovered afterwards.'

'I can understand that look in Lady Darnel's
face now,' said the Colonel, meditatively ; ' the
look of a woman who has suffered intensely in

years gone by, and who can never quite forget
the okl wounds.'

Perhaps neither Clare nor the servant knew
how utterly exhausted they both were by what
they had done and gone through in that dreadful
week, for when Clare left the man on guard one
night, and went to her room for a few hours' rest,
she had perfect confidence in his watchfulness.
The poor fellow dropped asleep at his post. It
was a moonlight nidit in summer, and Mackenzie's
window opened on to a balcony. The trooper
had locked the door, and put the key in his
pocket. But to a man of Mackenzie's athletic
training the descent from that first floor balcony
was easy. He saw his keeper asleep, saw
himself unwatched for the first time since his
malady had come upon him, and, delighted at
the idea of freedom, he got up, dressed himself
hastily in trousers and shooting jacket, scaled the
balcony, and made for the gates of the barracks.
At the gate he was challenged by a sentinel,
who did not recognise him. Mackenzie did not
answer the challenge, and the soldier tried to

stop him. He wrenched the gun out of the
sentinel's hands, and eliot him through the head.
The sound of the shot in the silence of the night
awakened the men in the quarters nearest the
gate. There was an alarm, and the sentry was
found dead in front of his box. Mackenzie was
not found till late on the following afternoon,
when he was discovered hiding in a wood five or
six miles from the barracks, with the sentry's
gun in his hand — stark mad. There was a trial,
which resulted in Captain Mackenzie's detention
during Her Majesty's pleasure ; but he only lived
a little more than a year after his transference
to the county asylum, where Clare visited him every
week. He never recovered from that shock, and
the exposure of that night. He sank into a
state of melancholy madness, in which his nights
were haunted by horrible dreams — always acting
over again that struggle for the gun with the
sentry — always shooting him and seeing him fall,
shot through the brain — not one sentry but a
hundred sentries — till he woke in agony, steeped
in cold sweat which he mistook for blood. Heuse

to tell Clare these dreams — A\ith an awfully
graphic power which tortured her. He became
singularly mild in those days— drivelling and
imbecile in his lunacy, save when he was excited
by the thought of those nightly visions.
Clare asked his keeper if he had these dreadful
dreams every night, and the man told her he
had never known a night go by without his
being awakened by that cry of horror — " the
sentry ! " Death came at last, by inches, a gradual
extinction of mind and body. Dissolution in its
most painful form.'

What a martyrdom for a wife ! '

Yes, a veritable martyrdom ; but her sorrows
were not over. She was left poorly off, with one
child, her boy, her comfort and consolation in the
earlier years of his life, but already, at eight
years old, a trouble and an anxiety. The child
was rebellious, difficult, fitful, alarmingly like his
father in person and disposition. Clare's mother
was dead, and she stood alone in the world. She
dropped the name of Mackenzie, and called herself
Stuart. She went to a quiet little inland

watering-place in i\Iid- Wales, and devoting herself
to her boy, gave up her whole life to the task of
training him until it should he time for him to
go to a public school. Her own education had
been carried further than the average standard by
her conscientious German governess, and she was
able to prepare her boy for Paigby. She made up
her mind that he should not be a soldier She
wanted to shield him from the temptations of
army life. He went to Paigby, she pinching herself
to provide the expenses of his maintenance
there ; and he was expelled in the second year.
That was a crushing blow. Then he told her
that he had not tried to do well. He had set
his heart upon being a soldier, and she had better
send him to an army coach to prepare for Wool-with.
That profession, and no other, would he
work for. She was firm, and the boy was sullen.
If he was not to go into the army he would do
nothing. He idled away his life in the little
Welsh settlement, amusing himself with any sport
that came within his reach — fishing, shooting, a
day's hunting now and again — always a trouble

and an expense, a care and a grief to the poor
mother. But the worst was to come. Before his
nineteenth birthday she had discovered the hereditary
taint. Her son was an incipient drunkard.
She moved heaven and earth to get him into
new surroundings, a more active life. She was
told by a medical wiseacre that a new country,
an open air life would cure him ; and after infinite
trouble she shipped him off to Queensland, with
introductions which provided for his being decently
placed at a sheep-farmer's when he got
there. She heard from him once after his arrival,
a letter written in good spirits, full of sanguine
ideas of success in his new career. And then
followed a silence which has never been broken ;
but in the account of the Erl King, bound from
Brisbane to London, there was in the list of
passengers lost a young man called Stuart, travelling
alone, whose description, obtained by Clare
from the Brisbane agent, corresponded very fairly
with that of her son, so it is more than probable
that the sea has closed over Valentine Stuart.'
Let us hope it is so,' said the Colonel

cheerily ; ' a young man with those proclivities
could never be anything but a scourge to the
mother. For your sake, and for Lady Darnel's,
I hope the youth found a watery grave. There is
something very terrible in the idea of death when
it takes away someone we love ; but there is
something uncommonly comfortable in the idea of
death when it removes someone we want to get
rid of,' added the Colonel philosophically. ' Death
is so thorough ! '

It was at Torquay that I met my wife continued
Sir Allan. 'I went there after a month
with the Exmoor Hounds, for a few days' visit
to an old friend of my father's, vicar of one of
the outlying parishes, a man who remembered
Harrel Proud and the days of the Oxford Tracts.
He had known Clare from her childhood, had
prepared her for confirmation, and married her
to the man who blighted her life. I heard the
sad story from him before I saw her face. Perhaps
sympathy and compassion prepared my heart
for loving her. In any case, I fell in love with
her at first sight, and I did not leave Torquay

till 1 had won lier. 1 am bold enough to
believe that her heart was mine almost from the
beginning ; but she was constrained by unselfish
fears for my welfare, and it was with difficulty I
obtained her consent to be my wife with as
little delay as possible. She feared the scandal
that might arise in my neighbourhood if once that
terrible story of her first husband got wind ; she
reminded me of the uncertainty surrounding her
son's fate, and the possibility he was still living,
and might be a burden and a disgrace to me in
the future. I told her that these things were
trifles — feathers when weighed in the scale against
the gold of true love. In a word, I overruled
all her objections, laughed her fears to scorn ;
and six weeks after our first meeting the dear
old vicar married us, and we started in the dull
gray November weather for our honeymoon tour
across the Cornish moors, and along the wild seacoast
from Tintagel to the Lizard. Oh, those
happy days in the little inn at the Land's End,
beside the roaring Atlantic ! alone, remote from
the world and its ways. I shall never forget the

sweetness, the perfect confidence and love of that
time. It has grown and strengthened since then
it will go on increasing till I die.'

And there has been no cloud on your happiness
at Darnel ? '

'None, or only the lightest summer clouds
hardly worth talking about. My marriage was
naturally a blow to Dora, who had been mistress
of Darnel Manor ever since my step-mother's
death. She talked at first of going away — living
abroad — taking a house in Salisbury, for the sake
of the Cathedral service, she said. But she stayed
on, interfered a good deal with my wife in the
management of the house and servants, and was
obviously unhappy.'

You ought to have got rid of her, Allan,' said
the Colonel, frankly. These menage s a trois never
answer. It would have been happier for you
and your half-sister if she had set up an independent
establishment, were it even within a mile
of your gates.'

'I was seriously meditating making her the
offer of a handsome addition to her income, in

VOL. II. 2 A

order to enable her to live independently, without
any diminution of the comfort she has enjoyed
here.'

So like you, my dear Allan, to be seriously
meditating a step which ought to have been taken
months before you began to meditate said the
Colonel, laughing.

Well, I do not want to be unbrotherly, you
see; and Dora had kept my house so admirably.
However, while I was thinking of cutting the
knot of the difficulty my way, my dear Clare cut
it her way, which was much more generous. She
came down to breakfast one morning with her
little morocco key-casket in her hand, and gave
it over to Dora in my presence. "I am a very
bad housekeeper," she said, "and I have no love
for government, while you are a superb manager
and have rather a liking for the reins of power;
so why should we live uncomfortably when we
might live happily, each after her own taste?
From this day forth I renounce all administrative
rights and privileges at Darnel Manor"'
'How did Miss Darnel take that?*

'Hardly so pleasantly as she ought to have
done. She sneered at poor Clara's renunciation
of domestic management, as if it had been an
assertion of intellectual superiority. "I daresay
looking after servants and ordering dinners does
seem a very degrading occupation to a person of
your superior mind," she said, " but I have always
remembered that my brother's comfort depends
upon these vulgar details." She made me very
angry.'

I should have taken her by the scruff of the
neck and pitched her out of doors,' interjected
Colonel Stukely.

I did not go quite so far as that, but I gave
Dora a bit of my mind there and then ; and I
think her cold ham and chicken that morning
was rather a hot breakfast. She is always sweetest
after a good licking; so after breakfast she took
the keys as meekly as a lamb, and promised
that she would prove worthy of Lady Darnel's
confidence, " You are much too generous and
too indulgent to the servants," she said. "That
has been your only fault as a housekeeper." '

'A change had come o'er the spirit of her
dream,' laughed the Colonel. 'Ten o'clock, by
Jove. Hadn't we better go to the ladies ?'

END OF VOL. II.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUL 14



L161— O-1096

&c. &c. &c.

BY THE Author OF

LADY AUDLEY'S SECEET," '' VIXEN,"
"ISHMAEL," ETC.

In ^\)xtz Volumes.

VOL. III.

LONDON

JOHN AND Robert MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, 35, ST. BRIDE STREET, LUDSATB CIRCUS,

AND

14 & 15, SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET, EC

188G.

[All rights reserved,]

Discontents

TO VOL. III.

CHAP. PAGE

I. ' We Plat with Light Loves in the Portal ' 1

II. 'Keeping Him at Bay' 46

III. ' Life-Stifling Fear, Soul-Stifling Shame ' . 64

IV. ' As FROM A Dream of Murder ' . 95

V. 'All was Silent, all was Gloom' . . 109

VI. 'Love will have his Day' . . 131

VII. 'Yet I must Prove all Truth to Thee' . 165

VIII. 'I Love, and He Loves Me again' . . 185

IX. 'A Power of Hell overclouded Thy Understanding'
204

X. ' Love, See Thy Lover Humbled at Thy Feet ' 243

XI. ' Then be We, Each and All, Forgiven ' . 279

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/onethingneedful03brad

Chapter I.

'WE PLAY WITH LIGHT LOVES IN THE PORTAL.'

Colonel Stukely had been a guest at Darnel
Manor for nearly two months. He had explored
all the country side, within thirty miles, looking
for that ideal estate — a small but perfect house,
with perfect stables, a good old-fashioned garden,
and about forty acres of fertile pasture — which he
had dreamed of for many a year under the
tropic stars, and which he found almost as difficult
of attainment as if he had wanted an estate
in one of those very stars. The Colonel and his
host drove many a mile in Sir Allan's dog-cart
with the high-stepping horse, to see places which

- VOL. III. B

were described in auctioneers' advertisements as
earthly paradises, and which generally proved the
kind of habitation that a man buys in an interval
of lunacy, with insane ideas of improvement
or reconstruction, and which he tries to
shuffle off upon a new victim directly he recovers
his senses.

The Colonel made shorter pilgrimages in his
god-daughter's pony carriage, Gracie very proud
of driving her warrior about the country. But
as yet nothing beyond the pleasure of exploring
a charming landscape in the golden harvesttime
had resulted from their excursions.

Yes, there had been one result, and an
important one, so far as Grace Darnel was concerned.
During one of these rustic jaunts
the girl took courage and opened her heart
to her godfather, the most faithful and the
most indulgent friend she had ever known
from the days of her childhood.

They went a little further than usual on
this occasion, to a place which had been described

as a gem of picturesque beauty ; and which
turned out to be a dilapidated farmhouse situated
on the edge of a swamp, and surrounded by
meadow-land that would have cost a small fortune
to drain. The Colonel was amused rather than
indignant at the discrepancy between the place
itself and the auctioneer's advertisement, and
laughed heartily at his own disappointment.

^ To think that we should have driven eleven
miles through some of the vilest roads in Wilts
to look at such a god-forsaken hole as this,
he exclaimed, after he and Grace had perambulated
the neglected old garden and had emerged
upon the road in front of the gates.

There was a long wooden bridge a few paces
further on, spanning an expanse of watery pasture,
full of reed and bulrush, and on this bridge the
Colonel stood, with this arms folded on the handrail,
looking lazily at the lazy kine standing up to
their haunches in the rank verdure.

He turned round, smiling at his god-daughter,
expecting her to be amused at this latest example

of house agents' inventive faculties ; but to his
surprise and discomfiture he found her in tears.

Why, Gracie,' he cried tenderly, ' what is
amiss with my little girl ? '

Everything Grace answered vehemently. ' I
must tell some one. I cannot bear it any
longer. To be so base, so secret, so false to
those I love I I hate and despise myself. I really
think I am the wickedest, meanest girl in England.
I had rather tell you than anyone else, because
you are always indulgent, and you won't preach
as papa would. He would forgive me in the
end, I daresay, but he would begin by preaching
and I am so unhappy that I don't think I
could bear a word.'

'My dearest Gracie, you mean ! you deceitful
! I would not hear your enemy say so, and
leave him unlocked. Nonsense, child,' said the
Colonel cheerily, laying his friendly hand upon
Grace's shoulder. Her head was bent so that
he could not see her face, and her tears were
dropping into the rank grass and making the

meadow a little more watery for the cows.
Stuff and nonsense, my dear. Some little girlish
folly which you have concealed from Sir Allan,
and which your own fancy has exaggerated into
a matter of importance.'

It is not a little folly, Colonel. It is a
big folly. I am engaged to be married — to a
person whom my father has never seen — of
whose very existence he is ignorant.'

Humph exclaimed Stukely, ' that sounds
rather serious. But people get out of such engagements
—-occasionally.'

'I shall never get out of mine answered
Grace with an heroic air. ' I would die rather
than break my word.'

'Of course, of course,' said' the godfather
soothingly.

'More especially as the person to whom I
am engaged is very badly off, and not able
to '

'To maintain you,' interjected the Colonel.
Naturally, my dear, naturally. That is an excellent

reason for sticking to him. And now tell
me all about it. When and where did you
meet this gentleman V

In Paris, at the Louvre.'

The big shop for gowns, and bonnets, and
things ? '

'No, the picture gallery.'

Who introduced him to you ? '

'Nobody. A mahlstick.'

• A mahlstick introduced him ? '

*0h, godfather, please don't be shocked. I
know how horrid it all was — how unladylike —
how improper. I have thought about it and
cried about it many a time since I came home.
Nobody introduced him to me. You know how
fond I am of painting. I worked very hard
when I was in Paris ; and I got permission
from Madame Sartori to go and paint three
times a week at the Louvre. Horrid old thing !
I believe she was glad to get rid of me. She
told otf one of the governesses — a domestic drudge,
a lady-help sort of person — to go with me, for

which father paid five guineas a term extra. It
was all very correct and proper so far. In fine
weather we used to walk from Passyy to the
Louvre. In wet weather we had a fiacre, which
I used to pay for out of my pocket money.
Lady Darnel and father between them kept me
very handsomely supplied.'

'No doubt,' said the Colonel, 'and I have
observed that " Satan finds some mischief still,"
as Dr. Watts says, for school boys and girls who
have too much pocket money. Go on, Grace.'

One day I was copying a Madonna, by Guido
not a bit like, I know, for my Madonna would
come out with a purple complexion, like a cabman
in cold weather. The picture was hung
high, so I had to sit on a kind of platform
four feet off' the ground. It was very nice sitting
up there and looking down at the people, and
at the other students. There were three or four
in the room. One of them was a remarkably
handsome young man, who was copying a little
*Wouvermans, in water-colours, in a spirited, dashing

style, which I thought wonderfully clever. He
looked dreadfully ill, poor fellow 1 — such hollow
cheeks — such a haggard look about his large
dark eyes. But that naturally made him all
the more interesting.'

'Naturally,' said the Colonel, 'given a young
man without sixpence and. with a marked tendency
to pulmonary consumption, and granted a
generous-hearted girl, the result may be calculated
upon as a certainty. Of course you fell in love
with him on the spot.'

I am not that sort of person. Colonel. I
don't suppose I should ever have given him a
serious thought if it had not been for the accident
which introduced us to each other. He
talked a good deal to a frumpish little elderly
woman who was toiling at a big altar-piece, and
who looked as if she worked for her living. He
had such bright, winning ways, that I could not
help noticing him — a little. Mademoiselle Bouge,
the governess, said he was the handsomest young
man she had ever seen. One day I dropped my
mahlstick.'

On purpose ?'

Oh, Colonel, how can you think so meanly
of me ? No, it was pure accident. He flew topick
it up. I thanked him — and then he lingered
and began to talk.'

Was he a Frenchman ?'

A thorough Parisian. He told me, in the
politest way, that my flesh tints were too blue,
and gave me some excellent hints about colour.
Then he went back to his easel, and took no
further notice, except a particularly graceful bow
when I left the room. When I went back two
days afterwards he was there again, at another
Wouvermans. He ]bowed when I went in;
gentlemen bow first in France, you know; and
I could not be so bearish as not to acknowledge
his bow. I got on to my platform, and poor
Mademoiselle Bouge sat on her usual bench, and
stared at the pictures, in her usual way. My
hand trembled so that I could hardly paint.'

And you dropped your mahlstick again.'

No, Colonel ! How can you imagine such

conduct ? You have evidently a poor opinion of
girls. I went on painting, wretchedly, for half
an hour or so ; getting that poor Madonna
bluer and bluer with every touch of the brush ;
and just as I was beginning tu despair of her,
the young Frenchman came over to me, and
asked me if T would allow him to give me a
few more hints upon colouring, and harmony,
and so on. 1 neither said yes nor no, only
murmured vaguely, like a shy simpleton as I
was. He seemed to think this gave him full
permission, and he took the picture in hand,
and told me how I had gone wrong and showed
me what to do. This was the beginning of our
friendship, which came about very gradually,
almost unawares ; but in a fortnight's time we
were friends. We did not talk much. That
would have been impossible in a public room,
and under the eyes of Mademoiselle Bouge : but
he used to contrive to give me a letter every
time we met, and he was wonderfully clever
at slipping the letter under my colour box, or

into my hand, without poor old Bouge seeing
him.

'He had done the same kind of thing very
often before, no doubt.'

You ought not to say that, Colonel ; it is not
like your usual kindness. No, he told me, in
his very first letter, that he had never been
really in love before.'

'They never have,' muttered the Colonel.

'He wrote the loveliest letters.'

And you answered them ?'

I was obliged to answer sometimes. I hardly
knew how wrong it was. You see I had been
brought up in a place where I knew everybody,
and I had no idea of being afraid of strangers.
I told him who I was, and how I was finishing
my education at Madame Sartori's ; and he told
me his own history, and that he was an orphan
quite alone in the world, and that he belonged
to a good old Burgundian family, and that he
had come to Paris to stvuly art.'

*A regular Bohemian, no doubt.'

'You ought not to say that, godfather. He
always looked like a gentleman, though his clothes
were shabby. And though he lived on the left
side of the Seine, in the students' quarter, his
manners were perfect.'

'And his name. He had a name, I suppose.'

'His name is Victor de Camillacc,' answered
Grace, with dignity, 'and I am engaged to him.'

Really and truly engaged to him ? That is
carrying things rather far with a young man
with whom you only exchanged a few words
about painting, and half-a-dozen surreptitious
love letters.'

'There were a great many more than half-a-dozen,'
answered Grace, 'he wrote volumes. He
gave me a letter every time I went to the
Louvre — such clever letters, so eloquent, so
poetical.'

I know the kind of thing. He is one of
those men with whom letter writing is a complaint,'
said the Colonel. 'Your dragon, Miss
Bouge, must have been a very sleepy personage

to have had no suspicion of what was going on
under her nose.'

'Oh, she had her suspicions, poor soul, but
I persuaded her to keep my secret. I blush to
say that I appealed to her meanest instincts.'

As how V

You know the confectioner's at the corner of
the Rue Castiglione ?'

'No.'

Don't you ? How I pity you. It is one
of the best — I believe it is the best confectioner's
in Paris. I used to take Bouge there every
afternoon when I left the Louvre. " Now, dear,"
I used to say, " take whatever you fancy," and the
poor soul used to revel in chairs and choux and
brioches, and meringues and red currant syrup, to
an alarming extent.'

How she must have missed you when you
left school,' said the Colonel, laughing.

He could not bring himself to be very angry
with his god-daughter for this folly of hers ; nor
could he think very seriously of this interchange

of love letters with a shabby-genteel Frenchman.
The whole business seemed, at the first blush, too
foolish for grave consideration ; and yet, on reflection,
Colonel Stukely told himself that it was a
kind of folly which might entail disagreeable consequences.
Very disagreeable if the young man
were a scamp ; and the circumstances favoured
that inference,

'And do you mean to say, Gracie," he began,
after a pause, 'that you have engaged yourself,
in black and white, to a man of whose surroundings
and antecedents you knew absolutely
nothing ? '

I knew everything,' she answered indignantly.
Victor told me his whole history. He was
thoroughly frank. He confessed that lie had only
just enough to live upon, poorly, and in a poor
quarter. His father had been ruined by the
Mexican war, having been tempted to put all
his money into Mexican Bonds. When his father
died Victor came to Paris to study art, in the
hope of becoming a distinguished painter, like

Messenger or Vidal. If I would promise to
many him he told me lie should have a new
incentive to industry, perseverance, patience — the
holiest and purest incentive.'

That fetched you,' said the Colonel, ' and you
promised.'

Not for months after I received that letter.
What a very feeble person you must think me,
Colonel."

I think you an adorable little goose,' said
her godfather.

I don't think I should have consented to
engage myself to him,' pursued Grace, ' only one
day I missed him in the room where he and I
had both been working.'

'Still at your Guido?

'Oh, no. I had gone into another room, and
I was copying a flower piece. Victor advised
me to paint flowers and fruit and things — dead
nature, as he called them — rather than Italian
Madonnas. One day he was missing, and the
next time, and the next. I had not seen him

for a week. I felt sure that he must he ill.
I was very unhappy about him ; haunted by
the image of his poor pale face. At the end
of the week he wrote to me, under cover to
Mademoiselle Bouge, who brought me the letter
to my room, with a fearful countenance, and
told me it might have been the ruin of her to
receive it, which was sheer nonsense, as even
Madame Sartori's sharp eyes could not read the
inside of a thick envelope.'

The letter told you he was dying, I presume,'
said the Colonel.

It was only a few lines scribbled with a
pencil, and written from what he thought would
be his death-bed. It was a last adieu ; for he
told me that he had no hope of seeing me
again.'

You did not go to see him, I hope,' said
the Colonel anxiously, not knowing to what
compromising step the girl might have been
tempted, in her inexperience of life.

That would have been impossible. I think

I might have persuaded that good old Bouge
to ask for an evening out, and to go and see
him for me. But there was no address to his
letter. There never had been any address to his
letters. My answers were to be sent to a Post
Office in the Qu artier Latin.'

"^A curious gentleman, to be ashamed to own
where he lived,' said the Colonel.

It was only pardonable pride, poor fellow.
He knew that my people were rich, and he
was ashamed to let me know how shabby a
street he lived in. As if that would make
any difference to me !'

You answered the death-bed letter ?'

eyes, godfather,' Grace answered softly, hanging
her pretty head, and contributing a few
more tears to the watery meadow.

'And what kind of letter did you write,
my dear?' asked the Colonel, gently.

I'm afraid it was a very foolish one. I was
so sorry for him, poor fellow — so sorry to think
of his being alone, dying, in a wretched lodgings —

VOL. III. c

and I begged him to get well for my sake,
and told him that I would be true to him in
his poverty, and that if he would be content
to wait for me till I could win my father's
consent to our marriage, and be constant to meas
I would be to him, perhaps for years, I
would give him the promise that he had so
often pleaded for in those beautiful letters.'

I am very glad you made the matter contingent
on your father's consent, my love,' said
the Colonel, cheerily. ' The business is not half
so bad as I thought. Was there anything more
in your letter ? '

Only that if my father should refuse his
consent to our engagement I would never marry
anyone else. So far at least I was my own
mistress. I might not be allowed to marry him,
I loved my father too ^vell to be disobedient
or rebellious. But I pledged myself to be true
to Victor even in life-long severance.'

Whew ! ' exclaimed the Colonel. ' A pretty
kettle of wish ! And is that why you so unmercifully

snubbed young Colchester, the Master
of the Hounds, when we were out cub-hunting
the other morning ? '

I am not aware that I snubbed Mr. Colchester,'
said Grace, blushing furiously.

Oh, but he was aware of it. You treated
him shamefully ! Such a nice young fellow too,
and so particularly attentive to you — opening
gates and making way for you at fences, and
lingering by your side to talk when he ought
to have had no eyes except for those young
hounds of his, till at last you drove him away
by sheer incivility. When a man is Lord of
the Manor and Master of the Hounds he hardly
expects to be treated like that.'

I have nothing to do with Mr, Colchester's
expectations,' answered Grace, tossing up her head,
but with tears still in the sweet hazel eyes.
It is cruel of you to talk like that, godfather,
when I have told you that I am bound to poor
Victor by a most sacred promise.'

'Did you see much more of poor Victor
after the death-bed betrothal?'

term at Madame Sartori's was just coming to an
end, and father and mother were coming to fetch
me. Victor came to the Louvre on the very
last day I painted there, looking like a ghost,
poor fellow; and with a feverish light in his
eyes. He ought not to have left his bed ; but
he was determined to see me before I went back
to England. His poor hand trembled like a leaf
when we shook hands. He thanked me with
tears in his eyes for my letter, and implored me
to keep my promise. He said he was prepared
to wait a lifetime for me ; but he hoped to overcome
my father's objections to our marriage ina
year or so, when he should have sold a few
pictures and made a success in the Salon. "Directly
I have a little money and a shred of reputation
I shall come to Darnel and ask for your hand
boldly," he said. I told him that my father was
the most generous of men, and that I had plenty
of money for both of us.'

'And so you parted. And you have corresponded
with him ever since, I conclude ? '

'We have corresponded — at intervals. Victor
writes the loveliest letters ; but he is a very
irregular correspondent. Sometimes a month goes
by without my hearing from him, and I am tortured
by the idea that he is ill or dying — dead,
perhaps ; while I am amusing myself playing
tennis, and going to parties, in ignorance of his
fate. And then comes a long eloquent letter,
explaining his silence. He has been ill and out
of spirits, too depressed to write, afraid to plague
me with his misery — or he has been working
at a picture like a demon, only to have it refused
at the Salon.'

Not a cheerful correspondent,' said the Colonel.
'And now, Gracie, my pet, my darling, whom I.
can remember a chubby baby in a white frock
and blue shoulder-knots, and with little blue
shoes — how proud you were of those little shoes —
now tell me, honestly, frankly, bravely, are you
desperately in love with this young French painter,
3vhose face your father has never seen ?'

'We only met once after that, for my last

I was very fond of him, Colonel, or I should
never have given that promise.'

'Of course not, but you have had a year and
a half for sober reflection. A long time in such
a young life as yours. And reflection has told
you that you were very foolish to give such a
promise, and you would be very glad to be
released from it.'

For my father's sake,' faltered Grace. ' Yes,
I should be glad to be free from that foolish
engagement; for I am afraid it would grieve my
dear father. And he is so good to mes-so indulgent
— every new kindness of his seems like
a knife plunged into my heart.'

'Well, my dear girl, you have two duties
before you, painful, perhaps, both of them. First,
to tell Sir Allan everything just as frankly as
you have told me. Secondly, to write to Monsieur
Camilla, requesting him to release you from
your promise.'

Oh, no, no, Colonel, don't ask me. I could
not tell my father, and I could not ask Victor

to release me — not now, when he is poor and
ill and unhappy. If he were to become rich
and admired, famous, I would not mind asking
him to set me free,'

'That is just like my generous, romantic Gracie,'
said the Colonel, smiling. ' You would be true
to a pauper and a failure; but you world ask
for your freedom from a successful painter. Well,
my child, you have trusted me, and I must prove
myself worthy of your confidence. Take time to
think of what I said just now. I feel sure that
you will not be happy until you have made a
full confession to your father, who would not
scold you a whit more severely than I have done.

But he would be so shocked, so grieved,'
exclaimed Grace. 'I could not endure to seethe
grieved look in his face — his surprise in
finding that I had kept a secret from him. He
always praises me for my candour — and to find
out all at once that I am a whited sepulchre.
No, I could not bear it!'

'Better to pluck up your courage, Grace, and

take the bull by the horns. A secret like
yours cannot be kept for ever. This Monsieur
Camillacc is poor, an artist, and a Bohemian;
and he knows that you are rich and will have
an independent fortune under your mother's
settlement when you come of age. I suppose
you told him that.'

'I told him all about myself and my
people.'

'Well, my dear child, can you suppose that
a young man in his circumstances will he
patient for ever, wall hold his peace for ever,
when he has the chance of marrying an heiress?
Be sure that however quiet he may be now he
will push his claims vigorously when you
come of age. And that will be — '

Next year,' sighed Grace.

'Then, my love, the sooner you face your
difficulties boldly the better it wall be for your
chances of happiness. Tell your father everything,
while I am on the premises ; and if my
Grace wants any backer with the most indulgent

of fathers, she knows she has a sturdy champion
in her faithful old Colonel.'

Dear godfather, how good you are to me,'
murmured Grace, lifting up the soldier's sunburnt
hand and kissing it.

'And now I think those ponies of yours
must have had their mouths washed out and be
ready for action said the Colonel, who did not
wish to press the sinner too hard just at first,
trusting to Grace's own reflections to bring
about the desired result.

They walked back to the carriage in silence,
Grace was downcast ; but the Colonel talked of
indifferent matters in his pleasantness manner
all the way home, and contrived to put his
god-daughter into good spirits again before they
reached Darnel Park.

Sir Allan rarely appeared at luncheon, and
to-day Lady Darnel and he were both out. But
Miss Darnel was always at her post. She
was not locomotive; indeed she had a cat-like
fondness for the house, rarely extending her peregrinations

Beyond a cat-like pacing to and fro
of the terrace in front of the drawing-room
windows, or a perambulation of the dewy lawns
or shrubberies. She might be met at all times
and seasons prowling about the corridors with
that velvet footfall of hers. And thus it came
about that nothing, not to the most attenuated
particular of existence, could occur at Darnel
without Dora's knowledge ; hardly a sentence'
could be spoken of which she did not hear enough
to divine the drift of the speaker. The servants
had thus come to consider her omniscient, and
to fear her accordingly. She was an admirable
housekeeper, for her whole attention was riveted
upon the details of existence at Darnel. She had no
joys, no hopes, or fears — no interests outside the Park
gates. She was not without accomplishments, and
she was not without intellectual culture — yet the
world of politics, the world of art, the world of
the past and of the future were to her a dead letter.
She lived only to rule and reign in lier little
kingdom of Darnel, It may be conceived, therefore,

what mental tortures she suffered on the
occasion of her brother's second marriage, when
she saw the sceptre slipping from her grasp.

Has father driven to Scadleigh ? " asked Grace,
as she sat down to luncheon, looking very pretty
in the dark otcv cloth tailor ejown, with a
coquettish terra-cotta velvet waistcoat, just a touch
of vivid colour to set off her milk-white skin,
aud harmonise with her ruddy brown hair.

'He has gone to London.'

sto London?'

'Yes. He and Lady Darnel started directly
you were gone. They drove off in a tremendous
hurry to catch the express at Scadleigh.'

But father didn't say one word about it at
breakfast,' exclaimed Grace.

I believe it was quite a sudden resolution.
They are to be back to dinner. We are to dine
at half-past eight, Colonel. I hope you won't
mind.'

'Not 1/ said the Colonel. 'Grace and I will
sit in the firelight aud tell each other fairy stories.'

It was still that pleasant autiinni season when
evening fires are a luxury, and when home grows
every day more homely.

My father has gone to town on business, I
suppose ? ' said Grace, sorely mystified by this unpremeditated
rush to London, which was so unlike
her father's usual habits. 'But why drag Lady
Darnel with him?'

I have not the faintest notion,' said Dora.
Allan told me nothing beyond the bare fact that
he was going to take Lady Darnel to town, and
that they would be back to dinner. He begged
me to convey his apologies to you. Colonel
Stukely.'

There was no occasion for apologies,' said the
Colonel.

Both he and Grace knew Miss Darnel well
enough to be convinced that she knew all about
her brother's business in London. Those sharp
ears, those acute perceptions of hers were rarely
at fault.

Sir Allan's business in London did not remain

long a mystery to this trusted friend. When the
ladies had left the dining-room that evening the
t\vo old comrades in arms drew their chairs to
the hearth, and lighted their cigarettes, and then
came the hour of confidence.

'I daresay you all wondered what took us upto
town in such a hurry this morning,' said Allan.

Grace has an active imagination, and she
exercised it vigorously between luncheon and five
o'clock tea,' answered the Colonel, laughing ; * but
my sluggish old brain has not been much disturbed
by the mystery. People think nothing of
an eighty mile journey to and fro by express.
It would have been different if you had had to
go in a dhak.'

'I took Clara to see Sir Clarkson Andrews.'

Indeed.'

'Yes, I have been anxious about her for a
long time; and in spite of our family doctor's
assurance that there was no cause for alarm, I
determined to consult an experienced physician. So,
as this morning was particularly fine, and 1 had

no work to do at home, I persuaded her to goto
Cavendish Square with me. I telegraphed for
an appointment from Scadleigh, so there was no
time lost. Sir Clarkson was kindness itself, had
a long talk with my wife, assured me that there
was nothing organically wrong, only a tendency
to languor and low spirits, which might developed
into something worse if we were not careful. He
strongly recommended me to take Lady Darnel
to Italy for the winter. I am to move her from
place to place, give her plenty of change of scene ;
in a word, to do all in my power to amuse and
interest her. "I have no doubt Darnel Park
is a charming place; but frankly now, Sir Allan,
isn't it just a little dull ?" he asked. I admitted
the fact. " Of course, all parks are dull," he said
shut in from the outside world — a dignified
seclusion. Very few neighbours within easy reach,
I daresay." "Very few whom Lady Darnel cares
for," replied I. "Just so," said Sir Clarkson.
Oh, I know those parks. They have to answer
for shortening the lives of our aristocracy. Take

Lady Darnel along the Elvira, letting lier see
every place that is worth seeing, and then drop
quietly down into Italy for the winter. You can
take her back to Darnel when the primroses are
in bloom; and I pledge my honour she will bea
new creature ! " '

'Well, my dear Allan, this was rather cheering
than otherwise

It was comforting to know what is wrong.
Poor dear Clare, I do not think it is the dulness
of Darnel Park she has felt half so much as the
want of sociability upon the part of my old
county friends. That has wounded her deeply.'

'Have they been more unsociable than county
people usually are V asked the Colonel, with pardonable
hypocrisy.

He was very well aware of the fact, both
from Miss Darnel's innuendoes and from his own
personal observation. The county had given Sir
Allan's second wife the coldest reception compatible
with civility.

'They arc not absolutely uncivil; they would

not dare be that to my wife,' said Allan, ' but
they have not l^een cordial. There has been no
real friendliness. They take every occasion tolet
my wife feel that she is not in their own
particular set; and she does feel it, more, I
believe, for my own sake than her own. She is
too proud to court anybody's friendship. The
people all made their duty calls when we came
home from our honeymoon; lout there was a
flavour of duty about the thing which was unpleasant.
Then came three or four state dinners
to which my wife went, and where she was
made to feel somehow by the feminine portion of
the party that she was received on sufferance.
We gave two or three dinners that winter, at
which some of my old friends were present: but
there was a suspicious number of previous engagements,
and I know poor Clare felt humiliated
at finding it such a difficult matter to make up
a party of twenty. Since then we have fallen
into the way of living almost entirely alone. The
Rector and his wife come to us in a friendly way

very often, as you have seen. Occasionally I have
an old army friend down from London. Young
Colchester drops into luncheon now and then in
the hunting season — and that is about all. Clare
never complains, and she is not dependent for her
happiness upon society : but I know she feels the
slight which is involved for a woman in her
position in not being sought out and made much
of. In fact,' said Sir Allan, waxing savage, as
was his wont when he touched on this topic,
I shall be very glad to get Lady Charnel away
from this accursed hole.'

Grace will go with you, of course,' observed
the Colonel.

I had not been thinking of her.'

My dear Allan, she would eat her heart out
if you left her alone with Miss charnel.'

'Those two do not get on well together, certainly.
And Grace adores my wife. Yet it seems
a pity to take her away just at the beginning of
the fox-hunting, and after I liavo bought her
that nc\v mare. Grace is so fond of hunting ;
and young Ted Colchester

VOL. III. D

Is SO fond of Grace. Is that what you were
going to say?'

It is pretty near the truth, I think. And
Colchester is a thoroughly good fellow, the only
man in the neighbourhood who has shown himself
staunch and cordial since my marriage.
He belongs to a good old family, and he hasa
fine estate. I should be proud of such a
son-in-law.'

And you may have him for a son-in-law,
if you play your cards properly. Take an old
bachelor's advice, Allan. I don't think Gracie
cares much for Edward Colchester now. He has
been too attentive, too devoted, is too obviously
a good match* The first idea of a high-spirited
romantic girl like Grace is generally to throw
herself away upon a pauper. If Colchester were
a penniless nobody, and could only approach herby
stealth, I have no doubt she would adore him.
But as he is well off, and you have broadly
hinted that you would like her to marry him, the
natural result is that she despises him. Take
her to Italy with you, keep her closely under

Lady Darnel's eye, and when she comes back to
Darnel the odds are she will like young Colchester
ever so much better than when she went away.
She has seen hardly any other eligible young
man for the last year and a half, and he has
palled upon her in consequence. Distance will
lend enchantment to the view.'

'What an old fox you are, Weldon,' said Sir
Allan, smiling. *Yes, I believe you are right.
Grace shall go with us, even if the new mare
and old Black have to eat their heads off while
she is away. Perhaps you'll winter at Darnel,
and keep the stud in good working order for
us

You are too good, my dear fellow,' replied
the Colonel, inwardly shuddering at the idea of
a winter spent with Dora. * No, I shall stay in
town, if I fail in finding a place down here;
and after nearly two months I am as far from
realising my ideal hunting box as I was when
1 first came.'

In the drawing-room that evening Sir Allan
was in unusually good spirits. The idea of getting

his wife away from Darnel for a good long time
was a relief to him. In spite of his perfect
happiness in his married life there were times
when he felt the chilling attitude which some of
his oldest acquaintances had assumed since his
second marriage. Up to that time he had
deemed these people his friends ; and now they
had been tested he knew they had never been
more than acquaintances. Time had not made
them loyal and true. Yes, it was delightful to
think of being in a foreign land with his beloved
wife, amidst strange faces. He felt grateful to
Sir Clarkson for having insisted upon Italy. He
talked of nothing but their journey.

Grace, you are to go with us he said. ' Your
godfather there has promised and vowed for you,
that you will be very good, and give us no trouble,
and that you will help me to take care of Clare.
So you will have to "settle your line joints," as
old Capulet says, get all your frocks and furbelows
ready, at a very short notice.'

*How good of you, dear father.

You like to go, then ? ' said Sir Allan, looking

3t

at her sharply. ' You don't mind missing the
hunting ? '

Grace blushed at the question, as if it touched
a sensitive chord.

'One can have fox-hunting any year,' she
said, *but not an Italian tour.'

'And your Parisian French will be useful tome
when Clare is not at my side,' said Sir Allan.
I used to spout Racine when I was a boy, and
I can read a French novel; but I can never hit
upon little common phrases when I am in a
hurry. You will have to be ready in less thana
week, Grace ; for as soon as ever I can put
my affairs in decent order we will be off. Clare
is such an orderly person that she is always
ready.'

'I have nothing to do lout to 1)0 orderly,'
said Lady Darnel, smiling at him. 'Dora takes
all household cares off my hands, and you never
exact anything from me.'

'Yes, I do, my dear. I look to you for the
happiness of my life, and you have never disappointed
me,' answered Sir Allan tenderly.

'Well, we will start directly I have paid the
quarter's accounts, and made things straight with
the steward. I dropped in at the bank as we
drove to the station and got four hundred in
notes, to begin the war.'

'Just as Bismarck called in all the gold he
could get before he challenged Austria,' said the
Colonel.

'I used to carry circular notes, but I have '
found of late years that your British bank note
will pass current in most parts of the Continent.
And I treated myself to a brace of revolvers
at Lancaster's — the last refinement in travelling
pistols.'

'Prudent man!' exclaimed the Colonel. 'You
will be quite disappointed if there is no encounter
with brigands to bring your firearms into active
service.'

'Grace," said the Colonel, turning to his goddaughter.
'If you really mean cub-hunting
tomorrow you had better go to bed. It is
nearly eleven.'

Of QouTse I mean cub-hunting. Do you think

I would lose a run now that I am to be away
all the season? But it hardly seems worth while
going to bed when one is to get up again at
four o'clock. Good-night, father, and thank you
so much for taking me to Italy. It is the dream
of my life.'

'It has been the dream of my life,' said her
aunt, without looking up from her work-basket,
'but a dream which will never be realised.'

This was just one of those speeches which
make everyone feel uncomfortable, and for which
there seems to be no appropriate answer. It was
the signal for a general departure.

Sir Allan, Colonel Stukely, and Grace were in
the saddle before five o'clock next morning, and
away over the dewy uplands, and in and out of
dripping copses, before six. Grace's new mare
behaved beautifully, carried her young mistress
as if she had been a feather-weight, and evidently
revelled in her work. Sir Allan took his line;
Grace had her own ideas, and the Colonel, who
was not so familiar with the country, stuck close
to Grace, admiring her pretty figure and her

dashing horsemanship, and altogether very proud
of his god-daughter.

Mr. Colchester was as devoted as a Master
of Hounds can 1)e, and a keen observer would
have been amused to see the struggle between
duty and inclination which tore at his heartstrings
every time he had to leave Grace's side
in order to direct the instincts of his young
hounds. He seemed happiest when the pack were
in full cry and he and Grace were galloping side
by side across country. Then there were gates
to be opened, hedges to be taken first by his
heavy hunter, so as to leave a safer jump for
Grace, who naturally scorned such old-womanish
attentions, infinitely preferring to have led the
way over the most breakneck point in the
fence.

Colonel Stukely kept close to these two all
the time, admiring Grace's admirer almost as
heartily as he admired Grace herself. And,
indeed, Squire Colchester, in his grey coat and
black velvet cap, was as pleasing a specimen of
a young English landowner as anybody coukl

desire to see ; tall, broad-shouldered, fair complexioned,
with cheery blue eyes, and crisp brown
hair, which would have curled all over his head
had it not been kept closely shorn. It was
a frank, kindly face, characteristic of the man,
who was good-nature personified ; but the firmly-moulded
lips and square chin told of a resolute
temper and a strong will.

It was in the course of a second run that an
incident occurred which had a startling effect
upon Grace and the Colonel. They were crossing
a common within three miles of Darnel Park, a
picturesque common on the crest of a hill, all
hillock and hollow, crowned with a cluster of old
Scotch firs. As they galloped over the rugged,
uneven ground, a little recklessly on Grace's part,
Juno, the new mare, gave a desperate shy, for the
first time since her mistress had ridden her, and
Grace looked round to see the cause of her alarm.
A man was lying against a sandy hillock, half-buried
in the furze — a slender figure, in an old
velveteen coat, travel-stained, out-at-elbows, a dark
head half hidden in a soft felt hat.

As Grace turned to look at him the man
raised himself slowly from his recumbent position,
and looked round him listlessly, vaguely, as if
suddenly awakened, but not in the direction of
the young horsewoman, who was some paces away
from the hillock where he sat. Still looking back
at him, she gave a faint half-stifled cry, just as
young Colchester came galloping across the
common, almost brushing against the man on the
hillock, and bore Grace and the Colonel along
with him, as on the wings of a whirlwind.

They're running like old boots in the copse
he cried, pointing with his whip.

'Godfather,' gasped Grace, trying to hold her
horse back as they were galloping along a lane,
so as not to be heard by the Master, ' did you
see that man on the common ? '

The tramp who startled your horse. Yes, I
saw him.*

He is not a tramp. He is Victor de Camillacc.
Oh, how ill and wretched he looked. I should
have stopped if that horrid man hadn't come rushing
by. Do go back to hin, Ask him where he

is stopping — why lie has come here ? Do, Colonel,
for my sake. And have you any money about
you ? *

Two or three pounds, perhaps.'

Give him all you have, please, for me.
He looked so poor.'

Come along, Miss Darnel,' shouted Mr. Colchester
; ' they've got him.'

And Grace cantered after him with a little
hypocritical laugh, pretending to be delighted at
the idea of bloodshed, although she always felt
ready to cry at this stage of the entertainment,
and told herself that it was too bad, and that
she would never hunt again ; and then, with a
charming inconsistency, came out next day.

the devil,' muttered the Colonel, as he rode
slowly up the hill, 'here's a pretty kettle offish.'


It was the same classical expression which lie
had made use of yesterday, when Grace told
him the story of her engagement, and with the
^ Colonel it meant a great deal.

This man's presence within an hour's walk

of Darnel foreboded mischief. His disreputable
appearance indicated a lapse into the lowest
depths of poverty, And what generosity or forbearance
could be expected from a destitute
adventurer ? The man held Grace's promise of
marriage, under her own hand. Could it be
supposed that he would not make it an instrument
of torture, unless he were bought off, and
got rid of somehow. He was here in the girl's-own
neighbourhood ; he would discover the
position her father occupied ; he would perhaps
be told of Edward Colchester's devotion to her,
of the general expectation that she would marry
him. These things are always village gossip,
long Before the principals themselves have made
up their minds. If this adventurer were to
shove Grace's letters to Edward Colchester, her
future would Ije blighted, her father's hopes
cheated. It was a detestable entanglement. The
Colonel could not help feeling angry with Grace
as he rode up the hill. To think that a
girl could so trifle with fate, out of sheer
silliness — could so forfeit self-respect, endanger Lier

reputation— bring pain and discredit upon her
parents.

'The only hope is, that if the man is poor,
we may Ije alle to Ijuy him pretty cheap,'
thought the Colonel.

KEEPING HIM ^T BAY.

Colonel Stukely rode slowly along the top of
the ridge, looking for the sandy hillock, to
leeward of that cluster of rugged firs, where
Grace and he had seen the vagabond lying.
He found that particular hillock easily enough ;
there were the prints of the horses' hoofs to
show him the way ; but the man was gone.
He rode all over the common, round and about,
looking for him, almost as closely as the hounds
would have hunted for a fox ; but there was no
sign of a human creature sheltering behind any
of those furze bushes, or in any of those hollows.
He heard the hounds winding round the
base of the hill, and went zig-lagging down to
find Grace in a field at the bottom. The fox
had gone to ground, and the huntsmen were

getting the hounds together to go back to the
kennels, digging out not being counted as a
virtue in this district. Mr. Colchester was in
high spirits, his young hounds had worked
admirably, and he had been with Grace almost
all the morning. It was only nine o'clock now,
they would be back in time for a latish breakfast.
Grace and her father had dismounted, and
were standing side by side, while the grooms
eased the saddles. Grace gave a little appealing
look at the Colonel, which he answered by a
grave shake of his head.

'You'll come to breakfast with us, Colchester,
said Sir Allan, * we are nearer than the Manor.
And it may be the last time we shall breakfast
together for five or six months.'

The last time,' gasped Colchester. ' What do
you mean?'

Lady Darnel is ordered to the south for the
winter, and we are all off, as soon as ever we can
start.'

*A11! You and Lady Darnel, I suppose.'

*And Grace. Grace is going with us.'

What, you are going to lose the hunting, just
when Sir Allan has Sought you that perfect care,
and with poor old Blackbird as fit as a fiddle, too.
How can you, Miss Darnel'

'Yes, it's very sad, isn't it?' murmured Grace
when she was in her saddle again, and they were
jogging homewards.

She hardly knew what she was saying, her
mind was so full of that figure lying against the
heathy knoll, that rusty velveteen jacket, that
battered old felt wide-awake, the very image of
destitution and decay. And that vagabond washer
lover, her plighted lover, the man for whose
sake she had renounced all the rest of mankind,
binding herself by a life-long vow. And
then she glanced shyly at the master of the
hounds, trotting beside her along the rustic lane,
the frank manly face, the bright English complexion,
the look of gentle l)loocl, the clear outlook
of eyes which had never feared the face of a foe;
and she knew in her heart of carts that this man
cared for her above all women.

'Are you really going?' he asked ruefully.

'Really and truly,' she said, 'but it is not for
so very long. We shall come back in the spring,
as soon as the weather is mild enough for Lady
Darnel.'

'Not before May,' said Sir Allan. 'Our
climate is not to be trusted before May.'

And May is about the most treacherous month
in the year,' interjected the Colonel. *Never put
your trust in May. All the old English saws tell
you that.'

And you are going to Italy,' said Edward
Colchester, growing more and more despondent;
and there are these cursed hounds to tie a
fellow 1jy the leg. What part are you going to ? '
He had not been much of a continental
traveller, a fortnight in Paris Seing his largest
idea in that line. He had boasted that Scotland
and Ireland were good enough for his holiday
ground. Why go to Norway to sh for salmon,
when one could have better fishing in Connemara,
among a people who spoke ones mother tongue
more or less ? Edward Colchester had the sturdy,
true blue British temperament, and thought that

VOL. III. E

if God had given him a fortune it was his duty
to spend it in his own country. And he did
spend liberally in the place where he was born.
The manor was maintained in noble style, chiefly
for the advantage of three maiden aunts, his own
habits being of the simplest. The bulk of the
expenses of the kennels fell upon him; for
although ostensibly a subscription pack, the
Wilton Moor hounds must have gone on very
short commons, and the Wilton Moor huntsmen
must have ridden very sorry cattle, had they
depended on the liberality of the neighbourhood.
What part of Italy ? ' inquired Mr. Colchester,
as he jogged along by Grace's side.

'I think father said we were to go to the
lakes ? '

Como and that kind of thing. Ah, very nice,
I daresay. Any salmon, I wonder ? Well, Miss
Darnel, as I have never seen Italy, I'll run over
and join you for a fortnight or so in April, if Sir
Allan will let me ! '

'You would find it very dull, I am afraid,*
replied Grace sadly. ' We are not going for sightseeing

or gaiety ; but solely on account of Lady
Darnel's health.'

'I shouldn't care how quiet you might be. I
should go to see Italy — and you.'

'I say, Colchester, where did you get that
chestnut the whip rode this morning ? ' asked Sir
Allan, and the master was obliged to leave Grace's
side and talk to her father.

Grace fell back directly, and began to question
the Colonel.

'How dreadful!' she said, when he had told
her of his failure. ' If he should go away from
the neighbourhood without help. Penniless,
starving, perhaps.'

No fear of that, I think. You may depend he has
come to this neighbourhood meaning to get help, and
from you. Poor Grace You'll hear of him soon
enough, be sure. But whenever he does approach
you, mind you refer him to me.'

'How unkindly you speak of him, Colonel, as
if he were my enemy.'

How can I think of him except as your
enemy A penniless adventurer who inveigles a

I IQR&PV

school iii into an engagement which he must
know she can only keep at the sacrifice of her
prospects in life.'

He did not inveigle me. I was very foolish,
perhaps, but I acted of my own free will. And
you have no right to call him an adventurer,
just because he is poor, and because you see him
for the first time under very humiliating circumstances,'
said Grace, plucking her handkerchief
out of the pigskin to dry a sudden rush of tears.

I do not believe that any industrious, well-meaning
young man would fall so low, Grace.
There is a providence for struggling youth ; and
when a young fellow drops below the level of his
own class be sure there is generally a good reason
for the fall. You saw this fellow in Paris painting
for a livelihood. You say he has the education
of a gentleman, and that he saints well. Such a
man has no right to be lying on Quicksand
Common dressed like a tramp.'

'It may be a disguise,' said Grace, more and
more indignant ; ' besides, you ought to remember -
that it is sometimes more difficult for a gentleman

to keep his head above water than for an agricultural
labourer or a, mechanic. Somebody says
that the hio-h roads in Australia are made and
mended by men who haec taken honours at
Oxford and Cambridge. Education is a drug in
the market everywhere.'

The young man looks disreputable and dissipated.'


He looks very ill,' said Grace.
If he comes to Darnel this afternoon you had
better take him straight to the drawings-room and
introduce him to Sir Allan as your affianced hus-land,
since you are so confident al)out him,'
retorted the Colonel, getting angry.

'Which means that you wash your hands of
me and my troubles,' said Grace, piteously.

It means that I will help you, if I possibly
can. But I will not encourage you in a folly — a
mistaken sense of honour and self sacrifice. I love
you so well, Grace, that if I thought this man
were worthy of you, granting him to be a
pauper, and if I knew your heart was set upon
marry ing him, I would use my strongest endeavours

to reconcile your father to a bad match.
But I have a shrewd suspicion that the man is
a scamp and a scoundrel ; and I am very sure
that in your heart of hearts you don't care a
straw for him. So I shall make it ray business
to arrange matters civilly and liberally with the
gentleman. And if you are only good and submissive,
I believe I shall be able to tell you ina
week that you are as free as air.'

Dear — dearest Colonel ! ' cried Grace, forgetting
herself. ' But you will not behave unkindly to
poor Victor.'

I mean to treat him very handsomely. I will
give him a fair start, with a nice little sum in
hand in a new country, at a considerable distance
from Darnel Park.'

'But that will take a heap of money.'

'The money shall be forthcoming. You and I
can square accounts when you are of age.'

'My best of friends.'

*And when all is settled, and your Parisian
friend has returned you those foolish letters, you
can go to Sir Allan and tell him all about it

very quietly. And then your mind will be at
ease ever afterwards.'

It will be dreadful to tell papa,' said Grace
ruefully. ' He will preach me such a sermon.'

Even a sermon may be endured from so good
a father,' replied the Colonel, with his kindly
smile, * and, after all, sermons are good things in
their way.'

'Yes, I will tell him all, godfather, when
Victor has released me from my promise ; and if
he should send me a letter, or come to the house,
which he could hardly do, poor fellow, in that
dreadful coat, I will let you know directly.'

They put their horses at a trot, and followed
Sir Allan and young Colchester, who had got a
good start of them by this time, and there was
no more confidential talk between Grace and her
godfather.

The dining-room at Darnel looked a delightful
place after a morning in dewy fields and damp
copses, on breezy commons, and over wide uplands.
The old hearth, with its dog-stove and brass furniture,
the hissing urn, the healed sideboard, the

table bright with chrysanthemums and scarlet
geraniums, and the fine old Swansea breakfast
service— everything looked inviting — while the
mistress of the house, in her neat, olive-green
cashmere gown and linen collar, was the most
charming object in the room. Lady Darnel was
not one of those picturesque matrons who come
to breakfast in a flowing satin robe, trimmed
with ostrich plumage. She had not yet risen to
that loose and shapeless splendour of attire
which takes its inspiration from Japanese screens,
and finds its material in Oriental bazaars. Neat
and trim, and thoroughly English, she smiled
upon her husband in a gown which might have
cost from two to three pounds.

Those plain toilets only vexed Dora Darnel, who
had secret yearnings for the Japanese, and had
not courage to indulge them in the face of Lady
Darnel's simplicity. Her mind was also exercised
as to what Lady Darnel did with her pin money,
which was large. She certainly did not spend it
on dress, and if she disposed of it in works of
charity, she was verily and indeed one of those

excellent Christians whose left hand knows not
what the right hand gives.

Dora had discussed this subject many a time
and oft with her particular friends, those people
who had held themselves a little aloof from Lady
Darnel, but who still cultivated Sir Allan's incomparable
sister.

'My conviction is that Lady Darnel is making
a purse she would conclude solemnly, as if it
were altogether iniquitous to make purses.

But why, my dear Dora, why should she do
that, when you tell me Sir Allan has provided
handsomely for her in the event of his death ? '
asked her friend.

Most handsomely,' said Dora. ' But for all
that I Believe she is making a purse. Some
women are born misers.*

Clare Darnel had not the air of a woman of
miserly soul as she sat at the head of the table
this morning dispensing tea and coffee, and smiling
upon her adoring husband, who had seated himself
by her side. She looked laughter and
happier than she had looked for a long time.

The j^i'^''^pect of escape from lier narrow surroundings,
the idea of travelling with the man
she tenderly loved, among new and beautiful
scenes, was full of delight. She was not a weak
woman, and she had met the coldness of her
husband's old acquaintances with a quiet scorn.
She despised them for misjudging her — despised
them for their inability to accept her for her
own sake, for their petty prejudices and suspicions
She knew that she might have been one of the
worst women in England, her sins only falling
short of law-court exposure; and yet if she had
come to Darnel Park as the daughter of a great
house, a personage, the county would have opened
its arms to receive her. But she came to Darnel
as a nobody, and all manner of evil was suspected
about her. She had borne her isolation without
a murmur, for she was a woman of infinite resources,
and was in no wise dependent upon
society for amusement or happiness ; but she had
been deeply grieved by the knowledge of her
husband's pain at the unfriendliness of those whom
he had counted as his friends.

And to turn her lack upon this trouble, to
go among strangers and strange scenery, to escape
from those cold critical glances of Dora Darnel's,
this was indeed delight; such delight that the thought
of it made her for the moment forgetful of a deeper,
darker trouble which had been weighing her to the
ground of late, the one heavy burden of her life, a
burden that she had set herself to endure in secret.

That breakfast after the cub hunting was a
most genial meal. Edward Colchester was as
hungry as the proverbial hunter, and eat and
talked with a most cheerful clatter, his talk
naturally being a recapitulation of the morning's
work, and of other mornings ; what they had
done and what they ought not to have done ;
whether one particular fox was the hunted fox,
or a new fox — a point nicely debated, as
exemplified by the conduct of said fox, between
Mr. Colchester and the Colonel. Even Grace
brightened and joined in the conversation, and
showed herself wonderfully ait fait as to the little

ways and devices of old dog foxes, and the

haunts and manners of cubs.

You have such eyes,' exclaimed Colchester,
rapturously, ' I believe you know every earth within
thirty miles.'

'I ride and drive about a good deal, and one
cannot help using one's eyes,' said Grace modestly.

I know you have helped me to find some of our
best foxes,' replied Colchester. ' By-the-bye, there
is counting somewhere near Eome, isn't there ? '
In the Campagna,' suggested the Colonel.

Well, now if their season only l3egan after ours
was over I might meet you at Eome, Sir Allan,
and we might have some sport in the Campagna,
eh ? ' asked Colchester.

*It would be delightful. But I'm afraid an
Italian April would lie too warm for hunting.'

'By Jove, we have some deuced hot days here
before we leave off,' said Colchester. ' But hunting
or no hunting, I shall join you in the spring, if
you'll have me.'

'We shall be charmed to have you,' said Lady
Darnel.

'Quite a family party,' sneered Dora.

she was just young enough to be jealous of her

niece's superior youth and prettiness. She had
had her own chances and had thrown them away,
because they were not up to the level of her expectations
; and now it galled her to see the Lord
of the Manor at Grace's feet, and to see Grace
dallying with her conquest.

'I daresay she thinks him hardly good enough
for her,' she thought. ' She expects some nobleman
to fall in love with her wasp waist and her
reckless riding.'

Edward Colchester lingered till nearly luncheon
time. He went to the stables with Sir Allan while
Grace was changing her dress, and there was that
general overhauling of horseflesh which seems a
source of perennial delight, even to the grooms
and lads who have to bear the heat and burden
of bringing the animals out and trotting them up
and down. And when the stable inspection was
over, CJrace was discovered on the terrace in front
of the (hearing-room, all bloom and freshness in
her pretty walking gown ; and at Mr. Colchester's
request she took him to see the conservatories,
and that superb collection of cbrysanlhc-

mums which was the autumnal glory of Darnel
Park.

You'll come too, won't you, auntie ? ' said Grace,
appealingly.

It was but rarely she called Dora ' auntie,' and
the unwonted tenderness seemed like a cry of
distress. She would have done almost anything
to escape a Ute-a-Ute with the master of the
hounds; she who was audacity itself in the field
when she trotted up to him to give him little
wrinkles as to the whereabouts of foxes.

So Dora went the round of the glass houses,
and explained the chrysanthemums to Edward
Colchester, who found himself called upon to be
interested in the different breeds, and rapturous
al)out the Japanese varieties, and attentive to
Dora Darnel at every point. It was altogether a
disappointing business, and he fell into fearful
yawning before he had done.

'You seem dreadfully sleepy,' said Dora.
I was at the kennels at a quarter to four,' he
murmured, apologetically.

And you are dying to go home for a nap,' said

Dora. ' We won't look at any more flowers today.'


'Oh, yes, let me see them all,' pleaded Colchester,
clinging to a straw, still faintly hoping
for a few words alone with Grace.

But there was no detaching Grace from her
aunt, and although young Colchester stayed till
the luncheon gong sounded, he had to leave at
last without having spoken those few words. But
it would be in his power to make another opportunity
before Sir Allan carried his daughter off
to the south, if he had made up his mind to
speak those words.

'LIFE-STIFLING FEAR, SOUL-stifling SHAME'

Grace spent the day in apprehension, expecting
some sign from her betrothed — a letter delivered
secretly — a messenger asking to see her — some
token that he was near at hand, and had come
to that neighbourhood on her account. As the
day wore on without Springing any such token,
her fears and perplexities increased rather than
diminished. She thought that he was lying somewhere
; under a hedge, or to leeward of a haystack
perhaps ; too ill, too weak to crawl to a better
shelter ; helpless, penniless, friendless, sick and dying ;
while she who had sworn to love and cherish
him was lolling in a luxurious easy chair, beside
the bright hearth in her dainty little den, surrounded
by hothouse flowers, and new books, and
an Gerard piano, and all the best and prettiest

things that money can buy. Her generous tender
heart, the heart which grieved even for slaughtered
foxes, was sorely tortured by the ]picture of his
destitution, by the Sitter contrast between her fate
and his. Tt was not because she loved him that
lie was so sad for this sake. She no longer loved
him. That foolish, romantic fancy of hers, born of
the idleness of a schoolgirl's life in a strange land,
that childish dream had died long ago. For
nearly a year past that secret engagement had
Ijeen a terror and burden for her. She had longed
ardently for some way of escape. She prayed that
lier godfather mitiht succeed in undoing the knot
lie had tied for herself. Yet she could not put
away the vision of that pale face, those haggard
eyes and hollow cheeks ; a face which to her
troubled imagination seemed like the imacie of
death itself.

All through the long afternoon she sat in her
own room expectant, anxious, much too anxious
to employ herself in any way, trembling at every
footstep in the corridor, lest it should announce
a messenger from Caniillac. Five, six, seven o'clock

Vil. 111. F

struck from her little timepiece, and still there
was no news. She had not gone down to afternoon
tea, shrinking from the sight of her father
and Lady Darnel ; but she knew that she must
go down to dinner, or else excite everybody's
wonder. She was not the kind of girl to take to
her bed after an early run with the hounds. So
she dressed and went down to the drawing-room,
and went m to dinner with the rest of the family,
and sat in torture all dinner-time, expecting
every time a footman approached her with a
vegetable dish that he was coming to deliver
some mysterious message. But the dinner came
to an end, and no such message readied hei'.

Sir Allan l)egan to yawn directly they got lack
to the drawing-room. He had l)eeii up to London
and pack the day l:»efore — he had been in
the saddle at half-past four that morning. The
Colonel and Grace yawned in concert. It was
a chorus of stifled yawns.

'If you hunting people are so sleepy you
had really letter go to bed,' exclaimed Dora,
irritably.

She was one of those objectionable persons
who are never sleepy. She was in the habit of
playing classical music to the family of an evening,
and liked her people to listen and admire.

Dora is right,' said Sir Allan, ' I am only a
nuisance here, so I'll say good night.'

The Colonel and Grace followed suit. Lady
Darnel said she had some letters to write, and
would go to her own room to write them. She
knew that even when he was sleeping her husband
liked her to be near him ; and her pretty 
adjoined this l)edro()m.

'You won't mind my deserting you, will you,
Dora?' slu' asked sweetly, knowing that Miss
Darnel detested early hours.

Dora replied in her l)lan(lest tones. Lie could
amuse herself iov an hour or two with
Beethoven, if the noise of the piano would not
disturb them upstairs.

'We shall not hear it, but it would be very
nice if we did,' said Lady Darnel.

They all went away, and Dora had the spacious
drawing-room all to herself. It was brightened

by a glowing fire of coal and logs, and by the
light of lamps under coloured shades, and it was
beautified by masses of lot-house Idonm in great
majolica jars of blue and yellow, and dull Indian red.
It was in all respects as delightful a room as the
Heart of woman could desire : and yet its spaciousness
gave an idea of desolation and abandonment
when only one person was left in occupation.

Dora began a rondo of Beethoven's, Jul she
played listlessly, without fire, without expression ;
and before lie lead played three pages her fingers
were lying idle on the keys as the player sank
into a deep reverie.

She was roused from her thoughtful abstraction
by a sound on the terrace outside — a sound that
seemed like the tread of feet upon the gravel.
She ran to one of the windows and lifted the
edge of the blind, and looked out into the darkness,
with her face close against the glass. The
night was pitchy dark. She could see nothing.

Then she opened the casement, and listened
intently for some minutes, but there was no recurrence
of the sound which had startled her.

Still she was not satisfied. She rang for a
servant, and told him to go out upon the terrace
and see if there was anyone lurking about.

I certainly heard footsteps she said, ' about
ten minutes aL>'o.'

o

The footman had a faintly incredulous air,
though he was too well bred to express his unbelief.
He went into the hall, slowly and laboriously
withdrew the l3olts of the great door, strolled
out upon the terrace, and walked about three
yards in each direction. The night was so dark
that a regiment might have been in ambush at
either end of the terrace, and the footman wou.M
have been none the wiser. He came back to the
drawing-room and assured Miss Darnel that there
was not a mortal on the terrace or in the Italian
garden ; and then he went back to the servants'
hall and enlarged upon Miss Darnel's fidgety,
prying ways and love of late hours, while he
finished his supper.

L suppose she'll keep me hanging about till
half after eleven befonj I can take those lamps
away,' he grumbled.

It was nearly eleven, and Sir Allan had not
yet gone to bed. He lead taken off his coat and
put on a loose velvet jacket, and was smoking a
cigarette in his wife's morning room. He always
enjoyed being alone with her, always had something
particular to say to lier, some scheme or
arrangement to discuss. He never knew weariness
in lier society; and even to-night, hired as lion
lie was loth U) go to bed without the customary
talk.

Since yesterday his mind lead l)een full nf the
Italian trip.

'And you arc glad to go away with nic ? ' lie
said.

*Very, very glad. More glad than I can say.'

In that case you ought not to have waited
for the doctor's orders. Directly you felt a yearning
for change of scene you ought to have told
me to take you away.'

I could not be so selfish, Allan, knowing how
fond you are of Darnel.'

I am fond of no place in which you are not
happy.'

1 have been very happy here — with you

Yes, you have been — at first, perhaps. You
were happy here, and so was I — completely happy
in the beginning of a new life. But you have
not been happy lately, Clare. There has been
something weighing on your mind ; and I have a
shrewd suspicion that it is the polar atmosphere
of Darnel that has been freezing my darling's
tender heart.'

'Oil, Allan, low rnn you think mc so weak.
Wliat other society can I want wlicn I have
you ^ '

But Sir Allan Iliad made up this mind upon the
subject.

Women are sensitive upon small matters,' he
said. 'Never mind, my dear. We shall be faraway
from the people who have slighted you next
week, beside the tideless waters of the Mediterranean.
The money is ready there in that cabinet
four hundred in circular notes, and we can have
plenty more when tint is spent. Oar Italian
tour will be like a second honeymoon; and it
shall be a lonij' lioncvmoon.'

He opened the cabinet while he was talking,
and pulled out a drawer inside. It was an old
Italian cabinet in ebony and ivory, full of curious
little drawers and recesses. From one of the
drawers Sir Allan took out a bundle of banknotes,
and looked at them and fingered them like
a child with a new toy, longing to Ije of! and
away, scattering those notes in hotels and in smart
little shops at gay continental watering-places. He
meant this journey with his second wife to lee
one of delight for them both — for her the delight
of strange places and lovely scenery ; for him the
rapture of seenig her happiness. He had written
to an old club-house chum to secure a tiood courier.
Lady Darnel would take her maid, and he his
faithful old valet. Grace was young enough to
si lift for herself.

He put the notes back into the open drawer, and
took the revolvers from one of the recesses.
They were packed in a neat little Russia-leather
case. He opened it and took out the pistols, and
(b^'^conted upnu their beauty.

'They are the prettiest things I have seen for
an age,' he said.

I hope you may have no occasion to use
them, Allan,' answered his wife, averting her eyes
with a look of fear.

You don't like to see them in my hand ? '

I have a horror of all firearms.'

'My dearest, I forgot,' he cried, putting the
revolver which he had l)een examining back into
its case.

He felt angry with himself for talking of the
wretched thing, remembering that dark chapter
in Clare's life in which a gun had done such
dreadful work.

His cigarette was finished by this time. He
bent down to kiss his wife as she sat at the writ-unstable.


'Voit will not stay up too late, dear?' he said.

'Into, I live only a couple of letters to write —
one to the dear old vicar to tell him of our
change of plan. He was to have come to us fora
week before Christmas, dont yoti know ? '

Of course, lie must come to us next Maw.'

He went to the bedroom wliicli opened out
of this sanctum of Lady Darnel's, and left his
wife bending over her desk, in the light of the
reading lamp. There was a large fire in the old-fashioned
basket grate, such a fire as a well-trained
servant always makes on a mild evening,
as if it were required to roast an ox, or at least,
a baron of l)eef. On coming into the room just
now Lady Darnel's first impulse had been to
open one of the windows. Tliey were French
casement windows opening on to a broad wooden
balcony, which was always well furnished with
flowers summer and winter. At this season there
were boxes of mignonette among the autumn
flowers, and the perfume floated into the room
on the cool night air.

Sir Allan left the pistol case open upon the
centre table, amongst a litter of magazines and
newspapers. He had been too well waited on
all his life ever to have acquired the habit of
putting things away. He left everything to be
cared for by that inferior race, whose duty it is
to follow in the footsteps of a graiul seigneur,

and to protect this property from the consequences
of this own carelessness.

When her husband was gone, Chare Darnel
looked up at the clock on the mantelpiece. It
was five minutes past eleven. She could hear
doors being shut upon the ground floor ; all the
sounds of n household retiring for the night.

I can take an hour before mi(hiighl,' she
said to herself, as lie began lier letter to the
friend of her cliihihood, that one trusted friend
from wlioni lie had no secrets.

She had not been writing ten minutes when
the window which lie left ajar was slowly
pushed open, and a man stepped noiselessly
into the room. She heard no footfall on the
velvet pile, but went on writing, calm, beautiful
in the lamplight, an image of domestic peace,
the firelight shining on the dark folds of her
satin gown. For some moments she wrote on,
while the man stood watching her, holding his
breath. Then she heard his breathing, short
and quick, like a down's. She looked n]) in
sudden fear, and saw a tall, washed ii^nre in a

woi'11-out velveteen coat, a haggard face Ljokiiig
down at lier.

It was lier husband's face as she had seen it
many a time after dissipated habits had ruined
his health. It was her son's face, aged by seven
years' apprenticeship to the devil since she lead
last looked upon those features. It was the face
of the man whom Colonel Stukely and Grace
had seen on the common.

'Valentine,' she ejaculated in a half whisper,
wringing lier hands. ' How can you come here —
like a thief in the night?'

How else can I come ? It is the oily
fashion in which I am allowed to enter my
mother's house.'

It is not my house. It is Sir Allan's
house ; and you have no right to enter it
without his permission. Oli, my Clod, what
has come to ycni ? How have you fallen into
this despicable state — after the sums of money
that I have sent you ? '

'Tens and twenties disabled out at odd times
and seasons,' answered her son sulkily. ' ]\Iom'V

given ill that fashion never does a man iiiiich
good. I wanted capital to start in a new line.
I ]had all manner of golden opportunities, if you
would have ]helped me, as I wanted you to help
me, at the right moment. Bui it was always
the same story. You feared to trust me with
a large sum of money. You, Lady Darnel,
mistress of this house, talked of live hundred
pounds as if it were half a million. You knew
my disposition too well. The usual preachment.
You would send me twenty pounds a month, and
I must contrive to live respectably upon it. Do
you think in this go-ahead age a man can get
a fair start in life upon a capital of five ]pounds.'

I have sent you fifties and hundreds for
your debts.'

Yes, when I was on the brink of dangers
that would have brought disgrace upon you and
your swell husband.'

'Valentine, how have you come to such a
pass ? ' asked his mother, waving aside this rev
preaches, which were not new to her. * You
look like a beggar.'

I look like what I am he answered sullenly.
*I have lead a run of bad luck — cards, horses —
everything has gone wrong with me. Other
men — cads, with half my brains — can make fortunes.
I, with three times their education, only
risk my wretched pittance to lose it. Do you
think a man of my temper could be content
to live upon five pounds a week, while there
was a gaming-table or a race-course in the world
on which he could try to quadruple it ? '

'A oamVder, Valentine! Another of your
father's vices.'

'Wliat else do I inherit from him? Xot

money, or position. And your d cleverness

deprived me of even his name. I am always
being asked to what Stuart I l)clong ? What
account can I give of myself, do you think ?
I would rather have been free to answer, " I
am Valentine Mackenzie, the son of the man
who drank himself mad, and eliot the sentry at
Mallow'"

'You are cruel to the last degree— cruel to
reduce yourself to this degraded position — cruel

to creep into this house— cruel to me now as
you were cruel when you were a boy — as your
father was before you,' said Clare Darnel, beside
herself with the agony of her fears, 'you have
no' right in this house, where there are only
good people, people who fear God and respect
themselves. You do neither. I say you have
no redit here,'

And I tell you that wherever my mother
is I have a right to be. I suppose you have
kept my existence a secret. Your swell husband
does not even know there is such a person :
but by heaven lie shall know ! '

He spoke in a hoarse, muffled voice, which
grew louder with his indignation against fate
and his mother. At any moment that souiul of
voices might awaken Sir Allan in the next
room. Clare hurried to the door of communication.
It was shut. She drew across a velvet
curtain which draped the door, and which would
help to muffle the sound of those agitated
voices.

'He knows that T had a son,' she said, 'but

when I married him I believed that you were
dead, that you lead been lost in the Erl Kin^j.
Although all the happiness of my life depended
upon that manage, I would not have named
him if I Iliad known thai you were living. Xo,
by lieaveii, T loved him loo well to bring such
a curse union him as a stepson with your vices.'

'Well, lie has me and my vices; and he and
you lead better make the best of me. What are
you going to do for me, MOTHER?' the tender
name was uttered with a cynical laugh.

Wliat can I do. If I 2;ive you money you
will throw it away on a race-course or at a
rambling-table : whatever I do for von it all
comes to the same thing. You will drink,
squander and degrade yourself to the condition
in which you come to me to night, the condition
of a beggar.'

Because you never give me enough money.
Give me a round sum — tln-ec or foi' hundred
pounds for instance — that would start me in a new
country.'

'How often have you talked of starting afresh.

promised lu begin a new life ? ' questioned his
mother bitterly. * I ga\'e you a hundred pounds
to furnish an apartment in Paris. You were to
study art, you were to live as other students livre
there — cheaply, unpretentiously, till you could earn
your own maintenance. For a few months things
seemed to be going well with you. I hoped
you were living comfortably on the twenty
pounds a month which I sent you. Then came
a long story of difficulties, debts of honour, a
mysterious entanglement ^^llich might lead to
exposure in the newspapers ; and I had to send
another hundred pounds. You have drained me
of the income my generous husband settled on
me, and which I told him was three times too
much for my wants. 1 have l)een sneered at,
talked about, iov spending so little money, for
dressing worse than other women in my position.'

'You look an object of compassion at this
moment,* said her son, surveying her with a
diabolical sneer.

Her plaid-made black satin dinner gown,
becoming in its severe simplicity, seemed to him

VOL. Ti. Cr

the lieiglit of luxury. It was not for him to
know that the gown lead been worn two winters.
Men of his stamp alway's think a woman is
well enough dressed so long as her gown holds
together. The wives of such men are supposed
to have no right to complain while their clothes
are wind and weather proof.

Lady Darnel took her porte-monnaie from her
pocket.

*Here arc six sovereigns and some silver,
Valentine,' lie said, uttering him the contents;
'all I have in the world, or am likely to have,
until Christmas.'

He took the money carelessly, indifferently.

'It will be very little good,' he said, 'beyond
getting me a week's lodging, and a slop) suit in
which I shall look a little worse than in these
rags. I tell you that what I want — the only
thing that can do me any good — is a round
sum of money. I know of a splendid opening.
A friend of mine owns a vineyard near Cadiz.
It only wants W(~)rking to jmuluce as fine a
sherry as the best that is made in the district.

And he would take me iiitu partnership, if 1
could gi\'e him three or four hundred on thei
nail, and could pledge myself to ]produce as
much more a year hence. That woidd mean
not a Beggarly pittance, but a trade, a fortune.
You would not be ashamed to own a wholesale
dealer in Spanish wines for your son. The
trade is reputable, even if the wines are doctored.
Come, mother, don't tell me you can't find this
money. You have lout to ask Sir Allan.'

i will not ask him. No, Valentine, even if
I believed in the possibility of your redemption,
I would not ask that generous man to gi\'e me
more money', when of his own accord he has
given me three times too much for all my
reasonable requirements. But I lune no hodie
of your reform. I know that if I gave }'ou
three hundred ]pounces to-night it would go just
as the other money lias gone. The utmost I
will do for you, the uttermost tha duty constrains
me to do, is to prove you with the
means of living decently from week to week.
That I will do, and no more. And even to do

that I shall have to borrow money. Your demands
have completely exhausted my resources.'

Very good. Then I must have recourse to
someone else. There is a lady in this house
upon whom my claim is second only to my claim
upon you.'

'A lady in this house?' repeated Clare, aghast
with wonder.

Grace Darnel is my affianced wife. I believe
a man has some kind of claim upon the woman
who has promised to marry him.'

'My step-daughter, Grace, affianced to you, to
you, Valentine Mackenzie ! You must be mad to
say such a thing ! '

'The statement may sound preposterous, but
it is true. Miss Darnel took it into her head
to work at the Louvre just at the time I was
working there. You think very likely that I
never did so work, that my art education was
altogether a sham. But there you belie me. I
worked honestly enough till I got sick of an impossible
profession. No matter. I was attracted
by the young lady's appearance, was able to pay

her some small attention, and saw that she was
pleased with me. I contrived to question her
duenna. I heard that she was Miss Darnel, of
Darnel Park, an heiress. The imbroglio became
interesting; and I determined to try my chances
with Miss Darnel, whom I really admired more
than any girl I had seen for an age.'

What an honour for Grace ! '

I contrived to get upon confidential terms
with her, and soon found the key to her heart.
She is a generous liigli- spirited girl, full of
romance. Just the girl to think the world well
lost for love. We were desperately in love with
each other. A sharp attack of — of — an old complaint
of mine brought me to death's door.'

Was it your father's malady, the dire disease
that comes from intemperance, Valentine?' asked
his mother, looking at him intently, seeing only
too plainly in his haggard face the same indications
wliicli lie lead seen so often in trio face of
her dead husband.

No matter what it was. T wrote to Miss
Darnel from my sick led. She answered as a

tme-liearted girl might be expected to answer.
She promised to he my wife. I have that promise
under her own hand. She will be of age in a
year. And as soon as she is of age and her own
mistress I shall claim trio fulfilment of that
promise.'

'Does si 10 know who you are?'

Well, not exactly. When you are in Eome "
do as the Romans do, says the proverb. When
I was in Paris 1 was a Frenchman. One alias
is as good as another. In Paris I was not
Valentine Stuart, but Victor de Camillacc'

*And you come to this house — an adventurer,
an impostor, a swindler — to claim the promise
made by a credulous girl, your dupe and victim.
You, my son, woidd do this thing? This is the
deepest disgrace you ha^'e threatened me with
yet ! '

'It is for you to work out the problem so as
to avoid disgrace. Give me three or four hundred
pounds and I will start for Cadiz tomorrow, to
return a year hence as a respectable merchant,
and to claim my betrothed. She will pardon my

change of name and nationality ; if I can stand
before her as a gentleman, and your son. She
is so fond of yon that the relationship will be
an additional claim to her regard.'

'Do not think that I will ever sanction any
engagement between yon and Grace. Not if you
could stru^f^le out of the abyss into which your
degrading habits have sunk you — not even if you
could come here in outward seeming a gentleman.
Never would I sanction the union of that good and
true-hearted girl with your father's son. The cup
of despair which I drained to the dregs shall never
be offered to her, while I have powder to prevent
that infamy. Sir Allan knows what you were as a
boy. If the worst come to the worst he shall know
what you are as a man.'

'Wouldn't it l.)e wiser for your own sake if you
were to temporize — let me go to Spain, work out
my own redemption, and return worthy of Grace —
and of you. 1 will do it, mother, if you will trust
me.'

He laid this hand upon bis another's shoulder ;
he looked at her pleadingly as she stool with

clasped hands, an image of despair. It was the
first time that lie had touched her since they
entered ; he, the son whom she lead not seen for
seven years.

I cannot trust you,' she answered, not in unkindness
but in despair. * I have been too often
deceived. I know your nature too well. I will
do what I can for you, but it must be in my own
way. Oh, Valentine, why do you follow in the
fatal road that your father trod to his doom ?
The habits of the drunkard and the gambler ruined
him; and they will ruin you if you do not reform.
Think of ]pis dreadful end — a murderer, a lunatic.
Be warned in time. Xo, my poor son, it is not yet
too late. I will help }()u. I will \\sil ynu,
l)efricnd }'ou in every w'a}', if you will only show
a real purjKjse of amendment, .Vnd now, for
]pity's sake, leave this house, before Sir Allan
overhears anvthinc]:. Are you lodn^inia; in the

Iso «/ o o

village ? '

I have l)een lodging under hedges and haystacks
since yesterday evening. When I landed
at Newhaven yesterday morning I haul just

enough to pay for ;i third-class ticket to London,
and another third-class ticket to Scadleigh.
I have been roaming about ever since, with
empty pockets and an empty stomach, watching
for a chance of an interview with you or Grace.

Thank God, you did not see Grace — in this
dreadful plight. Poor creature — poor unhappy
boy,' said Lady Darnel, glancing at the clock.
Ten minutes to twelve ; they will hardly have
gone to 1)6(1 at the Coach and Horses, for they
seldom close until after eleven. You had better
go there, and get a room for the night. There
is a sheltered lane at the lack of the inn
garden — a narrow lane with tall hedges. 1 will
meet you there at seven tomorrow morning,
and we can talk (piety, we can make some
plan for your future. ^Vnd now, go. There is nota
moment to be lost, if you want to get
shelter to-night.'

'I don't want to sleep under a hedge,' he
said sullenly, moving slowly towards I he window,
reluctant, undecided.

At this moment the door leading into I he

corridor was opened a little way, and a sweet
girlish voice said, ' Mother, are you still up ? '
Lady Charnel rushed to the door, and met
Grace before she could enter the loom.

Yes, dear child,' she said, gaping out into
the corridor, and shutting the door behind her.
Oh, Grace, why are ynu not in led ? It is
close upon midnight, and you were up at four.'

I couldn't sleep a wink, if I went to bed.
Mayn't I come into your room for a few
minutes' chat ? '

'Not to-night. It is too late.'

How pale you are, mother ! Are you ill ? '
'iso, no, not ill, only a little tired. I have

sat up too long. Xow, Grace, I shall take you
hack to your room, and you must g(j to bed
instantly.'

The girl was in her dressing gown, her
splendid l)rown hair hanging loose upon her
shoulders. Lady Darnel ]put lier arm round
her and led her along the corridor. Thrace's
rooms were opposite those inhabited hy Sir Allan
and Lady Darnel. These three had exclusive

occupation of this southern wing. The central
portion of the first floor was taken up by
a picture gallery and a billiard room. Miss
Darnel's rooms were in the northern wing.

'What has made you so wakeful, (Iracie?'
asked Clare, when she had taken the girl back
to her room.

(Grace hesitated for a few moments, looking
at the ground, and staying nervously with the
lace upon her dressing gown.

She was longing to tell all her troubles to
her stepmother, yet dared not. Fear of her
father's anger kept her dull).

Oh, I don't know,' she said. ' Perhaps it
was the exciting idea of our Italian tour. .Vt
any rate, I couldn't sleep; and I thought if you
were up I should like to have a talk. Ihu
you are too tired, and you ought l(» go lo bed.
You are as while as a ghost.'

'Yes, I am very tired. Good uiglu, (pear dnld.'
'Good night, collier,' aud will au arirclioiiaic
kiss lliey parted.

Lady Darnel did not go hack to lu-r loom

immediately. She wanted time — first to be sure
that Grace did not follow her ; secondly, to recover
her coolness of brain, to consider quietly
and calmly if possible, what was to be done
with this foolish son of hers. He would have
gone when she went back to her room perhaps ;
or if he had not gone she would be better able
to reason with him after a few minutes quiet.

She walked up and down the corridor two or
three times, thinking deeply, trying to hit upon
some line of conduct which might save Grace
and reclaim the prodigal. Grace must on no account
know that her lover was in the neighbourhood.
Crirls are so foolish. His wretched condition
would appeal to lier pity. There is no
knowing into what foolishness lie might be entrapped.


The stable clock, and the church clock, struck
twelve — the last with silvery solemn tone heard
from afar across the elms and oaks, the dells
and slopes where the cattle were lying at rest.
Lady Darnel took one turn more.
'Hark 1 What can that be V

No doubt as to what it was. The report of
a pistol. What it meant was another thing.

For a moment or so Clare Darnel stood
motionless with terror. Then there came the
thud of a heavy fall.

It is in my room cried Clare, beside herself
with apprehension, remembering the revolvers in
their case on the table, the open case with dark
red velvet lining glowing in the lamp-light. She
had looked at it absently while Valentine was
talking to her — looked at it with mind so abstracted
as never to consider how fatal a thing a
revolver may Ije.

He has killed himself ! ' she cried distractedly.

She rushed to her room, tearing at the door
with convulsive hands, which made the mere
turning of the handle seem a work of time and
difficulty. She expected to see her reprobate son
stretched upon the floor and weltering in his
blood. She knew not that a worse evil had befallen
her.

She went into the room. The casement was
wide open, and the night wind was blowing in,

.scattering the papers on her writing taljle. The
doorway leading into the bedroom was open, the
velvet portiere filled aside, and Allan ]darnel
was lying across the threshold, Bleeding, dead, as
diis wife thought, in the snprenie agony of that
moment.

While lie stood looking at him, with clasped
hands, his daughter replied into the room, and
saw what had happened.

'AS FROM A Dream OF Murder '

Circe's shrieks raiif>' tliroiigli the silent lioiisc.
The wife fliiii^i;' herself on the L^roiiiid by lier
husband's side, voiceless, in a diiml) antony, elin,^-
into the ]prostrate form, kissing the pallid face
imploring for a word, a look.

He was loosely dressed in trousers and velvet
dressing-gown, dressed like a man who had risen
hastily at a strange sound, prepared to face a
midnight intruder. His wife opened his dressing-gown,
and laid this ear against his breast. Yes,
the heart was beating still, feebly as it seemed
to her, ii beat which might dwindle into silence
at any moment, a tln-ead of life that might
snap while she listened.

Servants came, sleepy, confused, idl talking at
once. Then ]bora Darnel, wvv dcliraLe and

dainty, in a lluwini^ wliitc i^^^mnent, with pale
pink riblxjns ; then the Colonel, in an old red
velvet dressing-gown, which made him look like a
wizard.

For God's sake, let somebody go for the
doctor,' said Clare, without lifting her head ; then
as Stukely knelt on the other side of his
friend's prostrate form, ' Oh, Colonel, you can
help us. You will know. Is it a dangerous
wound ? Does it mean death?'

Xot death, no, no. Cod forbid,' said the
Colonel. ' It is a nasty wound ; terrible loss of
blood. The Ille lias Int rather low, just below
the ribs. What was he doing with that accursed
revolver ? '

'I don't know. They were on the table.
He was looking at them an hour ago before he
went to bed.'

You don't know,' said the Colonel, wonderingly.
'Weren't you in the room when it
happened ? '

No, I was in the corridor. I had been in
Grace's room.'

He was alone then ? '

I — I suppose so.'

'Oh, my poor, poor brother,' ejaculated Dora.
To think that he should have lifted his hand to
take away his own life. He, so good a Christian :
he, who used to be so happy.'

How dare you say that he tried to take
this own life,' said Clare, not loudly, but with
intense indignation. ' You know that lie is happy.
That he has never known a care since he has
been my husband ; except his too thoughtful care
for me. Oh, my darling, what evil things will
not be said of me while your voice is silent to
defend ? ' she added, apostrophising her unconscious
husband with passionate love.

'There will always be a voice to defend you —
were defence needed — while Allan's friend is at
your side,' said the Colonel quietly.

Purdew, the old butler, was in the room,
kneeling by his master. He, too, had seen gunshot
wounds, and he knew that this was a
desperate one. With his help Colonel Stukcly

could have carried his old friend into the next
VOL. III. 11

room and laid him on this bed, but after a
murmured consultation they agreed that it was
wise not to lift him until the surgeon came. The
loss of Ijlood might be intensified by any alteration
of position. Lady Darnel brought a pillow
for her husband's head. A servant brought some
brand', and the Colonel wetted Sir Allan's lips
with a little, while Lady Darnel damped his
forehead with eau-de-cologne. But there were no
signs of returning consciousness.

A groom had ridden off for the doctor.
They heard the clatter of hoofs just now galloping
along the avenue ; but let him gallop ashe
might, it must be more than half an hour
before the doctor could arrive. The Colonel and
Purdew did all that could be done to staunch
the l)lood which oozed slowly from Sir Allan's
side. It was a terrible half-hour, a half-hour
of agony, in which every moment might bring
the fatal end of their fainting hopes.

Clare Darnel crouched upon the ground beside
her husband, hanging over him, with white
lips and despairing eyes, watching his ghastly

face with a countenance that was almost as
death-like.

He will die,' she kept saying to herself ;
he will die by the hand of my son. Oh, God !
why did I e^'e^ link my accursed life with his ? '

Her mind went back to that other night of
murder, the report of the gun ringing sharp
in the silence of night, startling her from the
heavy slumber of sheer exhaustion — the moment
of bewilderment and doubt, then the rush to
the Window to see what had happened. The
picture of that vanished scene flashed Jack upon
her as she hung over her husband. The moonlit
barrack-yard — doors opening, lights appearing,
dark figui-es crossing the quadrangle, and then a
figure carried across the yard hy four men.
Her first thought had been that it was her
husband's figure she saw thus carried — that lie
had escaped from his room and killed himself.
She was to know too soon tluit the calamity was
even worse than this. And now came a second
tragedy, a dire and horrible deed which was
perhaps to desolate her liii for ever. At last

there came the sound of horses' hoofs again
galloping up the avenue — two horses this time,
and sounding in the night silence like six— then
the opening of doors below, and then footsteps
in the corridor, and the doctor was amidst them,
a stout, elderly man, commonplace, but clever,
a man to be relied on in calamity.

He put them all aside and knelt down on
one knee to examine his patient ; and then,
without expressing any opinion, he ordered
everyone out of the room except the Colonel
and Purdew.

Grace, take care of Lady Darnel,' said the
Colonel, and Grace put her arm round her stepmother
and tried to lead her from the room,
the girl bladed by her tears, the woman's eyes
dry and burning. She had not yet shed a
tear.

*No, Grace,' she said, 'I will not go away.
If I must not stay in this room 1 will wait in
the corridor. I will not go far from Allan.'

At the mere mention of her husband's nant
she burst into a flood of tears, the first relief

that had come to her since that first shock of
her reprobate son's entrance.

It was in vain that Grace pleaded, in vain
that Dora lectured. Clare Darnel would not
move beyond the outside of the morning-room
door. She knelt with her ear against the keyhole,
knelt there, listening, and praying dumbly
now and then, till the doctor came out, after a
delay of an hour or more.

Will he die ? ' she asked, seizing the doctor's
arm.

Mr. Danvers, the family doctor, looked grave
and shook this head.

'It is a bad case, Lady Darnel.'
'But not hopeless— oh, for God's sake say it
is not hopeless ! '

'We shall have Mr. Friedricson here tomorrow
morning,' answered the doctor. ' He can
tell you better than I.'

'And my beloved one may die in the night,
before help comes. Let me go to him — let me be
with him.*

'No, Lady Darnel, that is impossible. He

must be kept very quiet — there must be no one
in the room except Purdew and me. I shall stay
here all night.'

'Thank God for that! But it is cruel to
keep me away from him. Do yo\i think I am a
child, that I have no self-command ? '

I think you are a woman, and that you love
your husband. Xo, Lady Charnel, you must not
enter that room till Sir Allan is in a less precarious
state. You must obey me in this matter
for this sake. I am orinoco send one of your
men with a message to my wife, and then I
shall go Jack to Sir Allan. We shall have a
couple of surgical nurses down tomorrow morning.'

Clare Darnel wrung her hands in a silent
despair. She turned from the doctor and walked
quickly to the end of the corridor. Like King
David she turned her face to the wall. She felt
that there was no comfort — no relief. Her husband
was taken away from her — given over to
nurses and surgeons, and she was told that she
must not enter Its room. Her sacred right as
this wife was set at nought. Death itself could

not have robbed her more utterly of his presence.
To sit beside his bed, to watch the changes in
his face, to listen to every breath. There would
have been comfort in this. But she was to
have no comfort. She stood leaning against the
moulding of the window-frame at the end of the
corridor with lier face to the wall.

'My son, my son,' she repeated to herself. *I
ought never to have married that good man. I
was selfish, wicked, blind, to link my miserable
lot with his. I am the cause of his death.'

Grace came from her room, where lie lead been
sitting with her aunt, who had established herself
there invited, 'to bo nearer ]door Allan
lie said.

Dear mother, come to my room, come and
lie down on my bed pleaded Grace, and the word
mother sounded sweet in Clare Darnel's ears, even
in the midst of her desj)ah\ The girl's tenderness
recalled that revelation of Valentine's.

No, my darling, your life shall not be blighted,'
she sobbed, drawing Grace to her breast. ' You sh;dl
not be sacrificed to worthlessness and profligacy.'

The strange speech startled Grace. \Yhat
could it mean ? could Lady Darnel know — or
suspect anything about her luckless lover — the
man she had seen on the common that morning.

She succeeded in getting Lady Darnel to her
room, where Dora was sitting piously before an
open Testament reading the history of St. Paul's
shipwreck, and how the viper came out of the
fire and hung upon his arm. It could hardly be
particularly comforting in such a moment ; but
Dora fled to her Bible in calamity as a duty.
She did not even wait for calmness and order
around her, but sat down in the midst of chaos
and read the first chapter that came to hand, ina
thoroughly business-like way. By this means
she had acquired a stupendous battery of texts,
with which she was always ready to open fire in
argument or warning.

In Dora's mind even the viper that came out
of the fire was not altogether inapplicable to the
present state of affairs.

My poor brother has had a viper hanging
upon him,' she s-aid to herself. 'I kii.w that

misery would come out of that marriage; but I
did not think that it woukl take the form of
bloodshed.'

Lady Darnel consented to lie down on a sofa
wheeled near the fire, to please Grace rather than
from any hope of relief to be obtained from
repose. A rug was spread over her, and she lay
silent, with closed eyes. The other two women
might suppose she was sleeping.

'Had you not better go to your own room,
Aunt Dora ? ' said (h-ace, a lililc worried by the
sight of that calm white-rolled figure, n.nd the
open Bible. Grace was firm in religious faith,
and reverence for the Scriptures ; lout lie could
not seat herself down to read the Acts of the
Apostles with folded hands, in the midst of a
domestic convulsion.

'It is nearly two o'clock, Aunt Dora. Do
go to your own room,' she said, hardly concealing
her irritation.

'No, Grace, I like to be near Allan. Uy
own room is at the oilier end of the house. I
hope I am not in your where

'Not at all,' said Grace shortly; and then
she got up and went out to the corridor and
listened at her father's door.

Not a sound. But he might die, and she
would hear no more than she heard now. It
was all so sad, so inexplicable. Her father at
death's door : he who had kissed her and bade
her good-night in his cheeriest voice only a few
hours ago. How had it happened ? She had
hardly been calm enough even to wonder about
it until now; but now she began to ask herself
how this tragedy had come to pass.

Could it be the result of accident ? Her
father, an old cavalry soldier, the hero of t^yo
Indian campaigns ; was such a man likely to be
playing with firearms as children and Cockneys
play with such things ? Was he likely to
handle a revolver so ignorantly or so awkwardly
as to lodge its contents in his side ? And again
she had understood that Sir Allan had gone to
bed, and that Lady Darnel was writing alone in
her room when she, Grace, knocked at the door.

She longed to see her dear old Colonel. He

perhaps might hiiYe told her something ; yet what
could he know more than she, since he had only
appeared on the scene after the catastrophe ?

She walked up and down the corridor for half
an hour or more, till the cold droYC her back to
her room. It was very cold in that dead hour
of the night, and poor Grace was shivering in
her muslin dressing-gown when she went lack to
her room.

Dora Darnel was sitting ley the fire, just as
Grace had left her, steadily ploughing through the
Acts, as if she had l)een a divinity student preparing
for an examination. Lady Darnel lay,
with her face hidden, motionless, silent.

Is she asleep ? ' enquired Grace, in a low
voice.

'I believe so.'

Grace threw herself on her bed, and cried
herself to sleep, a troubled sleep, easily broken.
She had slept thus, hardly for one moment losing
the consciousness of her grief, when she was
awakened by an agonising cry.

She started up from her pillow to see Dora

Darnel standing beside the sofa in the dying firelight
looking down at ber brother's wife.

Clare was lying on her back, with her clasped
hands above her head, her eyes wide open, and
the eye-balls fixed in au awful stare.

My fault, my fault,' she cried. ' I murdered
him.'

The aunt and niece looked at each other,
appalled, horror-stricken. These words were the
words of a dreamer, and dreams are wildest
fictions ; but such words at such a moment had
a thrilling effect.

'ALL WAS SILENT, ALL WAS GLOOM'

FiilEDRic Friedfjcson, the great surgeon, lead coral
aud had gone, and was to come again. So far
he had been able to say few words of comfort or
of hope. Sii' Allan's condition was so precarious
that the surgeon had not dared to attempt the
extraction of the bullet ; and until that was extracted
there could be little hope of recovery.
The symptomatic fever was more violent than is
usual in such cases. The patient was delirious,
sleepless, and unable to take nourishment. Altogether
the case looked threatening.

Lady Darnel's slumbers had not lasted long
after that awful dream of hers. At four o'clock
in the morning she had awakened, and had gone
to Grace's dressing-room to give herself a cold
bath, and to dress for the day. And now it was

late in the afternoon, and she had not closed
her eyes smce that troubled sleep on the sofa.

The three women wandered about the house
like three ghosts, so pale and wan and silent
were they all. Grace turned to Colonel Stukely
for her only comfort, Dora read her Bible at all
times and seasons. Lady Darnel sought comfort
from no one. She paced with noiseless footfall
up and down the corridor outside her husband's
room for hours at a stretch. She interrogated
everybody who came out — the-neatly clad nurse
in her prim cap and spotless apron, Danvers, the
medical man, Purdew, the old military servant.
These were her only sources of comfort; and such
comfort as they could give was mixed with gall.

It was some relief to hear of her beloved, to
know that he still lived. It was agony to know
that the fever raged fiercely, that the delirium
continued without abatement. He could recognise
no one. "What mattered who watched Ijesitle his
bed, what hireling hands ministered to liii ?

He would know me,' said Clare piteously,
but they will not let me go to him.'

My dear soul replied the Col()iiel soutliiiiglj,
'he does not even know me, his old comrade of
many a forced march. Why he and I have
ridden side by side over an Indian desert when
we were nodding asleep in our saddles for sheer
weariness. We were chums and companions for a
quarter of a century, from Eton to the Punjab :
and yet he does not recognise me.'

He would know his wife,' said Clare, with
conviction.

As the day wore on she could hardly he
induced to leave the corridor. Lunch, dinner, all
conventional meals were scorned l>y those three
wouien : Jut it was only Lady Darnel who had
not broken her fast by so nnicli as a biscuit
since the previous evening. But at last Chace
beguiled her stepmother into her den, and made
her sit by the fire and take some lea and bread
and butter.

Do you want to be ill, too, and make us
still more unhappy,' .said Grace reproachfully.

She lead insisted on giving Lady Darnel her
own bedroom, the door of which was opposite

the sick room; while lie herself was to occupy
a little bed hastily put up in the dressing-room.
This arrangement was deeply resented by Dora.

'I think if anybody has a right to be near
Allan at such a time, it is I, his sister,' she said,
when she and Grace were alone.

'But surely. Aunt Dora, a wifti's right is above

all others.'

That depends upon the wife.'

Then, if there can be any such distinction
nobody can dispute my stepmother's claim, for
she is the most devoted of wives.'

'She has a knack of seeming very devoted,'
remarked Dora.

Seeming, and a knack ! ' repeated Grace indignantly.
' How can you say such things. Aunt
Dora ? How dare you insinuate that my father's
wife is not true ? '

I insinuate nothing, Grace ; and I am not
froid to be taken to task by a schoolgirl. I
can only say that Lady Darnel is a mystery tome,
just as slid is a mystery to the county. Indeed
I may say that you are the only person

who appears to imderstaiid lier and believe in
her.'

My father believes in her,' retorted Grace,
more and more indignant. * That is enough forme.'


'Your father is under the spell of a potent
fascination, my dear. Have you never heard
of a middle-aged widower subjugated by the
manoeuvres of a handsome widow — a widow whose
antecedents are wrapped in profound darkness.'

You are talking most unjustly, Aunt Dora ;
and what is more you know that you are unjust.
I wonder you don't expect something to crawl
out of your Bible and sting you. I wouldn't
sit with my Biljle on my lap and spit venom at
innocent pe()})le.'

'If you cannot control your tongue, Grace, I
shall go to my own room,' said Dora, closing her
Bible, and rising as if to depart.

I shall be very much beholden to my tongue

if it drives you there,' retorted Grace, upon which

]\riss Darnel had no option, and was obliged to

carry out lier threat ; more especially as the room
VOL. III. I

was Grace's own particular den, and lie was only
a visitor there.

She departed, carrying her Bible and a large
assortment of angry feelings with her.

But she did not retire to the solitude of her
own apartments in the north wing. Solitude is apt
to be intolerable in these periods of suspense
and anxiety. Miss Darnel went down to the
drawing-room, and on her way met a servant
who was going upstairs to announce Mr. Colchester.


He was in the drawing room, the man said,
and wanted to see Lady Darnel, Miss Grace,
anybody.

Dora felt that she came under the last
head ; so she hurried to the drawing-room,
eager to be eii rapport with the county ; though,
indeed, in spite of his splendid position, she
always looked upon Edward Colchester as in
sometime an outsider. He was so good-natured,
so hail-fellow-well-met with all the world, so
little governed by the Draconian laws of county
society,

She found liii in the drawing-room, in
hunting clothes, fidgeting about with a crop in
Iiis hand, just as if he had that moment dismounted
to rest his hunter's back during a
pause in the morning's work.

My dear Miss Darnel,' he cried, seizing
her hand, ' what a dreadful thing this is ?
Been out with Colonel Thorpe's harriers ; only
just heard it on my way home, or should have
been here before. How did it happen ? Is he
very bad ? How is Grace V

He forgot himself in his agitation, and said
Grace tout court.

It is a long story, Mr Colchester ; and it is
a profound mystery. We none of us know what it
all means yet. My poor brother is in a most
precarious state. I fear we may lose him.'

Here the tears rushed to her eyes; and they
were not crocodile tears. If she hated her
brother's wife, she loved her brother; and though
she could not bear to see him happy in his
second marriage, nay, resented that second
marriage as if it were a deadly wrong

done to herself, she could not calmly contemplate
the possibility of losing him.

'Don't cry said Colchester, very inch inclined
to be tearful himself. ' Things are never so
bad as they look. Doctors are such regular old
ravens, don't you know. They like to frighten
us out of our wits, in order to take credit
for their wonderful cleverness when the patient
pulls through. We pulled him through they say,
and then we poor fools pay their big bills without
blinking. But for goodness sake tell me how
it happened ? Sir Allan shot himself they say ;
late last night, after you had all gone to bed.'

Not all,' said Dora. ' Lady Darnel sat up late
to write letters. She was still up at the time it
happened.'

'Then she must know all about it.'
She appears to know nothing. She had been
to Grace's room. She was in the corridor when
she heard the pistol go off.'

And Sir Allan was alone in his room ? '
So it appears. He had gone to bed an hour
before. He must have got up and gone back to

Lady Darnel's nioriiiiig-room, where he had left
the case of revolvers on the table. Why he should
have got up and half-dressed himself, and gone
back to get those pistols, is an unfathomable
mystery.'

He may have heard burglars — or fancied he
heard them,' suggested Colchester. ' Some men
are always on the qui vive for burglars — sleep
with life-preservers under their pillows. They
night bugle all' round my house and I should
never hear 'em; but I know it is a weakness with
some men. How do you know that there wasn't
a burglar there ? He may have shot Sir Allan.'

Dora shook her head.

I do not believe it was a burglar. If there
had been any one in the house — any scuffle
between Su Allan and a nobler — Lady Darnel
must have heard it. She was in the corridor
when the pistol went off.'

'Then how do you solve the mystery?'

*It is my painful conviction that (he deed
was either murder or suicide.'

Suicide,' exclaimed Colchester. ' Out of the

question. Why, there wasn't a happier fellow in
"Wilts than Sir Allan ; the cheeriest, the kindest,
the most genial of men.'

Kind, genial, I admit,' said Dora, ' but I
know my brother better than anyone else can
know him. I was his companion and confidante
from the time I left school till the city
he married his second wife. I do not believe
that he has been happy of late. His marriage
was not a satisfactory marriage. Even if he
himself could have felt thoroughly satisfied —
which I do not think he ever did — he knew
that the county was dissatisfied with his choice.
He knew that the cloud of mystery which surrounded
Lady Darnel's antecedents cast a dark
shadow upon an old and honoured family'. People
might like and esteem him ; lout they could not
esteem a woman of whom they were told
nothing, who was foisted upon them without a
word of explanation. And so they naturally
fell away from their old friend ; and, although
my brother pretended to take the matter lightly,
I believe that he was cut to the (prick.'

The county are a set of snobs,' said

young Colchester, swallowing an evil word with,
a wry face. 'Why couldn't they take such a
splendid woman as Lady Darnel on trust ? '

My dear Mr. Colchester, I am thankful to
know that in good society no one is ever taken
on trust,' replied Miss Darnel. 'What would
society Ije like if people were ? '

Perhaps a good deal pleasant than it is
now,' retorted the reprobate squire, who troubled
himself much less about the antecedents of an
acquaintance than aliout the pedigree of a foxhound.


No, Mr. Colchester,' continued Dora Darnel
my poor brother has not been happy of late.
There arc mysterious circumstances connected
with his marriage that I have not been able
to fathom ; but I am not a fool, and in spite of
all outward appearances I have seen enough to know
that Allan is not happy. This sudden idea of
going off to winter in Italy is so unbke him —
such a complete 1)reakiiig uj) uf the life he lives —
that the nutiun could only have arisen out uf a
disturbed state of mind.'

'But, my dear Miss Darnel, the physician
ordered ' interrupted Colchester.

Physicians may be inspired to order anything.
They are often only the mouthpieces of their
patients. If this dreadful event is not the work
of my brother's own hand, in an interval of
despair, why then we have to look for a still,
darker solution of the mystery, and to ask where
is the murderer ? '

I say burglar,' protested Colchester. * Sir
Allan heard a man in the room next his own,
got up, put on his coat, challenged the man.
Burglar saw revolvers on table, snatched up one
and shot Sir Allan — or shot him with a revolver
of his own, just as likely.'

Would a burglar enter a room in which
there were two lamps burning — a room evidently
occupied ? '

Burglars have check enough fur anything.
No doubt Lady Darnel keeps her jewels in her
bedroom, women always do.'

3.riss Darnel shrugged her shoulders, with the
air of declining to waste any more time in argument

with a person of Mr. Colchester's limited
intellect.

I should very much like to see Grace,' he
said, getting very red, and faltering a little, 'if
she is not too bad to see anyone.'

She may not be too bad to see you,' replied
Dora. 'I dare say lier taste for hunting will survive
the calamity that has fallen upon us.'

True,' answered Colchester simply. * She may
like to know where next week's meets are to be,
even though she can't go out. She is always interested
in the hounds. Perhaps she would like
to have a couple of puppies at walk. They might
be an amusement to her while there is illness in
the house. But I trust in God poor Sir Allan
will pull tlu^ougli quicker than you expect.'

Dora rang the lyell, and sent a servant for her
niece. Mr. Colcliester walked up and down the
room meanwhile, sorely troubled, and finding no
word to say to this companion.

The footman came back to say that Miss Grace
Darnel sent lier compliments to IMr. Colchester,
and was much to.) unhappy to see anyone.

Tbank'ee,' said the young squire ; and when
the man was gone he added moodily, ' I didn't
much think she'd see me. She's been uncommonly
rough on me for the last year or so. And before
she went to school in Paris we were no end of
chums. Good-bye, ]\Iiss Darnel ; I shall call again
tomorrow, and perhaps Lady Darnel will be well
enough to see me. I have always been one of
her warmest admirers, you know, and I — well, it
would take a doomed lot of hard facts to make
me believe that her influence upon Sir Allan's
life has been anything Int a good influence, and
that he isn't as happy as a bird in his marriage
with her.'

And with these words Mr. Colchester departed,
feeling more easy in his mind after he had thus
expressed himself.

The vicar's wife and the doctor's old maiden
sister called in the course of the afternoon, full
of friendliness, and anxious to sec Lady Darnel,
were she alle to receive a friend. Trio county
sent cards and inquiries, but allured no warmer
form of sympathy. And so the long day of

grief and fear wore on, to be followed by another
sleepless night, and a dawn of sorrow. There was
no improvement in the patient. The utmost comfort
Mr. Danvers could offer was the assurance
that he saw no increase of danger.

Dora and Grace went down to the diningroom
to breakfast on this second morning ; but
Lady Darnel could not be induced to leave her
room. There she was close to the sick-chamber.
There she was within call at any moment should
her husband recover his senses, and ask for her.
There, too, she was secure from the horror of
strange faces, the agony of hasting to go on with
the routine of daily life. She was shut in from
the outer world — her own mistress.

Grace had anxieties of her own, as well as that
ai>onizinc>- fear for lier father's life. Lie wanted
very nnicli to have a few words with her godfather;
and on Miss Darnel retiring to her daily
interview with the housekeeper the desired opportunity
occurred. Grace and Colonel Stukely
were alone.

'Have you seen anything more of him?' lie

asked, plunging at once into the heart of her subject.
' Have you heard anything ? '

Not a word replied the Colonel. ' I took a
long walk yesterday afternoon with the idea that
I might find out something. I called at the inn,
saw the landlord, and asked if lie had had any
strangers lodging in his house. Xot a mortal. Tien
I went the round of the better class of cottagers,
mostly pensioners of yours and Lady Darnel's, to
whom you have introduced me at odd times. I
didn't put my questions directly, but let out our
idea of a I)urgiary at Darnel, and asked if
strangers had been noticed about the place. I
even walked across to Handlebury Union, with
the notion that it was just possible the poor fellow
may have had to take refuge there.'
Oh, Colonel, how utterly dreadful.'
My dear child, the Union lias sheltered better
men than lie. However, no such person had been
heard of there. So I take it ]mr. Camillacc must
have had a few shillings about him in spite of
his wretched appearance, and that he has gone
on to some other place. The mystery is that he

should have come here at all, unless with the
idea of seeing' you.'

'I feel convinced that he came here to sec
me, and for no other • purpose ; and that he is
lying dead or dying on some dreary common,
where the foxhounds are more likely t() find him
than anybody else,' said Grace impetuously. * Oh,
what double misery. Victor dying, or dead — my
father's life' trembling in the balance. It seems
as if the world were coming to an end.'

In vain the Colonel argued with his goddaughter,
urging that in life the unforeseen is
always likely; and that there was no reason to
grieve for the fate of a young man who had,
perhaps, already fallen on his feet. Grace was
not to be comforted. The romantic fancy which
had induced her to pledge her young life to this
stranger was a folly of the past ; lout all her
womanly feelings were enlisted by her lover in
the hour of his helplessness and destitution.

'To think of me, surrounded with all these
luxuries,' she exclaimed, looking angrily al the
richly-furnished breakfast-table, 'while the man

who was to be my husband has not as good a
shelter as the stable dogs.'

'My dear could, a young man's life is generally
a fact of his own making,' said the Colonel
sagely. 'A man of education, such as you describe
this Camillacc, could hardly fall so low
except through his own misconduct.'

You said that before,' retorted Grace. ' Pray
don't sermonize. If I were not so anxious about
my father I would take a couple of dogs and
ride over every bit of waste ground within ten
miles, till I found that poor fellow.'

'If that is your idea, Grace, I can carry it
out for you, dogs and all,' said the Colonel kindly.

'Oh, my dear godfather, how good you are,'
cried the girl, repenting of her rudeness. ' Forgive
me for my ingratitude just now. I hardly
know what I say. I am so very miserable —
about Victor — about my father and Lady Darnel,
most of all.'

Poor Lady Darnel ; yes, your father's accident
is a terrible blow for her.'

It is not that only,' said Grace, dropping

her voice, and drawing a little nearer to the
Colonel. ' But it is all so strange — so full of
mystery.'

And then she told Colonel Stukely how she
had been awakened by a cry of agony from
Lady Darnel, and of those strange words spoken
in a dream. * My fault, my fault — I murdered
him 1 '

'Was not that strange?' asked Grace, with
a troubled look.

Only strange as dreams are strange. Would
you accuse Toady Darnel of having shot her
husband upon such evidence ? She fell asleep
with her mind full of death and murder,
and dreamt that she herself had fired the fatal
shot, or had been individually concerned in the
deed. Dreams are for the most part sheer
lunacy. God knows what hideous visions her
troubled brain may have woven.'

'Yes, that is just what T thought at the
time. But the words have haunted me ever
since. You know low fund 1 am uf Lady
Charnel, I believe I love her inmost as well

as I could have loved my own dear mother,
had God spared her to me. And yet there are
times when I feel worried and ]perplexed about
the mystery of her past life. Aunt Dora says
such cruel tliiDgs.'

']\iy dear, it is in your aunt's nature to
say cruel things, just as it is in the nature of
wasps and hornets to sting. I don't wish to
be rude al)Out your family, Jut I fancy that
old Sir George Darnel's second wife nest have
introduced a particularly venomous strain into
the fine old stock. It is a good thing for the
race that ]\Iiss Darnel has remained a spinster.'

Yes, Aunt Dora has a peculiar talent for
being disagreeable, and she lias exercised it unsparingly
with regard to Lady Darnel. I always
take my stepmother's part ; and yet in these last
dreadful days Aunt Dora's insinuations about the
mystery in her past life have made me miserable.
If I were once to believe that she is a hypocrite,
that her devotion to my father is only a clever
piece of acting '

Have no such doubt, no such fear, Grace,'

said the Colonel heartily. 'Your father has told
me — his old friend — the whole story of Lady
Darnel's life. There is no mystery, nothing that
could not he told as freely to you as to me, if
your father were so minded. He has held back
the knowledge from you only because the story is
a dark story. If you knew all you would know
that Lady Darnel's first marriage was a time of
martyrdom, that as wife and as mother she has
been a martyr. '

I did not even know that she had any children,'
said Grace.

Yes, there was a son, but he is dead, happily.'

He was a bad son, then ? '

*A very bad son — following in the footsteps of
a guilty father. Your stepmother's life has been
blameless — it has been even heroic. You cannot
love lier too well.'

And I have loved her with all my heart,'
answered Grace. 'And I will go on loving lier.
And I will trust her implicitly, come what may.
Dear old godfather, I feel ever so nuich happier
after this talk with you.'

VOL. III. K

'And I'll order my horse and scour the
country in search of this ragamuffin suitor of
yours said the Colonel; and to himself he
added, * and if I find him it shall go hard if I
don't buy him off pretty cheap, and set this little
fool of mine free to smile upon honest Ted
Colchester.'

The third day began, and still no change
in the patient. Mr. Colchester had called on
the day before. He called again at breakfast
time on this third morning, on his way home
after cub-hunting, apologetic about his mud-bespattered
boots. The footman ushered him into
the dining-room, and he found himself face to
face with Grace Darnel before he had time to
collect his thoughts.

So glad to see you again ; so sorry to hear
Sir Allan is no better,' he faltered, as they shook
hands. ' A capital run ; found at Eingtree Marsh,
(charter past six; ran liii into Milesian Copse, over
Quicksand Common, lack again into in Milesian,
got him out into the fields, ran right away to
Mansfield over some stitch country, lost him in

Swathed Wood after forty minutes' hard going,
started another at half-past seven. But I ought
not to talk to you about such things when you
are all so unhappy,' said Colchester, suddenly
aware that he was behaving like a brute, ashe
saw the Ijlank faces of the two women.

The Colonel looked a little interested, in
spite of his anxiety.

'Will you take a cup of tea, or may I give
you some coffee ? ' asked Dora solemnly.

Thank you. I should like some tea above
all things.'

The butler had arranged a place for the cropper
at Grace's right hand, and had put a dish of
cutlets in front of that place, by way of invitation
; so Mr. Colchester sab down and took his
cup of tea. He was much too agitated to eat
anything, in spite of his three or four hours in
the cold morning air and his forty minutes
across country. He thought it an extraordinary
privilege to be sitting next Grace, to be able
to look at her and talk to her. Yesterday he
had been favoured with a second interview with

Dora, which had been depressing to the last
degree. Grace looked very miserable ; but oh,
how pretty she was in her misery, and how
many years of his life he would have bartered
for the power to console her. But he could
do nothing except steal a look at her every
now and then as he drank his tea.

When do you begin your regular season ? '
asked Colonel Stukely, after silence had prevailed
for some minutes.

Not till next month. We shall finish our
cub-hunting this week, and then we shall have a
few bye days. Our first advertised meet is to
be on the fifth of October. I hope all will be
well here ever so long before then, and that — if
you don't go to Italy — you'll be out and in full
force on that day,' added mr. Colchester, looking
at Grace.

'I don't suppose I shall ever hunt again,'
said Grace, bursting into tears; and the Lord of
the Manor felt that he was an undisciplined
brute, always blurting out foolish speeches, and
that there was no help for him.

The Butler came back at this moment, with
an unusually solemn air, as of one who only
carries messages of vital import. He bore a
silver salver with a card upon it, which he
offered to Miss Darnel.

*The gentleman says that he is here by
appointment, ma'am.'

'Show him into the library,' said Dora, rising
with a stately air. 'Kindly excuse me, Mr.
Colchester.'

I am going this instant, I ought not to
have stayed so long,' said Colchester apologetically,
getting up hurriedly.

But nobody was thinking about him, or how
long he stayed. Grace had gone over to her aunt.

'Who is this person, Aunt Dora?' she asked
anxiously, ' another doctor ? '

'No, it is a person on Business. A person
whom I sent for,' answered Miss Darnel. ' I
don't think I need make any concealment of
the matter. The person is a detective from
Scotland Yard.'

A detective, Aunt Dora ? A detective in
this house ; summoned by you ? '

Why not, child ? If you are indifferent as
to the manner in which your father received
the wound which may be his death, if you and
Lady Darnel, his wife and his daughter, are
content to sit down and let the murderer escape,
I, his sister, am not so content. The mystery
ought to be fathomed : and as there is no one
in this house clever enough to fathom it, I
have sent for professional assistance.'

You may have acted wisely in so doing,*
replied Colonel Stukely, ' lout it would have been
more friendly to acquaint Sir Allan's daughter
and his old comrade, before you took such a
serious step; not to mention his wife, who had
a still better claim to be told.'

I'm very glad you've got a detective,' said
Colchester, 'for I believe lic'll be uf my way of
thinking, and scent a Inirglar in this l)usincss.
Good-lye. I'll come round again in the afternoon,
if I may, just to see low tidings are going on.'

Come as often as you like, Colchester,' replied
the Colonel heartily. 'Your presence will
do something tankards cheering us.

Grace shook her head despond ingle.

Nothing can cheer ns till my father is out
of danger,' she said, as Edward Colchester backed
out of the room, entangling himself with his
spurs, and looking at her adoring to the last.

^As this kind of thing is altogether out of
your line, Miss Darnel, I think it would he as
well for me to see the detective with you,' said
the Colonel; 'that is to say, if you wish to see
him at all. 1 could spare you the painful interview
altogether, as I can give the man all the
information necessary. I am not a stranger to
this kind of enquiry.'

'I would much rather see the person myself,'
replied Dora, with an offended , air. * I sent for
him upon my own responsibility ; and I particularly
desire that he should know my ideas about
this terrible event.'

'If you take my advice you will tell him no
ideas of your own or anyone else's,' answered the
Colonel sharply. * Give him nothing but the
plain facts ; and let him work out the solution of
the problem in his own way. The detective

police are not lieaYen-ljorn geniuses ; but most of
them are hard-headed sensible men, and not likely
to <^o far astray, except when they are muddled
and misdirected by non-professional interference.'

T do not think you have any reason to
consider me either a child or an idiot, Colonel
Stukely/ retorted Miss Darnel. ' Pray permit me
to manage my own affairs. You can go with
me to the library, if you please.'

The Colonel did please, and followed the lady
closely, while Grace went upstairs to her stepmother,
who sat by the fire, motionless, apathetic.
The dainty little breakfast-table beside her was
scarcely disturbed from the neat order in wliicli
it had been brought into the room.'

You have eaten positively nothing, mother,'
said Grace, scrutinising the table.

I have had some tea, and a little toast ; I
have done Very well,' answered Clare, and then
in a despairing tone she added, * Oh, CJrace,
there is no improvement. I spoke to one
of the nurses. She was going off to her bedroom,
with such an orderly air, as if life or death were

all the same to her. There is no diminution of
the fever — the temperature is just as high. He
has not spoken one sensible word since that night.
Mr. Friedricson is to come again to-day; but the
nurse thinks it would be madness to attempt to
extract the bullet while Allan is in this state. I do
not believe these people have any hope of saving
him.'

'Oh, mother, we must save him. God will
answer our prayers,' cried Grace. * Let us pray
for that dear life together, side by side, with
heart, and strength, and mind. Surely God must
hear and answer such prayers ? '

In the library Mr. Penwern, a homely-looking,
middle-aged man, with pepper-and-salt hair and
whiskers, and pepper-and-salt clothing to match,
was listening and questioning, and making notes,
until he had the story of Sir allan's wound, sofar
as it was known to Miss Darnel and Colonel
Stukely, all in black and white before him.
Then he went up to see the room in wliicli the
catastrophe happened, and, moving to and fro,

quietly, lest he should disturb the patient in the
adjoining room, he made a complete inspection
of the ground. Here was the spot, just inside
the threshold, where Sir Allan was found lying.
There were stains of blood upon the Aubusson
carpet to mark the place where he lay while
they waited for the coming of the doctor. He
had clutched the portiere as he fell, for the first
three or four hooks that sustained it were
wrenched from the brass rod. There was Lady
Darnel's writing table. She had been sitting
there writing ten minutes before she heard the
pistol shot from the corridor outside. There were
the two French windows opening on to the
balcony.

Was either of these windows open on the
night ? Yes, one was open. The Colonel remembered
the wind blowing in his face as he came
in at the door.

Mr. Penwern stepped out upon the balcony
and made his survey. It was a broad, old-fashioned
balcony, roofing in a colonnade outside
the breakfast-room below. The iron pilasters of

the colonnade were covered with greenery — a
mighty historia spread itself along the ironwork
like a curtain, an old magnolia was trained over
one side of the balcony. Easy enough for any
active man to scale such a balcony. Xo difficulty
as to access. The next question to be
considered was motive.

'Any valuables kept at this end of the
house ? ' asked the detective.

'Lady Darnel has some jewellery in her ,'
answered Dora, ' but Lady Darnel's
are not family jewels, not of sufficient renown
to tempt a thief, I should think.'

Thieves are easily tempted now-a-days,' answered
Penwern. ' The trade is over-run, and
business is often slack. It seems to me that
this balcony is about the easiest access all along
this side of the house, and the point at which
any man would naturally enter.'

But with this room occupied ; with lamps
burning ? ' suggested Dora incredulously.

'The room had been deserted for some
minutes before the shot was fired. A man

might have been on the watch for this opportunity.'


Surely he woukl have waited till Lady
Darnel had gone to bed ; till the house was
dark. That seems only reasonable,' said Dora.

It seems reason alle ; but there is the fact
that the shot was fired, and there is the antecedent
fact that Sir Allan got up and came to
that door yonder. I take it that he heard a
strange footstep in this room, and that he came
in just in time to surprise the burglar. Are
you sure that there were no valuables kept in
this very room ? '

Quite sure,' answered Dora. ' It is Lady
Darnel's boudoir. There has never been anything
kept here except her workbox and ,
and books, just as you sec them
now.'

The detective had devoured the room with
his eyes. He knew every article it contained.

'In that Italian cabinet, for instance, are no
valuables — trinkets, honey — kept there ? ' he asked.

'Nothing of the kiii(b t'> uiy knowledge.'

Stay,' exclaimed the Colonel. ' Sir Allan toil
us that he had drawn four hundred pounds in
bank-notes for travelling expenses. How do we
know that he did not keep the money in this
room— in that cabinet, perhaps ? I saw him put
away a lease in that very cabinet a fortnight
ago, when I was here with him and Lady
Darnel, at afternoon tea.'

Lady Darnel would lee the most likely
person to enlighten us, I take it,' said the
detective, who thirsted to see Lady Darnel.

Until he had scrutinised and taken stock of
every member of the family and household it
was to Mr. Penwern as if he were playing a
difficult game of cards Blindfold. When he lead
seen all his cards he would liegin to understand
what game he had to play.

After a few minutes' whispered conversation
with the Colonel, Dora went in quest of Lady
Darnel. Lie went reluctantly, since lie would
have preferred that this professional investigation
should have been carried on without Lady Darnel's
knowledge, a secret underground business.

dark as Belong's researches in Egyptian toils.
She wanted the thing to be her work, a mystery
between her and the detective; to explode at a
given moment in a startling revelation which
should bring blame and discomfiture on the woman
she hated. And now his detested second wife
was to be let into the secret, was to have due
notice of what was taking place, and would thus
be able to prevent discovery were she, as Dora
Darnel firmly believed, a guilty agent in the
catastrophe.

If it was her infamy in the past which
drove him to suicide, or if it was some lover of
hers who stole into the house to murder him,
this detective ought to ba able to unravel the
mystery,' Dora told herself, as she went slowly
to Grace's bcdroojii. ' But Lady Darnel once on
her guard may be able to frustrate him in this
investigation, to throw dust in his eyes.'

She found Clare Darnel sitting by Lier neglected
fire, just as Grace had left her.

'There is a person here trying to find
out the mystery of my brother's wound,' she

said curtly. 'He wants to ask you a few questions


Clare started suddenly to her feet. That
marble face of hers could not grow paler than
it had been, but there was a frightened look in
her eyes which Dora was quick to perceive.

What kind of person ? ' she asked. * A
police-officer ? '

'He comes from Scotland Yard.'

Lady Darnel made no further remark. They
went in silence to the morning-room, where Mr.
Penwern was standing in front of the window,
looking out, while the Colonel fidgeted about
hy the cold blank hearth.

The detective turned as Lady Darnel entered,
saluted her respectfully, and looked at her with
grave eyes which absorbed every detail of her
appearance, without the faintest indication of
eagerness or curiosity.

She stood with her splendid figure drawn to
its fullest height, her head erect. Xot a vestige
of colour varied the marble whiteness of her
complexion. The face was colourless and calm

as the face of a statue; but the heavy eyelids,
the purple shadows round the eyes, told of long
agonies of weeping. It was not the first time
Clare Darnel had faced the police — had answered
to the inquiries in a criminal investigation.

Despite the calm dignity of her attitude, the
statuesque repose of her features, the detective
saw the signs of apprehension, secret fears
which she was struggling to repress.

'This woman knows more than anyone else,'
he thought, and then he questioned Lady Darnel
aljout the contents of the cabinet.

'Yes,' she said dreamily, as if only just remembering
the fact, 'there are some bank-notes
there. The money Sir Allan had drawn fur our
travelling expenses,' her voice faltered a little
as she recalled her delight in the idea of that
journey, the sweet expectation of happy days
with her beloved in a lovely land : and now a
grave yawned before her, darkest, direst fears
crowded upon her soul.

A large sum of money ? ' enquired rcnwcrn.
VOL. Ill, L

'Tbree~no, I think it was four liimdred
pounds.'

'Have you the key of the cabinet, Lady
Darnel ? '

*My husband and I have duplicate keys —
but I doubt if Sir Allan locked the cabinet
that night. He had taken out his pistols in
order to examine them — he was excited, tired,
and did not put the pistols back in the cabinet.'

'Will you be good enough to see if the notes
are still there, Lady Darnel ? ' asked the detective.


She started, looked at at him curiously, and
then a sudden flush crimsoned lier cheek and
brow.

What difference can that make ? — the notes
are safe, of course,' she said.

'Not if there was a burglar in this room —
and he was clever enough to secure his booty
before Sir Allan interrupted him. You don't
suppose, Lady Darnel, I take it, that Sir Allan
got up out of his bed and came to this room
to shoot himself ? '

I suppose iiothiDg— I know nothing except
that my husband's life is in danger.'

The law wants to know a great deal more
than that,' said Dora. ' The law wants to know
how my poor brother's life came to be endangered.'

Oblige me by looking for the notes, Lady
Darnel,' said the detective. 'The obvious readings
of this sad business is that Sir Allan was shot
by a burglar — who managed to escape before
you re-entered this room. If so, the burglar
must Lave come after something, and with some
definite purpose. Please try the cabinet.'

He could see that she was reluctant, curiously
reluctant, to obey; lout she went slowly to the
Italian cabinet and opened the doors to the
widest. She had been right in her conjecture —
the cabinet had not l)een locked since Sir Allan
took out the pistol-case.

Do you find the notes, Lady Darnel ? ' asked
Penwern, when she had been standing there some
minutes, examining shelves and drawers, and
secret — nominally secret — receptacles at the back
of the quaint old piece of furniture.

jSTo, they are not here — at least, I cannot
find them.'

*Do you know if Sir Allan had taken the
numbers of these notes ? '

"I think ^ not. He only drew them from
the bank the day before the accident. He was
out with the hounds early next morning — he
was engaged with his steward all the afternoon.'


We can get the numbers from the bank, I
daresay,' said the Colonel.

True. But they will be of very little use
to us. Bank-notes and diamonds are the bread
and cheese of the burglar's trade. The thing is
to find out who did this. I have an idea
that I could put my hand upon the man — the
hero of a good many portico robberies.'

Pray, what is a portico robbery ? ' asked the
Colonel.

'Almost every country seat has a portico; the
bigger the house the better the portico,' explained
the detective. 'Nothing easier to scale
than a handsome classical portico. Xo ladder or

ropes, or tell-tale apparatus wanted. The burglar
watches his opportunity, generally finds it at
dusk, when the family are at dinner, the servants
all occupied downstairs. He scales the portico —
there is always at least one window above it.
He gets quickly in at the window, sneaks along
a corridor to my lady's dressing-room, or bedroom
— of course he has learned the geography of
the upper floor beforehand — finds her jewel-case,
pitches it out of the window to friend or friends
below — catch who catch can — and as quietly sneaks
out of the house, and off to the nearest railway
station, where friends have gone on before with
trap. If he is met in the corridor after the fact,
there is no property in this possession — lie rushes
past a bewildered maid-servant — gets clear off
before she can collect her senses.'

And you think that this was a portico
robbery?' said the Colonel

I know of only one man — a distinguished
artist in that line — quick enough and audacious
enough to manage this business in the limo in
which it was done replied the detective. ' Tray,

Lady Darnel, how long were you absent from this
room before you heard the pistol-shot ? '

A very short time.'
Five minutes ? '

Father more than that — nearly ten minutes,
perhaps.'

Ah ! the man I mean could do a good deal
more than ransack that cabinet in ten minutes.
After you heard the pistol shot, did you lose
much time in getting to this room ? '

'Not an instant.'

And when you came in there was no one
in the room but Sir Allan.*

'No one.'

'And you did not think of looking out of the
window after the assassin.'

I thought of nothing but my husband.'

A pity. Yet I don't suppose you would
have seen much if you had looked. Did nobody
think of examining the grounds round the house
thai night?'

'Xo one,' answered Colonel Stukely. *wye
oui^'lit to have hunted the scoundrel — but we

were all 'half out of our wits. The only thought
was of Sh Allan, and getting the doctor.'

'So the man had this chance and got clean off.
He must have left the neighbourhood by an early
train, and got Ivack to London. I daresay I shall
1)0 able to hear something about him at the station.
By the way, Lady Darnel, do you remember if
there was any conversation about those notes
between you and Sir Allan that evening — anything
that could have l)een overheard by a person
standing outside the balcony.'

'Sir Allan spoke of the notes before he put
them away.'

'Was the window open at the time?'

'Yes, there was a window open.'

'Thank you, Lady Darnel, I don't think I
need trouble you any more. Le kind enough to
lock that cabinet, and keep the key in your
possession. It is a good lock I suppose.'

It is a brahma lock, which Sir Allan had
put on three years ago,' said Dora.

Lady Darnel sank into her chair by Lie
hearth, the pretty parti-coloured basket chair iu

which she had sat on many an evening chatting
with her husband when the rest of the household
had retired for the night. She sat with her
hands idle in her lap, her eyes fixed and tearless,
lost in painful thought. Yes, the notes were
gone — and she knew too well whose hands had
taken them. She could understand it all now
her son's persistent demand for three or four
hundred pounds. He had been standing out on
the balcony by the open window while Sir Allan
talked about the notes ; he had seen where they
were put. He would have got them from her if
he could, induced her to rob her husband for his
benefit ; it was towards that point he was urging
when Grace's summons called her suddenly away,
and he was left in the room with the money
within his reach. Then came the diabolical temptation,"
an easy step from dishonourable dealing
to absolute theft. The man who had never hesitated
at cheating a creditor became in a moment the
midnight robber. Then the surprise, the pistols
lying there fatally ready for use, a shot fired
at random, perhaps, and a hasty escape by the
open window.

While she was thus picturing the horror of
that night, Mr. Penwern was out in the balcony
making a further investigation. A box of mignonette
stood in his way as he stepped from the
window to the balcony. It must have been in
the way of the burglar in his flight. Mr.
Penwern knelt down and examined the flowers
and the mould under them. Yes, the man had
trodden on the mignonette, there were broken
stems, bruised leaves, and the deep print of a
heel on one side of the box, ■ a smallish heel,
worn down on one side.

'A fashionably-made boot, but a doomed old
boot,' said Mr. l*enwern to himself, as he studied
that print in the mould. ' I never knew Covey
to sport any thing as shabby as that. Covey
was always neat about his understandings. A
man who has to get across country against time
can't afford to be slipshod or down at heel.'

The footprint in the mignonette-box made
the manner of the burglar's escape a certainty
to the mind of mr. Penwern. He went downstairs
with Colonel Stukcly, and made a minute

examination of the Italian garden in front of
the balcony. He was able to trace footsteps ina
diagonal line across the garden, deeply stamped
upon flower-beds, and but faintly indicated here
and there on the gravel-walks. The man had
worn odd boots, one boot with a broader heel
than the other, and a hole in the middle of the
sole, both boots seemingly in the last stage of
dilapidation.

'Egad,' exclaimed the Colonel, after the
detective had expatiated upon these marks, 'he
must have been a shabby devil.'

As he spoke a sudden scare took hold of him.
What if this man should have been the French
adventurer, Grace's disreputable lover ? The man
lie had seen lying on tliQ common was clad like
a tramp, shod like a tramp, and those indications
on the flower-beds pointed to just such a man.
Taking this fact in conjunction with Camillacc's
disappearance, his silence towards Grace, the
Colonel felt that there was ground for fear.
Unhappy Grace, if her folly should have brought
this ruin upon her father's house.

And to pursue this investigation — which Pen-were
was conducting with ill-concealed cheerfulness,
as of one certain of distinction and reward
to pursue this investigation to the end might
be to inflict ineffable shame upon his god-daughter.
Were this Camillacc the offender, any trial, any
public examination must needs bring that miserable
episode of Grace's Parisian education into
the broad glare of newspaper publicity. And the
Colonel knew how charitable this world of the
waning nineteenth century is, how given to look
at the best and Slightest side of a strange story,
how loth to attribute evil to youth or womanhood.
The Colonel saw his hazel-eyed darling's
reputation blasted irretrievably in the very morning
of life, he saw even honest Edward Colchester's
faith uprooted, his lo^'e cast to the four
winds. And in his heart Colonel Stukely cursed
Dora Darnel for her officiousness.

Mr. Penwern seemed troubled in his mind after
the discovery of those irregular prints in the
flower-beds, lie went back to them — he scrutinised
them as closely as a great chemist might

Lave watched some curious experiment. He was
evidently dashed in spirits. He had made up
his mind that this little affair had been carried
through by the distinguished Covey. It bore, ashe
thought, the very stamp of Covey's workmanship;
for Covey was unscrupulous, and would not
have hesitated at shooting down anyone who
came in his way. He did things neatly ; but he
did not mind a little blood now and then. But
Mr. Penwern seemed to know Covey as if he
were his brother, and he could not believe that
any turn of fortune's wheel could bring Covey
to wear such boots as those disgraceful objects
that had left the print of their trodden-down
heels on the flower-beds of Darnel.

If I could believe in a tramp clever enough
to do such neat work, I should say that this
had been done l>y a tramp said the detective,
with conviction, 'but I never knew a tramp
yet that could rise above a kitchen window
robbery.'

Come back to the house and have some lunch,'
said the Colonel, with the sinister intent of

giving the detective such liberal entertainment
as should at least take the sharp edge off his
perceptive faculties.

He could not hope to make such a respectable
man drunk; but he thought it might be
possible to get him slightly muddled.

Mr. Penwern was mortal, and Mr. Penwern
was hungry. He had been travelling since half-past
six o'clock, and it was now half-past
twelve. The Darnel dining-room looked a very
luxurious place after the refreshment-room at
the Junction, where Mr. Penwern had regaled
himself with a cup of tea, which had a strictly
rustic flavour of new-mown hay, and a stale
Bath bun. The Colonel urged Purdcw in a
confidential aside to do the very best he could
for Mr. Penwern, and Purdcw opined from the
Colonel's tone that there was some especial
reason for making much of the stranger. He
sent a peremptory order to the kitchen, and he
brought forth a fat cobwebby bottle of his
choicest Burgundy, a velvety Chambertin, with
an aroma of violets. Beside this sacred wine,

which reposed slanting-wise in a basket, the
butler placed a pint decanter of a dry sherry,
bright to the eye, pleasantly Sitter to the taste,
a tonic and an appetite. The cook was quick
to respond to the major-domo's order. In a
little more than a quarter of an hour, just time
enough for Mr. Penwern to look at Sir Allan's
pictures and to wash his mouth out with a
couple of glasses of the dry sherry — the meal
was ready. A villette sole with olives and
mushrooms, a salmi of partridges, with plenty
of truffles, in an incomparable sauce.

This is the kind of thing I like,' admitted
Mr. Penwern, as he lapped up the sauce. He
was not a man to put his knife in his
mouth; lout he unbent so far as to sop up the
sauce with his Spread. ' This is the sort of snack
I enjoy — something light and tasty. When I
am on a job like this I usually find myself
introduced to a cold sirloin, or a sihcr-side.
People seem to think that nothing can be too
substantial for Scotland Yard. Now I'm not
an epicure, sir; but silver-sides and sirloin are

apt to pall upon a man at my time of life.
Thank you, sir, that Burgundy is the finest I
ever partook of.'

The detective had lunched luxuriously ; and
now he leant back in his chair, made himself
thoroughly comfortable with his toothpick, and
sipped the big bell-shaped glass of Burgundy.

A very pleasant wine,' he said approvingly ;
a sound, wholesome wine.'

'Don't be afraid of it, Mr. Penwern,' said
the Colonel, ' it is too good a wine to do you
any harm.'

*Not after such a luncheon as I have partaken
of,' said the detective, who was evidently
in an expansive mood. *A light little meal
like that leaves a man's intellect free to work
out a difficulty, whereas your cold sirloin and
pickles weighs him down like lead, and your
table-beer stupefies him. And yet in almost all
the houses I go into it's the same old story,
Ijeef and beer. Tliey forget, sir, that a man
in my position can get l)eef and beer at home.
lie needn't go among the magnates of the land,

and flog his brains in their service, for such entertainment
as that. However, that's neither here
nor there. "What I have to do is to find the
man who took those notes and fired that pistol.'

'Don't you think that the odds are very much
against your finding him, he having had three
clear days' start ? ' suggested the Colonel.

'That increases the difficulty, I grant, sir; but
it is a detective's business to rise superior to
such difficulties. If it was Covey I should know
where to put my hand upon him — but it's not
Covey. Covey never wore down-at-heel boots, and
Covey is much too clever to make a rush across
flower-beds. Covey does his work clean, and
leaves no slot behind him. I suppose the family
will offer a handsome reward?'

'I really don't know. I think not answered
the Colonel nervously.

Mr. Penwern's countenance fell, in spite of
the Burgundy.

•I don't think there's much chance of the
man or the money being found unless the family
offers a reward said Pcnwern.

The door opened as lie spoke. Dora Darnel
entered quietly and took her seat near the
Colonel, who would almost as soon have seen a
cobra occupy those luxurious cushions.

The family will offer a reward,' said Dora,
answering Mr. Penwern, who rose confusedly at
her entrance, and began to fold his napkin, with
a vague idea of getting it back into its original
shape of a bishop's mitre. * I, on the part of
my brother's family, will be answerable for the
reward. Shall we offer a hundred pounds ? Is
that enough ? '

'Hardly,' replied Mr. Penwern. * The money
stolen was four hundred. You had better offer
two for the apprehension of the man who wounded
Sir Allan. If you get the man you are very
likely to get back a part of the money.'

The money is of no consequence,' said Dora,
but I do not wish my brother's murder — for
it is too likely' we may lose him — to go unavenged.
We need not wait until lie is dead
to fuit the man who attempted his life.'

'No, madam, there is not an hour to be lost.
VOL. in. M

Time is half the battle in these cases,' replied
the detective.

He was flushed with meat and drink, his
eyes sparkled, he had the comfortable look of a
man who had lunched abundantly ; but there
was not the faintest indication of a muddled
brain. Not a cloud overshadowed the professional
intellect. Colonel Stukely felt that he
and the cook and the butler had laboured in
vain.

With sour permission, ma'am, I will go to
the nearest town and get fifty small posters,
offering the two-hundred pound reward,' said
the detective. ' I can get 'em printed and distributed
in a couple of hours, if I'm sharp.'

By all means,' said Dora approvingly. * You
can get a conveyance from the stable, and you
had better make Darnel your headquarters while
you are carrying on the investigation.'

The Colonel got up suddenly, and walked
out of the room in a savage humour. There
could be no use in his wasting more time in
diplomatic handling of the detective. The business

was taken out of his hands. He could
not osier Mr. Penwern three hundred pounds
not to find the delinquent ; and short of that
he could do nothing. Stimulated by the offer of a
reward the detective would bring his professional
keenness into play at fullest power, while every
loafer in the district would be on the alert to
help him. Unless the man who did the deed
had got clean off, and was already safe on the
other side of the Channel, or on the high seas,
there was little hope that he could escape the
observation and inquiry that would be brought
to bear upon his personality within the next
few days. Wherever he was lurking there must
be somebody to observe and to question him.
Go where he will — be he a first-class traveller
or a slip-shod tramp — the stranger is a mark
for curiosity.

It must be a race between the detective
and me the Colonel said to himself as he went
in quest of Grace. ' If the delinquent is the
man I take him to be, I must find him and
get him out of the country before this Scotland
Yard vulture makes his swoop.'

The evidence upon which Colonel Stukely
had formed his conclusion was of the slightest.
There were first those footprints, prints which
lie had examined as minutely as the detective
himself. The marks of a small, narrow foot —
a gentleman's foot — in a hoot which, albeit worn
to the quick, showed the lines of a fashionable
maker. Sto hob-nailed Blucher, no ready-made
Albert, ever left such an imprint. Secondly,
there was the fact of Camillacc's appearance in
the neighbourhood of Darnel, in a condition
which might inspire desperate acts ; and then
there came the fact of his banishment without
sign or token for Grace.

YET I MUST Prove ALL Truth TO THEE '

The Colonel found his god-daughter in her
own little sitting-room, very unhappy, utterly
unable to employ herself. Lady Darnel was in
the next room. She would not allow Grace to
remain with her. She preferred to be alone.

She does nothing but brood, and I do
nothing but brood,' said Grace, who came out
into the corridor to talk to the Colonel. ' If we
go on much longer like this we shall both be
in a lunatic asylum.'

The Colonel patted her gently on the shoulder,
but could offer no better consolation. He had
talked very confidentially with the doctor on
the previous evening, and he had little hope of
his old comrade's recovery.

'Your Ait Dora is active enough for the
whole household,' he said bitterly.

She is positively diabolical exclaimed Grace.
'The idea of her sending for a detective, and
worrying poor Lady Darnel with questions about
that wretched money, as if it could do my dear
father any good to find the burglar who shot
him. Of course, I should like the wretch to belonged,
but I can't think of him or anything
else till my dearest father is out of danger.'

I am going for a prowl, Grace. I shan't wait
for luncheon, as I want a long afternoon.'

'The house is just a shade drearier when you
are out of it said Grace, with a sigh.

You have not had any letter or message from
Mr. Camillacc?'

'Not a word. I feel convinced that he is
dead — that he died of cold and hunger under
some hedge; but I feel as if it didn't matter. I
daresay I shall feel sorry for him by-and-by
when my father is out of danger.'

'I don't suppose he is dead, Grace. A man
of that age is not so easily killed.'

'If he were not dead or dying, I should have
heard of him before now,' said Grace, with conviction.
'Why did he come to this place except
to see me ? He was penniless, and he knows
that I am rich. What more natural than that
he should appeal to me ? He could not go on
existing without money.'

*No, he could not go on without money,'
thought the Colonel.

The whole story seemed clear to him. This
Camillacc had been lurking about the grounds that
night with the hope of seeing Grace. He saw
the lighted windows of Lady Darnel's room,
opening upon a balcony which was easy to clime) —
he scaled the balcony, overheard Sir Allan's talk
about the bank-notes, saw where they were put
and made a rush for them when the room was
empty. The whole transaction had grown out of
the inspiration of the moment — an unpremeditated
crime, suggested by opportunity. He had come
to the house to get a few pounds from his
sweetheart ; and he had suddenly seen a chance
of helping himself to four hundred.

And now, for Grace's sake, the Colonel wanted
to get this scoundrel out of the way at any cost
to himself of trouble or hard cash. He was nota
poor man, and he could afford to spare a few
hundreds for his favourite. The difficulty was
where to find the man. If he had got clear Dff
out of the clutches of the law it was well, and
he might riot upon his ill-gotten gains at a distance
without inflicting evil upon Grace; but if
he were in hiding anywhere within thirty miles
of Darnel, the odds were that he would fall into
the hands of Mr. Penwern, and the whole story
would come to light at the next quarter sessions.

The Colonel rode slowly down the avenue on
his old bay cob, a cob that was the very essence
of sobriety and good manners as a hack, and yet
when inspired by a dew-halloa and good company
could go at a tremendous pace in a burst
across country. He rode very slowly, meditating
where and how he was to pursue his quest of
Mr. Camillacc. He had already visited almost
every cottage, and explored every copse and common
in the neighbourhood.

Half-way down the avenue he met Edward
Colchester on foot.

'I was just going up to the house to make
an enquiry,' he said. ' Any improvement in Sir
Allan since the morning ? '

The Colonel shook his head.

Friedricson is to be here to-morrow he said ;
and if the bullet can be extracted then there
may be some hope. But just at present things
look very bad.'

Poor Grace,' said Colchester. ' How sad it
is for her. I should like to go and talk to
her a bit, if you think I shouldn't be a nuisance.'

'I am sure you would not be a nuisance,
and your society would do Grace good. She is
in a wretched state, poor girl. If you hurry
up to the house you'll find them at lunch, and
Grace can hardly refuse to see you,' said the
Colonel, who was a secret ally of Monsieur
de Camillacc's rival.

A thousand thanks ! ' exclaimed the young
squire, starling (ifs at a run.

The family vere at luncheon. Mi'. ( 'colchester

asked to be shown into the dining-room, determined
not to be relegated to the solitude of the
drawing-room, and to a formal interview with
Dora. They could not turn him away from
their table in a house famous for hospitality ;
and, however dismal the meal might be, it
would be rapture — a sad kind of rapture, of
course — to sit by Grace in sympathetic silence,
and admire the outline of cheek and throat,
the little rings of auburn hair which clustered
in the hollow of her neck, the heavy coil of
plaits, the gracious contour of her head.

Dora Darnel and her niece were seated at
opposite ends of the table, as far apart as they
could be. Grace sat with an empty plate before
her, the image of despair. She gave a wan smile
when Mr. Colchester came in and took his seat
by her side, uninvited, except by the servant who
laid a cover for him.

How very good of you to come again,' said
Dora, with a faint emphasis on the last word.

'I hope you dont mind my coming so often.
No, not any lunch, thank you,' to the servant.

But I really could not rest without looking round
again. I have to dine at Mawlesford to-night,
Sir Eager Brandon's, don't you know — a nine-mile
drive, a horrid bore. I don't feel a bit in the cue
for going out. This — this sad business has upset
me more than I can say.'

Grace lifted those heavy eyelids of hers, and
gave him a grateful look out of her soft brown eyes :
such luminous eyes they had been in the days of
her gladness ; but to Edward Colcliester they
seemed even lovelier in sorrow. That soft appealing
look went straight to his heart.

Yes, she was glad to see him. She had been
living in an awful solitude of grief and fear —
fearing her father's death, fearing for her lover,
that lover of whose existence she could not think
without a shudder. Oh, the folly of those Parisian
days — the silly romance, the fatuity of it all !
What a burden slice had laid upon herself — what
a chain she' had forged for her young life. If this
faithful admirer of hers, who looked up to her
with such respectful devotion, if lie could know
how idiotic she had Ijcen, how nnist his adiiiira-

tioii be changed to scorn, his regard to loathing.
It was the thought of this which made her uncivil
to him. She wanted to keep him at arm's
length, if possible. She would not give him reason
to reproach her for hypocrisy and double-dealing.

But to-day in the utter desolation of her life
she turned involuntarily to this friend of her
childhood. How good and true he was, how frank,
and honest, and straightforward. Not so elegant,
not so accomplished or fascinating as Victor de
Camilla; but what a thoroughbred English
gentleman, without fear or reproach — a man to
stand before kings and not ho ashamed.

Is Lady Darnel too ill to come down to
lunch ? ' enquired Mr. Colchester.

She is not ill — but she is very miserable,
poor thing,' answered Grace.

And she gives way to her grief,' said Dora ;
'I always envy the people who give way to their
grief. They generally get over it so soon.'

I do not think Lady Darnel will get over
her grief very soon. Aunt Dora, if my father is
taken away from us,' said Grace, with a stifled sulk.

How pale you are looking,' said Edward Colchester.
' I don't believe you have had any fresh
air since this trouble began. Will you come fora
turn on the terrace ; it is a lovely afternoon
? '

Yes,' said Grace, rising suddenly, * I will
come. ' I think 1 should go mad if I stayed in
this house any longer. I must go upstairs and
hear the last report of my father, and then I
will go for a ramble in the garden. You'll come
Aunt Dora?'

No, Grace ; I shall not leave the house. I
can exist without fresh air.'

Grace looked embarrassed, but having accepted
Mr. Colchester's invitation she could not recede
all at once. The withdrawal would be too
marked. She went away, and came back in
about ten minutes with a white Shetland shawl
wrapped round her shoulders.

'There is no change in the sick-room,' lie
said. * It is always the same answer — no change
no improvement. Oh, those nurses, what
machines they are ! I wonder if they seem a

little more human when their own people are
ill? Come, Mr. Colchester.'

She went out to the terrace, walking very
quickly in her nervous agitation. It was an
infinite relief to feel the fresh autumnal breeze
blowing over her face and hair, to breathe in a
wider space. It seemed to her as if it were
weeks since she had felt that cool reviving air
and looked across that wide expanse of lawn to
the wider region of oaks and beeches which had
been the fairy forest of her childhood fancies.
Through just such a wood seed Ending Hood had
gone unconscious to her doom. Through just such
a wood Fatima's brothers had ridden to the rescue
of Bluebeard's last victim. In just such a wood
Beauty had dwelt meekly in the Palace of the
enchanted Beast ; in just such a wood she had
bent over the dying monster, breathing soft words
of pity into his ear, and had seen him restored to
the grace and glory of manhood, the perfect
Prince of Fairyland. With all her heart Grace
loved the domain that had been her cradle and
her playground.

It was a delicious afternoon, the low sua
golden above the undulating line of beeches, with
their rounded crests dark against the f,dowinGf
sky, wave above wave, billowy masses of dark
verdure soon to be touched with the varied hues
of decay.

For a little while Grace and her companion
walked about the lawn in silence, she too unhappy
to speak, he racking his brain for something
appropriate, or at least an inoffensive subject
of conversation.

How well the shrubberies are looking,' he
said at last, feeling as if the remark were a flash
of inspiration.

Now the shrubberies had been Sir Allan's
peculiar pride. He had filled them with new and
rare conifers, with every variety of flowering
shrubs ; under his supervision they had been fed
with the most scientific preparations that can
enrich the soil, they had been watched, and
sheltered from the frost, and cared for as if
they had been precious human things.

Yes, they are too lovely,' said Grace. ' X

never saw that sicca nobilis look so superb as
it does tins year. My father is so proud of it. And
to think that he may never see those trees again ! '

Here she began to cry, and again Edward
Colchester felt that he was a brute. He seemed
predestined to say brutish things, to put his
finger-tip upon open wounds.

He walked by her side while she dried her
tears, his heart aching for her, his love flowing
out towards her like a magnetic stream. They
were in one of the winding shrubbery paths,
which they two had trodden many a time, gaily,
carelessly, as comrades and playfellows, in those
remote days before his friendly feeling for a
pretty girl had ripened into passionate love,
before trouble or care had darkened her young
life. It was a path completely screened by
conifers and evergreens, out of sight of the
house. In a forest they could not have been
more alone. At the end of the path there was
a little Swiss chalet, a fantastic summer-house
of carved woo], in which Mr. Colchester had
often had five o'clock tea after a warm afternoon

at lawn-tennis. It was Grace's ftiYoiirite retreat
in fine weather, and her looks and drawing-materials
were scattered on the rustic table just
as she had left them a week ago. She looked
at them with a listless air, and stopped to put
the books together.

'Fine, Maud, La Petite Fayette,' she said
as she gathered up the Volumes. * How happy
was that last morning I sat here reading. Such
a warm morning — like July. Everything was so
lovely, the air so delicious. I forgot that I had
a care.'

What care could you have to forget a week
ago ? ' asked Colchester.

Oh, there are cares in every life. Everybody
has some kind of burden to carry. But
I never knew what real sorrow meant till my
father's life was in danger.'

Her tears flowed afresh at the thought of that
peril, and then Edward Colchester forgot himself
altogether, and caught her in his arms, and
kissed the sad, tear-stained face again and
again.

VOL. III. N

My beloved, let me share your grief, let me
be all in all to you in your day of sorrow.
My dearest, you know how fondly I love you.'

It was all done in a moment. She was in
his arms, his beloved, accepting his devotion,
the passive recipient of betrothal kisses, for such
kisses could mean nothing less than betrothal.
They were the first lover's kisses that had ever
touched her lips. Never before had she felt
the passionate pulse of a lover's heart beating
against her own. She tore herself from his

arms.

How can you, how can you ! ' she cried reproachfully.
' To talk of love when my father
lies on his death-bed ! I know they all believe
it is his death-led. I hate you for such heartlessness.'


Gracie, is it heartless to adore you, to want
to comfort you in your sorrow ? ' he asked reproachfully.
' I have been quietly worshipping
you for a year ; waiting, waiting, for some
sicfn of awakening:; love on your part. I should
not have dared to speidv even yet: only to see

you in tears and not to be able to comfort you
was too much.'

'You cannot comfort me. I am full of
trouble she answered passionately.

She had flung her books upon the table,
and had left the chalet hurriedly, and was walking
quickly along the path that led to the
house. He felt that she was angry with him
that he had, as it were, violated the sanctity
of her sorrow — and yet he believed himself her
accepted lover. For one delicious moment she
had rested in his arms, her eyes had looked at
him, not in anger, but in answering love. Those
lips of hers had yielded themselves to his kisses.
He knew that she loved him — that he had but
to wait for a more fitting time to press his
suit. And he had her father upon his side,
the good old Colonel too. He had fortune,
youth, everything that makes fitness in union.
And he knew of no likely rival. Could he
doubt that he should win her ? His heart glowed
with triumph as lie hurried after her swift
footsteps, overtook lier, and stood at her side.

Forgive me, Grace. I will wait for a happier
day he said.

'That day will never come for you and me,'
she answered coldly. ' Pray forget that you have
been so foolish, as I shall try to do.'

Forget those kisses ? Never ! Grace, I will
not be put off like this. I will wait. I will
not even speak of my love until your father is
out of danger — but you must not thrust me from
you coldly ; you must not deny my right to claim
you by and by.'

Never, never, never,' she said. * I tell you it
can never be.'

*Then you do not love me,' he cried, seizing
her hands, holding her there on the path, face to
face with him, Inside himself with love and
anger. 'You were deceiving me just now, or I
was mad and deceived myself. You do not care
a straw for me. Say that, Grace — only say that
you don't care for me, and you shall never see
my face again.'

She could not say it; not for the life of her
could she so belie her beating heart, which had

gone out to him as a bird to its nest, which
belonged to him as a slave to her master.

I cannot engage myself to you she said.
There are reasons.'

What reasons ? There can be no reason except
that you detest me. Why not say so at once,
and make an end of the matter ? If there were
obstacles I would overcome them. Give me one
grain of love — no bigger than a mustard seed —
and I would remove mountains. But there are no
obstacles. We have everything on our side. Your
father likes me — he was my father's dearest friend
he would like to see us married.'

I can never marry you,' said Grace sadly.
Why do you press me with painful questions ?
Please let go my hands.'

He released her instantly, with a gloomy
look.

I see. There is someone else whom you love
better,' he said.

No, there is no one,' she said impetuously,
and then repented that she lead so spoken.

'Grace, you are a mystery. If you would only
say that you hate mc '

*I will not tell a lie,' she answered, walking

on towards the house, lie still by her side. ' If,
you have any compassion for my present unhappiness
you will say no more.'

Then I will say no more. I know I am a
brute — an utterly brutish brute. I suppose having
behaved so badly, I must not come to Darnel anymore.'


*You can do as you like about that,' she
answered wearily.

Then I shall come. Life [would lee a burden
if I could not see you now and then.'

In her heart of hearts she liked to see him ;
for her life would have been a Ijlank without
that pleasant companionship. She had snubbed
him unmercifully ever since her return from
Paris, and yet he had never wavered in his
devotion And he had his reward, though he
knew it not ; for he had won her in spite of
herself. But she was a true Darnel, and had
a loyal regard for a promise once given. And
in an evil hour she had given a promise which
bound her to Victor do Camillacc or to life-long
celibacy.

'Good-bye,' she said curtly, and Mr. Colchester
was fain to accept his dismissal.

They were close to the hall door by this
time. He had no excuse for lingering any
longer.

Good-bye, Grace — my Grace he said, with a
final flash of determination.

And then as he walked slowly down the avenue
he repeated to himself, ' My Grace, mine ; yes, my
dear, mine, for I mean to win you.'

He was sorely troubled in mind as he
walked back to the Manor through those rural
Wiltshire lanes, with their tall, tangled hedgerows.


That severer order of agriculture which cuts
down hedges to the quick, absorbs waste places,
and uproots the timber of centuries, had not
yet spoiled the Manor. Mr. Colchester's farmers
were content to be slovenly and picturesque, as
their fathers and grandfathers had been before
them, under the sway of the easiest of laud-lords.


He went home full of trouble and perplexity.

There had been that in Grace's eyes,
as she looked upon him, which seemed to him
an assurance of her love. There had been that
in the sweet mouth, with lips half-parted and
faintly tremulous, which told of deepest feeling.
For some blissful moments he had held her in
his arms, flushed with triumph, believing himself
her accepted lover. And then she had
thrust him from her, and told him that she
could never be his wife. There was a contradiction
here that argued a mystery, a mystery
in the life of a girl who had been to him as
the incarnation of purity and truth. If she
could deceive, if she could stoop to double-dealing,
there was an end of Edward Colchester's
faith in womanhood.

'I LOVE, AND HE LOVES ME AGAIN '

Colonel Stukely spent a long and wearisome
afternoon dawdling about the lanes and little
clusters of labourers' cottages which called themselves
villages, entering into conversation with
every man, woman, and child whom he could
beguile into a dialogue, and suffering intensely
from his conscientious efforts to understand a
patois which was almost as a foreign language
to him. In this wise, performing the part of
the benevolent friend of humanity, a character
partaking the idiosyncrasies of Haroun Alraschid
and Sir Eager do Coverley, he heard much
irrelevant matter, from village politics and pothouse
philosophy to the smallest domestic details,
with the full, true, and particular account
of the speaker's latest ' stand-further ' with the

Squire, the Parson, or the ]bailiff. But in all
the flood of talk to which he listened with a
sublime patience the good Colonel could discover
not one solitary sentence bearing upon the task
which he had set himself to perform.

Ending slowly homewards he tried to cheer
himself with the notion that as he had failed
in the endeavour to trace the footsteps of Victor
Camillacc, so also must Mr. Penwern fail. He
had no apprehension that his talents in the
detective line were inferior to those of the professional
enquirer. Indeed, it seemed to him
that his education and experience must be more
than a match for the technical training of Scotland
Yard. He argued, therefore, that the young
Frenchman had got clear off, and that he had
nothing to fear for his beloved god-daughter.

The eight o'clock dinner was a dismal function.
Lady Darnel still ke^^t her room. Miss Darnel
sat in her brother's place and went through the
ceremonial with a fortitude which savoured of
martyrdom. Grace edged her chair as close as
she could to the Colonel's, ate hardly anything,

and was curiously absent-minded, looking up at
her godfather every now and then with a little
appealing glance that went straight to his heart,
smiling to herself now and then, as she looked
down at her plate, with a strange shy smile, and
at one stage of the entertainment suddenly bursting
into tears.

My dear Grace, if you cannot command yourself
better than this, you should follow Lady
Darkness example, and hide yourself from the light
of day,' remonstrated her aunt.

'Let her cry,' said the Colonel, patting the
girl's shoulder affectionately. * Tears are a comfort
sometimes ; and why should she repress the signs of
her grief? There is no secret about her sorrow.
We are all of the same mind.'

The Colonel lead no inclination to sit alone
over his claret. He left the dining-room with
Miss Darnel and her niece. In the hall Grace put
her arm through his.

Come on the terrace for a little walk,' she
said.

My dear Grace, there is no moon, and it is

very cold,' urged Dora. 'What pleasure can
there ha in walking on the terrace on such a
night ? '

'No pleasure. I do not expect pleasure, but I
must have air. I am stifling for want of air.'

*I should have thought you had air enough
this afternoon when you were tearing about the
grounds with Mr. Colchester,' retorted her aunt
sharply.

Will you come, godpapa ? ' asked Grace, ignoring
the reproof. ' You don't mind walking up and
down the terrace with me for a quarter of an
hour, even if it is dark and cold.'

I shall like it very much, if you put on your
jacket.'

Grace ran upstairs, obtained the last bulletin
of her father's condition — always the same hopeless
report — and came down in her sealskin
jacket. In another minute she and the Colonel
were out of doors, and beyond the searching eye
and the keen ear of Dora. The night was moonless,
but not altogether dark. The stars were
shining above the tree tops in the park, a dense

rampart of foliage which shut out the world
beyond.

Any news ? ' asked Grace excitedly, hanging
on the Colonel's arran.

Not a word. I believe that unlucky young
fellow has got clear off; and you may wash
your hands of him and his fate.'

I cannot do that said Grace gloomily ; ' I
ara under a promise.'

'No promise can hold good with a criminal,'
answered the Colonel.

A criminal ! In heaven's name, what do you
mean ? '

I mean that a detective has been at Darnel
this morning, and that he lias discovered the
footprints of a stranger across the flower-beds,
just such footprints as would be made by that
wretched down-at-heel creature we saw on the
common. There was a considerable sum of money
stolen out of Lady Darnel's morning-room, money
which we all know to have Ijeen there on the
night your father was shot. It is clear to the
man from Scotland Yard that Sir Allan was

wounded by a stranger who entered that room
and stole that money. Xow, my reading of the
story is, that this Camillacc was hanging about
the house on that night, in the hope of getting
an interview with you, that he was on the balcony
for some time, saw the money put away,
and took advantage of Lady Darnel's leaving the
room to enter and possess himself of that money.
He was surprised by your father, and turned
upon him — in the manner we know.'

No, no ; it is too horrible ! The man I once
loved, the man I promised to marry — a midnight
robber — a murderer ! It cannot be,' protested
Grace. 'Surely I am not an utter fool. I know
that man was a gentleman hj birth, a gentleman
by education and breeding.'

Gentlemen drift to the gutter ; gentlemen join
the criminal classes every day in the year, my
poor Grace,' said the Colonel gravely. * I do not
suppose for a moment that you would mistake a
cad for a gentleman ; but there is such a thing
as a reckless man gone thoroughly to the bad ;
and I'm afraid your Victor de Camillacc is just



such an one. All we Can hope is that he has
got clear off, and that your dear father's wound
may not prove fatal.'

'Fatal! Oh, God, if it were, I should be my
father's murderer — for it was my folly that
brought that man to this house. Oh, why should
so trivial a sin bring such a terrible punishment ?
If my father were to die I should never lift up
my head again. I should pray God to end my
days. I never, never could know peace of mind
any more ! '

She clung to her kind old friend, sobbing
hysterically, beside herself with horror.

My dear child, don't give way to such grief,'
said the Colonel soothingly. * God grant your
father may recover. And, after all, this suspicion
of mine may be wrong. The criminal may be a
stranger of whom we know nothing. Eemember
it is only a conjecture on my part.'

If you were right, if it were he, my sin
would have been the cause of my father's death,'
said Grace, and then she remembered that bitter
cry of Lady Darnel's, those awful words spoken

hy the lips of a sleeper, ' My fault, my fault ! I
murdered him!'

How strange that those self-accusing words,
uttered unconsciously, should be echoed now by
Grace, waking and sentient.

'[Nfo, I will not believe it,' she said presently.
After all, there is no evidence to go upon. There
is no real ground for such a hideous suspicion.
I believe that poor creature fell down somewhere
ill or dying, and that he never came to Darnel
Park.'

*You may be right, Grace. My view of the
case was only a succession of conjectures. I
should never have thought of it if that man
from Scotland Yard had not set my wits at work.
There is something infectious in the manoeuvres
of these people. Only I thought it right to tell
you everything, more especially as you insist
upon considering yourself bound to this adventurer.'


*I insist upon acting as a woman of honour
should act,' answered Grace, with a heroic air.
You men are always talking about honour as if

it were a peculiar property of your sex. You
pretend to think that we poor weak things don't
even know what it means. Now I want you to
understand that you are guilty of scandalous
injustice. Eine Frau ein Wort.'

'And you consider yourself bound to a beggar
*I consider myself bound to him till he releases
me. I know he would release me from my
promise, if I could only see him and tell him
everything.'

'Indeed! There is something that he must be
told then?'

'Yes murmured Grace, hanging her pretty
head.

Colonel Stukely lifted the bent head between
his hands, and kissed his god-daughter's forehead.


My pet, I begin to understand,' he said. ' I
suspected all through that dreary dinner that
you had something to tell me. You have found
out at last that a frank honest young fellow
whom you have known since childhood is better
worth loving than an unknown foreigner whom

you met by chance in a picture gallery.'
VOL. III. O

Mr.' Colcliester was walking in the shrubbery
with me this afternoon,' faltered Grace, ' and he
asked me to be his wife. It was very, very
sudden; and he took me so by surprise that I'm
afraid I allowed him to think that I am rather
fond of him.'

What was it you said, Grace ? '

^ It was not anything I said to him. It was
only my manner.'

^ Oh,' said the Colonel. ' It was your manner,
was it ? There is a good deal in manner. And
I suppose by the time you left the shrubbery
you had engaged yourself to young Colchester,
in spite of your promise to the Frenchman.
This is your view of cine Frau ein Wort, 1
take it. One at a time.'

'You insist upon your mean opinion of me,'
cried Grace, stamping her foot. ' Xo, I did not
engage myself to Mr. Colchester. I told him that
I could never marry him. I tried to tell him
that I did not care for him, but my lips would
not speak the false words. I know now that
I do care for him, that the other was only a

foolish infatuation, of which I have good reason
to be ashamed.'

I am glad you have found out the truth at
last, Grace. Now, my darling, you mustn't fret
any more. Leave everything to Providence and
your old godfather. Hark ! there are wheels
coming up the avenue. Who can it be at such
an hour? The doctor paid his last visit before
dinner.'

It was Mr. Penwern in a fly from the village.
Colonel Stukely hurried back to the house, dreading,
yet eager, to hear the detective's account of
his investigations. Mr. Penwern was shown into
the library, where the Colonel found him closeted
with Dora Darnel, who had not lost a minute in
going to him.

Well, Mr. Penwern, what's your news ? ' asked
the Colonel, taking the case out of Dora's hands.

The detective had an idea that the money and
the authority were both on the side of the lady;
but there was that in the Afi^lian hero's barns:

o o

and tone which could not be slighted.

My afternoon has not been unprofitable,' answered

Pcnwern. ' I have got the hills out — fifty
of them — cant I believe I am on the right track
for the man.'

'Indeed said the Colonel, feeling very uncomfortable.


He had an intense dread of publicity for that
little episode of Grace's schoolgirl life, a dread
which was intensified by the circumstance of Colchester's
proposal.

'Yes, I think I am on the right scent this
time. The bills had an immediate effect. Most
people had heard of Sir Allan's wound, but the
robbery of the notes was news to everybody.
I distributed the bills with my own hands, and
the villagers at whose shops I left them lead all a
good deal to say about the trouble at the great
house. The old woman who keeps a general shop
grocery, clothes, boots '

Mrs. Moppp,' said Dora.

'Mrs. Moppp. Yes, that's the lady. She insisted
on my helping her to spell through the bill
from beginning to end. Ashen she came to the
part about the notes she became tremendously

excited. '' I wouldn't mind laying a wager it
was that scoundrel did it," she said. "What
scoundrel ? " asked I. " Makers' said she ; and she
had such a rooted idea that I ought to know
all about Mr. Jaker that I could hardly induce
her to tell me anything about him.'

'He is a very disreputable person said
Dora, looking up at the Colonel, ' a poacher ^
a man who has been in prison more times than
anyone can remember. He lives half in and half
out of prison. People are very kind to his
wretched wife and children, who are always ina
state of semi-starvation. But last year he
turned savage and set himself deliberately to
annoy Mr. Colchester and the hunting men.
He shot a number of foxes, and waylaid the
hunting people when they were drawing the
covers, and used most abominable language,
and since then he has l^ecn altogether an outlaw,
and his family are allowed to starve. It
is considered an offence against every member
of the hunt to give them so much as a loaf
of ]bread.'

'jSTot a man likely to be changing a twenty-pound
note, honestly come by,' said the detective.


'Do you mean to say that Jaker has been
changing twenty-pound notes ? '

He changed one at eight o'clock yesterday
morning, at Mrs. Moppp's shop, where he bought
himself a regular rig-out — boots, corduroy suit,
flannel shirts, pilot overcoat, sou-wester. Mrs.
Moppp had not done so big a line for years,
she told me. He made her rout him out
an old tea chest to carry his kit, and
walked off with it to Scadleigh station, in time
for the nine o'clock train to London. He told
nobody where he was going; but there is an
idea that he meant Canada.'

'He has often talked of Canada, and the
great things he could do there,' said Miss Darnel.
*I have heard as much from his wife,
whom I used to visit at one time.'

Before her husband put himself out of court
by shooting foxes,' remarked the Colonel, with a
sudden air of cheerfulness which deeply offended
Dora.

It was such an inexpressible relief to him to
see the detective on an entirely new scent, that
he for the moment forgot the cloud of sorrow
brooding; over the house of Darnel.

'I paid Mrs. Jaker a visit this evening,' said
the detective. ' I was surprised to find what
roomy quarters your poor have to starve in.
Why, in London a house as big as Jaker's cottage
would be made to accommodate forty
people. The cubical contents of the pigsty are
more than those of a room that lodges a family
in Whitechapel.'

'It is an old homestead that once went with
a small farm,' explained Dora. * When the land
was taken away to john to the next farm the old
cottage remained empty for some years. And
then it was let cheap to Jaker, who was not
quite such a bad character in those days. I don't
suppose he has paid any rent for the last ten
years ; but the cottage is in an out-of-the-way
place, and would not suit everybody.'

I should think not, indeed, ma'am,' said the
detective, shuddering. * I never saw such a

cut-throat place. The cottage is at the end of
a long lane, ankle deep in mnci, which leads
to nowhere.'

It is an accommodation lane,' remarked
Dora.

Lord knows whom it can be intended to
accommodate, ma'am. The cottage is half a mile
from any other house, and how any Christian in
his sober senses could be tempted to go there,
except from motives of benevolence, is more than
I understand. However, I found my way there
this evening — in the dark, too — and a nice state
my boots were in when I got there. I had to
go back to the inn and get myself brushed up
before I could venture to show myself here. But
I saw Mrs. Jaker, and I put her through a pretty
close catechism; and I don't think there's any
doubt that, in consequence of the telegram I
send to Scotland Yard this morning, ]mr. Jaker
will be stopped at Liverpool before lie can
get on board the vessel that was to take him
to Canada.'

You believe he means to try for Canada ? '
enquired the Colonel.

From what I got out of Mrs. Jaker I don't
think there's the slightest doubt of it.'

Mrs. Jaker is a very artful person,' said Miss
Darnel. * I know she has always contrived to
deceive nie.'

The detective smiled quietly, and to himself
as it were. He could not see that this fact had
any bearing on the case. It was one thing to
hoodwink a spinster brought up in cotton-wool ;
it was another thing to deceive a man educated
in Scotland Yard.

'Did you find out whether Jaker has left his
wife any of the money ? '

He may have left her a pound or two to
keep the wolf from the door till he chooses to
send her the passage-money for herself and her
children. They were swarming about the place
like rabbits in a warren, poor little beggars. He
ju-omises to send for her directly he gets there,
and lias looked about him a bit. I don't believe
she has any idea of a i'ol)ljery, or of his l)i'iiig
possessed of a large sum of money. He told lu^r
that hi' had won ten itoumls ;ii Sliiwram races,

putting five shillings on a horse that stood at
forty to one in the betting. She believed him,
poor soul, though it was a puzzle to her to know
where he got the five shillings. And it's my
belief he has left her to starve, or to live upon
charity till he chooses to send her the passage-money.'


'You don't know Mrs. Jaker,' said Dora.
From what I know of her character I should
say she knows all about the robbery, and has
the lion's share of the money in her possession.'


Do you really think so ? ' said the detective,
with a troubled look. ' If I thought that I'd
get a magistrate's warrant tomorrow morning and
search the house ; but she looked to me such a
weak, helpless, trodden-down creature.'

'That's all acting. When Jaker annoyed the
hunting men she used to go with him, and her
language was worse than his. j\Ir. Colchester said
it was she who goaded him on to do it.'

'I'll get a warrant tomorrow morning,' said
]mr. Penwern.

You must have a good appetite for supper
after such a laborious afternoon and evening said
the Colonel. ' Will you order something for Mr.
Penwern, Miss Darnel ? '

He rang the bell, and Dora informed the footman
who answered it that Mr. Penwern would
take supper in the housekeeper's room. This was
a fall almost as big as Wolsey's, after the elegant
little luncheon with which Mr. Penwern had been
regaled at the Colonel's bidding. 'So like a
maiden aunt,' thought the detective, as he went
off through long corridors and winding ways to
that humbler and busier portion of the mansion,
which was as the old town of Edinburgh to the
new town. In this more lowly quarter, however,
he was well cared for, and contrived to spend a
jovial evening.

• A POWER OF HELL Overclouded THY
UNDERSTANDING.'

As an old campaigner, Colonel Stukely found
no difficulty in awaking at any hour of the
morning at which he wished to rise. He needed
to victimise no servant who must rise still earlier
to call him — nor did he require to have his
courage stimulated by a cup of hot tea. He
went to his bedroom directly the detective had
retired to the servants' quarters, and he told
himself as he lay down to rest that he would
be astir at half-past four o'clock next morning ;
not with any idea of cub-hunting, but with the
serious intention of getting an interview with Mrs.
Jaker before detective or search-warrant could
reach her cottage. Before bidding Miss Darnel
good-niii'lU lie had contrived to ascertain from

that lady the exact situation of the cottage. It
lay within a mile of the park gates, in a particularly
lonely district, given over to agriculture.
Half-a-dozen small farms had been rolled into
one, and the homesteads belonging to them had
been pulled down or turned into labourers' cottages.
The Jakers' domicile was situated at the
end of a long lane, just where the uttermost limit
of cultivated land met the edge of a wild stretch
of common. It had been a homestead in the time
of the Stuart, and had a picturesque air even
now, in the lowest stage of neglect and decay, the
rotten and ragged thatch half hidden under a
goodly growth of weeds and grasses, the good old
leaded lattices with hardly a whole pane among
them. The Jakers were squatters rather than
tenants, and would have been turned out neck and
crop years ago had it not been for an easy-going
landlord and the little peculiarities of Mrs. Jaker,
who always lead a baby at hand at the hour of
any financial crisis. It was sometimes a baby that
moment born — anon a baby that very morning
dead. Living or dead the l)aby was always ready

for the emergency. It was Mrs. Jaker's ace of
trumps.

Having told himself that he should be astir at
half-past four, the Colonel woke a few minutes
before the hour. He had scarcely sounded his
repeater when the eight-day clock in the corridor
chimed in with its four musical notes, and then
its four sonorous strokes upon the big bell. The
Colonel was up and in his bath within five
minutes. Not a man he to yawn and loiters and
think twice about leaving his pillow, when there
was business to be done.

It was pitch dark as yet —it would hardly be
light by the time he should arrive at Mrs. Jaker's
cottage ; but he calculated that a person of her
condition would be an early riser, and he felt
no compunction about knocking her up should
she prove a slug-abed. He was bent upon seeing
her before the detective arrived with his search-warrant
; so that in the event of her husband
having obtained his plunder from Victor de
Camillacc the woman's mouth might be sealed as

to the existence and whereabouts of that obnoxious
Frenchman.

My friend Penwern ignores those foot-marks
on the flower-beds now that he has started on
another track the Colonel thought, as he walked
briskly along the avenue under the cold October
sky. 'ISTot very logical. That narrow sole and
pointed heel could never have belonged to the
boot of a rustic poacher; and yet those footmarks
have to be accounted for somehow, and I
am not at all clear that Grace's admirer is safe
out of the business.'

Before going downstairs the Colonel had
tapped softly at his friend's door, and had questioned
the night nurse. Her reply was more
favourable than usual. The patient had spent
a quieter night, the temperature was a little
lower, the delirium less violent. All this was
hopeful.

There were patches of gray in the eastern sky
by the time the Colonel came to the end of the
long muddy lane, and entered Mrs. Jaker's
neglected garden. The gate hung loose upon

broken hinges, and several of its rails had been
ruthlessly plucked off to serve for firewood. The
palings were in the same condition, and afforded
free access to vagabond swine. When Mrs.
Jaker was asked why she did not keep her garden
tidy, she replied that tidiness was impossible
while the pigs came in and uprooted every thing;
but when she was asked why she and her husband
did not patch up the palings and keep the
pigs out, Mrs. Jaker became desperate, and asked
if pales dropped from the skies, and if Providence
showered nails and hammers into poor people's
laps. For her part she had neither wood, nor
nails, nor hammer ; and as for the landlord, he
would see them all dead before he would do
anything for them. This could scarcely be considered
strange, inasmuch as they did nothing for
him in the shape of rent.

Albeit the sky was gray in the east, and a
faint admixture of silvery light glorified the
undulating lines of hill and woodland. ]airs
Jaker had not yet left her pillow when the
Colonel knocked with his stout oak stick at the

cottage door. She put her head out of an upstairs
window presently, however, and on hearing that
he had particular business with her, promised to
be down in ten minutes. So the Colonel strolled
up and down the dreary little garden, with its
stagnant puddles in depressed corners and its
ragged regiment of barren cabbage-stalks, and
seeing at least half an acre of ground given
over to desolation, he wondered how it was
that the country poor made so little of their
opportunities.

The cottage door opened while he stood at
gaze above the cabbage stalks, and he was admitted
to the Jaker abode. Mrs. Jaker's toilet
was of the briefest, and the Colonel could not
help suspecting that she had slept in her gown.
A swarm of healthy, handsome children, all in
the last stage of rags and dirt, were squatting
and scrambling about the wide hearth, which
had evidently belonged to the farm-house kitchen.
The few sticks of furniture were all in a ruinous
condition ; and it was not without careful selection
that Mrs. Jaker found a chair which she
VOL. III. p

could venture to offer to her guest. When he
had seated himself she knelt on the hearth and
lighted a fire of sticks and turf which made a
cheerful flare of light amidst the greyness of
early morning. While she was doing this she
turned her head now and then and looked
timidly and interrogatively at the Colonel. She
was scared hj the appearance of a stranger at
this unwonted hour ; but she was accustomed ta
be visited from time to time by the 'gentry,'
who came to remonstrate with her upon her own
and her husband's misdoings.

'You had a stranger here last night, Mrs.
Jaker,' began the Colonel.

Yes, sir, there was a person here.'
Exactly. I know all about him and what
passed. You have not heard the last of that
person and this enquiries. It would have been
wiser if you had told liii the truth about that
money which is to pay your husband's passage to
Canada, and set you all up in a new country. It
is a nice little fortune for a man like Jaker to
drop into. It ought to buy him a pretty little
farm out yonder.'

Mrs. Jaker paled at this speech, and a frightened
look came into those mild blue eyes of hers,
eyes which were apt to mislead strangers as to
her character.

Fortune, sir ! ' she faltered. ' My poor husband
had nothing but the ten pound he won at the
races.'

Indeed ! Then how came he to spend nearly
ten pounds with the old woman at the shop ?
That would leave him very little for his passage
money.'

Hereupon Mrs. Jaker, with tears in her eyes,
called upon the heavens and those who dwell
therein to witness her truth. She had told the
strange gentleman who called last night the truth,
and nothing but the truth. If her husband had
more money than those ten sovereigns won for
him by the horse True Blue — which was a
Wiltshire-hired horse and well l)eknown to him,
or Jaker would never have backed him — she
knew it nut.

'Come now, Mrs. Jaker, this is all very foolish,'
said the Colonel, in a friendly tone. ' Suppose I

were to tell you that the person you saw last
night is coming again this morning, and that
in all probability he will take you off to prison.
A man in Jaker's station doesn't come by four
hundred pounds in bank-notes without people
asking questions, and as Jaker has made off it
will be for you to answer those questions.'

As the Colonel uttered those few words
'four hundred pounds he looked straight into'
Mrs. Jaker's face ; and every line in that face,
hardened as the woman was by long experience
in lying, told him that the shot had gone home.
Sir Allan's bank-notes had by some means or
other fallen into Jaker's hands.

'I am here as your friend,' said the Colonel.
'The man you saw last night is a member
of the police, and you had nothing to hope for
from him. I am here to help you, if I can.
A sum of four hundred pounds was stolen from
Sir Allan Darnel's house last Tuesday night,
and some of that money has been traced to
your husband's possession. How did he come
by it? Was it he who shot Sir Allan?'

Xu, sir, no ; ' and again Mrs. Jaker called
njDon the Almighty to witness her truth.

'You have lied to me once already, when
you told me Jaker won that money on the
racecourse. How can I believe that you are
not lying now ? A ruffian entered my friend's
house at midnight last Tuesday, stole a packet
of bank notes, and shot Sir Allan, The wound
is likely to be fatal. Should Sir Allan die before
the trial comes on the burglar who shot
him will stand charged with his murder. Your
husband has had a taste of the law, and he
knows that he can't shoot even a rabbit with
impunity. He will find it a stifFer business
now that he has shot a man.'

He never lifted a hand against Sir Allan.
He hasn't Ijeen inside the Park since the time
he was falsely accused of stealing one of the
deer, three years ago.'

How did lie come by that money then i '
asked the Colonel, with a severe look.

Almost unconsciously he put on the voice
and manner with which lie hall been wont to

address rebellious Sepoy in days gone by, Mrs.
Jaker quailed before him.

'He found it she faltered.

Found it ? Preposterous ! People don't find
money in hedges. He must have stolen those
notes either from the cabinet in Lady Darnel's
morning-room; or else he stole them from the
person of the man who first stole them. The
thing may be a double robbery, but it is a
robbery all the same, and you must know
your husband to be a thief.'

'No, sir.' Again Mrs. Jaker called upon the
celestial powers. 'Xo, sir, my husband may
have been a poacher, but he is not a thief,
still less a murderer. Whatever money he had
when he went away he came by that money
honestly. It was given to him as a free gift.'

'That won't do,' said the Colonel.

Just at this moment there rang through the
old cottage a blood-freezing sound. It was a peal
of laughter, long, and loud, and wild, and
shrill; such laughter as no one would expect
to hear outside the walls of a lunatic asylum.

'Why you have a maniac on the premises,'
exclaimed the Colonel. * How is that ? ' The
laughter died away, and then there came a wild
snatch of song:

Grey a Clarendon ! Gambetta a Toulon !

Vive le sang ! Vive le sang ! '

* * # # #

That was enough for Colonel Stukely. Without
waiting for leave from Mrs. Jaker he made
for the narrow staircase in a corner of the room,
and rushed upstairs as if he had been mounting
a breach. There were two rooms above — the door
of the first was wide open, Mrs. Jaker's den
evidently. The door of the second was shut, and
from within came another peal of laughter, almost
demoniac in its wild shrillness.

Otto toro,' cried a voice as shrill as the
laugh, ' Otto toro ! Seville, the land of poetry and
love, the land of song and dance, of bull fights
and beautiful women. Spain — yes — Spain is the
place for me.'

This time the words were English, spoken as
only English lips can speak. Ycl, sui'cly, il was

a Frenchman who sang that snatch of the Carmagnole
just now; and it was a Frenchman of
whom Colonel Stukely was in quest.

He opened the door and stood on the threshold,
looking into the cottage bedchamber, a fair-sized
room under a sloping roof, lighted by a good old
dormer window.

The young man whom he had last seen lying
amongst the gorse and heather was stretched on a-
pallet under the window. His head was propped
up against the plastered wall, and his eyes were
staring straight before him, while his thin hands
played with the coverlet. Suddenly, while the
Colonel stood watching him, he crouched into a
corner of the wall, and flung up. his arms above
his head like a inn recoiling from an enemy.

'The bull!' he shrieked, 'the Ind is coming
at me — keep him off, keep him off. No, it is not
the bull. Worse, worse, ten times worse. It is her
husband, in his winding sheet, bedaubed with
blood. I could never stand blood. Keep him off,
keep him off 1 '

He fell back upon his wretched mattress, his

face flushed tu crimson, his pupils dilated, the
eyeballs rolling restlessly, perspiration rolling in
thick beads down his forehead and hollow cheeks.
He was a victim to a disease which the Colonel
knew only too well, and had seen but too often
among Anglo-Indian brandy drinkers, men who
had succumbed to the temptations of the climate,
and who were sipping brandy and water all day
long. He had seen just such paroxysms, and he
knew that for the time being they meant raving
madness. And this unhappy wretch was Grace
Darnel's plighted lover : and if Mr. Penwern came
to the cottage by-and-by with his search-warrant
he would see this young man and discover the
real state of the case — arrest him most likely on
suspicion ; an arrest which would be followed by
an enquiry that might bring Grace's name before
the public. How could this wretched creature,
maddened by drink, Ijc expected to keep Miss
Darnel's secrete

The Colonel looked at his watch. It was a
quarter tu seven. There was time yet to do
something Ijehjre the detective should appear

with his warrant. Mrs. Jaker had followed him
upstairs ; lie was standing'' at his elbow, watching,
her strange lodger.

Come down stairs,' said Colonel Stukely,
'you can do nothing for that unfortunate wretch.
I see you have been giving him brandy,' he
added, pointing to an empty bottle and a glass
on a chair beside the pallet.

'He begged so hard for it that I was olio-ed
to get some for him,' answered the woman
apologetically.

'How many bottles has he drunk since he
has been here ? You had better tell me the
truth.'

'Three — no — I believe it is four,' Mrs. Jaker
replied meekly.

She was quite overcome by that air of command
which was an old habit of the Colonel's.

'That means a bottle a day. I suppose you
know that brandy is a deadly poison for a man
in this state ? '

No, indeed, sir. It was the only thing that
kept him up.'

Don't you think that a doctor would have
known letter what was good for him ? But you
dared not send for a doctor

They had descended the stairs hy this time,
and the Colonel and Mrs. Jaker were standing
face to face in the lower room. The children,
not seeing any prospect of a formal breakfast, had
possessed themselves of sundry odd crusts and
stale slices from a chaotic cupboard, and had
gone out into the windy garden to gnaw them,
in the company of two or three nomad pigs.

Now, Mrs. Jaker, let there be no nonsense
between you and me said the Colonel sternly.
I want to save that young man if I can — and in
saving him I may be alle to save your husband,
as in . that young man's absence there will be no
evidence against Jaker. If the detective comes
here with his search-warrant before that young
man has Ijcen got out of the way, the whole
story of how he came here, and how Jaker took
that money from him, will come out, and both
Jaker and lie will Ix transported for life. A
packet of lank-notes stolen from the person is a

more serious matter than a snared rabbit, you
know, Mrs. Jaker.'

Mrs. Jaker did know it. She was trembling
in every limb. All that deep-dyed hypocrisy and
artfulness by which she had hitherto contrived
to hoodwink society deserted her at this
crisis of her fate. The Colonel, with his six-feet
two, broad shoulders, and soldierly chest, bronzed
countenance, and fiercely curving grey moustache,
was the most terrible being she had ever looked
upon. She stood before him in fear and
trembling; and in her agony she told him the
unvarnished truth.

Jaker had been out very late that night — it
was the night after the races. He lead won a
few shillings on True Blue — not ten pounds,
sir, no, that was a falsehood — and he stopped
drinking at the Coach and Horses till after
twelve o'clock — the landlord had to turn 'em out,
him and some others. The uther men lived in
the Village, so Jaker had to come home alone.
It's a good two mile from the village, and he'll
have to pass the park, as you know, sir. There's

a right of way in the daytime, but not after the
gates are shut

'Yes, yes, I know.'

•' But Jaker was ncYer one to stop for gates ;
so he got over the fence and crossed the park.
It would save him a good half-mile. He had
got nearly over to the other side — where there's
a gate into a narrow lane that leads right on to
the Marlborough road close against our own lane
when he heard someone groaning. It was so
dark that he couldn't tell at first where the
groans came from, but when he had groped
about a bit he found a man lying under a tree,
dying, as he thought. He had a little bottle of
spirits in his pocket, that he was bringing home
for my rheumatic shoulder, and he forced some
of that down the man's throat. It brought him
to like, and he asked Jaker if he could find him
a shelter for the night, anywheres — he didn't mind
how humble — and he could afford to pay for it,
as he'd got some money about him, poor as ho
looked. He had a wild sort of wav of talking.
Jaker said, and was all of a tremble. Jaker

offered to take him to the Coach and Horses, and
to knock the landlord up, and get him a bed;
but the man would not have that, he wanted to
go where nobody would know anything about
him. " Oh," said my husband, " I understand.
You're in hiding." He didn't say yes, nor he
didn't say no. So then Jaker offers to take
him to our own cottage, and h says, " Yes,
that would do very well, and I can get off by
the rail early tomorrow." So Jaker helps him
over the gate, and brings him home— and we
makes him up a bed in the room upstairs. But
when the bed was made it was hard work to
get him to go to it. He sat over the tire, and
talked, talked, talked, so fast and so wild like.
And he offered my husband a sovereign to go
and get a bottle of brandy — and we could hardly
make him understand that it was the middle of
the night, and that the public-houses were shut.
He was dreadfully wild ; but Jaker got him upto
bed at last, almost carried him, as if he had
been a child.'

'And when did Jaker find out about the
money ? ' asked the Colonel.

'It was the next day. The young man was
in a very low way till he got the brandy. He
cried, and said he wished he was dead, and took
on dreadfully. But when my husl^aud had fetched
a bottle of brandy from the village, and he had
drunk the best part of it, he cheered up a little.
I made some l)rotli for him in the afternoon, but
he would hardly touch it, and he wouldn't take
tea, or anything I offered him, except brandy.
He finished the bottle before night, and he was
very abusive when my husband refused to get
him another. In the evening he went off into a
wild state, and raved about something he had
under his pillow — a treasure, he called it — and he
laughed and said his mother had l)een very mean to
him, but that he had got the best of the bargain.'

His mother,' repeated the Colonel, wonderingly.
'What could he mean by that?'

And then he reflected that in a paroxysm of
delirium tremens all a man's words are alike
meaningless, and unworthy of consideration.

'While my husband was sitting smoking his
pipe beside the bed the young man took the
packet out from under his pillow, and Jaker
saw that it was a roll of bank notes. The
young man counted them over, and talked
about the money, and what he was going todo
with it, as wild as any madman, and it
seemed as if, for half a farthing, he'd have put
the notes in the candle, and burnt them all.
"Do you think I care for money for its own
sake ? " says he. " Not a bit. I shall drink and
game it all away, I daresay, before I'm three
months older," and then Jaker thought what a
shame it was that this madman should have all
that money to spend in drink and cards, or
perhaps to set a light to it when the wild fit
was on him — money enough to take us all to
Canada, where we'd been pining to go for the
last ten years, and to buy us a bit of land,
and start us in an honest life — and so, late
that night, when the young man had gone off
into a restless sleep — he never sleeps above a

quarter of an hour at a time — Jaker put his
hand softly under the pillow '

'And stole the notes.'

'No, sir. He took out the packet, and looked
through the notes, and took half of them, leaving
most of the small ones. He took two fifties and
five twenties — just enough for our passage money
and to buy a little Ijit of land over there — and
he went off' early next morning.'

Did he know of any ship sailing for Canada? '
asked the Colonel

'Yes, there was one that was to sail from
Plymouth yesterday, and he was in a fever to
start by it.'

Plymouth, and yesterday. Mr. Penwern will
be a day after the fair;' thought the Colonel.

Did your lodger find out that he had been
robbed ? ' he asked presently.

'Lord, no, sir. He counted the notes over

and over again next day in a stupid way, like a

man half asleep, and he seemed at first to think

that there was something wrong. He missed

my Island, too; but when 1 fetched him his
VOL Iii (I

bottle of brandy he was quite content. "Your
husband is dead," he said. " I believe I shot
him." Late at night he had a wild fit, and
thought the police were after him, and raved
and went on dreadful, crying out that he should
be hung for murder — just as his father was
hung for murders before him. " Xo,'' he says,
they didn't hang my father. He was mad, and
they locked him up." '

This fairly startled the Colonel. Why, this
was Stuart Mackenzie's story. What could it

mean? Could this young man be Xo, the

notion was too wild — too horrible. And then it
was so idle to attach significance of any kind to
the ravings of a maddened drunkard.

In any case there was one tiling needful to be
done, a thing not easy to be done, and that was
to get this youiig man out of the way before
Penwern appeared upon the scene. How was this
thing to be accomplished? This man must be
conveyed away, and to some . safe shelter— but
where, and how ? Force might be needful to
remove him, and a vehicle of some kind. Yet

how could the Colonel dare to hire a vehicle in
the village where everyone had been put upon the
qui vive by the bills offering a reward for the
apprehension of the robber. Any proceeding at all
out of the common was sure to arouse curiosity,
and to be talked of all over the village. Secrecy
and expedition were alike necessary. The Colonel
was fairly nonplussed.

If we cannot get that young man safely
away from this house before eleven o'clock to-day
you are likely to spend the night in jail,' he said
to Mrs. Jaker, turning to lier for aid in his
desperation.

The poacher's wife was shrewd and crafty, experienced
in double dealing. She saw her own
danger and she was prompt to face the situation.

'I know of an old barn where he could be
comfortable enough for the day,' she said. * You
could get him away from there after dark.'

'Yes, of course, I could do that. I could got
a trap from a distance,' said the Colonel. 'How
far is your Ijarn ? '

Ten minutes' walk.*

Good. Then we must try and get him to go
there quietly — and of this own accord. I shall
look to you to help me. To whom does this
barn belong, by the way, and how can you be
sure that no one will go there before night ? '

It belongs to Mr. Sommerton, who rents the
next farm,' answered Mrs. Jaker. 'He uses it
in summer for some of Squire Colchester's
hunters ; but it's empty all the winter, and no
one goes near it for weeks at a stretch. I don't
think there's any fear of anybody going there
to-day.'

We must risk it, at any rate,' said the
Colonel. ' You had better stay down here, and
be ready to go with me dien I bring the young
man downstairs.'

I don't think you'll get him to budge,' Mrs.
Jaker said doubtfully.

But the Colonel had faith in himself. He
had been called upon to deal with this species
of lunacy before to-day. He had sublime patience,
and he knew that if anybody could manage a
maniac he could do it.

He went upstairs again. The young man who
called himself Camillacc was lying in a listless
attitude, with his eyes half closed. The Colonel
stood in the doorway for some minutes observing
him. The face was handsome even in its ruin.
Pale, cadaverous, thin and wasted as it was,
there were traces of exceptional beauty in the
delicately-chiselled features, the perfect proportions
of chin, and cheek, and brow, the rich
mass of wavy black hair, the silken lashes, and
finely-pencilled eyebrows — just the kind of face
to catch a schoolgirl's fancy, to dazzle as the
countenance of a de mi-god. Nor was there any
doubt that the man looked like a gentleman.
Those slender white hands lying on the patchwork
coverlet were hands that had never toiled.
They had shaken a dice box often cnougli, and
handled a billiard cue; but they had never
laboured for bread.

Colonel Stukely suit the door sharply, and
the sick man started up, looking at him, scared
and flurried, and eager.

'Are they there?' lie asked.

Yes answered the Colonel at a venture,
they have hunted you down. Get up, and
put on your boots. I'll get you out of their
way if I can.'

The young man got up and staggered across
the 'room. He was too weak to move steadily.
And then he sank into a broken-down chair,
and sat looking about him vaguely. The boots
were in a corner — dilapidated, worn-down dress
boots. The mud had been roughly wiped off
them with a wisp of straw, and that was all.
The Colonel picked them up and looked at them
l.)efore he handed them to their owner. Yes,
they would have made just those prints which
the detective had shown him on the flower beds.
There was the small heel, worn to the quick
upon one side, the straight narrow sole, and
pointed toe — a French boot maker's master-piece.

Camillacc put on the boots, looking up at the
Colonel with a suspicious air as he did so.

'How do I know that you are not one of
them,' he said.

Do I look like a policeman ? '

You don't. But that doesn't matter. You
may have something to do with them all the
same

I am Grace Darnel's godfather, and I am
here to save you.'

Grace ! She sent you then, and she does
care for me still. Her letters have been devilish
cold for the last six months. I began to think
she wanted to throw me over.'

There is no time to talk of that now. If
those men get hold of you '

eyes, that would be devilish. Are they downstairs
? How am I to get away without their
seeing me ? '

Mrs. Jaker will keep them talking in the
back room while .you and I slip out by the
front door.'

Where are you going to take me ? '

The Colonel explained his plan. He would
get a trap at Darnel Park, and pick Camillacc
up at the learn a little after dusk. It should
be a trap that lie could dri^■e himself, and he
would take the young man to the station, and

thence ship him off for London under the
charge of his o^vn valet, a man who might be trusted.

What the valet was to do with the young
man when he got him to London was a point
which the Colonel had not yet had time to
consider. But it was a question which must
be answered before the evening.

Camillacc was not easily managed. At one
moment he was white with terror at the thought
of those men below, believing in them firmly:
and in the next moment he doubted their
existence, and was afraid of the Colonel. He
knelt down by the pallet presently, and took
the packet of notes from under his pillow, and
thrust it inside this ragged shirt. He did this
in a secret way, glancing furtively at the Colonel
all the time.

How do I know that you don't mean to
rob me ? ' he muttered. ' I have missed some
money already in this house. I believe it is a
den of thieves.'

If you suspect me I had better wish you
good morning,' said the Colonel.

This threw the wretch into a panic of fear
and self-abasement. He flung his arms round
the Colonel's neck ; he entreated him to keep
off those devils, who wanted to drag him away
and hang him.

I didn't mean to kill him he said. ' I
shot him without thinking. The pistol was
there, don't you know, ready to my hand, as if
Satan himself lead put it in my way. Save
me, save me — hide me. I am not a murderer 1 '

Be quick, then,' said the Colonel decisively,
there is no time for fooling. If you want to
escape those men you must not lose an instant.'

He went downstairs, and Camillacc followed
him like a beaten hound.

You've got the policeman out of the way,'
said the Colonel, winking at Mrs Jaker. ' That
was clever of you. And now come and slow
us the way to this barn.'

He put the young man's arm through his,
and led him out into the garden. Camillacc was
in a pitiable state of weakness, and could not
have gone three steps without help. But the

fresh morning air revived him a little, and he
was able to get over the ground, supported and
aided by the Colonel. The barn was in sight,
across a couple of fields. They skirted these
open fields, keeping close to the hedgerows,
where there was a hard, well-beaten track, and
where their feet would leave no perceptible
traces. The barn was never locked. It was a
large airy building — old, but substantially built,
with great heavy rafters, and patches of open
sky showing here and there through the great
dark roof

Why this is Noah's ark,' cried Camillacc .
What a rotten old hulk. We shall be wrecked
in the first storm.'

There was some straw in a corner. Camillacc
flung himself down upon it. The Colonel took
off his heavy ulster and spread it over the
shivering wretch.

Get through the day quietly here, sleep if
you can ; and I'll come to fetch you at dusk,'
said the Colonel.

'I can't get on without brandy,' answered

the other. *Yuu can bring me a hottle,' he
said to ]airs. Jaker, handing her a sovereign
from his waistcoat pocket.

The young man's possession of this gold
puzzled the Colonel, but he concluded that the
Jakers had changed one of his notes for him,
albeit Mrs. Jaker had not mentioned that fact
in her confession just now.

She shall take care of you,' said the Colonel ;
but remember you are in constant peril of
Ijeino' arrested as domi; as you remain in the
neighbourhood of Darnel Park. So you had
Letter keep as quiet as you possibly can till I
come to fetch you.' And with this injunction
Colonel Stukely left him.

There was no lock to the learn-door, but the
Colonel found a primitive and ingenious way of
fastening it outside by means of a Ijit of wood
and a strip of iron, which he twisted under andover
the latch, so as to render it a difficult
matter for Mr. Camillacc to get out. As they
went lack to the lane the Colonel gave Mrs.
Jaker her instructions.

'You are to take him no raw brandy he
said, 'unless you want to listen his death.
You must get a couple of pounds of Ijeef and
make some* 1)eef tea — as strong as you can
make it. You can put half a wine-glass of
brandy in a breakfast-cup of beef tea, and
try to make him drink that. He is in a
terribly low state, and will die from exhaustion
unless he takes some kind of nourishment.'

The Colonel could not help thinking within
himself that it would be a very good thing for
Grace, and everybody else, if this young adventurer
were to die ; but as an honest, God-fearing
man, Weldon Stukely knew that it was his
duty to try and save him. He walked home
quickly, not much the worse for the sacrifice
of his ulster, though it was a sharp October
morning. He entered the hall with the air of
a man who had been for a stroll in the gardens,
just as the eight-day clock was striking nine.
No gong sounded for meals in this time of
trouble. All noises in the house were hushed
save the musical chime of the clocks.

Dora Darnel was coming downstairs with her
key-basket on her arm, like a jailer.

What is the last report ? ' asked the Colonel,
when he had wished her good morning.

The night-nurse says there is an improvement,
but I am always afraid to trust these
people,' added Dora, as if all hirelings were
vipers. 'However, Mr. Friedricson is to be here
to-day, and we shall get the truth from him.'

Has Penwern started on his mission yet ? '
asked the Colonel, trying to seem careless.

He went out at eight this morning.'

Good,' thought the Colonel, ' it must be ten
before he can be at Mrs. Jaker's with this
warrant.'

The famous London surgeon was to be at
Darnel at eleven that day, and was to extract
the bullet, if he saw his way to performing that
operation safely. Lady Darnel knew that this
day was to be the crisis in lier husband's
fate, Before the day was over lie would
know, perhaps, whether he was to be spared
or lost to lier ; whether joy or despair

was to be her portion. She waited the issue ina

silent agony. She would not leave her room

except to creep into the corridor and crouch

listening on the ground outside her husband's

door. She would see no one except nurses and
doctor.

The nurse's favourable account of last night
was the first gleam of hope.

'You think he will get better now,' she said,
clasping the woman's hand. 'You believe that
we shall save him ? '

'I couldn't undertake to say so much as
that, my lady, but Sir Allan certainly had a
much quieter night,' the woman answered
calmly.

When Mr. Friedricson and the local doctor
came upstairs they found Lady Darnel standing
in the corridor, neatly dressed in her gray cloth
gown and linen collar, beautiful, calm as a statue;
but there was a strained look about her eyes
and forehead, a restlessness in the muscles of
the mouth which told the great surgeon how
her nerves were racked.

The two medical men were closeted in the
sick room for more than an hour, Lady Darnel,
and Grace, and Dora waiting in the corridor all
the time. Tliey stood in a little group at the further
end of the corridor, not daring to be near the
sick room lest they should be in the way at some
critical moment. Both the nurses where in
attendance, everything had been prepared for the
operation. There was no rushing in and out
there were no sudden unforeseen requirements,
there was no confusion. There was only intense
and agonising anxiety for those who watched
and listened without.

At last the door opened. Lady Darnel rushed
towards it, white as death. She met the famous
surgeon, a man of tall, commanding figure, a
man who looked a tower of strength in the
hour of calamity. Her lips moved as sho looked
up at him appealingly, but no sound came from
them.

Do not agitate yourself, my dear Lady Darnel,'
said the kindly voice of the operator, * everything
has gone most favourably. We have extracted

the Ijullct. There is every reason for hopefulness.'


Praise be to God,' she cried fervently. ' May
I go to my husband ? May I stay with him, and
help them to nurse him ? '

Not yet, Lady Darnel. It is more than ever
necessary that he should be kept quiet.'

But I am pining to see him. It has been
such a weary time. I should be so quiet. I believe
he would be happier if I where there. Has he not
asked for me ? '

He is hardly conscious at present. The fever
is much abated, the delirium much milder, but he
is not in his right senses yet. When he is he
will be sure to ask for you.'

Unless he is strangely changed,' said Clare,
with a touch of bitterness.

She knew not what trouble might wait for her
in the future, even dien her dear one was
snatched from the jaws of death.

He must be kept very quiet, he must see no
one except his nurses for the next few days. "Behave
every reason to Believe that all will go well.'

Every reason,' murmured the local authority.


But ill such a critical case there is no such
thing as certainty. The uttermost care will be
required,' said Mr. Friedricson.

Tin's was all. But, oh, how much it was to he
able to hope.

After breakfast the Colonel had an interview
with this valet ; and between them they made out
a plan for the disposal of Victor de Camillacc,
The valet had an old mother — he spoke of her as
an accident in his life — who lived in a pretty little
street off Islington Green, and who let lodgings to
single gentlemen. There had been a dearth of
single gentlemen lately; or rather the supply had
all been absorbed by the musical families, who had
tennis lawns and bath rooms, and agreeable
daughters, and who eked out Somerset House incomes
by partial-boarding single gentlemen ; so
that the valet's old mother had to bemoan the
emptiness of her rooms.

She cooks for Lion and docs for thon hotter

than they can be done by in your sliabliy gout eel
VOL Ti. n

missis-al families,' said illic valet; 'but they're all
alike, taken by a Itt of show — a few flowers and
fal-lals about a room, and a young lady to play
the piano to them.'

It was settled that Nicholls, the valet, should
take Camillacc to his mother's house, hire a nurse
f;)r him, call in a doctor, and put him in a fair
way of recover'.

The Colonel had his own ideas about getting
the young man out of England so soon as he
should be v;ell enough to be put on Itoard
^hi]) ; l:)ut there was no occasion to discuss tliesc
ideas with Nicholls.

'LOVE, SEE THY LOVER HUMBLED AT THY FEET '

The luncheon at Daniel Park thai (la' was more
cheerful than it had l.)een since the catastrophe of
nearly a week ago. For the first time since that
awful height the household lead been bidden to hope,
and hope filled the hearts of all, high and low.
the countenance of old Purdew, the Inter, beamed
with gladness as he poured out Colonel Stukely's
glass of ]\fanzanilla, and gave his sweeping professional
glance round the luncheon-tal)le to see
that all tidings were correct, before he retired to
his own substantial meal in the housekeeper's
room. E\eii Miss iJaiiicl was amiable; and ])0((r
Grace was radiant, despite those secret griefs
which) gnawed lier heart.

*1 can bear anything,' she said lu herself,
'if ni' lather renders.'

She was dying for another talk with the
Colonel. She wanted to hear what news the detective
had brought last night, and if any fresh
circumstances had been brought to light bearing
upon that horrible suspicion about Victor de
Camillacc. There had been as yet no opportunity
for any confidential talk with her friend. He had
been in his own room all the morning, and just
as luncheon was over, and she was hoping to get
little walk on the terrace with her godfather,
the butler announced Mr. Colchester, and at this
announcement Grace flew upstairs to her sanctum
with as scared an aspect as if the man had said
that smallpox or scarlet fever was in the .


Dora, always ready to do the honours of her
brother's house, sailed off to receive the Lord of
the Manor; while the Colonel went to the staples
to Give an order for the coq-cart. He would
drive himself, he told the chief coachman, taking
only Nicol with him. The cart was to be
ready for him at a quarter to six, He was going to
Scadleigh station to meet a friend who would ai-rive

by the seven o'clock train. The Colonel's position
as Sir Allan's oldest friend gave him a wide authority
in the stables, and nobody presumed to
question his orders.

You'd better take Dandy, sir,' said the coachman.
* He's a good goer, and he don't mind
trains.'

Dora found Mr. Colchester in very low spirits.
He was cheered hj the good news about Sir
Allan ; but even that could not remove the cloud
of gloom wliicli hung around him as a garment.

People are S( > d ill-natured ! I Ijeg your

pardon, Miss Darnel, only I have really no
patience. They have been saying such tidings
about this business, making a mystery of it, insinuating
that it has something to do with Lady
Darnel's past history.'

Indeed,' said Dora eagerly.

She had seen a few of her own particular
friends since the catastrophe, spinsters of her own
standing, or elderly young ladies strong in benin's
and piety, and to these she had unfolded her
doubts, vaguely, mysteriously, alleging no evil,

but hinting at a good deal. And now the bread she
lead scattered upon the waters was coming back to
her tenfold. She was not deliberately malicious,
lie did not even know, in the depths of her
own conscience, that she was acting cruelly and
unfairly to Lady Darnel. She fancied herself a
model of truth, justice, magnanimity. She told
herself that in all tidings lie was loyal and
devoted to her brother. \\1ien she saw him
cheated and imposed upon it was her duty to
defend him, to watch f(jr him, to be eyes and ears
for him whom a wild infatuation had made blind
and deaf.

A parcel of ta1)l)ies,' exclaimed the young
Squire, unconscious that he was alluding U)
Dora's chosen friends, the select and superior
elements in county society, the handful of corn
amidst the chaff. ' I dropped in at Seville's yesterday
' (Major Seville was a mighty hunter), ' and
there where a pack of women at tea, and they
all set on to gabble about Sir Allan's danger; he
was going to die, they were all cock-sure of that,
a set of ghouls; and then they began to wonder

and to speculate. How odd it all was, they had
never liked Lady Darnel. They admitted that
she was handsome, or had been handsome ; but
they lead never been alle to ])r'uv^ themselves to
believe in her, though they had tried to do s(j,
for Sir Alm's sake. As if Sir Allan could care
a hang what they believed.'

He has cared,' said Dora solemnly, ' all men
are sensitive, on these points. Why in France
half the duels one reads alunit are fought for no
stronger reason. I told you the other day that
my brother has suffered acutely from the consequences
of his most unhappy marriage. Was
there anything more said ? '

A great deal. They Ijegan to talk al)out some
man — a young man — dressed no better than a tramp,
but very good-looking, and with the air of a broken-down
gentleman, who was seen near Darnel Park
late in the afternoon before the night on which
Sir Allan was shot. It seems that Miss Mowbray
and her sister Jane — you know Jane.'

'As well as if she were my own sister. She
is one of the most truthful o-iils I know.'

I shouldn't call lier a girl,' said Edward
1»liintly; 'anyhow she is quite old enough to know
what she's talking about. She and Miss Mowbray
had been out to tea. It is their normal condition,
don't you know, to be drinking tea in somebody's
house every afternoon ; and they were going home
in the dusk, and they were a little frightened,
timid young flutterers ; so that when a young
man jumped up from the bank, where he had been
lying, they were ready to drop. They expected
to be robbed of their watches at the least ; but
he only asked them the way to Darnel Park.
He spoke like a gentleman, and he looked
like a gentleman, in spite of his shabby clothes.
He was not dressed any letter than a tramp,
they say.'

That may have been a disguise,' said Dora
suspiciously.

'Precisely! The same idea occured to me,'
said Mr. Colchester, also suspicious. That candid
nature of his was getting perverted by jealousy.
He was puzzled by the inconsistency of Grace's
conduct. She had almost admitted that she loved

him and then had declared that she would
never be his wife. There must lee some reason
for such a contradiction; and this shalil)y, good-looking
young man lurking mysteriously in the
neighbourhood of Darnel Park might be the reason.

'Did the Mowbrayss see any more of this
person ? ' asked Dora.

He followed them a little way, and questioned
them curiously about Darnel Park. Were the
family at home, Sir Allan, Lady Darnel, Miss
Darnel. He seemed to know all about them,
had their names quite pat. The Mowbrayss
answered him civilly, out of sheer funk. Tliey
thought he was a genteel beggar, who might
change this mind any moment and go for their
watches. They hurried home as fast as they
could directly tlicy got clear of him. Now this
fact, taken in conjunction with the night attack
upon Sir Allan, is certainly rather startling.'

It is more than startling,' exclaimed Dora.
I have felt convinced from the very first that
it was ]io common robber who entered the
house that niiiht.'

And then she spoke of trio footsteps which
lie lead heard on the terrace between ten and
eleven — the slow stealthy tread, like that of a
man pacific' up and down, waiting' and watcliin;:,'
for this opportunity. No don't that was the
footfall of this very man.

'Who coidd lie 1)e, do yon think?' asked
Edward.

Some one connected with Lady Darnel's
past life,' answered Dora decisively.

Some secret lover of Grace's,* Thought
Edward.

His shahl)y clothes were only a disguise,
you may depend,' said Dora.

'But the fact that the money was taken
seems to point to a burglar,' added Edward
dubiously.

The money may have been taken only asa
blind — not taken at all, perhaps, only hidden
somewdiei'e about the room where it will be
found later on. The man was a gentleman, he
went to that room to see Lady Darnel, and on
finding himself surprised by my poor brother he

shot him in order to escape recognition. Who knows
what hatred and jealousy he may have felt against
poor Allan, if he was, as I fear, a cast-off sweetheart
of Lady Manners — jilted, perhaps, in order
that lie might marry my deluded brother.'

Dora Darius put lier little story together so
neatly, had such a glib) assured air in the telling
of it, that Edward Colchester was almost inclined
to believe her. And yet there were difficulties.

This person was described as a young man,'
lie said, ' and Lady Darnel is not a young woman.
A former admirer of hers would hardly he a
youth.'

Those Mowbray girls were too frightened to
be very good judges as to a stranger's age, and
again some women have such perverse ideas.
To my mind Lady Darnel is just the kind of
person to have encouraged a young admirer, and
then to have thrown him over directly she
saw a chance of a good establishment.'

'You have not a high opinion of Lady
Darnel,* said Mr. Colchester, shocked at the
undisguised venom of her tone.

Has the county a high opinion of lier ?
Have you a high opinion of her ? ' asked Dora
contemptuously.

I have always liked her immensely ; but
of course, I would rather think ill of her than
of Grace.'

Of Grace; screamed Miss Darnel, ' what has
Grace to do with it ? Surely you cannot suppose
this man to be an admirer of my niece.'

She pronounced the possessive pronoun as if
the mere fact of relationship to her made
wrong-doing of any kind impossible.

I — I — luu'e been inclined to fear that he
might have come here to see Grace faltered
the Squire, Blushing vehemently.

To see Grace ! Impossible ! It was in Lady
Darnel's room that he was found. All Lady
Darnel's conduct since that dreadful night has
indicated a mystery. Never was guilt more
plainly expressed than by that wretched woman's
words and manner. Wliy she started up in her
sleep the next morning, screaming out that it
was lie fault, it was lie who had murdered

her hieland. And that idiotic detective from
London has chosen to start upon an entirely
false scent. He lias taken it into his head
that Jaker stole the money ; just because Jaker
happened to change a twenty pound note in
the village two days ago.'

Did he ' ' exclaimed Edward. ' That looks
queer. Jaker is 1jad enough for anything.'

But Jaker would have no motive for breaking
into Lady Darnel's morning-room. He could
not know that the money was there. There
was 'nothing to take Inn to that particular
room.'

'Nothing, except the fact that it is the most
accessible room in the house,' said Edward. * I
should like to see Grace, if she would let me.
She will not be quite so unhappy now that Sir
Allan is in a more hopeful condition. All, there
she is in the garden. I'll go out to her. If I
asked to see her I daresay she would say no.'

He took a hurried adieu, and was off to the
garden before Miss Darnel could say another'
word. He lead caught sight of a tall, slim figure

ill the distance, .suit Ijrowii hair blown Ijy the
autumn wind. Grace was walking up and down
by the sliruljbeiy, just where she had told hi in
that his case was hopeless. Lie had flown up to
lier room to avoid him, as if he were a pestilence ;
and yet ]here lie was walking where lie could
hardly fail to see her as lie left the house. It
was just one of those inconsistent things which
young ladies of Grace charnel's age are prone to
d(X Edward Colchester ran across the lawn and
joined her. He ran his fastest, half afraid that
she would vanish amidst the wilderness of shrubs
Before he could reach her. But she did not even
try to avoid him. She gave him her hand frankly,
and he took it, but with a certain coldness which
startled lier. His bosom was rent by liorril->le
suspicions al)out that stranger, whom the Mowbray's
had described to him. Till those d<v.il-»ts
should be satisfied, the master-passion jealousy
ttjok the price of the master-passion love. He
made some cumnor-place remark altoiit the ini-
lu-movement iu her lather's health, and then began
abruptly to talk of the stranger who had met the

Mowbrayss. Grace's .sudden look of fear at this
very first allusion to Lliis tian told him that the
man was no stranger to her. His doubts were
too well founded. The man had come to Darnel
to see Grace. He must needs be some disreputable
suitor whose acquaintance she had formed
away from home, and who came by stealth to
prosecute his suit, or to complete his conquest.

Your aunt thinks that this man came to see
Lady Darnel,' he said.

To see Lady Darnel. How wicked, how unjust!
So like my aunt,' cried Grace indignantly.
For what other purpose could he have come
except as a thief ? '

He is not a thief,' said Grace, bei-inninfr
with a rush, as if a1)0ut to say a great deal, and
then becoming suddenly silent.

For a moment she had been inclined to say,
He came to see me.' Lie lead linen tempted to
tell Edward Colchester the story of her enhiugle-
nient, the dishonouring chain \\liirh she; hid
forged for herself. Yet, why should lie se lower
herself iu this eyes i She had refused Lo be his

wife. Surely that was enough. She had sacrificed
her own happiness in order to be true to that
fatal promise. It was not for her to apologise
to a rejected lover for her folly. To him she
owed no allegiance.

He is not a thief echoed Edward. ' How-prompt
you are to defend liii. You know this
person then ? '

'1 am not going to be catechised by you,'
she retorted angrily.

I would not presume to catechise. Only
you must admit that under certain circumstances
a man has a right to be curious. Your father,
my father's dearest friend, a man I honour and
love, has been nearly murdered. I am told of a
young man who has been seen lurking about the
park — in all probability the criminal — and when I
mention the fact you take up the cudgels in
this man's defence. What can I think, Grace;
except that there is a mystery here in which
you are in some way concerned.'

'You can think what you please,' she answered
coldly. ' T do not Consider myself

accountable to you for my conduct. And now I
must wish you good afternoon. I am going
indoors to hear the latest news of my father.'

A quarter of an hour ago she was longing
to see him — she had purposely put herself in
the way of seeing him ; and now she left him
in anger, left him tortured by jealousy.

In the hall Grace met Purdew, the butler,
and from him she learnt that Colonel Stukely
had gone out walking. This was a blow, as she
was dying for a talk with her friend and counsellor.
Lacking this comfort she shut herself in
her own room, restless, unhappy, and full of fear.
\. The day wore on. Lady Darnel spent the
afternoon in prayer and thanksgiving. Each
new report from the sick-room was more cheering
than the last. Sir Allan was sleeping peacefully
— the weary brain so long tormented by the
wild visions of fever was now at rest. The
tide had turned. Soon, very soon, Clare Darnel
might hope to take her place beside the sickbed,
to sec the beloved face smile a fond welcome
to the loving wife.
VOL. III. S

Grace was on the watch all that afternoon
for Colonel Stukely's return; but to her surprise
she saw him driving away from the house at a
few minutes before six, his valet sitting at the
back of the cart. This seemed a very mysterious
proceeding. The dogcart had not been
brought to the hall door. The Colonel had got
into it in the stable yard, and drove rapidly
round to the avenue and away, like a man
who did not wish his departure to be observed.
Grace spent an hour and a half of supreme
anxiety, and at half-past seven a little pencilled
note was brought her, in her godfather's well-known
hand.

'I am obliged to go to London, dear Gracie,
in your interests. Don't be anxious. All
will be well. It may be some days — perhaps
more than a week — before I can go back to
Darnel. Your scampish friend is alive, but ina
very sad condition. I shall do all I can for
him, and I shall not lose sight of him till I have
obtained your release. So you may consider yourself
free to be kind to poor Colchester. The

man is not a Frenchman. You have, therefore,
been grossly deceived by him, and that fact alone
should cancel any promise you may have given
him. Ever your faithful friend, W. S.'

I^ot a Frenchman,' thought Grace indignantly.
'What an impostor! And he spoke French so
beautifully, and wrote such lovely letters. I daresay
they are full of faults in grammar which my
ignorance could not detect.'

The Colonel said not a word as to whether
Camillacc was or was not implicated in the crime
at Darnel. It was cruel of him to leave her
unenlightened, Grace thought.

The dogcart had been driven back to Darnel
by a man from the station hotel, at Scadleigh.
The Colonel sent a second little note to Dora,
apologising for his abrupt departure, and asking
her to telegraph a daily bulletin to him at the
club where he would breakfast every morning.
He lead a pied a terre in the shape of a second
floor in the neighbourhood of St. James's Street.

Three days had gone by since the Colonel's

departure and the progress of the invalid had
been satisfactory throughout that time. Pulse
and temperature had gradually fallen almost to a
normal condition, the wound was going on
favourably, the patient had tranquil nights, and
was able to take a little more nourishment than
at the beginning of his illness. And thus there
came an hour when the family doctor felt that
he could no longer forbid the presence of wife and
kindred in the sick-room.

'We must do nothing rash he said to Clare,
in the presence of Grace and Dora. ' You may
spend an hour or so with Sir Allan to-day, Lady
Darnel; and tomorrow, if all go well, Miss
Darnel and Miss Grace might see him. But
it had better be one at a time.'

It is very odd if I cannot see my brother as
soon as he is fit to see anyone,' observed Dora,
pallid with anger, yet speaking with her accustomed
suavity. ' We have been companions fora
great many years. I have never had a secret
from him, or he from me.'

That fact, interesting as it is, would not make

your presence less agitating, my dear Miss Darnel
said the doctor. ' Lady Darnel has the first claim
a wife's claims are paramount, you know — and
you and Miss Grace must wait for tomorrow.
And now, Lady Darnel, remember what I have
told you about our patient. Not one agitating
word— no show of emotion on your part. He is
too weak to bear anything of that kind.'

'I will be careful,' said Clare, clasping his
hand.

She was very pale, her lips quivering with
nervous excitement, and yet joy beamed in her
eyes. The moment so ardently longed for had
come at last. The bolted door by which she had
watched and listened was no longer to be an
impassable barrier between her and her beloved.

You can go to him now,' said the doctor,
Int remember you are to stay only an hour —
one hour by the clock. It is just twelve. You
will leave him at one.'

'And is that to be all? Am I not to see
him again all day ? '

'I shall be here in the cvcninir, and if I find

there has been no mischief done — if Sir Allan
is quite calm and comfortable, I may — well, I
will be very indulgent and let you see him again
for ten minutes

I will be obedient,' said Lady Darnel, opening
the door as she spoke.

She went softly into the room — the spacious,
old-fashioned bed chamber, which looked larger
in the semi-darkness of half-drawn window curtains
and lowered blinds. It was a noble room, furnished
with the artistic cabinet-work of the Jacobean
era — old walnutwood wardrobes and secretaires,
old cherry wood chairs with elaborately carved
backs. The only modern piece of furniture was
the low, broad brass bedstead, without a vestige
of drapery. The wide, deep hearth, with its old
blue and white tiles, and basket grate, and. high
mantelpiece, was a study for a painter of still-life.
The window curtains were of old brocade, red
and tawny. The room had a look of sombre old-world
luxury, very pleasant to the eye.

The nurse rose, and slipped very quietly away
to the adjoining dressing-room as Lady Darnel

approached the bed. Sir Allan was lying with
the firelight sinning on his face. Oh, what a
changed countenance — shrunken, pallid, as with
the lines of death. For the first time Clare
understood how near he had been to death. It
was almost as if she were looking upon a face
she had never seen before. The eyes— those dear
eyes that used to gaze upon her with such love —
looked at her now with a strange, dim, far-away
expression.

Shocked, horrified, by the extent of the change,
so much greater than she had expected, Clare
Darnel sank into a chair by the bedside, waiting,
hoping for some little word of greeting from those
pale lips ; but no such word came. Her husband
lifted his eyes to her face and looked at her
gravely, mournfully. His wasted, half-transparent
hand lay on the silken coverlet. She bent and
kissed it; but he drew it away the next moment
with a quick, nervous gesture, as if the touch of
her lips offended him.

She set a watch upon herself, remembering
the doctor's injunctions.

My beloved she murmured softly. ' It is
such a happiness to me to see you once again
to be allowed to sit by your bedside for a
little while.'

There were tears in her voice. The shock
of his altered appearance— his strange manner —
were alike agitating to her ; and she had to be
so careful lest her agitation should communicate
itself to. him. She waited, with her heart beating
vehemently — waited for some word of loving
welcome. In vain.

You are much better, Allan, Mr. Dan vers
tells me. You will soon be among us again.'

'Mr. Dan vers is vastly hopeful.'

How weak and faint his voice sounded ; how
strangely cold his tone.

'The house is so dreary without you,' she
said tremulously, trying to command herself, not
for an instant forgetting the doctor's warning.
'I have not been downstairs since — that awful
night.'

Do you think it was necessary to carry on
the comedy so long ? ' he said, with a scathing

sneer. 'But I forgot, you are such a skilful
actress that the deception would cost you no
effort. You, who have deceived me so long,
would find no' difficulty in hoodwinking the outside
world.'

'Allan,' she exclaimed breathlessly.

Was this delirium? His words were
measured, deliberate, cool as the speech of a
judge who calmly discusses the details of
crime and wrong-doing. She could not believe
that his mind was wandering. The doctor had
told her that fever and delirium were past.
The patient's extreme weakness was now the
only peril; and that weakness made any emotion
dangerous. If some dark cloud of suspicion
had obscured her husband's mind — if love had
been changed into loathing, she dared not question
him, she dared not strive to set herself
right. She must wait, and suffer in patience.

Silently, prayerfully, Clare Darnel sat by her
husband's sick bed, and listened to the ticking
of the clock, to the falling of the wood ashes
from the old basket grate. She could pray for

her beloved ; yes, that was all she could do in
this hour of severance — severance, albeit she was
sitting by his side. She could pray, and put
her trust in God. She could not believe that
any estrangement between herself and her husband
could last. Life had been made very
bitter to her in the days of her first marriage
—a long period of pain and anxiety, growing
from bad to worse, till it culminated in the
tragedy at Mallow Barracks. And there had
followed further trouble about her son. And
then, after she had done with hope, after she
had told herself that joy and gladness were not
for her, there had come the awakening: of a
new love, the beginning of a new life, days of
exceeding sweetness. Was that bright time allover
now, she wondered, and was she to go
back into the darkness, and pain, and desolation.
No, she could not believe that fate would be so
cruel, that she was to be ever the victim of
other people's sins — the scapegoat to suffer for
the folly and crime of her belongings. No, all
would be well again between herself and her beloved

when once she could talk to him freely.
He would not revenge upon her the wrongdoing
of her son, although it had gone near to
cost him his life. She knew Allan Darnel's
generous heart too well to believe that. But
for the time being there was a gulf which she
dared not attempt to cross. Whatever he might
suspect; whatever evil he might think of her
she could not set herself right yet awhile.

So she sat with folded hands, meekly, quiet
as the figure of a saint in a cathedral niche,
praying for him whose thoughts had wronged
her, praying for the restoration of the confidence
and the bliss of old, when he and she had
been in all things of one mind. And so the
moments stole gently ley till the hour was done,
and as the clock struck she rose to leave the
room.

'I must go now, Allan,' she said softly.
'Mr. Danvers only allowed me one hour. Can
I get you anything, or do anything for you
before I go ? It would be such a pleasure tome
to do you some small service.'

Thanks, you are very kind. No, there is
nothing.'

He spoke courteously, but as coldly as if he
were addressing a stranger,

Au revoir, Allan. I may come again to
look at you in the evening, perhaps.'

He did not forbid her to return. He let
her .depart in silence.

He looked after her with sad, reproachful eyes
till she was gone, and then turned his head
upon the pillow and groaned aloud. Yes, he
loved her still. She was as dear to him as
she had ever been: she whom he. believed to
be the falsest and vilest among' women : she
who had admitted a lover beneath her husband's
roof at midnight-^a desperado who, seeing his
mistress's good name at stake, had tried to
murder the husband in order to save the wife.

Yes, he recalled in this bitter hour, as he
had recalled again and again since the awakening
from the long agony of delirium, he recalled
once again the memory of that hideous
night. He remembered how in his sleep, the

heavy sleep of fatigue, he had vaguely heard
the murmur of two voices in the adjoining
room, his wife's voice and another ; how, even
in sleep, he had wondered at those voices, wondered
that his wife should be talking; how,
struggling half-consciously to arouse himself, he
had at last awakened to hear his wife speaking
and a man's voice replying. Then came silence
and the sudden shutting of a door. He had
risen hurriedly, put on his dressing jacket, and
opened the door of the morning-room. On the
very threshold he stopped, seeing a man
standing by the table — a man whose dark handsome
face impressed itself upon him in that
one instant.

He could recall those dark, flashing eyes, the
hectic flush upon hollow cheeks, the haughty
carriage of the head; but he could remember no
more. He could not have told the man's age, or
the clothes he wore. The figure stood before him
for a moment only, dark, tall, defiant; then there
was a flash, and all was dark.

The face had haunted him in his delirium —

the figure, with pistol pointed at him, had
pursued him through the dark mazes of fever —
and now while he lay weak as a child, helpless,
hopeless, broken-hearted, the dark evil face was
with him still, a haunting presence.

And he believed that his wife was false to
him, an arch deceiver from the very beginning
of their acquaintance. He believed that she had
put aside some dearer love for the sake of the
position he was able to offer, and that all her
subsequent life with him had been one elaborate
comedy, so perfect in its dissimulation that he
had lived in a fool's paradise, deeming himself
the happiest of men. Then came the preparations
for the Italian tour. The lover had heard of
this intended journey, had grown desperate, perhaps,
at the idea of a prolonged separation, and
had insisted on an interview. Urged by an angi-y
man, irrevocably lost by her conduct in the past,
Clare Darnel had not stopped short at this last
infamy. She had admitted her lover at midnight,
beneath her husband's roof. And she came to
him to-day in her calm, pale beauty, looking at

him with her eyes softened by unshed tears; she
kissed him with her false lips; she acted her part
of shameless hypocrisy to the last, and did not
shrink from the man whose heart she had
broken, whose life had well nigh been sacrificed
to her infamy.

If I had died from that wound she would
have married her old lover — married him with
his hand red with my blood — married as Mary
married Both well he thought, ' and the settlement
which my doating folly secured to her would
have made their future days easy. And this is
the woman I have trusted — this is the woman
whom I gave as a mother to my innocent
child.'

The doctor came in the evening, and was
not altogether satisfied with his patient's appearance.'


'You look worried,' he said. 'I thought Lady
Darnel's visit would have cheered you. I
expected to see a marked improvement. How
has he taken his nourishment, nurse?'

Not over-well, sir,' answered a prim little

person in grey. 'Sir Allan sent away the
partridge scarcely touched, and he only took a
spoonful of his custard.*

No use trying to pamper you with dainties,*
said the doctor facetiously. ' eye shall have to
put you back upon Brand's essence if you don't
take care. Sir Allan must take a plate of invalid
turtle for his supper, nurse, and you must give
him a glass of dry sherry after it.'

Sir Allan looked supremely indifferent to the
supper question.

If Lady Darnel has any idea of coming to
see me this evening, you might tell her that she
had better not. I do not think I am strong
enough to see people yet,' he said presently,
while the doctor was feeling his pulse, watch in
hand.

*I don't think you are. You have quite disappointed
me,' replied Mr. Danvers.

Clare was waiting in the corridor when the
doctor went out.

May I see him again to-night ? ' she asked
eagerly.

Not to-night. He is very low— out of spirits
altogether depressed, a natural reaction after
that violent fever. He nnist be left to himself
for a few days more.'

And I am not to see him again — for a few
days V exclaimed Clare dejectedly.

Come, dear Lady Darnel, I have let you
have an hour with him. I have been very indulgent
; too indulgent, I fear, for the result has
not been favourable. In Sir Allan's extreme
weakness any excitement is bad. The thread has
been strained to its thinnest point — an extra
strain might snap it ! '

I will not m near him for a week,' said
Clare, Bursting into tears. ' He was not himself
to-day. If you had not told me that the
delirium was oA'cr '

Oh, his mind is clear enough. That is all
right.'

'Is it? Are you sure that he is in this right
senses ? '

As sure as I can be of anything. He is

perfectly calm and reasonable this evening.
VOL. uu T

There is no fever. There is weakness, and there
is a profound depression. We can only hope for
the return of strength. His spirits will revive
as lie gets stronger. Good-night, Lady Darnel.'

good-nights she answered despondently, going
back to her room.

She still kept herself secluded from the rest
of the family. she could not bring herself to
return to the cannon routine of daily life, its
irksome forms and ceremonies, the hollow
semblance of peace where there was no peace.
In the seclusion of her own apartments she could
abandon herself freely to the fever of her soul,
could start up from her seat and walk up and
down the room, could dull the agony of lier
heart by quick movement, hy restless wandering
in and out from the room to the corridor.

Can he doul)t me — or does he guess the truth?
Docs he suspect that it was my son, my reprobate
son who has just missed being his murderer ?
If he did he is too generous to blame me for my
son's guilt, to accuse me of hypocrisy. Hypocrite,
how and wliy ? ' lie asked herself piteously.

And then she remembered how, in telling
Allan Darnel the history of lier unhappy son,
she had spoken of him as of one whom she
believed to be dead. The knowledge that he
still lived had come to her very soon after her
marriage, and she had kept that knowledge
from her husband. That had l)een her Greatest
sin. In her agony as a mother, ashamed of
the son who only appealed to her for money,
whose vices and follies had been a continual
drain upon her purse, she had shrunk from the
acknowledgment of his existence. She had
hoped always to keep him at arm's length, till
at last repentance and reform should come, and
lie should begin a new life in a new land.
The new land had been tried, and had proved
a failure as a means of reform ; lout he was
young enough for the possibility of reformation,
and the mother's heart still clung to that
hope.

In this and in this only lead lie acted as a
hypocrite. Lie lead kept the knowledge of this
burden to herself. She had kept the secret of

this ever-present care. This perpetual dread of
what the day might bring forth, this constant
anxiety had preyed upon her, undermining lier
health, making her fitful and low-spirited; and
her anxious husband had told himself that it
was her womanly pride that suffered, that it
was the coldness of his old friends which made
lier unhappy.

'I will tell him all, by-and-by, when he is
strong enough to bear an agitating conversation,'
she said to herself, after long meditation
upon her husband's conduct, ' and if I find that
I have lost his love — well, I must l.)ear the
blow. It will not be the first of my trials,
and it ought to be the last. If that loss do
not kill me nothing can.'

Second only to the horror of having forfeited
her husband's love was the agonising thought of
her son's infamy. A thief, and only by God's
mercy a little short of a nnirderer. He, her
only son, had fired upon her husband with the
intent to kill him. He had escaped from that
house, carrying with him four luindrcd pounds

of stolen money. Where was he now ? A felon,
a marked man, pursued by detectives ; perhaps
before long to stand in the felon's dock, and
to answer for his crime. Then the whole story
of his wretched existence, of his mother's bitter
burden, would be unfolded for the gratification
of the curious; and all those old friends of
Sir Allan's who had held themselves aloof from
his second wife would say, 'We did well to
suspect this woman's antecedents. The mother
of such a son could not be a good woman.'

Not once in her conversation with Grace
had Lady Darnel hinted at her knowledge of
the girl's acquaintance with the adventurer who
lead called himself Victor de Camillacc. To do
that would have l)een to reveal too nnich. She
was determined to guard her step-daughter from
any future dealings with her son, should he ever
again dare to present himself upon the scene. But
it was lier desire, if possible, to get him out of
the country before he was called upon to pay
the forfeit of his crime. Miss Darnel's promptitude
in putting the case into the hands of the

police made her position all the more difficult.
Her only hope was that Mr. Penwern, having
got upon a false scent, would continue to go
astray, and would devote himself to the pursuit
of Jaker, while the real criminal was making
his escape. It was not to Dora Darnel that
Clare owed her knowledge of Mr. Penwern's
movements. That lady went about with locked
lips, the very incarnation of secrecy. But in a
country house secrets of this kind pervade the
air. Mr. Penwern had Ijcen made very comfortable
in the housekeeper's room ; and though he
had been discreet he had not altogether been
silent. Lady Darnel's maid told her that Jaker
was known to have stolen the money ; and that
Mr. Pervert wanted to stop him from getting off
to America. The idea of his guilt had been
confirmed by the disappearance of Mrs. Jaker,
whose cottage had been found empty one morning,
she and her lirood of brats having slipped
away under cover of the darkness, almost as
quietly as Robin Goodfellow and his goblin
crew.

THEN BE WE, EACH AND ALL, FORGIVEN '

A WEEK went 1)y, a week of misery for everyone
at Darnel Park, and for at least one person
outside the gates; a week which had brought no
new tidings of any kind. ]mr. Penwern had
gone back to Scotland Yard a confessed failure ;
and Dora was scathing in her contempt for
the detective force. He had eaten and drunk ;
he had been handsomely paid for his services ;
he had gone upon expensive journeys to Liverpool,
and Plymouth, and Cork ; but he had
failed to arrest the footsteps of Jaker or even
to discover what white wings had wafted Jaker
and his fortunes westward. Among the crowd
of emigrants for that Western Paradise the
poacher, a marked man in the neighbour! hood of
Darnel, had l)een lout an insignificant unit;

and he had left no trace behind him in the
memory of dock falconers or wayside loiterers.
The note changed by Jaker at the village shop
had been identified l}}^ Sir Allan's bankers as one of
the notes issued to him. This fact established Jaker's
guilt in the mind of the detective. But it did not
satisfy Dora Darnel. From the first she had made
up her mind that her sister-in-law was in some wise
implicated in the guilt of that fatal night. She wa's
not going lightly to surrender that belief. It was
the fruition of her own evil thoughts, the culmination
of her long-cherished dislike of her brother's
wife. Lie was not going to relinquish her own
convictions, the outcome of much intense thought,
merely because the real criminal had been clever
enough to pass some of this plunder to Jaker, no
doubt with the express intention of putting justice
on a false scent.

While Miss Darnel clung to her own convictions
Edward Colchester was pursued by the thought of
that handsome and gentlemanlike stranger, whom
the Mowbray girls had seen lurking about Darnel.
He took occasion to discuss the subject a second

time with-miss Mowbray and lier sister — during
a chance meeting at somebody else's house — and
again he heard of the stranger's shabby clothes
and superior air, his anxiety to know who was
staying at Darnel, and upon which side of the
house Lady Darnel's and Miss Darnel's rooms were
situated.

Did he ask about both ? ' asked Edward, deeply
interested.

Yes, about both. And we were so frightened
that we answered him like silly sheep, without
thinking how improper it all was,' answered Jane.

Such questions could only be asked by a
burglar, could they ? And yet he had such a
gentlemanly air; and he looked very ill, poor
creature,' said Miss Mowbray.

The whole thing is very mysterious,' said Mrs.
Vincent, the lady of the house, who had called
upon Dora Darnel that afternoon, and whose
imagination had been fed with suggestions and
innuendoes. ' But then Lady Darnel is such a very
mysterious person.'

She is a cherishing woman,' protested Edward,

who was not going to sacrifice Lady Darnel to
these ladylike harpies.

He had always liked her and believed in lier;
and he was prepared to stand by her now. It was
Grace whom he suspected, Grace who had treated
him so badly.

Charming, no doubt. She is very handsome
and very elegant, and she has a certain style of her
own, which is very taking, even if it is not quite
good style,' replied Mrs. Vincent, with a judicial
air, 'but every one nest admit that she is mysterious.
There is a want of candour, a something
underhand.'

Why should you accuse her of being underhanded
? ' exclaimed Edward. ' Did she ever tell
you a lie ? People are not obliged to go about in
society advertising their antecedents. Perhaps she
was very poor in her first husband's lifetime, and
doesn't care to talk about the shifts she vas put
to. The world is so snobbish, that people are
ashamed of owning they were ever hard up. Or
the man may have been a scamp. Who knows ? '

'No one knows anything,' said Miss Mowbray

maliciously. 'Lady Darnel has shown a peculiar
talent for holding her tongue.'

o o

Then she is the most original of women retorted
Edward, 'and I only wish the rest of her
sex were as clever.'

This was a glaring piece of injustice, since a few
minutes ago he had been doing all in his power
to make Jane and her sister talk about their
encounter with the tramp, outside Darnel. But
Edward Colchester had not been himself for the
last ten days. His heart was gnawed by jealousy,
and this gnawing process is apt to have a very
bad effect upon a man's temper.

A week had gone by since that morning
when Clare Darnel had entered her husband's
room, full of love, and hope, to be received
with such crushing coldness. She had not seen
him since that hour. She had waited meekly
till he should summon her to this bedside. She
was ready to lear the punishment of lier sin
against him, that one sin of concealment, ready
to acknowledge that lie ]i;ul erred in withholding
lier confidence from the liusl)and and friend
to whom lie owed all allegiance.

During the week that was just ended Sir
Allan lead made marked progress towards recovery.
A powerful constitution and habits of
exceptional temperance had made his restoration
to health easy, when once the bullet had Ijeen
successfully extracted. He had been gradually
regaining strength of body and mind during that
week of quiet and seclusion. He lead seen his
daughter once, his sister three times. Dora had
urged her right to see him, and he lead yielded
to her wish, not without reluctance. She had
sat with him for an hour on each occasion, and
lie had talked softly, in low and gentle accents,
yet dropping such drops of venom as those lips
of hers were wont to distil when her brother's
wife was the subject of conversation. Whatever
Sir Allan thought of her insinuations he lead
been inscrutable.

And now the day had come when he felt
himself equal to an interview with his wife—
that interview which he felt must needs be
final. His house must no longer shelter a
traitress, his daughter must no longer call an

infamous woman mother. It was to Grace, his
only child, his darling of peaceful days gone by,
that he turned in this hour (jf dark despair.
Amidst the shipwreck of his happiness she was
the straw to which he clung. And now, to-day,
when he had to pronounce judgment upon his
guilty wife, he summoned Grace to stand at his
side, to be, in some measure, judge between him
and the woman they Ijoth had loved. Grace
would incline to mercy. Grace would pity the
sinner, even in the midst of lier indignation at the
sin.

It was the first day upon which Sir Allan
had been well enough to sit up for an hour or
two. He looked the pale ghost of his old self
as he sat by the lire, wrapped in a long
brocaded dressing-gown, bordered with salle, as
picturesque as the robe of a Venetian senator
in the sixteenth century. The gown had l)een
planned and chosen by Lady Darnel, and made
in secret, as a birthday gift for her husband.
He remembered that fact when this valet Handed
him llu! garment, and would have avoided ]putting

it on — lout his only other dressing-gown had
been stained with blood on the fatal night. He
could not reject the obnoxious robe without too
plainly indicating his antipathy; and he did not
want to make his wife's disgrace common talk
in the household.

He sent for his wife and daughter, and they
came to him, side by side. Grace flew to the
hearth where he sat in a spacious armchair.
She flung herself upon her knees beside him
and nestled her upright head in his lap.

Oh, father, what delight to be with you ! '
she murmured.

Clare stood a little way off, calm, erect, but
very pale. If she stood before him thus as a
criminal, conscious of that last worst crime of
which a wife can be guilty, she was indeed the
most audacious among women. But though her
face expressed a proud tranquillity, and her
eyes, grave, sorrowful, reproachful even, looked
at him unthinkingly, she was content to stand
aloof, as one who knew there was an impassable
giUf between herself and him. So Allan

Darnel thought in this agony, as he looked at the
wife he had loved.

Had loved ? Is there ever an end to such
a love as this ? Did Lucius Junius Brutus cease
to love his sons when, as their judge, he condemned
them to death ?

Never lead Allan Darnel loved yonder pale
beautiful woman more intensely than he loved her
now, in this supreme hour of renunciation.

Grace, I have sent for you because I have
that to say to Lady Darnel which I wish you
to hear,' he began gravely. ' There are some
fathers who would keep such a sorrow as mine
for ever secret from a daughter, who would
hush up and gloss over facts, leave all things
in darkness and mystery, a something to be
wondered about for ever afterwards. I'ut I have
chosen to act otherwise. You are a woman, and
it can do you no harm to know that there
are wicked women in this world as well as
good women. I give you my whole confidence,
(Grace, because I believe you are wise as well
as loving.'

Father,' cried the jiirl, looking' at him with
horror, ' what are you going to say ? Not one
word against my mother.'

Hush I ' exclaimed Sir ARan, putting his hand
upon her hips. ' You must never again call that
woman by such a name. You look upon her
to-day, I hope, for the last time. Lady Darnel
and I are going to part, Grace, for ever. There
is no need for me to enter upon the reasons
for that parting. She knows what those reasons
are as well as I. There need he no public
scandal, no disgrace for her — whom we have
both loved. Lady Darnel is comfortably provided
for under her settlement. She will do
well to live abroad, alleging any reason she may
please, not dishonourable to me, for our separation.
I would spare her all the pain I can,
although her infamy well-nigh cost me my life —
although her midnight visitor did his best to
murder me.'

Father, father,' cried Grace, with a. wild
shriek of horror, 'you are wrong — deluded —
deceived by me, your wretched daughter. It was in

the hope of seeing me . that that man came to
this house. He had been lurking about all day.
He wanted to get an interview with me — to
claim my promise — perhaps to ask me for money,
since he was brought so low.'

'Grace, what are you raving about? You
are mad exclaimed Sir Allan, looking from his
daughter to his wife, in sheer bewilderment.

Clare had said not a word. She stood before
him silent, imperturbable, waiting to hear his
accusation in all its fulness. She wanted to hear
him to the end— to learn the lowest depth to
which she had sunk in his estimation before
she uttered one word in her own defence. And
now Grace had come to the rescue — Grace,
generous and impulsive — and the whole story must
needs be told.

Neo, father, dearest, I am not mal ; lout I Have
been foolish, blamable, wicked even ; for it was
wicked to keep the secret of my folly from the
best and kindest of leathers. I am deeply
ashamed of myself. If that dreadful wound had
been fatal I should have been the most miser-vol.

TTT. T'

able creature in this world. I could not have
gone on living, knowing that my folly had been
the cause of my father's death.'

And then briefly, bravely, without disguises or
sophistications of any kind, Grace Darnel told the
history of her entanglement, told how .she had
seen her scampish lover upon Quicksand Common
when they were out cub-hunting in the morning,
and how she had seen no more of him.

You did not see him again at night, then ? '
questioned her father. *how do you know that
it was he whom I saw in the next room — the
man who fired the shot ? '

I do know it — as well as one can know
anything from circumstantial evidence — but it is a
long story. Hark ! there is a carriage,' cried
Grace, rushing to the window. ' It nuit be the
Colonel. I had a letter from him this morning
saying he should try to be back to-day. He
knows everything. He can convince you that I
am telling the truth.'

He knows,' said Sir Allan. ' You trusted him,
then, when you dared not trust your father ? '

'Because I was not one little lit afraid of
him, dear, indulgent, old thing,' cried Grace. ' May
he come upstairs at once ? I am dying to see
him ? '

'Not yet, Grace, we must have this story out
first. If — if I have wronged your stepmother as
deeply as your words imply '

'You have wronged her, deeply, cruelly, outrageously.
There never was a more devoted
wife. I know how she has suffered all through
your illness, poor thing ; and she stands there
like a felon, accused of crimes of which I
alone am guilty.'

Clare,' cried Sir Allan, holding out his arms
to his wife, trying to rise, but almost too weak
to lift himself from the capacious depths of the
low arm-chair.

Clare, can you forgive me ? '

Allan, my beloved husband.'

Lie flew to this arms. On lier knees, with
her head upon this breast, she sobbed out the
fulness of her heart.

No, Allan, no,' she gasped, when her passionate

tears had exhausted themselves; 'no, I am
not without guilt. I too have 1)een weak and
cowardly. Like this poor girl here, I have had
my secret. I have kept one Bluebeard chamber
in my life locked from you, the best and most
generous of men. Grace is mistaken. Her unprincipled
suitor, the unhappy young man dio
in Paris called himself Victor de Camillacc, came
to this house on that dreadful night to see me,
to obtain money from me — from me whose purse
had been emptied for him, time after time, since
my marriage. You must have often wondered
what I did with my money, Allan, how I contrived
to get rid of that handsome income which
your love had settled on me. You know now.
It was not spent on private charities, as you
fancied. It was not from motives of benevolence
that I stinted myself of those luxuries women
love. It was my worthless son who drained my
purse, and squandered your money in gambling
clubs and on racecourses.'
Your son ? '
Yes, my son, Stuart Mackenzie's son, dio,

God help him, has inherited all Stuart Mackenzie's
vices, including the capacity for murder. My son,
who may before long be standing in the criminal
dock to be tried for the crime of that fatal night,
and to Spring disgrace upon you through your
wretched wife. He was not drowned, as we
thought, in the Erl King. He wrote to me from
San Francisco within two months of my marriage.
He had seen the announcement in an English
paper, and he congratulated me on my good
fortune and my power to help him. From that
time to this his letters have l)een one long
series of demands. I have complied, weakly,
hopelessly, ready to grant anything rather than
to let you know my trouble, rather than that
you should feel ashamed of your wife's son. He
is mine, you know, my very own, my flesh and
blood. No dishonour can touch him that does
not cast its shadow upon me. I could not bring
myself to confess how low lie had fallen. If I
had told you anything I must have told you all.
I preferred to keep my secret, and in this one
matter to lie a hypocrite.'

Poor Clare ! poor misguided Clare ! As if I
should have failed you, love. Why, I would have
stood by you and helped you if you had been the
mother of half a dozen scampish sons.'

^ Ah, you are so good ! But I wanted to spare
you all trouble and worry.'

sand so worried yourself out of health and
spirits. All wrong, Clare,' said Sir Allan, gently.

I tried, under these conditions, to do my duty
to my wretched boy, tried to be his adviser and
guide, to put him in an honourable way of life.
I gave him the means of living as a gentleman ; the
leisure to cultivate the profession of his choice.
I refused no request lie made me. I lent a willing
ear to his promises of amendment. All in vain.
He was a drunkard and a gambler — this vices were
ingrained in him — a hideous hereditary taint —
the leprosy of sin. When he stood before me
that night, threadbare, down at heel, laggard,
degraded, I knew that he lead fallen to the lowest
depth of moral and physical ruin. His shaking
hands and restless manner told me too plainly
that he was a sufferer from his father's old disease,

the brandy-drinker's fatal fever. He had so
suffered before, as I knew. He had hardly
emerged from boyhood when he was first attacked
by that horrible complaint. I knew all this,
but I did not know that he could be mad enough
or wicked enough to attempt murder. He told
me of his courtship of Grace — admitted that he
had passed himself off as a Frenchman, was
daring enough to talk about claiming the fulfilment
of her promise directly lie came of age.
He asked me for a large sum of money, which
I refused; and, while I was absent from the
room, he opened the Japanese cabinet where you
lead put the notes — he must have seen you from
the balcony — and was in the act of making off
with them when you entered.'

I understand,' muttered Sir Allan. ' It was
the money, then, that made him desperate. I had
forgotten all about that money

Other people did not forget. Miss Darnel
brought a detective from London, and lie put the
whole story together.'

'Dora brought a detective here, and without

my permission ! ' exclaimed Sir Allan. ' She brought
the police into the house while I was lying unconscious
here ! That was rather a wide stretch
of her authority as my sister.'

'We were all so anxious about you, dearest,'
murmured Grace. ' I daresay it was Aunt
Dora's anxiety which made her send for the
detective.'

I don't think the whole of Scotland Yard
could have done very much towards saving my
life, Gracie. It would have been more sisterly of
your aunt to have postponed her enquiries till
I was able to sanction them.'

She could not have guessed that the thief
was my son and Grace's suitor' said Lady
Darnel 'Happily for us, the man from Scotland
Yard was Ijcguiled by a false scent, and
my wretched son is still at liberty. God only
knows where he is, and what we may next
hear of him.'

Nothing bad, I hope, mother,' said Grace,
'for the Colonel lias undertaken to look after
him; and as I had a very cheery letter from

the dear old niaii this iiioniiiig I have no
doubt he has managed everything admirably.
Would you mind his coming here now, father?
I am dying to know what he has done.'

'Yes, Grace, you can send for him now.'

Grace went off to deliver her own message,
and Allan Darnel and his wife were alone fora
little while. Alone, and side 1)y side, full of
trust in each other, just as they had been
before that crime which for a little while had
wrapped their lives in a Slack cloud.

Ah, Clare, what a besotted idiot — what a
ruffian I have been to you,' said Sir Allan,
lifting his wife's hand to his lips. ' What shall
I do to atone for my Brutality ? '

'Get well and strong as fast as ever you
can, dearest, and let us start upon our journey
to the Italian lakes. And — yes — there is one
other favour I should like to ask you.'

'There is nothing you can ask, love, which
I will not grant.'

'I think, Allan, when we come back to
Darnel it would be better for your sister to find

a home elsewhere. I do not believe that she
and I can ever he quite happy and at ease
under the same roof, for I have an idea that
she detests me.'

And upon my honour, Clare, I believe you
are right. My sister was a very good sister as
long as there was no rival to dispute or share
her influence ; but she is fond of power, she
was proud of her position as mistress of Darnel
Park, and she has never honestly forgiven me
for marrying again. I believe that, in a ladylike
way, she has contrived to prejudice a good
many of my old friends against my new wife.
She shall find another home, Clare. You and I
will have nothing;' but sunshine in our domestic
lives. You don't mind Grace, do you ? Grace
is devoted to you.'

And I am devoted to Grace. I shall be very
sorry when we are obliged to part with her. Oh,
Allan, while we are still alone tell me i;hat you can
forgive the trouble I have brought upon you through
my unhappy son — poor Grace's entanglement —
that terrible wound, which lias imperilled this dear

life. If you had never known me these thugs
might not have happened.'

If I had never known you I should have
missed knowing true happiness. We must take
the sour with the sweet, the thorns with the roses,
dear love. Life is made so. As for Grace, she
is a fine, impulsive creature, created to get into
mischief-of some kind in the flush of youth and
folly, like a roe caught in a thicket. And she
night have met your scampish son in the Louvre
all the same had I never met you.'

Hardly, Allan, f(jr it was your money that gave
him the means of living in Paris.'

Here comes the Colonel,' said Sir Allan.

Grace came gaily into the sick room, bringing
her Indian warrior, whose fine, benevolent countenance
beamed with kindly feeling.

My dear Allan, this is a change for the better.
Lady Darnel, I congratulate you,' lie said, as lie
sank into the chair which Grace wheeled forward
to the hearth. ' I was very sorry to leave Darnel
while you were in such a critical state ; but I
had some particular business in town '

'You can speak before father and mother said
Grace ; ' they know everything about Monsieur de
Camillacc'

'I am very glad of that, my dear. First and
foremost, then, there are your letters,' said the
Colonel, handing her a sealed packet. 'You can
count them by-and-by and see if they are all
right. And there is a letter from the young
man, whose name is no more Camillacc than it is
Stukely.'

Grace knows his real name now,' said Clare.

The deuce she does ! ' cried the Colonel. ' It's
more than I do, for I believe the fellow has half
a dozen aliases. However, Grace knew the man
as Camillacccc, and as Camillacccc he writes to lier,
renouncing all claim upon her, acknowledging that
he was altogether unworthy of her girlish confidence,
and that he obtained lier promise under
false pretences. The letter was written on board
the Orizaba, pound for New Zealand, where I
have despatched our young friend under the care
of a doctor who is going to settle in the colony,
and who will look after Mr. Camillacc and set

him on his legs when . he gets out there. If
there is any capacity for reform in the man lie
will have a fair chance of redemption.'

God grant that he may take advantage of it
exclaimed Clare. ' Oli, Colonel Stukely, how can
I ever be grateful enough to you for this good
work ? '

You ? ' said the Colonel, looking puzzled.
'Ah, you do not understand yet. You have
not been told all. The service done for Grace
is a tenfold boon to me. The man you have
tried to rescue is my son, Valentine Stuart
Mackenzie. If you have indeed saved him — • — '
If he had been my own son I could not
have done anything better for him.'

'And you have taken all this trouble, you
have spent a great deal of money,' began Lady
Darnel, but the Colonel interrupted her.

Don't talk about money. The whole business
lias cost very little more than a hundred, sofar.
And that reminds me that I have some
money of yours in my pocket-look, Allan, just
half of the notes which Lady Darnel's son

took ill his mad fit. The other half fell into
the clutches of Jaker and his brood, who robbed
him while he was under the influence of
delirium tremens. Don't be unhappy, Lady
Darnel, the fit was over before we put him
on board the Orizaba, and my friend the
doctor will look after him throughout the
voyage. The Orizaba is a sailing vessel. The
passage will last long enough for a perfect cure,
if my friend Heron is as firm as I believe he
will be. I put the case in his hands as an
interesting experiment. " Here is a young man
organically sound, good looking, well made, weD
born, well bred, given over to the demon drink.
I give him into your custody, out of reach of
temptation, for the steward and the captain will
work with you for his welfare. You can have
him all to yourself for the next two months.
If there is any virtue in your science you
ought to be able to cure him." And Heron
declared that he would cure him.'

Clare gave the Colonel her hand.

You have brought me comfort and hope,'

she said fervently. ' You are a noble-hearted
man, Colonel Stukely, worthy to be my husband's
friend.'

'You can give me no higher praise than
that.'

Grace had opened the packet and looked
over her letters. Yes, they were all there, the
poor little school-girl notes written in the most
Britannic French, with much recourse to grammar
and dictionary ; the letters written later from
Darnel, in a freer style, and a little more Gaelic,
but abounding in wrong genders and impossible
tenses. She glanced through the collection,
blushing as she looked, and then knelt down on
the hearth rug and threw them behind the lining
logs. What a merry blaze they made !
While the flames went roaring up the wide old
chimney, she turned to her godfather, half in
tears and half in mirtlifulness.

You have done something more for me than
teach me my catechism and the Ten CVnnmaiul-
ments in the vulgar tongue,' she said. ' You
have rescued me from a great difficulty

Perhaps if T had l)een in the way to teach
you the Ten C(jmnianduients, laying a particular
stress upon the fifth, you might never have got
into that difficulty, my poor Gracie.'

'No, if I had honoured my father as I ought
to have done I should never have engaged myself
to a French art-student without his knowledge
said Grace ; and then with a touch of pretty rebelliousness
she added, 'But then he ought never
to have sent me to school. That was the beginning
of evil.'

'That was Aunt Dora's doing,' said Sir Allan.
The school was her advice.'

I hate people who are always giving advice,'
exclaimed Grace. 'A thing that costs nothing, and
which nobody wants.'

How happy they were, sitting round the cosy
hearth in the spacious old room which AVren lead
planned for just such family uses. Four people
sitting round the fire in the average modern bedchamber
would be a crowd ; but here there was
room enough for twenty. They sat round the
fire talking for the next hour, and almost forgot

that Sir Allan was still an invalid, till the family
doctor came in and reproved them severely all
round, including the patient.

'I said you were to sit up for an hour or so,
and you have been up at least four hours he
expostulated.

'The other three hours went under the head
of " or so," ' replied Sir Allan. ' It was a vague
expression on your part which I took to have
a liberal meaning. Don't be frightened, Dan vers,
I never felt better in my life; and I am
going to eat one of those partridges which you
have been pressing upon me as persistently as
Louis the Fourteenth upon his confessor. I am
going to eat a partridge and drink a tumbler of
Heidsieck " to my supper," as old-fashioned people
say.'

Upon my soul I believe you have been taking
Heidsieck already,' said the doctor, ' for you are as
merry as a grig — and you have been all in the
doleful till to-day.'

'The tide has turned, doctor,' said Sir Allan,
You shall see how fast a man of forty-five

VOL III X

can get well when he is surrounded by those he
loves.'

Before the end of November, Sir Allan was
well enough to start for the south. The day
before he left Darnel Park he had a decisive interview
with his half-sister, during which he made
it very clear to Dora Darnel that her place was
no longer under the same roof that sheltered her
brother's wife.

I do not understand in what manner I have
offended Lady Darnel,' said Dora, with an air
of ill-used innocence. * I have absolutely slaved
in my desire that everything in this house
should be as near perfection as possible. If
Lady Darnel lead any experience of a large
establishment she would lie better able to
appreciate the trouble I have taken in her
behalf.'

*Lady Darnel is not unappreciative, Dora.
She has a great admiration for your talents
as a housekeeper ; so great, in fact, that her
ambition has been aroused by youi- example,
and she would like when we come back to try

her hand at housekeeping on her own account;
so I shall be glad if you will plan your future
life while we are away. I am sure we shall
all be excellent friends at a distance.'

Dora paled to the lips, and the hand that played
with her watch-chain was faintly tremulous, but
she maintained her dignity as she replied :

'I am deeply grateful to you for my release,
Allan. Residence under Lady Darnel's roof has
long been painful to me. My own wants are of
the simplest. My poor little income will enable
me to live in London, and in an intellectual atmosphere,
where I hope I shall not be misunderstood
as I have been here.'

You must allow me to double your income, as
I have always intended if ever we came to live
apart,' said Allan, kindly.

Dora protested against the idea ; but there was
that in her protestation which assured Sir Allan
that she would not be inflexible.

Clare and Grace both left Darnel with lighter
hearts because of the knowledge that they would
not find Miss Darnel installed there on their return.

That pernicious influence would be taken out of
their lives for ever.

T can never forget that it was Aunt Dora who
sent me to school said Grace, in her confidential
talk with her stepmother, while Sir Allan slept
peacefully on the other side of the railway carnage
which was taking them to Genoa. ' She is the
only person who ever parted me from my father.'

'But I believe there is one other person who
has the same malicious intention, Grace,
answered Lady Darnel, smiling at her. 'If Mr.
Colchester comes to spend Christmas at Venice
with us, as he threatens, I fancy it will be with
the hope of persuading you to exchange Darnel
Park for the Manor before long.'

'He is a most persistent young man,' said
Grace, blushing. ' I hope it won't bore you to
have him in Venice.'

'I shall be delighted to have him. He has
always been my friend. He has never looked
coldly upon me as other people have done at
Darnel.'

I believe that coldness was mostly Aunt

Dora's fault said Grace, and she was right, for
on Lady Darnel's return to her husband's house
in the spring, and upon the announcement of
Grace's engagement to Edward Colchester, people
who had held themselves somewhat aloof before
hastened to Darnel to offer their congratulations
upon that pleasing event : and somehow before
the year was out the neighbourhood began to
understand that Lady Darnel was a really
charming person, and that Sir Allan was altogether
fortunate in his second marriage.

Sir Allan's second wife received all such tardy
attentions somewhat coldly, and did not by any
means fling herself into the newly-opened arms
of the neighbourhood ; but Grace's marriage, which
took place early in August, brought about festivities
and visiting that necessarily drew Lady
Darnel into county society. She stinted no
splendours or hospitalities that beseemed the
marriage of her husband's daughter and heiress
with a man of wealth in the neighbourhood; and
she bore herself at all these festivities with a
quiet dignity which impressed even the doubters.

Whatever she may have been in the past, she
must always have been a lady,' said that pleasant
old Lady Spatterdash, who had enjoyed every hour
of her life in London and Paris, before she took
to wearing poke bonnets and holding mothers*
meetings in Wiltshire ; ' and that is the main
point after all. We don't want to pry into
people's past lives, but we cannot receive ci devant
barmaid or ballet-girls.'

Lady Darnel is so completely happy in her
husband's love, and in the perfect confidence
now established between them, that she can
afford to be very indifferent to the opinions of
the county. She has received cheering news
from New Zealand, where Stuart Mackenzie has
been behaving well and winning friends.

THE END.
