AT URBANA-CHAMrt^lSO'
STACKS

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/likeunlikenovel01brad

Theft, ntutilotlen, and undermining ». i. .
'or dl,.ipri„„ry „.„.„ Zd „. . T"" "' '"""»

she Uni,.r.i,/ """ '""" '" """•'"" '""<

To renew coil Telephone Center, 333-8400

MH 7

FEB sum

Mi^(iVi3 1992

Loci— O-1096

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," "VIXEN,"
'mohawks" Etc. Etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
SPENCER BLACKETT

(Successor to 3). Sc m. J^axtocll)

MILTON HOUSE, ST. BRIDE ST., LUDGATE CIRCUS
And SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET, E.C.

van rt gilts reserved']

CONTENTS TO VOL. I.

CHAP.
I.

ir,

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

\i X.

;;;5 XI.

XII.

Ten,.

^.XIV.

CONTRASTS

A WILD IRISH GIRL .

DANGER

ACROSS COUNTRY

AS THE SPARKS FLY UPWARD

EASY TO LOVE HER .

NOT QUITE CONTENT.

"NO GENTLEMAN WOULD HAVE

NOT THE AVERAGE GIRL .

CHANGEFUL AS THE WIND

A DANGEROUS PILOT.

TOTAL SURRENDER .

MAKING THE TEST OF IT .

NOT A COMMON GIRL

ACTED

SO



PAGE


39
69
103
112
135
166
181
196
225
241
258
291
302

CHAPTER I.

CONTRASTS

Has Mr. Belfield come in yet? '^

''No, Sir Adrian'

'' He rode the new horse, did he not ? ''

Yes, Sir Adrian'

Sir Adrian Belfield moved uneasily in his chair,
then walked to the fireplace, and stood there, looking
down at the smouldering logs upon the hearth,
with an anxious air. The footman waited to be
questioned further.

"What sort of character do they give the new
horse in the stables, Andrew ? '' asked Sir Adrian
presently.

Andrew hesitated before replying, and then

VOL. I. B

answered, with a somewhat exaggerated cheerfulness,
'^ Well, Sir Adrian, they say he's a good 'un, like
all the horses Mr. Belfield buys'

Yes, yes, he's a good judge of a horse — we
know that. But he would buy the maddest devil
that was ever foaled if he fancied the shape and
paces of the beast. I didn't like the look o£ that
new chestnut."

You see. Sir Adrian, it's Mr. Belfield's colour.
You know, sir, as how he'll go any distance and
give any money for a handsome chestnut when he
won't look at another coloured 'loss."

Yes, yes ; that will do, Andrew. Is her ladyship
in the drawing-room ? "

'^ Yes, Sir Adrian," said the footman, who was
middle-aged and waxing grey, and ought long ago
to have developed into a butler, only Belfield Abbey
was so good a place that few servants cared to leave
it in the hope of bettering themselves. The butler
at Belfield was sixty, the under-butler over fifty,
and the younger of the two footmen had seen the
sun go down upon his thirty-second birthday. That
good old grey stone mansion amidst the wooded

bills of North Devon was a paradise for serving
men and women ; a paradise not altogether free
from the presence of Satan ; but the inhabitants
were able to bear with one Satanic element where
so much was celestiaL

Sir Adrian went to the window — a mullions
window with richly painted glass in the upper
mullions, glass emblazoned with the armorial bearings
of the Belfields, and rich in the heraldic
history of aristocratic alliances. Like most Elizabethan
windows, there was but a small portion of
this one which opened. Adrian unfastened the
practicable lattice and put his head out to survey
the avenue along which his brother would ride
home.

There was no horseman visible in the long vista
only the autumnal colouring of elms and oaks
which alternated along the broad avenue with its
green ride at each side of the road, only the infinite
variety of fading foliage, and the glancing lights of
an October afternoon. How often had Adrian
watched his twirl brother schooling an unmanageable
horse upon yonder turf, galloping like an

J} 2

infuriated centaur, and seeming almost as much a
part of his horse as if he had been made after the
fashion of that fabulous monster.

^^They must have had a good days thought
Adrian. ^' He ought to have been home before
now, unless they killed further off than usually

He looked round at the clock over the fireplace.
Half-past five ! Not so late after all. It was only
his knowledge that his brother was riding a hot-tempered
brute that worried him.

What a morbid fool I am/^ he said to himself
impatiently. " What an idiot I must be to give
way to this feeling of anxiety and foreboding every
time he is out of my sight for a few hours. I
know he is one of the finest horsemen in Devonshire,
but if he rides a restive horse I am miserable.
And yet I can sympathize with his delight in conquering
an ill-tempered brute, in proving that the
nerve and muscle of the smaller animal, backed
with brains, can prevail over size and weight and
sheer brute power. I love to watch him break a
horse, and can feel almost as keen a delight as if I
myself were in the saddle, and my hands were doing.

the work. And then in another moment,, while I
am exulting in his victory, the womanish mood
comes over me, and I turn cold with fear. Fm
afraid my mother is right, and that nature intended
me for a woman"*

He was pacing slowly up and down the room as
lie mused upon himself thus, and, coming face to
face with a Venetian glass which hung between
twp blocks of book-shelves at the end of the library,
he paused to contemplate his own image reflected
there.

The face he saw in the looking-glass was handsome
enough to satisfy the most exacting self-consciousness;
but the classical regularity of the
features and the delicacy of the colouring were
allied with a refinement which verged upon
effeminacy, and suggested a feeble constitution
and a hypersensitive temperament. It was not
the face of one who could have battled against
adverse circumstances or cut his way upward
from the lowest rung of the ladder to the top.
But it was a very good face for Sir Adrian Belfield,
born in the purple, with fortune and distinction

6 Contests

laid up for him by a long line of stalwart ancestors-such
a one could afford to be delicately fashioned
and slenderly built. In such a one that air of
fragility, tending even towards sickliness, was but
an added grace. ''So interesting' said all the
young ladies in Sir Adrian's neighbourhood, when
they descanted on the young baronet's personality.


For Belfield's own eye those delicately-chiselled
features and that ivory pallor had no charm. He
compared the face in the glass with another face
which was like it and yet unlike — the face of his
twin brother, in which youth, health and physical
power were the leading characteristics. Sir Adrian
thought of that other face, and turned from his
own image with an impatient sigh.

Of all the evils that can befall a man I think
a sickly youth must be the worst," he said to himself
as he left the room and went across the hall ta
his mother's favourite sitting-room, the smallest ina
suite of three drawing-rooms opening out of each
other.

Lady Belfield was sitting in a low chair near

the fire but she started up as her son opened the
door.

^' Has he come home ? ^' she asked eagerly.

Valentine ? No, mother' answered Adrian
quietly. " Surely, you are not anxious about
him?"

But I am anxious. How white and tired you
look ! I am always anxious when he rides a new
horse'' Lady Belfield exclaimed, with an agitated
air. " It is so cruel of him to buy such wretched
creatures, as if it were on purpose to torture me.
And then he laughs, and makes light of my fears.
The stud-groom told me that this chestnut has an
abominable character. He has been the death of
one man already. No one but Valentine would
have bought him. Parker begged me to prevent
the purchase, if I could. He ought to have known
very well that 1 could not' she added bitterly,
walking to and fro in the space before the bay
window.

Dearest mother, it is foolish to worry yourself
like this every time Valentine rides an untried
horse. You know what a horseman he is''

^ CONTRASTS

'' I know that he is utterly reckless, that he
would throw away his life to gratify the whim of
the moment, that he has not the slightest consideration
for me.'^

"Mother, you know he loves you better than
any one else in the worlds

Indeed I do not, Adrian. But if he does, his
highest degree of loving falls very far below my
idea of affection. Oh, why did he insist upon
buying that brute, in spite of every warning ? "

My dear mother, while you are making yourself
a martyr, I daresay Valentine is walking that
obnoxious chestnut quietly home after a distant kill,
and he will be here presently in tremendous spirits
after a grand day's sports'

Do you really think so ? Are you sure you
are not uneasy ? ■'''

Do I look it ? '^ asked Adrian, smiling at her.

He had had to conceal his own feelings many a
Time in order to spare hers when some recklessness
of the dare-devil younger-born had tortured them
both with unspeakable apprehensions. Ever since
he had been old enough to be let out of leading-strings

Valentine had been, perpetually endangering
his limbs and his life to the torment of other people.
His boats , his horses his guns his dogs, had been
sources of inexhaustible anxiety to Lady Belfield
and her elder son. It suited his temperament to
be always in movement and strife of some kind ;
riding an unbroken horse, sailing his yacht in a
storm, making his companions and playthings of
ferocious dogs, climbing perilous mountain peaks ;
crossing the Channel or the Bay of Biscay, just
"when any reasonable being, master of his own time,
would have avoided the passage — doing everything
in a reckless, hot-headed way, which was agony to
his raother^s tender heart.

And yet, though both mother and brother
suffered infinitely from Valentine Belfield's folly,
they both went on loving him and forgiving him
with an affection that knew no diminution, and
which he accepted with a carelessness that was
akin to contempt.

'' You look pale, and fagged, and ill," said Lady
Belfield, scrutinizing her son with anxious eyes.
^' I know you are just as frightened as I am,

though you hide your uneasiness for my sake.
You are always so good to me, Adrian :" this with
a tone that seemed half apologetic as if she would
have said,, ^' I lavish the greater half of my affection
on your brother, and yet you give me so
muche

Dear mother, what should I be but good to
the best and kindest of parents ? ''

Oh, but I am more indulgent to him than to
you. You have never tried me as he has done,
and yet ^^

And yet I love him better than I love you''
That was the unspoken ending of her speech.

She went to the window, brushing away her
tears — tears of remorseful feeling, tears of sorrowing
love, tears which she half knew were wasted
upon an unworthy object.

Cheer up, mother'' said Adrian lightly. " It
will never do for Valentine to surprise us in this
tragical mood. He will indulge his wit at our
expense all the evening. If you want him to get
rid of the chestnut say not one word about danger.
You might remark in a careless way that the

animal has an ugly head, and does not look so
well bred as his usual stamp of horse — that is a
safe thing to say to any man — and if he tells us a
long story of a battle royal with the bea'=!t, be sure
you put on your most indifferent air i.s if the
thing were a matter of course, and nobody's business
but his own ; and before the week is out he
will have sold the horse or swopped him for
another, and , as he could hardly find one with a
worse character,, your feelings will gain by the
change. He is a dear fellow, but there is a vein
of opposition in him''

Yes, he loves to oppose me ; but after all he is
not a bad son, is he, Adrian ? "

A bad son ! Of course not ; whoever said he
was ? ''

'^ No one : only I am afraid I spoke bitterly
about him just now. He is always keeping my
nerves on the rack by his recklessness in one way
or the other. He is so like his poor father — so
terribly like."

Her voice grew hushed and grave almost to
solemnity as she spoke of her dead husband. She

had been a widow for nearly twenty years, ever
since her twin boys were four years old. It was
the long minority which had made Sir Adrian
Belfield a rich man.

'sand yet, mother, he must be more like you
than my father"' said Adrian, " for he and I are
alike, and every one says that I am like yon""

^' In person, yes, he is more like me, I supposes'
she answered thoughtfully ; ^' but it is his character
which is so like his father's : the same daring
spirit — the same restless activity — the same strong
will. He reminds me of poor Montagu every day
ofhislife.'^

Sir Montagu Belfield had met his fate suddenly
amidst the darkness of a snowstorm on the icebound
slopes of Monte Rosa, while his young wife
and two boys were waiting and watching for his
return in a villa on Ago Maggiore. The horror
of that sudden death, the awfulness of that parting,
had left a lasting shadow upon Constance Belfield's
existence, and had given a morbid tinge to a temperament
that had always been hypersensitive.
That first sudden sorrow had so impressed her

mind that there was an ever-present apprehension
of a second blow. She quailed before the iron
hand of inexorable destiny, which seemed always
raised to strike her. She had lived much alone,
devoting her time and thoughts to the rearing and
education of her sons ; and her mind had fed upon
itself in those long, quiet years, unbroken by stirring
events of auy kind. She had read and
thought much in those years ; she had cultivated
her taste for music and art, and was now a
highly accomplished woman ; but her studies and
accomplishments had always occupied the second
place in her life and in her mind. Her sons were
paramount. When they were with her she
thought of nothing but them. It was only in
their absence that she consoled herself with the
books or the music that she loved so well.

Her elder son, Adrian, resembled her closely in
person and disposition. His tastes were her tastes,
and it was hardly possible for sympathy and companionship
between mother and son to be closer
than theirs had been. Yet, dearly as she loved
the son who had never in his life thwarted or

offended hers there lurked in the secret depths of
her heart a stronger and more intense affection for
that other son, whose wayward spirit had been
ever a source of trouble or terror. The perpetual
flutter of anxiety, the alternations of hope and
fear, joy and sorrow, in which his restless soul had
kept her, had made the rebel only so much the
dearer. She loved him better for every anxious
hour, for every moment of rapture in his escape
from some needless peril, some hazardous folly.
Valentine was the perpetually straying sheep, over
whose recovery there was endless rejoicing. It
was in vain that his mother told herself that she
had reason to be angry, and tried to harden her
heart against the sinner. He had but to hold out
his arms to her, laughing at her foolish love, and
she was ready to sob out her joy upon his breast.

She went back to her chair by the fire, and sat
there pale and still, picturing to herself all the
horrors that can be brought about by an ungovernable
horse. Adrian took up a newspaper
and tried to read, listening all the time for the
sound of hoofs in the avenue.

At last that sound was heard, faint in the
distance, the rhythmical sound of a trotting
horse. The mother started up and ran to the
window, while Adrian went out to the broad,
gravelled space in front of the porch to meet the
prodigal.

He came up to the house quietly enough,
dropped lightly from his horse, and greeted his
brother with that all conquering smile which
made up for so many offences in the popular
mind.

Look at that brute, Adrian' he said, pointing
his hunting-crop at the horse, which stood meekly,
with head depressed and eye dull, reeking from
crest to flank, and with blood stains about his
mouth. " I don't think he'll give me quite so
much trouble another time, but I can assure you
he was a handful even for me. I never crossed
such an inveterate puller, or such a pig-headed
beast ; but I believe he and I understand each
other pretty well now. Yah, you brute," with a
sharp tug at the bridle.

You might let him off without any more

punishment to-night, I think, Val/^ said Adrian
quietly ; ''he looks pretty well donee

He is pretty well done ; I can assure you I
haven't spared him ! "

And you've bitted him severely enough for the
most incorrigible Tartars

bit of my own invention, my dear boy ; a
high port and a gag. I don't think he has had
too easy a time of it''

I cannot understand your pleasure in riding
an ill-conditioned brute in order to school him
into good manners by sheer cruelty' said Adrian
with undisguised disapproval. " I like to be on
friendly terms with my horse''

^^My dear Adrian, your doctors and nurses
have conspired to molly-coddle you' answered
Valentine contemptuously. " They have made
you think like a girl, and they have made
you ride like a girl. My chief delight in a
horse is to get the better of the original sin
that's in him. You may give him a warm
drink, Stokes. He has earned it' he added,
flinging the bridle to the groom, who had come

from the stables at the sound of Mr. Belfield's.
return.

'' Had you a good run ? '' asked Adrian,, as they
went into the house.

Capital j and that beggar went in first-rate
style when once he and I got to understand each
other. We killed on Harley Heath after a ripping,
half-hour over the grasses

Come and tell mother all about it Val.''''

Has she been worrying herself about the
chestnut ? She was almost in tears this morning
when she found I was going to ride him."

'' She was getting a little uneasy just before you
came homes answered Adrian lightly.

That scornful glance of his brother's eye
wounded him to the quick. It implied a contemptuous
acceptance of a too loving solicitude.
It showed the temper of a spoiled child who takes
all a mother's care as a matter of course, and ha*
not one touch of gratitude or genuine responsive
affection.

The two brothers went to the drawing-room
side by side. Like and unlike. Yes, that was

VOL. I. C

the description wliicli best indicated the close resemblance
and the marked difference between
them. In the form of the head and face, in the
outline of the features,, they resembled each other
as closely as ever twin brothers have done since
Nature produced these human doublets ; but in
colouring and in expression the brothers were
curiously unlike. The elder one had the pallid
tints of ill-health, an almost waxen brow, hair of
a pale auburn, features refined to attenuation, eyes
of a dark violet, eyebrows delicately pencilled,
lashes long and drooping like those of a girl, lips
of faintest carmine. It was only his intellectual
power and innate manliness of feeling which redeemed
Adrian's face from effeminacy; but mind
was stronger than matter, and here the brave,
calm spirit dominated the weakly frame.

Valentine was altogether differently constituted.
His head, though shaped like Adrian's, was larger,
broader at the base, and lower at the temples —
a head in which animal propensities predominated.
His complexion was of a dark olive,
browned by exposure to all kinds of weather;

his eyes were of deepest brown — splendid eyes
considered from a purely physical standpoint,
large, and full, and brilliant, with a wondrous
capacity for expressing all the passions of which
self-willed manhood is capable. Nose, mouth,
and chin were formed in the same lines as in
that other face, but each feature was larger
and mere boldly cut. The dark hair was
thicker than Adrian's, coarser in texture. Hercules
might Save had just such a head of hair,
bristling in short crisp curves about the low forehead.
That likeness and yet unlikeness between
the twins was a psychological wonder to contemplative
observers and theorists of all kinds.

Lady Bel field came to meet her sons as they
entered the room. It was only by the most
strenuous effort at self-control that she suppressed
all signs of emotion and laid her hand calmly on
the sportsman's shoulder, looking at him with a
happy smile.

"Well, Valentine, had you a good day on the
,chestnut ? " she asked lightly.

Splendid. That horse will make a first-rate

c2

hunter, in spite of you and Parker. Did you see
him from the window as I brought him home ? ''

'eyes; I was watching you. I don't think he
is quite up to your usual standard, Val. Hasn't
he rather an ugly head ? ''

'' That's just like a woman' exclaimed Valentine,
with a disgusted air. '^ Her eye is always
keen on prettiness, as if it were the Alpha and
Omega. He hasn't a racer's head, if that's what
you mean. He has a good serviceable head, that
will bear a good deal of pulling about — rather a
plain head, if you will have it. But a horse-doesn't
jump with his head, or gallop on his
head, does he ? "

^' My dear Val, if you are satisfied with
him ''

Satisfied," cried Valentine, looking as black
as thunder, " I tell you I am delighted with him.
He is out and away the best hunter in the stables
beats that gingerbread piebald mare you gave
me on my last birthday hollow."

And yet I have heard people say the piebald
is the prettiest horse in the county."

There you go again — prettiness, all prettiness.
The piebald was never well up to my weight —
oh, she carries me fairly enough, I know that —
but she's over-weighted. You should have given
her to Adrian " — with a sneer.

Adrian can afford to buy his own horses
answered the mother, with an affectionate look at
the elder born. " The only birthday gift he will
take from me is a bunch of early violets'

^' All your life is full of gifts to me, mothers
.said Adrian. 'whenever you're tired of Cinderella
I'll take her off your hands, Val'

'' The deuce you will'' cried Valentine. " You'll
find her a trifle too much for you. It's like the
.old saying about the goose, dear boy. She's too
much for you and not enough for me. She wants
work, Adrian, not gentle exercise. She was never
meant for a lady's palfrey."

Adrian sighed as he turned away from his
brother, and seated himself at lady Belfield's tea-table,
which had been furnished with due regard
to a hungry hunting man, too impatient to wait
for the eight o'clock dinner. That taunt of

Valentine's stung him as such taunts — and they
were frequent — always did sting. He keenly felt
his shortcomings as a horseman and as an athlete.
In all those manly accomplishments in which his
brother excelled, fragile health had made Adrian a
failure. The doctors had warned him that to ride
hard would be to endanger his life. He might
amble along the country lanes, nay, even enjoy a
slow canter over down or common ; might see
a little hunting sometimes in an elderly gentleman's
fashion, waiting about upon the crest of a
hill to watch the hounds working in the hollow
below, or jogging up and down beside the cover
while they were drawing ; but those dashing flights
across country which so intoxicate the souls of
men were not for him.

^' You have a heart that will work for you very
fairly to a good old age, Sir Adrian, if you will
but use it kindly'' said the physician, after careful
auscultation, "but you must take no liberties with
it. There are plenty of ways in which a man may
enjoy the country without tearing across it at a
mad gallop. There is fly-fishing, for instance. I

am sure with that noble trout stream in your own
park you must be fond of fly-fishing''

'^ I cannot imagine anything tamer than fly-fishing
in one's own park' replied Adrian, ' with a
touch of impatience. ^' Salmon-fishing in Scotland
or in Norway "

^' Too fatiguing — too strenuous a form of pleasure
for a man of your delicate constitution. A
little trout-fishing in mild spring weather "

Merci. I must live without sport, Dr. Jason.
After all I have my library, and I have the
good fortune to be fond of books, which my
brother detests. ^^

I should have guessed as muche said Jason
blandly ; " Mr. Belfield has not the outlook of a
reading man. lie has that hardy penetrating
gaze which denotes the sportsman — straight, keen,
business-like, rapid,, yet steady. What a wonderful
specimen of manhood. I think I never saw
a finer young man — and so like you Sir Adrian."

^- Is it not something of a mockery to tell me
that after you have sounded this narrow chest of
mine ? "

Oh, there are constitutional divergencies.
Nature has been kinder to your brother in the
matter of thew and sinew; but the likeness between
you is really remarkable, all the more remarkable
perhaps on account of that constitutional
difference. And I have no doubt there is a very
close affection between you — that sympathetic
bond which so often unites twin children .'''

Yes, I am very fond of him'' answered Adrian
dreamily. ^' Fond of him, do I say — it is more
than mere fondness. I am a part of himself, feel
with him in almost all things, am angry with
him, sorry with him, glad with him ; and yet
there is antagonism. There is the misery of it.
There are times when I could quarrel with him
more desperately than with any other man upon
earth ; and yet I declare to you, doctor, he is as
it were my second self.^^

I can readily believe it. Sir Adrian. Who is
there with whom we are so often inclined to
quarrel as with ourselves ? I know there is a
damned bad fellow in me whom I should often
like to kick''

Dr. Jason Tvound up-with a boisterous laugh
and felt that he had earned the twenty-pound
note which Sir Adrian slipped modestly into his
comfortable palm. Joviality was the fashionable
physician's particular line ; and a case must be
bad indeed in which he would not venture to be
jovial. Were there but three weeks of life in a
patient, Dr. Jason would take leave of him with
a jocosity which was cheering enough to help the
patient on a fourth week. And this case of Sir
Adrian's offered no reason for hopefulness. A
fragile body and a sensitive temperament, a life
that might be prolonged to three score and tenor
might expire in a moment, in the very morning
of youth, like the flame of a candle.

'' Are you ever going to give me my tea,
mother ? " asked Valentine impatiently ; ^^ I am absolutely
famishing.^^

My dearest boy, everything is ready for you.^'

Valentine surveyed the low tea-table with a
sweeping glance before he sat down, and then
strolled across to the bell and rang violently.
'^ Those stupid fellows always forget the cognac,"

he said, as he dropped into a chair. " I dare say
if one of them came home after seven hours in
the saddle heed want something stronger than tea'

^^ My dear Valentine, I am sure it is a very
bad habit to poison your tea with brandy,''^ said
Lady Belfield, with a distressed look''

Spare me the customary sermon, mother. It
is a much worse habit to lecture me every time
I take a spoonful of brandy. It will end by my
going straight to my dressing-room after hunting;,
where I can enjoy a stiff glass of grog with my
feet on the hobs, and with nobody to preach temperance."


You know I love to have you here, Yal," said
the mother, laying her delicate hand upon her
son's roughened wrist and looking at him with
ineffable tenderness.

'' So be it, and in that case don't let's have
any teetotal sermons because of a homoeopathic
dose of cognac."

The footman brought a small decanter, and
Mr. Belfield half filled his cup with cognac
before his mother poured out the tea. The table

was liberally furnished with varieties of cakes and
muffins, anchovy sandwiches, and dainty little
arrangements of foie gras in golden tinted rolls,
which Mr. Belfield snapped up as if he Lad been
a Newfoundland dog eating biscuits, ills mother
was delighted to see him in such good appetite,
and sipped her tea with the sere 11 est air, although
the smell of the brandy in Valentine^s reeking
cup almost sickened her. These tea-drinkings
after the hunt were her delight. To sit at her
low table, with a son on each side of her, to linger
long over the social meal, was the most delicious
relaxation of her days. She asked no higher
pleasure. Her evenings were often lonely, for
Valentine hated sedentary occupation and intellectual
dawdling of all kinds, and generally dragged
his brother off to the billiard-room directly after
dinner. If there were men visitors in the house
for Valentine to play with, Adrian would sometimes
stay in the drawing-room with his mother;
but he was always at his brother's beck and call.
The influence of the younger over the elder was
supreme.

I took we are like Jacob and Esau, and that
my father must have willed upon his death-bed
that the elder should serve the younger"' said
Adrian. ^^ I can but fulfil my destiny

The mother sighed and submitted, as she had
always submitted, to Fate in the person of her
sons. She had lived for them and in them so
long that she had almost ceased to have individual
desires or personal likings. Everything in house
and stables and gardens and park and home-farm
was regulated and governed by the inclinations of
the brothers, albeit Lady Belfield was tenant for
life in the mansion and its immediate surroundings.
It happened somehow, almost imperceptibly,
that in all things whereof she was mistress the
inclinations of the younger son dominated those
of the elder. Adrian was at once too weak and
too proud to struggle against that overpowering
influence.

My dear mother, the place is yours. It is
for you to decide," he would say, when Valentine
had hotly maintained his own opinion with scornful
depreciation of everybody else's ideas, treating

architects, landscape-gardeners, and nurserymen
as if Nature had stamped them so obviously as
fools that it would be mere hypocrisy to treat
them with the respect due to reason and good
sense. " It is for you to decide, my dear mother'
said Adrian, deserting in the heat of the battle ;
and the upshot was inevitable. Valentine had
everything his own way.

How could two gentle, yielding natures stand
firm against the force of an indomitable will and
a boundless self-esteem ? It was natural to Adrian
to doubt his own judgment, to depreciate his
own capacity; but Valentine had believed in.
himself from his cradle, had asserted himself to
his wet nurse, and had reigned supreme ever
since.

Happily for the household, from an aesthetic
point of view, Mr. Belfield's taste was better than
his temper; his judgment was sounder than his
morality. If he erred, it was on the side of
strength rather than weakness ; he inclined to the
brilliant and striking in all things, was in favour
of large effects, bold lines, vivid colouring. There

were those who shuddered at the first aspect of
Mr. Belfield's billiard-room, with its scarlet
draperies against black oak, its Japanese black
and gold, its Rouen pottery and Neapolitan
brass — there were those who declared that Mr.
Belfield was the worst-dressed young man in
London — but Ptoyal Academicians had admired
the arrangement of his den, and women liked his
style of dress because it was picturesque.

"A picturesque man must be a cad/^ said
Mr. Simper, who would have expired sooner than
wear a hat with a brim the infinitesimal part of
an inch wider or narrower than the Prince of
Wales's, or a check that had not the stamp of
equal authority. " A man who makes himself
different from other men is not a gentleman. No
gentleman ever courted observation.''^

It may be that Valentine Belfield rather defied
than courted observation. He dressed to please
himself, wore his hair long or short as his fancy
prompted, would wear a low hat in Bond Street in
the height of the season, and scowl upon observers
with supreme contempt for their opinion. He

had his clothes cut and fashioned as it pleased
him, and had never been known to accept an
opinion from his tailor — not even the West-end
tailor's final argument, " I wear this pattern myself,
sir."

A man with a taste and a temper of his own
is generally admired and looked up to by other
men. Mr. Belfield had been the centre of an
aristocratic little circle at Trinity, his rooms the
favourite resort of some of the best-born and
wildest young men at the University. Needless
to say that he had not worked, that he had missed
chapel, and otherwise offended against the laws of
the college; that he had worn out the patience
of college tutors and college coaches ; and that,
with a reputation for first-rate talents, he had
contrived to place himself in the very lowest
rank of students. Uninfluenced by the shades of
the mighty dead — heedless of Bacon or Newton,
Byron or Macaulay, Wheel or Thackeray — he
had gone his idle way, drinking, rioting, gambling,
carousing at unholy hours, insulting the authorities,
flirting with barmaid, violating every rule

and regulation of that venerable pile. He had
disappointed his mother's ambition, and drawn
heavily upon her purse. His return to Belfield
Abbey was a signal for the commencement of a
rain of Cambridge tradesmen's bills and lawyers'
letters which for the next twelve months steadily
descended upon the house.

There were expostulations and explanations, tears
from gentle Lady Belfield, sullen defiance from
Valentine generous interposition on the part of
Adrian, and finally the Cambridge traders, with buta
few egregious exceptions, were paid their demands
in full, which was more than any of them deserved.
Lady Belfield found half the money out of her
private fortune, and Adrian insisted upon providing
the other half.

His own career at Trinity had been curiously
different from that of his brother. His weaker
health had shut him out from all the pleasures of
asceticism. He had been known neither as a
hunting man nor a rowing man. He had never
been heard of at Newmarket. He had read
assiduously, and had taken honours. He had

cultivated a few friends, but those were young men
of studious habits like his own. He had lived so
secluded a life that his presence in the college had
only been known to the men of his own quadrangle
and to the librarian who saw him sitting in his
own particular nook near Byron's statue on many
a morning when other men were on the river or in
the hunting field.

For Adrian, Trinity had meant seclusion and
earnest work ; for Valentine, college life had been
a long holiday, a riotous, reckless indulgence of
youthful pleasure and youthful passions, a bad
beginning for any life ; and yet he had contrived
amidst all his self-indulgence to leave Cambridge
with the reputation of having been one of the most
popular undergraduates in that great college of
Trinity. He had flung away his money with a
royal munificence, knowing that it was not his to
fling. He had been good-natured after his fashion ;
he talked well, had a handsome face and commanding
appearance, kept his rooms open to all
the fast young men of his time, lent his horses
freely till they went lame, and had a box of irre-

VOL. I. D

practicable cigars always open on his table. For
one man who knew and liked Adrian there were
twenty who affected to be warmly attached to
Valentine. What their friendship was worth, only
the after-time could show. At present he was
tolerably independent of all friendship outside
Belfield Abbey.

He was six and twenty, and had been in love,
or had fancied himself in love, twenty times.
Indeed he had professed to have outgrown the
capacity for loving.

'^ Women are so monotonous," he said in one of
those gushes of confidence with which he sometimes
honoured his brother. He loved talking
about himself, and Adrian was his most sympathetic
listener. ^' Women are all alike. Upon my soul,
Adrian, if you knew how little difference there
is between the idiosyncracies of a peeress and a
barmaid, you would not wonder that a man who
has had a few adventures soon begins to feel that
love is played out."

'^ My dear Val, I done think you know much
about peeresses, and I hope you know next

to noting about barmaids/^ replied Adrian
quietly.

It was on the evening after Valentine's first day
on the chestnut. The brothers had retired to the
billiard-room after dinner, and were sitting on each
side of the wide old fireplace, too lazy to play, and
luxuriating in the glow of the beech-logs and that
kind of careless, easy-going conversation which has
neither beginning, middle, nor end.

My dear fellow, that shows how little you
know about the other half of yourself. I have not
reached my present age without an occasional
flirtation with a peeress, and I have been passionately
in love with a barmaid. The loveliest
woman I ever met was a girl at an inn near
Trumpington. What hogsheads of beer I have
consumed as a sacrifice to her charms. Once I
thought she loved me, and that I might have been
wild enough to marry her. And now I am told
she is singing patriotic songs, dressed as Britannia,
at an East-end music hall"'

"You know, Val, that a disreputable marriage
would break your mother's heart."

D 2

*^ Don't I tell you the thing is off. I am not
going to break anybody's heart — for the sake of
that lovely deceiver on the Trumpington Eoad/'

"But you are so reckless, so heedless of consequences."


"Because I live for myself, and for the
enjoyment of the present hour' answered Valentine,
in his deep strong voice, lying back in his low
chair, and slowly puffing at a cigar.

How handsome he looked in that easy graceful
attitude, the very embodiment of unblemished
youth and physical power. It was but the highest
type of sensual beauty — soul and mind went for
but little in the well-cut face, the bold flashing
glance ; but yet there was some kind of charm that
was not wholly physical — some touch of brightness,
mirth, and courage which attracted the regard of
men, and won the love of women. The creature was
not wholly clay, albeit flesh predominated over spirit,

For what else should a man live but the present
? ^^ said Valentine, continuing the argument,
Who can count upon the future — who cares for
the past ? ''

Conscience and memory both care for the
|)ast.-'"'

Conscience is a bugbear which the parsons have
invented for us ; and memory is a morbid habit of
the mind which a healthy man should discourage.
I have no memory'

Oh, Valentine ! ''

Well, I suppose if I were to sit down and try
back I could remember most things that have
happened to me since my cradle' answered his
brother lightly ; " but I never cultivate my memory.
I make it a rule to ignore the past. Sally Withers,
the Trumpington barmaid, jilted me. I blot her
out of my existence. Lady Publico flirted with
me — courted me, made a fool of me — and then
deliberately dropped me. She is gone. Do you
suppose I sit and brood over the summer days we
spent together on his Lordship's house-boat at
Henley — when we sat in a corner under a Japanese
umbrella, hiding ourselves — as much as ostriches
are hidden — between two great Majolica tubs of
palms, and made ourselves conspicuously idiotic?
cor that I ever dream of the nights at the opera,

when we were alone together in her ladyship's box ?
Nos Adrian. I make it my business to forget all
such twaddle. Life is too short for memory of the
past or forecast of the future. Carpe diem, dear
boy. Gather your roses while you may. Be sure
I mean to gather mine."

Valentine,, I verily believe you were created
without a conscience."

'^ I was. You have the conscience, I the capacity
for enjoyment. We are but two sides of one
character."

CHAPTER II.

A WILD IRISH GIRL

A WEEK after that first day with the chestnut,,
Valentine Belfield had gone off to Paris at an
hour's warning to accompany a college friend who
was going on to winter at Monte Carlo with an
infallible system which he and a mathematical
friend had invented two or three years before in
their midnight reveries at Trinity. Valentine told
his mother nothing about the system or the intended
trip to Monte Carlo. He only told her that
he felt hipped and wanted a change and that as
Touchwood was going to Paris he had decided on
going with him and making a round of the
theatres.

The drainage is so dreadful in Paris ; I am
always afraid of fever," said Lady Belfield, looking
intensely anxious.

My dear mother, we shall go to the Bristol.'^

'' And the hotels are so horribly high. They
will be putting you on a fourth storey perhaps,
and if there were a fire "

There never has been a fire at a good Continental
hotel within my recollection' answered
Valentine lightly. " Can't you suggest any other
calamity, or any other peril — a cyclone, an earthquake,
an insurrection, the fall of the Vendee
Column. I don't suppose they fastened it very
securely when they put it up after the Communes'

'' Dear Val, you always laugh at me''

*^ How can I help it, mother, when you give me
such opportunities ? There, kiss me, dearest, and
good-bye. Lucas will have packed my portmanteau
hj this time. There's the dog-cart. Je me sauve ! "
And, with a hurried embrace, he ran oflP to the hall,
his mother following to get the last look at him ashe
sprang into the cart, took the reins from the
smart young groom, drove round the circular sweep,
and spun into the avenue at a pace that threatened
a catastrophe before he could reach the lodge.

He was gone, and Sir Adrian and his mother
settled down into that placid and studious existence

which suited them both so well. Lady Belfield
divided her time between the newest books and the
most classical music. She played Scarlatti and
Bach. She read Browning and Herbert Spencer.
She dawdled away an occasional hour in her flower
gardens which were lovely ; she went the round of
greenhouses and hothouses, and talked to her gardeners,
who were numerous, and who all adored
her. She moved among them as a queen whose
approving smile is like a ray of winter sunshine.
She went every day to the stables and petted Valentine's
hunters, with whom she was on the most
familiar terms. Even the new chestnut, although
he set his ears back when she opened the door of
his box, suffered her to go in and pat him, and
accepted a lump of sugar from her palm, after sniffing
at it suspiciously for a minute or so.

Life was full of interest for her without going
beyond her own park gates ; and then there were
duty drives to be taken almost every day, and calls
to be returned. There was a regular exchange
and barter in the way of visiting to be maintained,
though Lady Belfield rarely accepted a dinner invitation,

or adorned a ball by her graceful presence
and her fine family diamonds. She went to
friendly tea-drinkings and tennis parties, and so
maintained local friendships. She liked a free-and-easy
visiting, which did not oblige her to take
ofi" her bonnet or put on her diamonds. Genoa,
velvets and Mechlin flounces hung idle ia her
wardrobe. She liked to dine alone with her boys,
in a tea-gown , and to read or play in the peaceful
solitude of her drawing-room. Life taken at this
gentle pace seemed never too long or too monotonous.
She sighed for no change in an existence
which realized all her wishes.

People wondered much that so pretty and
attractive a woman should have escaped a second
marriage. But to Lady Belfield a second marriage
would have seemed a crime.

'^ I loved my husband, and I adore my sons,"
she said. " Yv^hat room is there left for any other
affection ? ''

*' But you ought to marry, my dear," said her
friend, Mrs. Freeman tie, who was distinctly practical.
A husband would be immensely useful to you

and those boys. He would look after your timber
and your tenants, and would launch your sons —
get them elected at the proper clubs, and all that
kind of thing. He would be a steward without a
salary.^^

Constance Belfield did not contemplate the
matter from this common-sense point of view.
Second marriage in the mother of a family she
considered domestic treason. And when Valentine
was troublesome, when the outside world deemed
that a second husband, a man of strong will and
clear brain, would have been invaluable to the lad s
mother, Constance rejoiced that there was no one
but herself to whom the sinner need be accountable,
that she had the indisputable right of pardoning
all his follies and paying all his debts.

The intervention of a hard-headed man of business
at such times would have tortured her.

'* My poor foolish boy' she said to herself,
weeping in secret over the young man's delinquencies.
" Thank God, there is no one to lecture
him, no one to complain of him, no one to make
him worse by hard measures''

She was not altogether foolish, although she
erred on the side of soft-heartiness ; and she
knew that Valentine^s career had up to this point
been unsatisfactory, but she went on hoping that
all would come right by-and-by ; that these evil
ways meant no more than the sowing of those wild
oats which she had been told most young men
were doomed to scatter before they sobered and
settled into propriety.

Adrian was exceptionally steady. For him there
were no wild oats to be sown. He had been his
mother's comfort and mainstay from his very childhood
; thoughtful, attentive, devoted, her companion
and counsellor when he was in Eton
jackets. His nature seemed almost passionless.
She never remembered to have seen him violently
angry. She had never suspected him of being in
love. He loved her, and he had an intense sympathy
with his brother; but she doubted if his
heart had ever gone forth beyond that narrow home
circle. His tastes and inclinations in all respects
resembled her own. He loved music, of which she
was passionately fond, and he was no mean performer

upon the organ and piano. He had his
mother's subdued taste in colours, her scrupulous
refinement and orderly habits.

And now they two, mother and son, were alone
together by the hearth, in the long November evenings,
while Valentine and his friend Touchwood
went the round of the theatres in Paris, and
danced at strange dancing places, and matured their
scheme for breaking the bank at Monte Carlo.

Mother, did you know that Morcomb was let?"
asked Sir Adrian, as he scanned the county paper
at breakfast one morning, a few days after Valentine's
departure.

'' What, at last ? No, indeed, I have heard
nothing about it."

*^ Then you have not been with any of your
gossips for some time, I suppose. Here is the
paragraph. ' Morcomb, Lord Lupton's fine old
family mansion, has been recently let furnished to
Colonel Deverill, of The Rock, near Kilrush^ county
Clare. Colonel Deverill is a keen sportsman, has
been master of foxhounds in his own county, and
will doubtless prove an acquisition to the neighbourhoods

Why, mother, how thunderstruck
you look. Do you know anything about this
Deverill?"

A good deal, Adrian's

Nothing unpleasant, I hopes

No, dear ; but it was just a little startling to
Hear that he had settled so near us. His father
and mv father were bosom friends, and Gerald
Deverill and I used to see a good deal of each
other when he was a young man about town, in
one of the household regiments. I don't mind
telling you that he wanted to marry me in those
days, and as he was a wild, self-willed young fellow,
he made himself extremely troublesome. I was
very young, you see, Adrian, and I was almost
afraid of him. And then your father came, and I
knew I was safe. I think it was that sweet feeling
of being protected by his love that first made me
fond of him — and then— and then — ah, Adrian,
how fond I was of him, and how good he was —
Qjily — only a little self-willed like your brother.
But he was always good to me"*

The tears came into her eyes as she thought of

that brief wedded life, which had been all love,
though it had not been all sunshine.

'^ This Deverill must be a disagreeable fellow
said Adrian. '' I am sure I shall dislike him''

Oh, no, you won't, Adrian. He is not a badman,
by any means. He was very wild in those days,
drank a good deal, I'm afraid, and was altogether
in a bad way ; but he married a year or two after
my marriage and sobered down, I was told. He
has lived a good deal on the Continent of late years,
and he and I have never met since your father's
death''

Whom did he marry ? '^

^^ Oh, a nobody, 1 believe — a girl with a little
money, which he spent in a year or two. Her
father was something in the City, a merchant or a
broker, I think they said ; and they lived in one of
the new districts on the far-away side of Kensington
Gardens. I have heard of them from time to
time ; but I have never seen him since his marriage,
and I never saw his wife."

'^ She was not in your set, then."

My dear Adrian, her people were in trade,"

answered Lady Belfield naively. '' I suppose you
ought to call on Colonel Deverill/^

I can hardly avoid it without being uncivil ;
but if you dislike the notion of seeing him here I
won't call. He will understand, no doubt, why I
don't."

And he might think that I was afraid of meeting
him. I would not have him suppose that for
the world. No, Adrian, I should like you to call
on him, just in the ordinary way. You can refer
en passant to his early acquaintance with my
family, not affecting to know that he was ever anymore
to me than a friend. And you will find out
about his surroundings. His wife died some years
ago; but I believe there are daughters. If they
seem nice girls I might call on them. If not -''

'^ I may limit the matter to asking Colonel
Deverill to a bachelor dinner — eh, mother ? ^^

I shouldn't like to be obliged to take up girls
with Continental ideas and fast manners ; and I
fear these poor girls must have been sadly
neglected."

^^I'm afraid I'm not much of a judge of the

species girl, but I'll give you as exact a report as I
can, mother' answered Adrian gaily.

He was not in any hurry to set out upon his adventure.
He still retained a good deal of his boyish
shyness, and a visit to strangers was of all his
social obligations the most obnoxious ; so he let
some pleasant, studiously idle days slip by before
he found the weather good enough for a drive to
Morcomb, and then he girded up his loins, looked
out his least damaged hat from the array of well-brushed
felt and beaver in the hall, ordered his
phaeton, and turned his face resolutely towards
Lord Lupton's Park, which was a good five miles
from Belfield Abbey.

The stable clock chimed the half-hour after two
as he drove down the avenue. He would be at
Morcomb at about three, which was the prescribed
hour for ceremonial calls in that part of the world.
Intimates might drop in at five and join in a
friendly tea-drinking round a cosy little table ;
but for your visit of ceremony, patronage, or respect,
three o'clock was the hour. Unsustained by
luncheon, unrefreshed by tea, the visitor must face

VOL. L E

his host or hostess in the awfulness of an empty
drawing-room, prepared to converse vivaciously
about nothing particular for at least twenty
-minutes.

Morcomb Park was not particularly well kept,
Park and home farm had been let to the local
butcher for some years, and his cattle grazed within
twenty yards of the drawing-room windows. There
-was an old-fashioned garden on one side of the
house, and there was a spacious and lofty conservatory,
which in Lord Lupton's prosperous days had
seen one of the glories of the neighbourhood ;
-and all the rest was pasture, upon which Mr. Pol-lacks
oxen and sheep fed and fattened. Gardens
and conservatory had both been neglected since his
lordship's chronic asthma had obliged him to
winter at Nice, and the house had been either empty
or in the occupation of strangers. Those village
wiseacres who pretend to know a great deal more
than their neighbours, declared that chronic asthma
was only another name for impecuniosity, and that
Lord Lupton turned his back upon Morcomb because
he could not afford to live in his own country.

Every one knew that poor Lady Lupton adored
the place, and was never really happy anywhere else.

A succession of tenants had occupied Morcomb
within the last ten years, and had been looked
upon more or less coldly by the surrounding
families. There is always a shade of suspicion in
the rustic mind attaching to the people who
occupy furnished mansions ; an idea that if they
were all that they ought to be they would have
houses of their own. If they are rich the neighbourhood
wonders where their money comes from.
If they are foreigners the neighbourhood is sure
they are not all they ought to be. Madame is a
£i-devant opera-singer ; Monsieur has a talent for
card-sharping. If they are Americans, and scatter
their money in the lavish Transatlantic style,
opinion is against them from the outset. The only
people who are kindly looked upon in this connection
are those whose names and belongings are
plainly set forth in Debrett, and who have houses
of their own in other counties. To these are the
arms of friendship opened.

Colonel Deverill was such a one. The Rock,

E 2

Kilrush, was his ostensible dwelling-place ; although
his reputation was by no means untarnished,
he was known to be a gentleman by birth,
and to have begun life in a crack regiment. The
two facts, that he was an Irishman and had lived
a good deal on the Continent, counted naturally in
his disfavour, and the county looked upon him
with a qualified approval.

The house was half a mile from the lodge, and a-
fairly kept drive wound along the base of a low
hill, athwart undulating pasture land, dotted here
and there with oaks and elms, and clusters of
ancient hawthorns, and offered Sir Adrian a view
of Mr Pollack's beeves cropping the scanty sward
of late autumn. On the crest of the hill stood the
mansion, a classic villa about a hundred years old,
much after the manner of the Club House at
Hurlingham, with portico and pediment of white
stone, and uniform rows of long French windows.
A large bay window, broken out forty years before
by an anaesthetic Lord Lupton, at the end of the
south wing, was the only relief to that faultless
uniformity.

There were no servants about. Sir Adrian's
;groom pulled a bell which rang with startling
loudness a long way off, pealing with a determined
-clamour as if it would never have done ringing.
Sir Adrian alighted ashamed of the noise he had
caused to be made flung the reins to his groom,
and went up the steps. The hall doors were open,
and a girls voice cried, " Your shot, Leo,^^ as he
approached the threshold.

This was embarrassing, but the situation became
even more involved when another voice exclaimed,
That bell means another county family come to
stare and catechize. Je m'esquive.^'

But before the speaker could escape, Adrian had
crossed the threshold, and was standing, hat in
hand, face to face with two young ladies, dressed
as he had never seen girls dressed before, and both
of them a great deal prettier than any girls his
memory suggested to him by way of comparison.

Miss Deverill, I thiuk,^' he said to one of the
-damsels. " My name is Belfield, and I must apologize
most humbly for bursting in upon you in this
manners'

'^ Oh but you could not possibly help it. If
architects will plan houses with billiard-rooms on
the doorsteps, the occupants must pay the penalty"
answered the elder sister gaily. "We are very
glad to see you. Sir Adrian. This is my sister.
Miss Deverill, and I am Mrs. Baddeley. I am'
sorry my father is out this afternoon. He would
have been charmed to make your acquaintance.
He has talked tremendously about Lady Belfield,
whom he had the pleasure of knowing quite
intimately when they were both young. Will you
come to the drawing-room, or shall we sit and talk
here ? Helen and I make this our den for the
most part. You see we have no brothers to dispute
the ground with us.^^

I would much rather stay heres said Adrian.

Mrs. Baddeley had flung aside her cue while she
was talking, and Miss Deverill, who had been
sitting on the table when he first beheld her, was-now
standing beside it, flicking the chalmers off
the cloth with her handkerchief. She was a tall
slim girl, in a sage-coloured velveteen gown, with a
short waist and a broad yellow sash, and with her

reddish auburn hair, which was superb in hue and
texture and quantity, falling down her back in a
rippling mass of light and shadow. Her gown was
short enough to show a perfect instep and a
slender ankle, set off by Cromwell shoes and yellow
silk stockings. The married sister wore an olive
plush tea gown over an Indian red petticoat, red
shoes and stockings, and her hair, which was-darker
than Helen s, rolled up in a great untidy
mass, and fastened with a red ribbon. The style
and costume were altogether different from the
regulation afternoon attire in this part of the
world, which was generally severe — a tailor g-jwn
and a neat linen collar being the rule.

Had Sir Adrian seen this kind of picturesque
toilette in Bedford Park, on the person of a plain
girl, he would have regarded it with infinite disgust,
for he had all the masculine love of neatness and
subdued colouring : but both these women were so
pretty, both were so graceful, with the easy grace
of perfect self-assurance, that gracious air of
women who are accustomed to be admired, approved,
and made much of on all occasions, that.

had they been clad in such calicoes as Manchester
manufactures to meet the crude desires of the untutored
African he must have not the less admired
them.

There was a large fire blazing in the "wide
grate, and there were three or four delightful armchairs
(of draped and cushioned bamboo) about the
hearth and a scarlet Japanese table suggestive of
afternoon tea. Those chairs, with their vivid reds
and yellows, and tassels and fringes, and Liberty
silk handkerchiefs tied about them, had never belonged
to Lord Lupton, whose furniture had all
been bought in the reign of William the Fourth.
Chairs and table were an importation of the
Deverills, Adrian saw at a glance.

They all three sat down in front of the fireplace,
while the outer doors were shut by the
butler, who had come in a leisurely way to see if
that loud pealing of the hall bell were a matter
requiring his personal attention. He closed the
double doors, put a fresh log on the fire, and discreetly
retired.

And now tell us all about Lady Belfield,'^ said

the married sister perching her feet upon the old
brass fender, and affording Adrian a full view of
arched insteps and Louis heels. " Is she quite
well, and is she as lovely as she was when she was
young ?^'

That might be saying too much — I mean about
the loveliness answered Adrian, smiling ; " but
to my mind my mother is the prettiest woman of
her age that I have ever seen. Of course a son
is partial. As for health, well, yes, I think I may
say she is quite well. Would you like her to drive
over and see you ?"

Of course we should. We are dying to see
her," said Helen, who was not at all shy. " If
English etiquette were not written in blood, like
the laws of Draco, we should have made father
take us to Lady Belfield the day after we arrived
here."

'' You don't appreciate British conventionalities?"


I detest everything British, present company
of course excepted. We have always had such good
times in France and Italy; and as for Switzerland,

I feel as if I had been born there. I am
longing to be at Vevey, or at one of those dear
little villages on Lake Lucerne, now, when your
horrid English winter is beginning. I can't think
why father persisted in bringing us here. It is-almost
as bad as The Eock.^''

'^ You don't care for Ireland ?"

Does any one, do you think ? If you knew
Kilrush, you wouldn't ask such a question ; but
you don't, of course."

I have not that privilege."

Well, perhaps it is a privilege to have lived in
the dullest, most out-of-the-way hole on the surface
of this earth," retorted Miss Deverill lightly,
flinging herself back in the Liberty chair, and
showing rather more ankle and instep than the
rival establishment on the other side of the hearth,
*' There is something exceptional in the fact, of
course. But why, being obliged to live at The
Rock occasionally for duty, my father should bring
us to a remote Devonshire village for pleasure, is-more
than this feeble intellect of mine can grasp."

I don't think there's much mystery about it''

said Mrs. Baddeley. '^ In the first place, father is
tired of wandering about the Continent ; and in
the second my husband will be home on leave in
December and I must be in England to receive
him. So my father very good-naturedly suggested
a country place where Frank could stay with us
and get a little hunting' and shooting'. If Frank
had been obliged to find his own quarters the
choice would have been between London lodgings
or staying with his own people, both equally
odious for me''

"Mr. Baddeley is in the army I concludes

Yes, he is a Major in the 17th Lancers, and
has been in India for the last two years, and Fm
afraid may have to go ' back there again after a
winter in England""

You return with him ?''

'' Unhappily, no" sighed the lady, '' I cannot
stand the climate. I tried India for a year and it
was something too dreadful. I was reduced to a
shadow, and I looked forty. Now, Helen, on your
honour, didn't I look forty when I landed from
Bombay ? "

You certainly looked very bad, dears said
Helen. " Do you think it would be too dreadful
to offer Sir Adrian tea at a quarter to four'' with
a glance at a fine old eight-day clock. '' Do you
ever take tea , Sir Adrian ? "

A teapot is the favourite companion of my
studious hours' answered Adrian. ^' May I ring
the bell for you ? '^

Yes, please, and you won't laugh at us and callus
washerwomen for wanting tea so early."

I promise to do neither ; but were my brother
here I would not answer for him. He is very
severe on my womanish passion for the teapot''

Is he very different from you ? "

Altogether different."

"And yet you are twins. I thought twins were
always alike."

'^I believe we are alike in person, except that
Valentine is handsomer, stronger, and bigger than
T. But it is in tastes and character we are unlike.
Yet perhaps, after all, it is mostly a question of
,health and physical energy. His robust constitution
has made him incline to all athletic exercises

and manly sports, while my poor health has made
me rather womanish. I am obliged to obey the
doctors, were it only to satisfy my mother."

*^ If Mr. Belfield is as nice as you are, I am sure
we shall all like him,-"^ said ]airs. Baddeley frankly.
I hear he is abroad just now."

Yes, he is in Paris, en route for the South ;
but I don't think he will be long away. He is
very fond of hunting, and won't care to miss too
much of it."

The leisurely butler brought in the tea-tray, and
arranged it comfortably in front of Miss Deverill,
who was allowed to enjoy all those privileges which
involved the slightest exertion. Mrs. Baddeley was
the very genius of idleness, and never picked up a
pocket handkerchief, shut a door, or buttoned a
boot for herself. She required to be waited upon
and looked after like a baby. She attributed this
lymphatic condition entirely to the twelve months
she had spent in Bombay, which was supposed to
have shattered her nerves and undermined her constitution.
Helen, who had never been in India,
was expected to write her sister's letters, pick up her

handkerchief, and to find screens to protect her
complexion from the fire, by which she sat at all
times and seasons. Helenass maid was expected to
wait upon her from morning to night, to the neglect
of Helen's wardrobe.

So Helen poured out the tea, and they all nestled
cosily round the fire, with as intimate an air as if
they had been friends from childhood. The two
women chattered about their continental life, their
summers at Biarritz or Archon, their winters at
Nice or at Vevey, and of those dreadful penitential
periods of residence in Ireland. " Father is afraid
of our being boycotted if he once gets the reputation
of being an absentee," explained Helen, " so we
make a point of spending three months of every
year at Kilrush, and we pretend to be very fond of
the peasantry on the estate. They really are nice,
warm-hearted creatures ; though I dare say they
would shoot us on the slightest provocation. And
father has a yacht on the Shannon, and altogether
it is not half a bad life."

Speak for yourself, Helen," said her sister
peevishly ; ^' you can bear solitude. I can't. I

hope the people about here give decent parties' she
added, turning to Adrian.

^^They are not very energetic party-givers. A
couple of balls within a radius of twenty miles and
half-a-dozen dinners constitute a rather gay season."

*' Good heavens, am I to exist all the winter upon
two balls ! " cried Mrs. Baddeley. '^ I shall forget
how to waltz. My diamonds will go off colour
from being shut up so long in their cases."

Sir Adrian wondered a little to hear an officer's
wife talk of diamonds as if she had been a duchess,
but he opined that Major Baddeley must be a man
of substance. Certainly Colonel Deverill's daughter
could hardly have been jewelled from the paternal
resources, which every one knew to be meagre.

What a lovely woman she was, lolling back in
her chair with the firelight shining on her hair and
eyes — large hazel eyes. Every feature was charming,
if not altogether faultless : the nose small and
slightly retrousse, the mouth rather large, with full
carmine lips and a bewitching smile ; the chin
beautifully rounded, the complexion of creamy
whiteness. The younger sister was like her, only

prettier, fresher, more girlish, eyes larger and more
brilliant, hair brighter and more luxuriant, month
smaller and of a more exquisite mould, nose less
coquettish and more dignified, a face to dream about
a face to sing in Society verses, and glorify in
fashionable photographs.

The clock struck five and startled Sir Adrian
from his forgetfulness of all things but the two
faces and the two voices and the little glimpses of
two hitherto unknown lives, revealed to him by
that careless prattle. He rose at once.

^' I must really apologize for the length of my
first visits he said.

You wouldn't if you knew how dull we are
and how anxious we were to see you and Lady
Belfield. I hope she will come soon'' said the
elder sister.

She shall come tomorrow," answered Adrian.

'' Oh, that is too good of you. Please bring her
to lunch. My father will be charmed."

'' I'm afraid to engage her for lunch. I know
that in a general way she dislikes going out so
early. Afternoon tea is her passion."

Then bring her to afternoon tea. She shall
not discover us in the hall as you did. She shall
find us in the drawing-room, behaving properly.^^

Adrian was glad to hear this. He had an idea
that the vision of two girls playing billiards with
open doors, and that exclamation, " your shot'
would have disparaged the young ladies in his
mother's estimation. He also hoped that Helen
would have her hair less carelessly displayed tomorrow
afternoon.

"She shall certainly come tomorrow, aimless
there is something extraordinary to prevent hers*
he said, ^' and in that case FU send you a note,
Mrs. Baddeley."

You will not put us to the trouble of being
proper for nothing. That is very kind of you.
Good-bye.^^ >$

She rang for Donovan, the butler, who appeared
five minutes afterwards, just as Sir Adrian was
disappearing. The sisters went with their visitor
to the door, which he opened for himself. They
went out into the windy afternoon with him, and
patted and admired his horses, which had waited

VOL. I. r

in the cold much longer than they were accustomed
to wait. The two girls stood in the portico and
watched him drive away, and waved white hands to
him as to an old friend.

Scarcely had he driven out of sight of them when
Ms heart began to fail him as to that promise
which he had made about his mother. He had
been eager to pledge her to friendship with these
strangers; and now he began to ask himself
whether these two young women, lovely as they
were, would not appear intolerable in her eyes.
His mother was the essence of refinement; and
these girls, though assuredly charming, were not
refined. They had a free and easy air which
would jar upon a woman whose secluded life had
kept her unacquainted with the newest developments
in Society and manners. Young women who
wore their hair au naturel, and showed their ankles
freely, were an unknown race to Lady Belfield ;
nor was she familiar with the type of young woman
who is thoroughly at home with strangers of the
opposite sex the minute after introduction. Lady
Belfield^s manners had been formed in the quiet

and reserved school. She had never played
billiards or been interested in racing, or gambled
in a Kursaal, or enjoyed any one of those amusements
which society smiles upon now-a-days. She
had been an only daughter and an heiress, brought
up very strictly, permitted few amusements, and
only a chosen circle of friends ; knowing not Buckingham
or Ascot, Goodwood or Baden ; oscillating
between a dull house in London and a duller house
in the country; working at her piano conscientiously
under a fashionable German master, cultivating
her mind by the perusal of all the best
books of the day, attending all the best operas and
concerts, dancing at half-a-score of aristocratic
balls in the season, and knowing as little of the
world as an intelligent child of ten.

I'm afraid shell hardly like them as much as I
do,^' thought Adrian innocently. " They are s o
frank, so friendly, so full of life, and so different
from all the girls we have met round about here.
I wonder what the father is like ? ^^

And then he recalled his feelings as he drove
along this road two hours ago, and remembered

F 2

with what a suspicious mind he had thought of
Colonel Deverill, inclined to suspect that gentleman
of the most Macchiavellian motives for planting
himself within easy reach of Belfield Abbey. Had
he not come to Morcomb with the secret intention.
of renewing his old suit to Lady Belfield^ of trying
to win her for his spoil now that she was a wealthy
widow, her own mistress, not too old to marry
again, free to marry whom she chose ? Yes, he had
been inclined to suspect the Colonel of hidden
views in this direction; and yet had he any such
scheme it was strange that he should not have set
about the business ten years ago, since he had
been quite eleven years a widower. That such
a scheme should be an after-thought would be
strange.

And now, in his homeward drive, Adrian was
assured that Colonel Deverill had come to the
neighbourhood in all innocence of mind, in his
happy-go-lucky Irish way, glad to get a cheap house
in a picturesque country.

CHAPTER III.

DANGER

Ijady Belfield consented to fulfil the engagement
which her son had made for her, but she owned
that her dear Adrian had been somewhat precipitate.


To call two days running seems rather too
eager," she said, " and if we find by-and-by that
Colonel Deverill has degenerated, and that the girls
are not nice, it will be difficult to draw back. To
go to them twice in a week implies such an ardour
4)f friendship."

Adrian blushed.

I think you will like them," he said, with a
troubled air.

'^ You have told me so little about them after
hoeing with them so long. What did they talk
about all the time ? "

The places where they had lived, mostly. You

see we had no common friends to pull to pieces
Mrs. Baddeley seemed horrified when I told her
what a limited amount of gaiety she is likely ta
get in this part of the country."

Then she is evidently fond of pleasure'
Fm afraid she is. However, her husband i»
expected home next month, and no doubt he will
keep her in the right path''

'^ And the unmarried sister ; what is she
like?"

'^ Very like Mrs. Baddeley^ only prettier."
"^ My dear Adrian,, you talk of nothing but their
beauty. Tm afraid they must be empty-headed
gods."

^* They are not blue-stockings. They did not
quote Huxley or Sir John Lubbock, did not make a
single inquiry about the geology of the neighbourhood
or our antiquarian remains. I believe they
are the kind of women who think that ruined
abbeys were invented for pic-nics^ and who only
consider a geological stratum in its adaptability
to the growth of roses or strawberries. They are
very handsome, and I think they are very nice.

But you will be able to judge for yourself in ten
minutes''

This dialogue took place in Lady Belfield's
barouche on the way to Morcomb.

They were approaching Mr. Pollack^s demesne
and a little flock of Mr. Pollack's sheep had just
passed them in a cloud of dust on their way to
the slaughter-house, a sight that always afflicted
Lady Belfield, so tender was her love of all forfeited
beasts, from the petted fox-terrier in her
drawing-room to the half-starved horse on the
common.

The carriage drove up to the Corinthian portico,
and before the horses stopped Colonel Deverill was
out upon the steps to welcome his old love. He
handed her out of her carriage, and escorted her
into the house. He was a handsome-looking man,
with grey hair and black moustache and eyebrows,
a man whom strangers generally spoke of a&
striking''

I cannot tell you how grateful I am for this
early visit, Lady Belfield/' he said. '^ I was so
anxious for my girls to know you. They have had

such a wandering life, poor children. I have so
few friends, except in that miserable country of
mine, where, of course, everybody knows them.
And this is your son ? " shaking hands with him ashe
spoke; "my girls told me how well they goton
with you yesterday, Sir Adrian. Brazen-faced
hussies, Fm afraid you found themes'

Again Adrian blushed, so strangely did the
paternal phrase jar upon his ear.

"They are not at all like the ordinary run of
young ladies' said Deverill. " I have brought
them up in the true spirit of camaraderie and I
always think of them as jolly good fellows."

Lady Belfield looked horrified. She accompanied
her host through an ante-room to the long drawing-room,
speechless with wonder that any father should
so speak of his daughters.

Two fair and graceful forms rose from before
the hearth, and Adrian breathed more freely. No
flowing tresses to-day, and a far less liberal display
of ankles. Mrs. Baddeley wore a fashionable tailor
gown and a high collar, and her hair was dressed
to perfection.

Helen was in soft, grey cashmere, with a falling
collar of old lace, and long tight sleeves, which set
off the beautiful arms and slender white hands.
She was still aesthetic, but she was tidy, and her
little bronze slippers only played at bo-peep under
the long limp skirt, as she came forward to welcome
Lady Belfield.

Her beauty was indisputable; her smile would
have fascinated an anchorite. She received Lady
Belfield with caressing sweetness, almost ignoring
Adrian, to whom she only gave the tips of her
taper fingers. She seated herself on a low sofa
by her guest, and asked leave to loosen her
mantle.

'^ You will take it off, won't you ? You are not
going to pay us a flying visit. Father, take Lady
Belfield's mantle directly, or she will be suffocated
in this warm rooms'

Between them they removed her ladyship's
cloak, and made her comfortable upon the sofa,
with a hassock for her feet, and a little table for
her teacup.

Now, you look homelike and friendly," said

Helen seating herself on a low ottoman, so as ta
be in a manner at the visitor's feet.

Colonel Deverill looked on with a pleased air.

'^ I hope you won't object to our being very
fond of you' pleaded Helen. ^' You are not the
least like a stranger to us. Lady Belfield. Father
has talked so much of your girlish days and his-young
mannish days, when all the world was so
much better than it is now, and when even an
Irish estate was worth something. How hard it is
for us young people to be born into such a bad
used-up world, isn't it ? To be created at the fag-end
of everything ! "

The girl almost took Constance Belfield's breath
away. She was so easy, so spontaneous, and her
caressing manner had such an air of reality,
Adrian's mother had come in fear and doubt,
rather inclined to dislike Colonel Deverill's daughters,
who were only beautiful ; and this one was
wheedling herself into the warm motherly heart
already.

And so you have not forgotten the old days in
Eaton Square, when your father and my father were

such friends" she said to the Colonel at last, feeling
that she must say something. " It is very-pleasant
to find you have made your daughter like
me in advances

*^ I have not forgotten a single detail of that
time' replied Deverill. " It was just the one
golden period of my life, before I had found out
what care means. So long as I was a pensioner
on my father everything went well with me ; if I
got into difficulties the dear old boy always got me
out of them. There was a grow], perhaps, and
then I was forgiven. But when he died, and I
was my own master, with a rich wife, too, as
people told me, the floodgates of extravagance were
opened, and the stream was too strong for me. I
thought there must be a lot of spending in our two
fortunes, and I took things easily. When I pulled
up at last, there was deuced little left, only just
enough for us to get along with in a very humble
way. We have had to cut and contrive, I can tell
you, Lady Belfield. This girl of mine doesn't know
what it is to have a gown from a fashionable
milliner ; and I have left off" cigars for the last six

years. I only keep a box or two on the premises
for my friends."

^' A case of real distress sighed Mrs. Baddeley,
with a tragi-comical air ; " we contrive to be very
happy in spite of the wolf at the door, don't we
father ? It is an Irish gentleman's normal state to
be ruined. Now, Helen, go and pour out the tea,
and let me sit by Lady Belfield.''^

Helen went to the table, which Donovan had
just set out. There was no other servant in attendance.
This slow and faithful Hibernian seemed
to comprise the indoor staff.

And are these all your family ? '^ asked Constance,
looking at the sisters.

These are all I have in the world, and one of
these will be deserting me, I suppose, if her husband
can contrive to stay in England's answered
colonel Deverill.

Which I hope he may be able to do, poor
fellow," said Mrs. Baddeley, with a more careless
air than Lady Belfield quite approved in a wife's
mention of an absent husband.

Adrian handed the tea-cups and muffins, and

when those duties were performed slipped into a
seat beside Helen, and they two talked confidentially
while Mrs. Baddeley and her father and
Lady Belfield carried on an animated conversation,
chiefly about the neighbourhood and its little
ways.

Sir Adrian was questioning the young lady for
the most part trying to find out what manner of
girl she was, so that he might be the better able
to meet a second attack from his mother.

Did she hunt ? Yes, and she adored hunting ;
it was just the one thing in life worth living:
for.

But I think you are fond of yachting, too,"
suggested Adrian. " You talked of yachting yesterday's


I revel in a yacht. Yes, when there's na
hunting, yachting is just the one thing I live for.
When father had a two-hundredth yacht cruising
about the Mediterranean my life was ecstasy .^-'

Then you are a good sailor ? "

"If that means never being ill I am a very
good sailor. But I go a little further than that

for I know something about navigating a yacht.
I should not be in the least afraid o£ finding myself
at sea without a skipper."

'^ These are out-of-door accomplishments said
Adrian ; " no doubt you have equal gifts for winter
and wet weather. You are musical, of course."

Comme ci comme ga. I can play a valse or
accompany a song."

'^ Your own songs,, for instances'

My own, or yours if you sing."

Alas, no ; I am not vocal though I do a little
in the way of instrumental music. But you — I
like to know all your talents. You paint, perhaps
flowers."

*' Heaven forbid ! Do I look the kind of girl to
devote a week to the study of a carnation in a glass
of water, not a bit like when it's done ? or to a
hedge-sparrow's nest and a bunch of primroses ?
No, I never have used a brush ; but I sometimes
indulge in a little caricaturing with a quill pen and
an inkpot. But how very egotistically I am prosing.
Tell me about yourself, please. Sir Adrian,
since we are to be friends as well as neighbours.

What are your particular vanities — tennis, shooting,
fishing? I hear you don't hunt'

'' No, I don't hunt ; I do a little fly-fishing in
the season, and I shoot a few pheasants every
October, just to keep pace with the neighbourhood.
I am not a sportsman. Miss Deverill.
Books and music are my only vanities."

'^ I adore books' said Helen, smiling at him
^' they furnish a room so sweetly. If I were rich
enough I would have mine all in vellum, with different
coloured labels."

'' You are a connoisseur of bindings, I see."

Oh, I like everything to look pretty. It is the
torment of my life that I am not surrounded with
beautiful things. In our nomadic existence it is
impossible to have one's own atmosphere. Two or
three Liberty chairs and a little Venetian glass
won't make home in a wilderness. I hope some
day I shall have a perfect house of my own and
heaps of money."

Lady Belfield rose. The visit had lasted nearly
three-quarters of an hour, not so long as Adrian's
yesterday .

"You will come and see me soon, I hopes lie
said to Mrs. Baddeley.

I am dying to see the Abbey. I am told it is
too lovely

^^ It is a dear , good old place, and we are all
fond of it. I heard you talking of books. .
I know Adrian will be pleased to show
you his library'

'' I shall be delighted to see it — and the stables '^
answered Helen. '^ I have heard so much of the
stables. And I want to see Mr. Belfield's hunters.'^

•^ I am sorry he is not at home to show them to
you. He is very proud of themes'

Oh, but it will be fun to get acquainted with
them in his absence ; and when he comes back it
will seem as if I had gone half-way towards knowing
him,'^ said Helen laughingly.

She and her sister went with Lady Belfield to
the portico, and hung about her as she got into
her carriage. These caressing Irish ways were new
to Constance Belfield, but she yielded to the fascination
of two fair faces and two fresh young voices,
full of music.

^^I don't know that they are altogether good
style Adrian/^ she said, as they drove home, '' but
they are very sweets

Adrian agreed as to their sweetness, but not as
to their deficiency in style.

^^I don't believe in any hard and fast rules fora
woman's manners,^^ he said, rather irritably. " I
don't recognize that conventional standard by which
every woman must speak and look and move in
exactly the same fashion. I think Mrs. Baddeley
and her sister are simply charming in their unstudied
frankness and warm-hearted enthusiasm.
How really pleased they were to see you.^^

^^ They seemed very cordial ; yet, as I was quite
a stranger to them ''

Oh, but you were not a stranger. They had
talked of you and thought of you, and elevated you
into a kind of ideal friend. Their hearts went out
to you at once."

^' They are very charming, but when I meet with
girls of that kind I am always reminded of Tot, the
fox-terrier."

As how, mother ? "

VOL. I. G

She is such a darling thing, and if she sees mein
the garden or the tableland, she rushes to me
and leaps up at me in an ecstasy of affection ; but
I have seen her behave just the same five minutes
afterwards to the butcher. It seems an exuberance
of love that runs over anyhow."

Rather hard upon Helen Deverill to compare
her with a fox terrier ! " said Adrian.

Helen Deverill ! How familiar seemed the
sound of her name to him already. Helen
Deverill ! and he had known her only four-and-twenty
hours.

'^ You'll ask them over soon, I suppose, mother ? "

'' If you like, dear''

"To dinner''

That means a party."

Oh, no, pray don't have a party. The Vicar,
perhaps, and the Freemantles — just three or four
friendly people. One sees so little of one's friends
at a set dinner. They would like to meet Free-mantle
and his wife, I dare say."

And we could ask Jack Freemantle, as there
are girls."

'^ Yes, I suppose we must ask Jack. He is an
oaf, but the kind of oaf who always gets on with
girls

He sings, Adrian/^

Did I not say that he was an oaf, mother. In
my estimation, a man who sings ranks almost as
low as a man who plays the flute''

"sand yet I thought you were fond of music."

^' Music, yes ; but not amateur singing and
playing. It is because I love music that I hate
the young man who carries a roll of songs when
he goes out to dinner, and the young woman who
<?an sit down in cold blood to murder Beethoven."

The mother smiled and then sighed. Her son
was all that was dear to her, but she had the feeling
that a good many mothers and fathers must
needs experience now-a-days, that the young men
and women of this present generation are trained
?too fine.

The invitation to a friendly dinner, at three
days' notice, was sent next morning. Adrian reminded
his mother of the letter at least three

times before it was written, and despatched by a
mounted messenger. Posts in the country are so
slovr^ and there was always a hunter to be
exercised.

Sir Adrian walked across the fields to Chigwell
Grange and invited Mr. and Mrs. Freemantle,
whose house was just three-quarters of a mile from
the Abbey, as the crow flies. Mrs. Freemantle
was his mother's most intimate friend in the
parish, a sturdy, practical woman, who affected
nothing better than common sense, but excelled
in the exercise of that admirable quality. Her
well-to-do neighbours, for the most part, disliked
her. She was too keen and outspoken for them ;
but the poor and the sick adored her. She had
known the brothers from their cradles, and treated
them as cavalierly as she treated her own Jack,
future Squire of Chigwell, or her daughter Lucy, a
tall slip of a girl who scarcely seemed to have a
mind of her own, so overshadowed was she by her
strong-minded mother.

*' You must all comes said Adrian to this
kindly matron, who stood bareheaded in the cold.

clipping the dead leaves off a favourite shrub in a
thicket that bounded her lawn. " I am sure you
will like them."

'^ Them' echoed Mrs. Freemantle. '^ Then there
are more than Colonel Deverill ? You only spoke
of him just now'

*^ There are his daughters — two daughters."

Oh, there are daughters,, are there ? Is that
the reason you are so eager to launch this new
man ? I thought you generally held yourself aloof
from girls, Adrian. I know you have been very
tiresome whenever I have wanted you here to play
tennis''

I am not particularly inclined to girlish society
in a general way, perhaps. But these ladies are —
well, a little out of the common."

Mrs. Freemantle gave a sotto voce whistle.

I see' she said, " They are the new style of
girls, fast and furious; just the kind of girls I
should not like my Lucy to know. They would
corrupt her in a week. She would begin to think
of nothing but her frocks, and consider herself a
martyr because she lives in the country eleven

months in every twelve. God forbid that she
should ever get intimate with such girls. Irish
too ! I believe that after five-and-twenty they
generally drinks'

Don't you think it would be as well to see
them before you condemn them ? '' said Adrian,
who was used to Mrs. Freemantle's little ways and
not prone to take offence at her speech.

'' I am not condemning them. I am only preparing
myself for the worse. Yes of course we
will dine with you, if Lady Belfield wants us. Weare
free for Saturday, I know."

'' You'll all come."

Mrs. Freemantle pursed up her lips in another
suppressed whistle.

'' Four would be too many. Jack and the father
and I will come. That will be more than enough
of us.^^

You are afraid to trust Lucy among my
Hibernian. I don't think the ladies have taken
to whisky yet. One of them is married, by-the-by,
her husband expected home from Bombay
shortly''

A grass widow' exclaimed Mrs. Freemantle ;
worse and worse. I feel sure they are a disreputable
sets and your eagerness to insinuate them
into society is a mistaken benevolence. And you
would make me your caspar, I am to be the
thin end of the wedge''

I don't believe Colonel Deverili or his daughters
care a straw about your stuck-up rural society;
only they are bright, clever people, and I want to
see something of them myself."

'^ Take care, Adrian. What if this Irish Colonel
wants to be your step-father ? "

'^ He will never realize his wish. I can trust my
mother's discretion, and her love for her sons."

My dear Adrian, nine people out of ten would
say your mother acted wisely in marrying again, if
she were to make a suitable match. Your brother
Valentine is not the easiest young man to manage

Do you think a step-father would make him
more manageable, Mrs. Freemantle? I wonder you
can talk such nonsense," exclaimed Adrian, getting
angry.

'^My dear boy, I don't know what to think
about step-fathers and second marriages; but I
think your mother has a troublesome handful with
her younger sons

He is a very good fellow, and he is very fond
of his mothers

Fond of her, after his own fashion, yes — a
dutiful son, no. Well, Adrian, every back has to
carry its burden ; may your mother's rest lightly.
You are the person who can best lighten it for her.
She has at least one devoted son. There, there,
you look angry and you look distressed. My
foolish tongue has been running on too fast. I
promise to be in my most agreeable mode on
Saturday evening, and Til try to admire Colonel
Deverill's daughters. What is the married lady's
name ? "

'' Baddeley.^'

'^ What ? We have some Baddeleys among our
family connections. I dare say we shall find out
that Mrs. Baddeley^s husband is a kind of cousin.
The world is so absurdly small. ^^

From Chigwell Adrian walked to the Vicarage,

and in the dusty old library, where the worthy
Vicar had taught him his rudiments twelve years
ago, discovered that luminary nodding over his
Jeremy Taylor, exactly in the same attitude and,
as it seemed to his old pupil, in the same suit of
clothes which had marked him in those earlier
years. It was a tradition in Chadford that the
Vicar never read any other book than those
mottled-calf-bound volumes of the great divine,
and that he had never been known in his sermons
to quote any other authority, yet produced his
name ever with an air of novelty, as one who introduced
a new light to his congregation.

He looked up smilingly as Adrian entered unannounced,
having been always free to go in as one
of the family since his days of pupilage.

My dear boy, I haven't seen you for an age'
said the Vicar, holding out his thin right hand,
while his left still clasped his book. ^^ What have
you been doing with yourself? ''

Making some new acquaintances, Vicar ; and I
want you to come and meet them next Saturday

And then Adrian entered once again upon a
graphic description of Colonel Deverill and his
daughters, finding a more sympathetic listener in
the Vicar than he had found in Mrs. Freemantle.

Reginald Rockstone was a man of peculiar
delicacy of feeling,, not deeply learned but exquisitely
critical, knowing a few authors well,
worshipping a few poets with all his mind and all
his heart, and seeing all things from their most
spiritual standpoint.

It must be sad for these young women to be
motherless, and with a wild Irish father' he said
gently ; " and the married girl — she is little more
than a girl, I take it — sad for her to be separated
from her husband."

She is just now expecting him home' said
Adrian, " and she seems in excellent spirits''

The Vicar was a bachelor, and his own master in
all things. The living was not one of the plums of
the Church, but the income was ample for a man
Avhose tastes were of the simplest and who had
some means of his own. He was a man of excellent
family, a gentleman to the core of his heart.



His poor parishioners adored him ; his friends
among the country people tolerated him as a
harmless eccentric. The small professional people,
village doctor market-town solicitors, considered
him reserved and supercilious. He refused all
invitations to dinner from this class, though he
would take a cup of afternoon tea with their wives
now and then, to show them he bore no malice.

"Why should I dine out unless it be to dine
more pleasantly than I can at home?" he argued,
when he talked over his parish and his idiosyncracies
with his intimate friend Lady Belfield.
^' My evening by the fireside or in my garden is
always precious to me. I have the books I love
for my companions, and their company never palls.
At my age a man's leisure evenings are numbered.
He cannot garner them too carefully. Why
should I go out to sit an hour and a half at a
gaudily arranged dinner table, surrounded by petty
formalities, in an atmosphere of roast mutton, and
among people who look as if their evening dress
was a kind of armour, to hear the smallest of small
talk, to struggle with irrepressible yawns, to endure

all the agonies of casual attendance from a siam
butler. When I come here — or to houses like this
my body basks in a luxury that I am sybarite
enough to appreciate ; while my mind expands and
soars in unison with minds that think only noble
thoughts. Here we talk of books and of spiritual
things ; in the village or the town the talk is of
politics or persons — hovers between Gladstone's
last speech and the latest scandal about the Board
of Guardians."

To Belfield. Abbey, therefore, the Vicar went
whenever he was bidden. Lady Belfield^s low voice
and sympathetic manner had a peculiar charm for
him. So far as that great tender heart of his had
ever gone out to a woman, it had gone out to her
years ago, in the early days of her widowhood,
when she came home to the Abbey with her two
hops — a stricken mourner, deeming her sorrow
above all sorrows. He — a grave man of seven and
thirty, old for his years — had comforted and advised
her, had helped her in the bringing up of her sons,
and had prepared them for Eton and coached them
for Oxford. He, who had never on any other

occasion sacrificed that golden leisure which lie
prized so highly — the leisure to read old books and
muse and dream over them — had for Lady Belfield's
sake toiled at the very elements of classical education
at declensions and conjugations,, at Cornelius
Nepos and Livy. In Adrian he had found a pupil
after his own heart, and at five-and-twenty Adrian
was still his pupil still delighting to read a Greek
play with him proud to discuss a tough passage in
Plato or Aristotle ; or to talk about Horace and his
little ways, as if they both had known him intimately.


With Valentine education had been a tougher
job. Clever, idle, arrogant, self-opinionated ; from
a very early stage always convinced that he knew
more, or understood better, than his master : to
teach him had been like hewing shapely stones out
of the hardest rock. The material was there, could
one but quarry it ; but the labour was ungrateful,
and often seemed hopeless. The pupil never wanted
to learn what the master wished to teach him.
When the good Vicar opened the aeneid, the boy
cried, " A fig for classics,^^ and was hot upon reading

" Don Quixote ^' in the original, angry with his
master because he would not turn from the beaten
path of duty to teach him Spanish.

You are a good Spanish scholar ; my mother
told me so when she was sounding your praises
said Valentine ; ^* why won't you teach me
Spanish ? "

Because you are very backward with your
Latin. Stick to that, Val, and it will help you
With Spanish by-and-by."

I shan't care about Spanish by-and-by. I want
to learn it now''

This was a sample of many such arguments.
The lad was obstinate and wrong-headed, but the
Vicar never gave way to his whims ; and this may
have been the reason that Valentine liked Mr.
Kockstone better than any one else at Chadford.

But with advancing manhood Valentine exhibited
characteristics which filled his mother's loyal friend
with apprehension. He was uneasy when the young
man was at the Abbey. He was more uneasy when
he was away ; dreading lest every day should bring
some evil tidings to the mother. He, who had studied

Lady Belfield's thoughts and inclinations as closely
as only one who fondly loves can study a character,
knew that to the mother's heart the wayward son
was the more precious.

'' She loves them both' he told himself; '^ she
loves Adrian exactly as a good mother should love
a good son ; but she loves the other one foolishly
blindly sinfully — if, indeed , it be a sin to make an
idol of poor humanity .''

Ten minutes to eight on Saturday evening, and
the Vicar was luxuriating in the glow of a splendid
fire, in a drawing-room full of light and colour, the
perfume of hothouse flowers, and the litter of new
books and periodicals. Lady Belfield sat in her
favourite chair by the hearth, with her eye on the
door. A kind of instinct told her that the Mor-comb
party would be late. Adrian hovered about
near the door, with a slightly nervous air.

'that dear young man looks as if he expected
to be arrested'' said Mr. Rockstone ; and then
went on questioning Lady Belfield about the last
book she had been reading. He used to say that

he had no occasion to read new books on his own
account : Lady Belfield always kept him au
courant.

"An intelligent woman's synopsis of a shallow
book is always better than the book itself," said
the Vicar.

Mr. and Mrs. Freemantle and their son Jack
were announced as the clock struck eight. With
the Freemantle family there was always a military
exactitude. They were all well drilled. Even
Lucy had never been late for a lesson or a church
service in her life.

Mrs. Freemantle shook hands with Lady Belfield
and looked round for the strangers. Mr. Free-mantle
was an excellent man, with plenty of common
sense but no cultivation, and very little
memory. He never opened a book and he rarely
listened to conversation, unless it had some direct
bearing upon field sports, politics, in which he
was faintly interested or his own affairs. He
had utterly forgotten that he had been asked to
meet anybody in particular, and when it came to
a quarter-past eight and there was no announcement

of dinner, he began to wonder whether Lady
Belfield had changed her cook.

Lady Belfield and her friend talked of the
parish the sick and poor, whom they saw
almost daily, the Vicar joining in now and
then. Adrian still lingered near the door, and
made believe to be entertained by Jack Free-mantle's
account of a football match which had
come oflp with eclat to Jack's side that afternoon.


(( wee gave those fellows a tremendous licking ;
I had only just time to get home and dress' said
Jack, who had the newly-washed look of a man
who had dressed in a desperate hurry.

Your friends are very late, Adrian," said his
mother presently. " Do you think we ought to
wait any longer ? "

My dear mother, their first visit ! Of course
we must wait. I know you'll forgive us, Mrs. Free-mantle."


I forgive you with all my heart, Adrian ; but
the Vicar and my husband have both been looking
at the clock every five minutes, and I am afraid

VOL. I. H

they are beginning to feel rather vindictive towards
these friends of yours."

Are you really expecting any one ? " asked
Freemantle innocently. "I thought it was your
cook that was behind time."

^^ Lady Belfield's servants are never unpunctual,
John. DidnH I tell you we were to meet Colonel
Deverill ? "

Deverill ! Ah, to be sure, the man who has
taken Morcomb. I used to see him in London
five-and-twenty years ago. He was in the Guards
a South of Ireland man."

The timepiece chimed the half-hour, and the
door was flung open.

Colonel Deverill and Miss Deverill, Mrs. Bad-delay."


The matron led the way, lovely, smiling, deliciously
unconscious of blame, svelte, graceful, in a
tight-fitting ruby velvet gown, and with only one
ornament — a large diamond pendant, which a
duchess might not have disdained to wear. Helen
followed, clad in some limp, creamy fabric, with
neither jewels nor gold, only a cluster of white

lilies on her shoulder. If this was an aesthetic
toilet, sestheticism was very becoming to Miss
Deverill.

No one apologized for being late. The Morcomb
party slipped into their places in the easiest
manner. Mr. Freemantle was told off to the
younger sister the Vicar was assigned to Mrs.
Freemantle, and Sir Adrian took Mrs. Baddeley.
His mother had told him that it must be so ; and
Jack followed his hostess and the Colonel as if he
had been an aide-de-camp.

The dinner was much livelier than rural dinners
are wont to be. Helen sat between the Vicar and
Mr. Freemantle, and prattled delightfully to both.
The sisters were full of talk and laughter, gayer and
more spontaneous than any girls Adrian had ever
met. They played into each other's hands, held
each other up to ridicule, bandied jokes with the
airiest touch — flew from subject to subject with
inexhaustible vivacity ; and yet their voices never
grew loud or harsh, their conversation never
degenerated into noise and clatter. To Adrian
the evening passed as if by enchantment. It was

H 2

nearly mid night when the Deverill carnage drove
away. He and the sisters had pledged themselves
to all manner of engagements. He was to go
over to tea next day, and to inspect their stud.
He, who never hunted, was to be at the meet on
Monday, and was to potter about a little, and show
them the country.

'^ Adrian," remonstrated his mother, whose quick
ear caught that mention of hunting, *' you know
Dr. Jason said you must not hunt."

'^ He said I mustn't ride across country, mother.
He never forbade my jogging about the lanes on a
steady cob.^^

"He has had delicate health from his childhood,"
said Lady Belfield to Mrs. Baddeley, with
an apologetic air. " I may be forgiven if I am
over careful of him."

Adrian escorted the ladies to their carriage.

What do you think of them, Sophy ? " asked
Constance Belfield of her friend, while her son was
out of the room. Mr. Freemantle and the Vicar
were talking politics, Jack was yawning in a corner,
exhausted after having shouted all his best songs —

** If doughty deeds my lady pleases and '^ The
Stirrup Cup' and ^^ Old London Bridge."

'' What I think of them may be summed up in
one word — Dangerous'

Oh, Sophy ! "

*' For Adrian most decidedly dangerous. Indeed
I believe the mischief is as good as done already.
But perhaps you would not object to his marrying
Miss Severally

dear Sophy, she is a perfect stranger tome.
How could I approve ? "

'^ Well, you will have to approve — or to disapprove
very strongly."

I can see that Adrian admires Miss Deverill ;
but there is no reason to conclude he must needs
be in love with her."

Reason ! Fiddlestick ! I tell you he is in
love with her. When did reason and love ever go
together ! When a young man has been bottled
up for the best part of his life in a village, his
heart is as inflammable as a haystack after a dry
summer."

And with this unpoetical comparison, Mrs. Free-mantle

drew her Canton crape shawl round her
shoulders, ordered her husband and son off with a
nod, bade her friend " Good-nights' and sailed out
of the room.

CHAPTER IV.

ACROSS COUNTRY

Mrs. Freemantle was right in her diagnosis.

Adrian was in love. He was not altogether
unconscious of his own condition ; but like most
intellectual young men he fancied himself much
wiser than he really was. He thought that he
only admired Helen Deverill; and he told himself
that he would go no further than admiration until
he knew a great deal more of the lady. He was
his own master, free to marry whomsoever he chose.
A penniless girl of good family seemed to him the
most proper person for him to marry : but he told
himself that he must have the highest qualities m
a wife. She must not be beautiful alone ; mentally
and morally she must be perfect. He was not to
be scared by a little unconventionality ; he admired
a girl who dared to think and act for herself, and
whose manners were not modelled upon the

manners of all other girls ; but he meant to study
the lady's character before he suffered his heart to
go out to her — never suspecting, poor fool, that his
heart was already hers, and that he who aspired to
be her judge was in reality her slave.

He had never ridden to hounds since he was a
boy; for from the hour he found hard riding was
perilous,, or even impossible for him, he had turned
his back upon the sport, and had tried to persuade
himself that he did not care for it. Yet now he
was out every hunting day, dawdling at the meet
jogging up and down the lanes, watching and
waiting about, as much in the day's sport as it was
possible for him to be without going fast over
pasture or common and taking his fences with the
rest of the field. Whenever there was a bit of
slow-going he was at Helen's side. When the
hounds were in full cry she was off after them,
while he waited patiently in a sheltered corner,
hoping fate and the fox might bring her back
that way.

She seemed to like his society, but she was full
of caprices and uncertainties, wayward, wilful, a

coquette to the marrow of her bones, only Adrian
did not so judge her. He thought her a versatile
creature, a being of whim and fancy, disinterested,
uncalculating, innocent as a wood or water nymph,
but full of tricks and changes like the nymphs.
That she was a clever, keen-witted young woman,
who meant to make a good match, knew the value
of her own beauty to an iota, and intended to
enjoy all that is best and pleasantness in this brief,
swift race across the earth's surface, which we call
^j life — this he suspected not. He saw only graces
and charms and frank unconscious loveliness of
person and of mind in every look and word and
action. To him she appeared faultless; and yet
he thought that he was over-critical, that he erred V
on the side of deliberation and severe judgment. ^/

Some days, when the fox was what Helen called
'' a ringing brute," and the run scarce worth
serious consideration, she would spend the whole
day in Sir Adrian's company, utterly indifferent
to the scandal such companionship might occasion.
She had been accustomed to be talked about ever
since she was fifteen, and would have fancied her

attractiveness on the wane if people — womenkind
especially — had ceased to say hard things of her.
She had her sister for chaperon, but then Mrs.
Baddeley always had her own affairs to look after.
She was a splendid horsewoman, and rode in a
business-like way which admitted of no favour to
that little court of admirers which she always had
in her wake. Her admirers must be in the first
flight if they wanted to see anything of her. For
those who rode as boldly and as fast as she did, she
had ever the sweetest smiles and the kindest words ;
and the long ride home with two or three of these,
after the kill, was like a procession of lovers.

Launcelot and Guinevere !^^ exclaimed Miss
Toifstaflf, one of the county Diana ; '' the way
those two young women go on is too astounding.
I never saw anything worse in the Eow : and that"
added Miss ToflPstafF significantly, '^ is saying a
great deals

There were three Miss Tofi'staff's, who rode to
hounds, and who rode well, and were always well
mounted. They prided themselves in turning out
in perfect style, and had their habits, hats, and

boots from the best maker, be be who he might.
Fashion is very capricious in its treatment of habit-makers.
There is always a new man coming to the
front, with advanced theories upon the cutting of
the knee ; so the Miss Toffstaffs changed their habit-maker
about once a year.

Mr. Toffstaff was a new man in that part of
Devonshire, who had lately acquired the estate of a
deceased native. Needless to say that he was more
county ''■' than the county people whose ancestors
had been owners of the soil ever since the Heptarchy,
subscribed much more liberally to the hunt,
and gave himself more airs than the men of the
vielle roche.

In opposition to, and yet in friendly relations
with, the three Miss Toffstaffs, were the two Miss
Treduceys, whose father, Sir Nathaniel Treducey, of
The Moat, was of an older family, and owned more
aristocratic connections than any other man in
the neighbourhood. His mother came of a ducal
race in Scotland, and his wife was the daughter
of a French marquis, who had fallen in love with
the handsome young diplomatist at one of the

Empress's balls in the golden days of the Second
Empire,

The Miss Treduceys had been, as it were, born
on horseback, and looked down from a prodigious
altitude upon the Miss Toffstaffs, whom they
suspected of having been taught by a riding-master.
They were fair, rather pretty girls, with large
liquid blue eyes, and they were as thin as their
mother was fat. Their aquiline noses and slender
figures were an inheritance from Sir Nathaniel, who
belonged to an eagle-nosed race, and had the air of
a gentlemanlike bird of prey.

The Miss Toffstaffs and the Miss Treduceys
rarely agreed about any one subject, albeit they
were such very good friends ; but they were unanimous
in their condemnation of Colonel DeverilFs
daughters.

'rit makes one feel ashamed of being a girl,
don't it ? " asked Matilda Treducey of Marjorie
Toffstaff.

The Miss Treduceys had been christened Matilda
and Isabel, in honour of their Norman descent;
the Miss Tofistaffs were Dorothy, Marjorie, and

Jessie having been christened at a period when
quaint rustic names were in fashion. Mrs. Toff-staff
was a woman who followed fashion assiduously,
and as she never thought of anything else, sometimes
overtook it. Everything at Wilmington — the
dinner-table, the drawing-room, the stables, and
the gardens — was in the newest style. A fashion
could hardly be heard of in Devonshire before it
was to be seen at Wilmington. At The Moat,
on the contrary, everything was of the old school,
a curious and rather pleasant mingling of old
French and old English fashions. Lady Treducey
protested her abhorrence of all innovations, and
boasted of her husband's poverty as if it were a
distinction in an age when parvenus are egregiously
rich.

Since France has been a Republic everything
new has been detestable,'''' she said, " and England
is very little better than a Republic. All our
fashions have an American taint. I look forward
with horror to a day when London and Paris will
be only suburbs of New York.^^

The five young ladies were all agreed as to one

fact — that Colonel Deverill's daughters were a disgrace
to the neighbourhood ; but as Lady Belfield
knew them, and in a manner vouched for • their
abstract respectability, every one called at Mor-comb,
and the objectionable ladies had been bidden
to luncheons and afternoon teas.

Matrons and maids owned that the new-comers
were pretty, but were unanimous in denouncing
them as bad style. The word had been passed
round, as it were. They were to be called upon
and tolerated; but they were not to be admitted
to the inner sanctuary of friendship.

They were received, however, that was the main
point. Sir Adrian met them everywhere. His
life was a new life, full of new interests. He
wrote long letters to his brother, filled with descriptions
of Helen, her looks, her sweet little
ways, her sparkling conversation, which lost a
good deal of its sparkle when reduced to pen
and ink.

I did not think it was in you to be such a
fool' wrote Valentine, with brotherly candour ;
the girl is evidently setting her cap at you. She

has not a sixpence and you are one of the best
matches in Devonshire. However of course you
will please yourself. There is no reason why you
should try to please anybody else. I, who have
only my mother's fortune to depend upon, must
marry money, if I ever marry at all. To my own
mind at present my state is the more gracious asa
bachelor's

CHAPTER V.

AS THE SPARKS FLY UPWARD

Though lie was much of a student and more of a
dreamer, Mr. Eockstone was a true friend, helper,
and counsellor to the poor of his parish. It was a
sadly ignorant parish, such as one might expect to
light upon could some magician's wand reverse the
glass of time and take us back a century to the days
of Farmer George and Snuffy Charlotte. Reading
and writing were rarest accomplishments among
those of mature years, and, in spite of schools and
schoolmasters, the youthful mind was in a state of
darkness which made a simple game of dominoes
in the Vicar's reading-room seem as mysterious and
perplexing as an inscription on a Babylonian brick.
Often in the long winter evenings would Mr.
Kockstone tear himself away from his own comfortable
fireside to go down to the little reading-room,
where he would labour with sublime patience

at the mystery of dominoes, or the perplexity of
*' Muggins '' or " Slap Jack," two games at cards,
by which he tried to enliven the dulness of a
purely literary evening. Here, too, he would read
aloud, and enlighten the rustic mind by a leader in
the Standard or the Post, and would listen good-naturedly
to the rustic ideas as to the last political
crisis. Nor did the Vicar confine his ministrations
to the vicinity of vicarage, church, and schools.
His sympathies extended to the furthest limits of
an extensive parish.

The Deverills had been settled at Morcomb for
nearly a month, and it was the first week in
December when Mr. Eockstone set out one mild,
sunny morning for a leisurely ride to Wycherley
Marsh, which was at the extreme edge of Chad-ford
parish. The soft west wind and blue sky
suggested April rather than mid-winter, and the
Vicar felt it a privilege to exist as he trotted along
a Devonshire lane on his steady-going old horse,
Don — so called because he was as stupid and as
lazy as some of the college dons Mr. Rockstone
had known in his youth.

VOL. I. T

The Vicar loved Don, and Don loved the Vicar,
would recognize his master's voice afar off in the
garden, and appeal to him from his stable with
loud neighing. Don had carried the Vicar over
every acre of his capacious parish, and knew every
cottage at which he was accustomed to stop and
every turn in the lanes which led to his own
stable. Horse and rider had a gentle tussle now
and then when Don wanted to go home — which
was the normal condition of his mind — and when
the Vicar wanted to go further afield. But this
morning Don was as fresh and as ready for his
work as it was in his nature to be at any time,
and he got over the ground rather quicker than
usual.

The River Chad is one of the most picturesque
streams in England, but even the Chad has its bits
of commonplace; and it is never less romantic
than in that broad reach which is bounded on one
side by Wycherley Marsh, and on the other by low
level meadows, where the cattle wade breast deep
in the rank sedgy grass.

The marsh sustains nothing but wild-sow], and

can only be crossed at one point by horse or foot
passenger , who has to pick his way along a rough
stone causeway, which was constructed in the dim
remoteness of an unrecorded past, and which it is
nobody's business to improve or repair in the
present.

Few but sportsmen intent on water-fowl would
have tempted the dangers of this dilapidated
causeway ; but Mr. Eockstone knew every stone
of it. A solitary hut which stood close to the
river, with water on one side and marsh on the
other, was the ultima thine of his parish; and
here he came about a dozen times in the year to
see two of his parishioners, who had awakened in
him a keener interest than their merits might be
said to deserve.

Yonder hovel, with low cob walls and a gable
roof of blackened reeds, had been tenanted for the
last forty years by a basket-maker, whose gipsy
wife had died soon after his establishment in that
solitary abode, and had left him with a daughter
of three years old. The child had grown up with
him somehow as the birds grow in their nests, in

I 2

that lonely place, without womanly, help of any
kinds and she had grown into a creature of a
strange wild beauty, in which her gipsy blood was
manifest. She had grown almost to womanhood
when Mr. Rockstone came to the parish, and he
had been interested in her as a curious growth of
savage ignorance in the very midst of civilization.
She had grown up knowing hardly anything which
civilized young women know; but she had on the
other hand the innocence of ignorance, had no
more knowledge of the outer world, its pleasures,
temptations, and sins than she had of the great
shining worlds in that unfathomable universe
above her head. She could neither read nor
write ; she could not count her own ten fingers
without breaking down two or three times in the
attempt ; and she had never been inside a
church since she was christened. Her father's
excuse when charged with his sins of omission
was, that he was a very poor man, and that
he lived four miles and a half away from everything.


'^ How could I send her to school ? " he asked.

You might have moved to a more civilized
homes said the Vicar.

'* Moved ! Why, this cottage is my own freehold,
Parson. I'd as soon part with my right arm
as sell the house that shelters me. I should never
get another if once I sold this. The money would
all go in drink. ^^

You might at least go to church once a week''
pursued the Vicar. " You wander many a mile in
the week to sell your baskets. Could you not
walk a few miles on a Sunday to save your
soul ? "

John Dawley shook his head.

When a man has been on the tramp all the
week he wants his rest on Sunday' he said.

The Vicar talked to Madge Dawley — tried to
teach her the elements of Christianity; but the
task was difficult. lie could not ask her to walk
nine miles a day in quest of enlightenment. He
rode over to the cottage by the marsh as often ashe
could, and he took more pains with this beautiful
young ignoramus than with anybody in his
parish. After he had been engaged thus for about

a year, he began to think he had shed some rays
of light upon the dimness of the girl's mind.
Intelligence seemed to he awakening. Madge was
less childish in her remarks upon the Gospel, and
more inquisitive about the world in which she
lived. Mr. Rockstone was full of hope about her,
when she disappeared suddenly from the cottage,
the marsh, and parish of Chadford, without leaving
the slightest clue to the mode and motive of her
departure. All that her father could tell the
parson was that he had left the hovel at daybreak
to carry his baskets to a remote market town,
where there was a fair ; and on coming back at
midnight he had found the house empty.

Had he ever seen a strange man lurking about
the cottage ? Did he suspect his daughter of any
acquaintance with a person who might lure her
away ?

No, to both questions.

Mr. Rockstone took infinite pains to trace the
fugitive, but in vain ; she had not been seen in the
village, nor at the nearest railway station. The
local police could do nothing, the metropolitan

police were equally at fault. John Dawley's
daughter was but another vanished drop in the
great ocean of humanity.

Five years afterwards, the basket-maker, returning
towards midnight from the same market
town and the same annual fair, upon the anniversary
of his daughter's flight, found a child,
apparently between two and three years old, sitting
on his hearth staring at the fire, which had been
lighted not long before by unknown hands.

He had no occasion to puzzle his brains about
the child's identity, for she was the exact reproduction
of his daughter's infancy, and she wore round
her neck the yellow glass necklace which Madge
had worn from infancy to womanhood, her
mother's favourite ornament,, without which she
had never considered herself dressed for the day.

He searched the hovel, thinking to find his
daughter in hiding somewhere, but the place was
empty save for that young thing squatting before
the fire. He questioned the child, but she was
backward in her speech, and could only express
her own wants in a very infantine fashion :

Maggie tired Maggie hungry, Maggie want milk.
She did not cry for her mother, or make any objection
to her changed surroundings. She ate her
supper of dry bread contentedly ; but she refused
to sit upon the basket-makers knee. Sie curled
herself up like a kitten upon the bed "where
he put her, and slept as peacefully as a kitten
sleeps.

The basket-maker took to his new burden with
a stolidity which might be either resignation or
indifference. He would have brought up the
granddaughter exactly as he had brought up the
daughter ; but here the Vicar interfered. He arranged
that the child should be boarded for two
weeks out of every four in the house of a respectable
cottager at Chadford. During that fortnight
the girl was to attend the school, and be taught
and cared for as a Christian child in a Christian
country. The second fortnight in each month she
lived with her grandfather ; and as soon as her
baby fingers were capable of work she began to
help him in his basket-making. Her friend the
cottager taught her domestic work of all kinds,

and trained her to usefulness in the earliest age.
She was able to keep the hovel in order from the
time she was eight years old. Her board was paid
for by the Vicar, who asked no oner's help in this
good work. When she was eleven years old the
cottagers wife died, and Madge, who was able to
read and write and cipher, now took up her abode
permanently in the cottage on the marsh, and was
only expected to appear at Sunday-school and
church on fine Sundays.

Sometimes she tramped about the countryside
with her grandfather, selling baskets. At other
times she spent her solitary days in the cottage,
or in the little cottage garden, a quarter of an
acre redeemed laboriously from the marsh, a paradise
of flaunting wallflowers, stocks, and nasturtiums,
hollyhocks and sunflowers, with patches of
potatoes and cabbage, and a tall green of scarlet-runners,
bright against blue river and blue sky
in the hot summer afternoons, when Madge sat on
a little mound at the edge of the stream, basket-weaving,
and watching the lazy tide flow by, her
fingers moving with a monotonous regular motion

as if she had been weaving a net to catch the souls
of men.

She was beautiful enough for an enchantress,
with those great dark eyes and raven hair a skin
like old ivory, and features of Roman mould.
The Vicar was mortal, and he could not help
feeling a deeper interest in the soul that dwelt
within this splendid form than in his snub-nosed,
apple-checked villagers. And then the girl was
shy, or proud, and held herself aloof from all sympathy,
which made the Vicar only the more
sympathetic.

Mr. Rockstone had deferred his visit to old
Dawley^s cottage longer than usual, and he approached
the marsh to-day with a certain anxiety
of mind, inasmuch as Madge had not appeared in
her usual place in the gallery of his church for
more than a month. The weather had been either
bad or doubtful on all those Sundays, and he had
taken that to be the cause of her absence ; yet
when a fifth Sunday came and she was still
absent, the Vicar began to think there must be
some more serious reason than rain or wind.

The smoke rose in a thin, white column from
the low chimney of the hut , and a gleam of firelight
showed in the window that looked across the
marsh. There was some life in the hovel at any
rate.

Old Dawley was sitting by the hearth, which
occupied one side of the low, dark living-room,
making a basket ; his granddaughter knelt by the
window with her arms folded upon the sill, looking
out across the broad, level marsh to the road
on the edge of the low hill which shut out all the
world beyond. The marsh was about a quarter of
a mile in width, broken up here and there into
pools, where the wild fowl congregated ; a long-stretch
of waste land and dark water very dear to
the sportsman.

The girl turned her head with a listless air as
the Vicar entered ; but she did not rise from her
knees or offer him any greeting.

How d'ye do, Dawley ? how's the rheumatism ?
No better, eh'' as the old basket-maker shook
his head. " That's bad. The weather has been
against us old fellows for the last three months.

But I didn't think the Treaties was bad enough
to keep a healthy young woman like you from
churchy Madge/^ added the Vicar, with good-humoured
remonstrance, smiling at the girl,
whose great dark eyes were looking at him
dreamily, as if she were but half-conscious of
external things, in the absorption of her own
thoughts.

She ain't over-healthy now," said her grandfather
discontentedly. ^^ I don't know what become
over her. She's just as if she was half asleep
all day, yet she's awake almost all night, for I hear
her toss about t'other side the lath and plaster, and
sigh as if she'd a mort o' trouble, half the night
through. She spiles my rest, she do, as well asher
own. She's the most discontentedly young
female as ever I met with."

Come, come, friend, you mustn't be hard upon
her. It may be that the life is too lonely for her,
and that she's not well. Young women most of
them seem subject to neuralgia now-a-days. They
all seem to want tonics, quinine and iron, sea air,
and change of scene. What's the matter, Madge ?'^

asked the Vicar gently, laying his broad fatherly
hand upon the raven hair.

"Nothing's the matter' the girl answered,
with a sullen air ; " 1 am sick of my life, that's
all."

You are tired of this lonely place. You want
to leave your poor old grandfather ?"

No, I should be no better anywhere else. It
isn't the place I'm tired of, it's my life."

"This is a case for quinine; I'll send you a box
of pills," said the Vicar cheerily.

Madge turned her back upon him and looked
out at the marsh, just as she had been looking
when her patron entered. The old man got up
from his three-legged stool, and jerked his head
significantly towards the door.

Come out and have a talk, Dawley," said the
Vicar ; " your cottage is too warm for me, and I've
got Don outside to look after."

Don was browsing contentedly upon some rank
grass on the edge of the causeway, and had no
more intention of going away than if he had been
the original antediluvian horse in a museum.

The two men went out together, and strolled
along the causeway side by side.

Of course you can see what it is, canst you.
Parson's began Dawley abruptly. ^'No mistaking
the signs in a gals

You think she's in love'' hazarded the Vicar.

O' course she is, Parson. That's the way it
alius begins — sighing' and sucking and sleepless
nights a- thinking of him. Curse him, whoever he
is! He'll lure this one away like the other one
was lured away, of a sudden, without a word of
warning to the poor old father. I dursen't leave
the cottage, lest I should find it empty when I
comes back. I hasn't sold a basket for a fortnight.
Fm here to guard her from the serpents

"Who can it be?" asked the Vicar, with a puzzled
air. " Is there any one in the village that she cares
for''

"Lord! no. Parson. It ain't no one in the
village — it ain't a working man, or a gentleman's
servant, or any one of her own station — else it
would be all fair and above-board, and she wouldn't
be afraid to tell her old grandfather. It's somebody

whose love means ruin. Some lying, fine
gentleman, who'll speak her fair, and tempt her to
go away with him, and leave her to rot when his
fancy's over. I knows the breed'

Have you any reason to suspect mischief?"
Too many reasons ; but I'll tell you one or
two, and you can judge. It's just about six weeks
ago that I noticed when I came home late at night
that there was a smell of 'baccy in the room
yonder. Well, I'm a smoker myself, but this
wasn't my baccy that I smelt, and it wasn't twelve
hours old, neither. It was a gentleman's 'baccy ;
as different from what I smoke as the champagne
you gentry drink is from the cider they sell up
street. I know'd there'd been a stranger here
when I smelt that 'baccy. I asked my gal if
there'd been any one come to the cottage all day.
She said '^No,'' but I could see she was lying. I
noticed the same smell three nights running ; and
on the morning after the third night I found
another sign o' mischief. There'd been rain the
day before, but the wind shifted towards evening,
and there was a sharp frost in the night; and

when I went out into the causeway there was my
gentleman's footprints as if they'd been cut in a
rock — the prints of a gentleman's strong-soled
shooting boots. There's no mistaken' the cut of a
fine gentleman's boot : it's as different from a poor
man's clodhopper as a gentleman's 'baccy is from
mine. Somebody had been hanging about the
cottage and making up to my gal."

'' Was that all ? Did you never see the man
himself?"

Never. He was too artful. I've scarcely been
three days away from home since I saw the footprints
in the causeway ; but my gentleman has
never shown up hereabouts, and my gal has moped
all the time."

^' Have you never questioned her since then?"
Now and again, careless like. Had there been
any one shooting the wild fowl, anybody going past
in a boat ? and such like. But I might as well
expect to get answers out of a stone. Not a word
would she say to me, except she didn't know, she
hadn't noticed — what reason was there for her to
watch for people in boats ? "

"Well, Dawley, we must be on our guard for
her, poor child. She is too handsome to be exempt
from dangers and temptations. I don't think she
ought to be left to live this solitary life any longer.
Solitude encourages brooding. She wants change
and occupation — the sight of strange faces."

How is she to get them ? " asked Dawley
despondingly.

She might go into services

And be ruined and broken-hearted before she
had left me six months. I know what servant gals
are, and how little care there is taken of em.
She's not old enough or wise enough to be left to
take care of herself. Send her out to service anywhere
hereabouts, and the fine gentleman who left
his footmarks on this causeway would soon find out
where she was, and be after her. She'd have her
evenings out, belike ; and he'd be waiting for her
somewheres in the dusk. I knows the world.
Parson. She don't, poor child ; and knowledge of
the world ain't to be learnt second-hand. I might
preach her sermons as long as my arm, but she'd
never be warned by them."

VOL. I. K

'' There is service and service Dawley. I know
of houses in which the maids are as well looked
after as nuns in a convent. FIl talk to a lady I
know about your granddaughter, and if I can
interest her "

^' It will be hard to part with her' said the old
man, " but I can't keep watch over her always and
sell my baskets ; and if I don't sell 'em we must
starve. And she's getting' to hate me for being so
watchful of her, I can see that. It's a wicked
world, Parson."

It's a troublesome world, my friend, and we
must make the best of it for ourselves and each
other. Man was born to trouble as the sparks fly
upward. Have you heard anything of Madge's
mother lately ? "

*^ Not a word, Parson. Ah, she was a bad lot,
an out-and-out bad lot, with a heart as hard as the
nethermost millstone."

^' You must not judge her, Dawley. She was
brought up in darkness and ignorance. No one
ever taught her her duty."

There's duties that don't need to be taught —

the duty of loving your father and mother. That
ought to come natural even to a savages

Your daughter may have died years ago/^

I don't think so, Parson. I heard of her six
or seven years ago — not a word from her , mark
you — but I heard from a man who had seen her in
London riding in her carriage, or in somebody's
carriage, as bold as brass — as fine a lady as any in
London, Joe Trunnion said. He's a gipsy hawker,
sells brooms and baskets and such like, and travels
all over the country. He saw my gal, he did, not
seven year agone, all among the gentle folks on
Epsom Downs, dressed in silk and satin, as brazen
as you like, she that never came to look after
her child since the little one was three year old."*^

Well, we had best forget all about her, Dawley,
till God puts better thoughts into her mind and
brings her back to us. Til see what can be done
about Madge. She wouldn't suit everybody, never
having been in service — but I think I know a lady
who will help me.^^

In this or in any other emergencies he said to
himself, by way of postscript.

K 2

He mounted Don, and rode slowly homeward
across the open waste to the lane with its tall
tangled hedges, bare now for the most part, save
where the foliage lingered on the pollard oaks, and
the beechwood showed copper-coloured leaves that
were to last till late into the coming year, when
the young growth came to drive them away. Very
slow was that homeward ride, for Don had exhausted
all his freshness in the outward journey,
and only quickened his pace when he saw the old
church tower and smelt the clover in the Vicarage
stable. But to his astonishment the Vicar took
him past that familiar gate, and trotted him, snorts
ing with indignant protest, to the gates of Belfield
Park and along the avenue to the Abbey, where
there was some consolation, as a groom came out
at the sound of hoofs, and conducted the clerical
steed to a loose box, while his master went into the
house to see Lady Belfield.

She was in her usual place in the innermost
drawing-room, a woman always ready to see her
friends, and give them cordial welcome ; not one of
those women who have to be hunted for on the

arrival of a visitor, and who are never fit to be
seen except when they are e7i gr ancle tenue.

She gave her hand to the Vicar with a smile,
and he sat down in the luxurious chair at her side,
and felt that life was worth living for.

He told her the state of things at old Dawley^s
cottage : the young life wasting, the young, undisciplined
heart pining, for want of womanly care
and sympathy, and he had enlisted her feelings
before his story was half finished.

You want change of scene for her, a brighter,
busier life, a home where she will be taught and
cared for,^^ she said, when she had heard all.
Let her come here by all means. My housekeeper
is an excellent creature — but you know my
good Mrs. Marrable as well as I do.^^

I have reason to know her. Yes, she has a
heart of golden"*

Well, I will place this protegee of yours under
Mrs. Marrable's especial care, and I will do all I
can for her myself."

"You are always good. Lady Bclficld, You
have taught me to rely upon your goodness. But

I must warn you that this girl may he of very
little use in your establishment. She is untaught
and inexperienced

''■ I don't expect her to be of use to me ; I want
to be of use to her. Bring her to me as soon as
you like, Vicar."

God bless you. I will bring her to you tomorrow
if I can'"

EASY TO LOVE II E R

The Vicar rode Don across the marli early
next morning, a liberty which that sage animal
felt inclined to resent, so rarely was he taken
far afield two days running. But the Vicar was
too intent upon humanity just now to spare horseflesh.


Old Dawley had gone to the market-town with
a load of baskets, his exchequer having sunk to
the lowest point, dire necessity forcing him to
abandon his post as guardian of a girls heart and
honour.

Madge was alone, in the same moody attitude,
with the same moody countenance which the
Vicar had observed yesterday. She took but the
slightest notice of his entrance — scarcely stirred
from her place by the window, scarcely ceased
from her contemplation of the marsh, only looked

at him sith a bored expression and rr, uttered a
sullen good morning.

'^ Madge, I have got you a places he said,
without circumlocution.

'^ What place ?^'

A place in a lady's house, where you will be
kindly treated and taught to be useful. I am
going to take you to a new and cheerful life, to
a good home, clean rooms, wholesome food, and
companions of your own age."

'^ You mean that I'm to go into services she
said, with the same sullen air.

Yes, my dear girl ; the life you are leading
here is altogether an unnatural life. It is high
time you went out to service, and learnt to get
your own living."

The girl was silent for some moments, looking
across the marsh with that dreamy air of hers;
then she turned slowly and looked at the Arica,
half in wonder, half in scorn, with large dark eves
that were capable of looking unfathomable things.

Did my grandfather put that in your head!"
she asked.

No. Your grandfather told me only that you
were unhappy. It was I thought of the cures

A pretty cure ! " she cried contemptuously.
*' You think it will make me happy to scrub floors
and pots and pans, or perhaps you would send me
out as a nursemaid to mind squalling babies. I
would rather starve and have my freedom than bea
well-fed slave. "^

*^ There is no such thing as slavery in the house
where I am going to take you. Lady Belfield is
one of the kindest women I know. She will take
you into her service as a favour to me and she will
have you treated kindly and taught to be useful."

Lady Belfield ! " cried Madge^ jumping up and
flushing to the roots of her hair ; " Lady Belfield
will take me into her service ! '^

"■ Yes, Madge, and will interest herself in your
welfare. She has heard of your dismal life here,
and has promised to do all in her power to make
you happy. You won't refuse such a service as
that, will you ? "

No," answered the girl, after a long pause.
I won't refuse. I ought to be very grateful, I

suppose. It's a fine thing for dirt like me to be
let into such a house as that"*

"It will be the making of you, Badges' answered
the Vicar gravely, ^^ and I hope you accept
the situation in a right spirit, and "will try to do
your duty to that excellent lady."

The girl vouchsafed him no assurance as to her
intention upon this point.

'^ When am I to go ? " she asked.

'sat once — 

have hardly any clothes but those on my
back."

My housekeeper shall get you some more
clothes. You can come to the Vicarage as fast as
you can, and Deborah shall buy you what you
want in the village."

The girl took up his hand and kissed it in a
burst of gratitude.

^' You are a good man," she said ; " yes, I'll
come. Poor old grandfather ! He'll miss me of an
evening, when he comes home ; but anything will
be better than it has been lately. "We've both
been miserable — and perhaps some day "

She smiled, her face flushed again as it had
flushed at the first mention of Lady Belfield^s
name.

Will they let me come and see my grandfather
sometimes?" she asked.

Of course ; and if you learn to be a valuable
servant, by-and-by you will get good wages, and
then you can be a help to him in his old age.^^

Madge appeared at the Vicarage before three
o'clock, with all her worldly goods tied up in a
cotton handkerchief. She was not overcome by
the grandeur of the Vicarage, for that grave old
house, with its sombre rooms, cool in summer and
warm in winter, had been familiar to her in her
childhood, when the Vicar catechised her on Sunday
evenings in his library With a class of Sunday-school
children. She remembered the look of the
panelled hall and the old Oriental jars, the Vicar's
fishing tackle and the perfume of rose leaves and
lavender. Deborah, the housekeeper, who was a
very homely personage as compared with Mrs.
Marrable at the Abbey, received her instructions

from the Vicar and sallied out with Madge to the
village shop where all the indispensables of this
life were kept in stocky and here the two women
sat for nearly an hour choosing and buying :
Deborah keenly interested, Madge indifferent,
looking with incurious scorn upon the snowy
calico and the neat pink and white prints which
were being bought for her.

I suppose you can make your own gowns,"
said Deborah, rather snappishly, provoked at an
indifference which implied ingratitude to the good
Vicar.

I have never had anybody else to make them
for me," answered Madge.

That one you have got on fits pretty fair,
though I don't like the style of it," said Deborah,
eyeing the supple form from top to toe. '^I wouldn't
let one of our maids wear such a gown as that,
and you'll have to dress different at the Abbey.
And you won't be allowed to wear them beads
round your neck."

And yet they say service isn't slavery," retorted
Madge, with a scornful laugh.

Deborah spent a couple of sovereigns grudgingly,
knowing how many claims her master had upon his
benevolence, and having very little sympathy with
this ungracious young woman.

You're to come back to the Vicarage and have
tea with us/^ she said curtly, " and then John is to
walk to the Abbey with you"*

John was the Vicar's valet, butler, confidant, and
factotum. He was known only as John, and seemed
to have no occasion for any surname. The Vicar's
John was known and respected all over the parish.
He was a tall, lean, sharp-nosed man, very chary of
speech, and never talking except to the purpose.
He was a great reader of newspapers, and a profound
politician. Of books he knew none but the
Bible, and that he knew better than five curates
out of six. He had a way of talking about the
patriarchs and the kings and heroes of Israel as if
they had been Peel and Brougham, or Bright and
Gladstone, which was curious, and quite unconsciously
irreverent.

I don't want any tea," Madge answered, ungraciously.


'^ Oh, but you must want your tea; you must
be almost sinking. What a queer girl you are !
Come along now ; lets get home as fast as we
can. Martha will have got the kettle boiling,
and John will be wanting his tea''

John was a person whose wants must always
be studied. He waited upon the Vicar with exemplary
devotion, but he expected that the womenfolk
should wait upon him. In the kitchen and
servants* premises he was first in importance, and
all gave way before him.

The Vicarage kitchen looked very cheery in the
winter afternoon, with a bright red fire burning in
an old-fashioned open grate, and the hearth spotless,
and the fender shining like silver. The Vicar
dined at eight, so this afternoon hour was a period
of leisure and repose. The large oak table at
which Deborah did her cooking was pushed on one
side, and a snug round table covered with a snow-white
cloth stood in front of the fire-place. Martha,
the housemaid, a rosy-cheeked buxom lass, had prepared
everything except the actual making of the
tea, a sacred office reserved for Deborah. The tea-tray

was spread,, and there was a dish of hot buttered
cakes frizzling on the hearth by which sat
the Vicar^s John in a dignified attitude, reading
the Standard.

Mr. Rockstone's indoor establishment consisted
of these three, and they formed as happy and
united a household as could be found in all the
county. That catholic spirit of benevolence and
peace which breathed in the Vicar^s theology pervaded
all the acts and thoughts of daily life at the
Vicarage.

Madge sat amongst them as an alien. She took
her cup of tea in silence, ate very little, had no
idea of " making a good tea," as Deborah urged
her. It might be that she was fretting at leaving
her old grandfather. This supposition softened
Deborah's heart a little.

Now then, miss'' said John, rising suddenly,
with a military squareness of action, after a
tremendous meal, " if you are ready, I am. It
will be dark before we get to the Abbey."

It was nearly dark when they passed in front of
the porch on their way to the servants' quarters.

There were a couple of grooms and three horses
waiting before the porch, two with side saddles.
Lights were shining in the windows of the lower
rooms, but the hall was lighted only by the fire-glow.
It looked a picture of luxury and bright colour as
Madge saw it through the open door : armour
flashing in the firelight — old tapestry — vivid
colouring of Oriental curtains draping chimney-piece
and doorways ; such an interior as Madge's
eyes had never looked upon before.

She caught but a glimpse of that strange
splendour, and then John hurried her on by a
shrubbery path which skirted one side of the
house, to a low door which opened into a stone
lobby and thence to the servants' hall. Beyond
the servants' hall there was another door, and at
this John tapped respectfully.

It was the door of Mrs. Marrable's private ,
only one degree less sacred than Lady
Belfield's own apartments. Indeed, the Abbey
servants were more afraid of iNIrs. Marrable than
of Lady Belfield.

The room looked delightfully cosy in the light

of a bright wood fire. It was covered from floor
to ceiling with a heterogeneous collection of pictures
prints, oil paintings, and water-colours. All
the pictures rejected from the state apartments by
three generations of Belfields had been banished to
this limbo. There were doubtless some very vile
specimens among this collection, but the general
effect, seen in a half-light, was excellent. There
was a goodly array of old china also on shelves and
in cabinets, for here was brought all the damaged
porcelain.

Mrs. Marrable had been enjoying a nap by the
fire, preliminary to candles and tea, but she was
wide awake in an instant.

"How do you do, John ? Very glad to see you.
So this is the young person recommended by the
Vicars"* she said. " Her ladyship told me all
about you, my dear, and she wished to see you
directly you arrived. Ism to take you to the
drawing-room myself as you're a stranger. You
may just lay aside your hat and shawl — you'll
have to wear a bonnet in future — and come
with me. Perhaps you'd like to i>top into the

VOL I. L

servants' hall, John, and join them at their
tea'

'^ Thank you kindly, ma'am, I tea'd before I
camels John answered gravely. " I must begetting
back to see after the Vicar's dinner.
Good-night, mum ; good-night, miss ; "" and John
marched off by the way he had come, while
Madge, trembling slightly, in spite of her
native audacity, followed Mrs. Marrable to that
enchanted chamber with the curtains of wrought
gold and vivid colour, the flashing arms and
great stags' heads, which she had seen from outside.


They crossed the firelight hall, and Mrs. Marrable
opened the drawing-room door and entered with
Madge at her heels, expecting to find this room
empty and Lady Belfield alone in her usual place
in the inner drawing-room. She was drawing
back at the sight of a group round a low tea-table
near the fire, two ladies in riding habits, and Sir
Adrian in his hunting clothes, lolling luxuriously
in their low easy chairs.

Don't go away, Mrs. Marbles' said Lady

Belfield. " You have brought me the young person,
I see."

She rose and left the tea-table and came over to
the other end of the spacious room, where Mrs.
Marrable stood with Madge beside her, doubtful
whether to withdraw or to remain, while the girls
dark eyes gazed across empty space to the bright
glow of lamp and firelight in which those three
figures were seated.

She gazed at Sir Adrian with a look half of surprise,
half of admiration. She had caught chance
glimpses of those pale, refined features, across
the width of the parish church as Sir Adrian
stood in the old-fashioned curtained pew in the
chancel. But those glimpses had not familiarized
her with his face. It was new to her to-night iu
the glow of lamp and fire, radiant with happiness,
as he talked to Helen Devcrill, who sat nursing
her hat upon her knees, and smiling up at him,
with a charming unconsciousness of her vers liberal
display of patent-leather Wellingtons.

The girl hardly saw Lady Bclfield's calm, kind
face, so absorbed was all her power of vision by

L 2

that face in the firelight ; but she courtesies when
her new mistress spoke to her, as she had been
taught to courtesy to her betters in the Sunday-school.


'' I am glad you have come so soon'' said Constance
; " I hope you will be happy with your
fellow-servants and that you will try to please
Mrs. Marrable, who will be very kind to you I
know."

There was no patronizing admonition, no word
about duty or desert only a kind and friendly welcome
for the stranger.

I should like to have had a little talk with
you' added Lady Belfield, 'but I am engaged just
now. Mr. Rockstone has told me how much he is
interested in you.^'

He has been the only friend I ever had except
grandfather's answered Madge.

Say, my lady," whispered the housekeeper.

*^ Then I hope you will try to be happy here, if
it is only to please that kind friend," said Lady
Belfield.

*' Yes, my lady, T will try''

She courtesies again and followed the housekeeper
out of the room, and went back to the servants'
offices to begin her new life. Helen and her
sister began to criticize her directly she was out of
the room.

What a handsome girl ! '^ exclaimed Mrs. Bad-delay
: '' worlds too pretty for a servant. How
inconvenient when girls in that station of life are
born with such good looks. What made you
engage her, Lady Belfield ? For my part I detest
pretty servants. They always set all the indoor
men by the ears, and make the other maids ill-tempered.
There ought to be a dead level of commonplace
features and muddy complexions among
young women of that class'

'^ Surely you would not like to be waited upon by
gorgons,^^ remonstrated Adrian, laughing.

I did not say anything about gorgon. There
is a middle distance between beauty and ugliness.
I like my servants to occupy that neutral ground o£
inoffensive mediocrity. You haven't told me why
you engaged this girl, dear Lady Belfield. ^^

You haven't given me time' said Constance

smiling at the animated face, and then she told
just enough of the girls story to awaken interest
in sympathetic minds, and both sisters appeared
full of kindly feeling, frivolous as Lady Belfield was
sometimes disposed to consider them.

Adrian was in high spirits this afternoon as he
sat by Helen's side, feeding her with sweet things
as if she had been a bird, thinking her absolutely
bewitching as she nibbled pound-cake, and acknowledged
to a passionate love for buns. These two
had been pottering about with the hounds side by
side all day — a wretched day for sport, but a very
good day for Adrian, who could only enjoy his
divinity's society fully when there was a bad scent
and a great deal of waiting about outside the
coverts. The Miss Toffstaffs had been eloquent
in their animadversions upon Miss Deverill. They
even wondered that Sir Adrian's better judgment
did not prevent such immorality.

'* I call it disgraceful conduct even in him," said
Dorothy.

*' And what can one call it in her ? " responded
Isabel Treducey.

There were a knot of Diana clustered on the
opposite side of the road, keenly observant of
Helen and Adrian, in the midst of their own light
prattle.

'^ I believe she has hooked him/^ said Matilda
Treducey, who was horsy and outspoken.

What, you can't imagine he'll marry such a
brazen-faced flirts exclaimed Dorothy.

^•' My dear, I can imagine anything. Men are
such fools"'

But if it were folly, it was a pleasant folly while
it lasted. Never had Adrian been so happy as in
this dreary December — never before had there been
for him this glory and brightness over earth and
sky, this glamour of passionate love which filled the
world with light and life and gladness and ever-hurrying
emotion. He felt like a man borne down
the tide of a rushing river, or carried by a swift
horse, with the freshness of the air in his nostrils,
the sunlight shining upon him. He had a delicious
sense of being hurried onward without knowing or
caring whither. The journey was in itself so rapturous,
he scarce asked himself where was the goal.

Isis mother startled him one morning soon
after Madge's advent at the Abbey, by asking him
abruptly :

Adrian, are you going to marry Helen
Deverill ? "

He flushed crimson at the suddenness of the
attack. They were alone together before breakfast,
standing in the window of the breakfast-room,
and had both been silent and thoughtful
until that moment, watching the falling snow.

To marry' he faltered ; ^^ what a startling
attack, mother ! "

My dear boy, you must know your own mind
by this time. Everybody tells me you are in love
with Miss Deverill; and if you don't mean to
marry her, and if you are not compromised by
any declaration, you had better go away and let
people see that they are wrong. I am tired of
being questioned and congratulated about a^ potential
daughter-in-law."

"Mother, how strangely you say that! You
like her, don't you ? "

I hardly know my own mind about her.

Adrian. There are times when she bewitches me,
almost as she has bewitched you ; and then I am
afraid of her, Adrian ; I am full of fear for your
happiness'

It is too late to talk about fear, mother. I
gave her my heart long ago. I think it must
have been the first time I saw her. But indeed
you have no cause for fear. She is the most innocent,
childlike creature the sun ever shone upon.
She is as open as a summer sky. Yes, I have
studied her character, and I am not afraid to trust
my life into her keeping. You are right, mother :
it is time I should declare myself. I have been
living in a fools paradise — too happy to take
thought of the morrow*'

Then you mean to marry her ? "

Mean ! How can I be sure that she will have
me f

There is no fear of a refusal''

Then you think she loves me ? " he asked
eagerly, his face brightening as he spoke.

*^I think you are Sir Adrian Belficld, and the
best match in the county."

Mother, that is a detestable speech,, and not a
bit like you/^

My dearest, to my mind you are the most
loveable young man in England. But I am afraid
of Colonel Deverill's daughter. She has been
brought up in a bad school. She has graduated
at fashionable "watering-places and in gambling
saloons. I would ever so much rather you had
fallen in love with Lucy Freemantle.^'

I should be as likely to fall in love with that
yew obelisk yonder," said Adrian impatiently.
But don't let us argue the point, mother. If I
can but be so fortunate as to win her, I know she
will make you love her. She will creep into your
heart, and be to you as a daughter before you
have quite decided whether you can trust lier.^'

'^ And that is the worst of it, Adrian. I may
learn to love her without being able to trust her."
Mother and son breakfasted together, for the
most part in silence. Both were preoccupied.
Lady Belfield felt that she had precipitated the
inevitable by her questions ; and yet when evil is
inevitable it may as well be faced. She thought

of those other girls whom she would have preferred
for her sons choice. Of the Treduceys,
who were only just tolerable as individuals, but
who were excellent in the way of race and antecedents
; of Lucy Freemantle, who was a really
estimable girl, a pretty-looking, fresh-complexioned;,
uninteresting young Englishwoman, much too shy
to make the most of her advantages. Could she
wonder that her son preferred this outspoken,
fascinating girl, with her light-hearted gaiety, her
child-like delight in life, her tender, caressing ways,
and low musical voice ?

*^ No hunting," said Adrian, after breakfast
going off to the stables.

He ordered a pair of horses to be roughed, and
an hour afterwards he was driving his four-wheel
dogcart along the road that led to Morcomb.

Helen was alone in the billiard-room, practising
the spot stroke, in a neat little blue frock, with a
scarlet waistcoat. " The Guards' colours'' she told
Adrian, when he admired it.

Leo was ordering one from her tailor, so she

ordered one for me at the same times said HeleD.
'^ Kind, wasn't it ? ''

Very kind"'

Adrian wondered a little at Mrs. Baddeley's
somewhat lavish expenditure, since he had been
told that her husband had very small means — a
mere pittance beyond his pay.

I am quite alone," said Helen, when they had
seated themselves on each side of the hearth.
*' There was a telegram from Brindisi this morning,
and father and Leonora rushed off by the express
on their way to Paris. They are not to stop travelling
till they get to Paris, and they may be justin
time to meet Major Baddeley, who will travel as
fast as ever he can from Brindisi ; and then they
will stop in Paris two or three days to see the
sights, and then they will come back to poor . disconsolate
me.^'

You do not look very disconsolate," said
Adrian, contemplating her admiringly, as she satin
a lazy attitude, with her hands clasped above
her head, with its loose mass of dark auburn
hair.

"To tell you the truth, I don't at all mind
being alone for a change. If it were hunting
weather I should rather rejoice in their absence,
for I could have a second horse — Leo's Of course
she told me not to ride him; but of course I
shouldn't mind that, if this beastly snow would
only give way. But what can one do in such
weather as this ? "

Well, there are resources — ones books and
one's piano''

Oh, I have too much quicksilver in my veins
for that kind of life. I want movement, air,
variety — people to talk to me."

People to admire and adore you, you mean,"
said Adrian.

Yes, it is nice to be adored. One gets spoiled
at a place like Monte Carlo, where there are so
many idle young men, who can't afford to be
always shooting pigeons or playing ,
and who are obliged to fall in love with
somebody, j90wr passer le temps. But don't let us
talk nonsense. I am growing a very serious
personage in this rural atmosphere, I can assure

you. If I were to stay here another winter I
should ask the Vicar to give me a district, and go
about among the cottagers. I find I am very
much looked down upon by other young ladies
because I don't do that''

"Pray, don't; it is not in your line. There are
bees and butterflies. You belong to the butterflies
— beautiful insects, but useless except for the
delight their grace and beauty give to man. "We
might exist without bees, but life would be unendurable
without butterflies'

How sweet of you to say that," exclaimed
Helen. ^' Then I will not be false to my vocation.
I shall try to fulfil my mission as a butterfly."


And then, after a pause, she said carelessly :

Isn't it funny that you and I should be
sitting on each side of the fire, like Darby and
Joan ? "

'^Funnj^, Helen? No, it is intensely serious.
It is the finger of Fate that has motioned us to
these two chairs." Then, suddenly crossing the
hearth and seating himself close beside her: ^' Shall

we not be Darby and Joan for life, Helen — always,
always together with the right to sit by our own
fireside ? Say yes, my darling ; say yes. You
know how dearly I love you. There need be no
passionate speeches, no romantic wooing. I have
loved you from the hour we first sat beside this
hearth. Tell me on this spot, dear love, where
first we met, that you give me love for love, that
you will be my wife's'

He drew her to his breast, and she let her head
sink upon his shoulder. She was his own now;
that lovely hair, with its delicate perfume, was his
to caress ; and the lovely lips did not refuse themselves
to the kiss of betrothal.

I don't know if I ought to pledge myself like
this in my father's absence," she said, withdrawing
herself suddenly from her lovers arm, with a touch
of prudishness. " He ought to be consulted, ought
he not — Adrian ? "

How deliciously she murmured his name for the
first time.

He shall be consulted," said Adrian. " But I
have no fear of his withholding his consent''

'' Oh, you know you are a good match' cried
Helen, tossing up her head. " You are King
Cophetua and I am the beggar maid; and what
can the beggar maid's father say to the King,
except to thank him for his condescension ? "

^' My darling, you know that you are the queen
and I am the beggar; a suppliant for the infinite
boon of your love."

** Pray, does Lady Belfield know that you mean
to give her me for a daughter-in-law ? " asked
Helen abruptly.

^' She does know that it is the desire of my
heart to do so."

'• Poor dear Lady Belfield, I am sure she would
rather have had anybody else. That strictly proper
and rather pretty Miss Freemantle, for instance.
Will you swear that you were never in love with
Miss Freemantle ? "

I won't, because you know as well as possible
that I never knew what love meant till I loved
you."

Ah, that is a kind of sophistical asseveration
that all lovers make. ' Were you never in love

before ? ' says the lady. We are such jealous
creatures — jealous of the past, the present, and
the future, but most of all of the past. ' I never
knew true love till I saw you replies the gentleman.
But that commits him to nothing. He
may have been in love a hundred times before.
And you are five-ands twenty, Adrian. You must
have been in love."

''I may have had a spasm or two of calf-love.
I once rather admired Matilda Treducey.^^

No, don't tell me that — anything but that. I
should like to think you had good taste even before
you knew me. And now, will you come for a
walk ? I want to see the horses and dogs. Don't
be frightened. I am not going to present you to
the stablemen as my future husbands''

'^ I wish you would. It would be a kind of
security that you will marry me. Put on your
warmest wraps, love. It is very cold out of
doors."

I am not going to be called ^ love or ^ darling,'
or any of those sickly sweet appellations. You arc
to call me Helen and I shall call you Adrian. There

VOL. I. M

is a world more meaning in our own two names,
which belong to us individually, than in any barley-sugar
epithets that all the world uses''

'^ Then you shall be Helen, my Helen, I ask for
no sweeter name. Helen, the destroyer of ships
and of men :

Is this the face that launched a thousand ships,
And burnt the topless towers of Ilium ? ' "

Is that some of Tennyson nonsense ? "

No, it is Marlowe nonsense''

Marlowe ? A new poet, I suppose. Please
ring that bell for me, Adrian. I want a handful
of sugar for the horses."

^' Happy horses to be fed with sweets from such
sweet hands."

Now, have we not agreed that you arc to indulge
in none of that nonsense ? I will have no
sentimentality. You must treat me as your
comrade and friend, or I will have nothing to
say to you."

Her prettily authoritative air took the sting out
of her speech. He submitted, and accompanied

her meekly on her round to the stables which was
a long business. It was not that there were many-horses,
but each was a personal acquaintance and
had the strongest claims upon Helenass attention ;
and there was a good deal of time lost in running
in and out of boxes in the endeavour to re-adjust
the balance of favour, when one had had more
than his due share of sugar, and another snorted
indignant demands across the top of a door. And
then there were the fox-terriers that lived in the
stables, and the yard dogs outside, all equally
exacting.

^^ I hope they will be able to live without you
for a week or two" said Adrian.

'' They cannot live without me. Where I go
they must go."'^

What, on your father's yacht, for instance ? "

''No, I have only a beggarly allowance of one
small dog on the yachts''

And when you pay visits ? "

'^ I never do pay visits. Don't you know that
we are nomads — almost friendless nomads. Leo
has friends — her husband's brother officers and

their people. It is a crack regiment, you know,
and Frank is quite the smallest person in it.
Leo goes into society. Leo visits at country
houses. I don't. I am a Bohemian, a savage, a
wild girl of the woods. You will change your mind
perhaps when you come to consider the kind of
person you have chosen. '^

I have chosen her ; to me she is perfect. My
dearest, I love you ever so much better for not
being a woman of the world. But I am not going
to let you mope alone here while your people are
away. You must come to the Abbey. My mother
shall fetch you this afternoon. ''

'^ It would be very nice ; but do you think Lady
Belfield would like it?"

I am sure she would. Y'ou cannot grow too
near and dear to her. I want you to be to her asa
daughter, in advance of the tie that is to make
you one."

^' She is very sweet," said Helen gravely. '' It
is easy for me to love her ; but I'm afraid it maybe
difficult for her to love me."

Indeed it will not. Come, and try your power.

I believe she loves you already. And now I will
leave you to make your preparations for coming to
the Abbey'

But shall I not look rather foolish if I pack my
trunks upon your invitation, and if Lady Belfield
should not care about having me ? "

^^ She will care. She shall be here at four
o'clock to fetch you. Show her how punctual and
business-like you can be. You can send your
heavy luggage in the stable cart — or shall I send
for it?"

** Oh no, our own men can take my luggage. If
you insist upon it, I will get ready even at the risk
of looking foolish'

CHAPTER VII.

NOT QUITE CONTENT

Helen Deverill had been staying at the Abbey
for nearly three weeks ; she had become domesticated
there, and seemed a part of the family life.
Lady Belfield found herself wondering how she had
ever managed her existence without the girlish
figure always at her side, prompt and swift to
anticipate her wants and wishes, to cut the leaves
of her books, and to arrange her rebels, to listen
with an enraptured air to her music. She was
more than reconciled to the idea that this girl
was to be her daughter in the future. Lie was
grateful to Providence for having given her such
a daughter.

If she is only as devoted to Adrian as she
seems to be ! " thought the mother. '^ If she is
only true ! ''

There is always that doubt, until love and

lovers have been tried in the furnace of hard
experiences.

Colonel Deverill and his elder daughter were
still in Paris. That lively city was at its best just
after the turn of the year. Major Baddeley and
his wife had numerous friends there, French and
English. They were staying at the Grand Hotel,
and they were seeing everything. The Colonel
had been less eager to go back to Devonshire,
seeing that Helen was so happily placed with her
future mother-in-law. He had replied to Adrian's
letter, asking his consent to the engagement, with
characteristic candour.

I confess that I saw which way you and Helen
were drifting, and that I was heartily glad," he
wrote. " She is a sweet girl, and will make you
a sweet wife. Of course you know that, from a
worldly point of view, you could hardly do worse.
I have not a shilling to give my daughters. They
will have my estate between them when 1 am dead
and gone, and, if there should be a radical change
in the condition of Ireland, the property may be
worth something. At present it is worth little

more than nothing. My best tenant is two years
and a half in arrear with his rent ; my worst has
threatened to shoot me for taking out his doors
and windows in a futile attempt to eject him. But
I won't plague you with these dismal details.
Happily, you are rich and generous, and you can
afford to marry a girl whose beauty and innocence
are her only dower.''''

Thus assured of the Colonels approval and seeing
his mother growing daily better pleased with
his choice; Adrian Belfield was completely happy.
The die being cast, his friends and neighbours
accepted the inevitable, and congratulated him with
seeming heartiness on his engagement. Even the
Miss Treduceys and the Miss Toffstaffs were
gracious, taking an early occasion to call upon
Lady Belfield and to ask if this startling news was
really, really true.

'^ It is quite true, and I have my future daughter-in-law
staying with me," answered Constance.
She and Adrian are out riding ; but they will be
home to tea, if you can stay and see them'

We shall be charmed' said Dorothy ToffstaflP

who had driven her smart little cart over from the
heights above Chadford, and had picked up Matilda
Treducey on her way. It was a long drive from
Chadford to Wilmington but the TofFstaffs, with
their inexhaustible stud, made light of distances.
They liked to be everywhere and were to be met
with at all possible points within twenty miles of
their house.

The Treducey stables were altogether on a
different footing, and there were daily quarrels
and heart-burnings as to who should have cattle
to ride or drive. Thus it had happened of late
that the Treduceys were always being driven in
Toffstaff carriages and riding TofFstaff horses.
They broke in difficult animals for the Miss Toff-staffs,
who, notwithstanding this fact, could never
be induced to own the Treducey superiority in
riding.

'^ They have very good hands said Dorothy,
speaking of her dearest friends, *^ but they have no
style. They would be dreadful in the Row."

Style, as imparted by a fashionable riding-master,
at a guinea a lesson, was Dorothy's strong

point. She balanced herself airily upon her saddle,
stuck out her elbows tossed up her head, or
straightened her spine in the last approved manner,
and she was an admirable horsewoman as long
as her horse behaved himself ; but it was the
Treduceys' strong point to master vice and inexperience
in their horses, and to make all the
hunters they ever rode.

And now Dorothy Toffstaff and Matilda Treducey
sat on each side of the hearth and complimented
Lady Belfield on her sons choice.

She is so pretty' said Dorothy, " one can
hardly wonder that he fell in love with her. But
I hope you like her, dear Lady Belfield ? ''

Dorothy was prepared to receive a reluctant
negative.

Yes, I like her very much ; but liking is a
cold word. I love her ? '^ Lady Belfield answered
frankly.

Lucky girl, to have such a charming '
said Miss Treducey, looking round the
noble old drawing-room, which had been a drawing-room
in Queen Elizabeth time, and had echoed

the silvery tones of that great sovereign's speech,,
and the graver accents of Burleigh. The Abbey
was rich in traditions about dead and gone
monarchs and senators. More than one sovereign
had rested there on a royal progress through the
West Countrey.

Matilda Treducey had always admired the Abbey.
If there was one house in which she would rather
have ruled than in another it was this Elizabethan
mansion ; and to know that it was to be the home
of an Irish scapegrace's unsophisticated daughter, a
girl who had been brought up anyhow — this was
exceeding bitter. Miss TofFstaff also felt that she
had been cheated. Sir Adrian was the only good
match in that part of the country — and with his
family and position and her wealth, they might
have done anything. And he was throwing himself
away upon a pauper.

Helen came in with her lover while the gentle
Dorothy thus mused. She was flushed with her
ride in the cold clear air, and looked lovely in her
neat little felt hat and girlish habit, a little blue
cloth habit made by an Irish tailor. Mrs. Baddeley

had her hunting gear from the noose fashionable
habit-maker in London ; but then Mrs. Baddeley
had her own bills and her own resources, great or
small.

Adrian and his fiancee were perfectly frank and
gracious in their talk with the two young ladies ;
had no idea of any leaven of malice lurking under
the outward semblance of goodwill ; accepted congratulations
and good wishes as a matter of course.

^' Yes, we are both very happy," said Adrian,
smiling at his betrothed; '^ I did not think it was
the common lot of man to know such bliss."

You don't hunt now, do you ? " asked Miss
ToffstafF of Helen. " I haven't seen you out forever
so long."

No, I have not been out. Adrian is advised
not to hunt, and I don't care about it without him."

That must be a dreadful deprivation though, to
anybody who is fond of sport."

The two girls were talking together on one side
of the room, while Adrian was engaged with his
mother and Miss Treducey on the other side, out of
hearing.

I am very fond of sports Helen confessed, with
a sigh. ^' I can't help being sorry that Adrian can
never be a hunting man. I should so like him to
have had the hounds. They say there will be some
difficulty about a master when Sir George Folkestone
gives them up, as he means to do; and Adrian
would be the most natural person to take them.
But as he is not allowed to hunt it would be a
mockery for him to have anything to do with
them."

What a pity he is not his brother."

^'Ah, Mr. Belfield is a capital sportsman, I
believe said Helen, with a slightly regretful air.

"Mr. Belfield is everything that Sir Adrian is
not' said Miss TofiPstaff sententiously.

'nature has been kinder to him. Poor
Adrian ?''

'' But then, Sir Adrian is so clever. Mr. Rock-stone
told me that he has read more than most
men of fifty''

Yes, he has surfeited himself with books. He
is very clever."

This was spoken with a sigh. Helen was apt to

be oppressed by her lover's intellectual superiority.
It was a kind of barrier that kept them apart. He
knew so much of books and the men who had
written them, and she so little. She was ashamed
of her ignorance, and thus dared not talk freely
with him upon any intellectual subject, lest he
should discover her deficiencies.

'dorothy Toffstaff was talking about your
brothers she said to Adrian later, as they sat over
the drawing-room fire in the dusk before going off
to dress for dinner.

Helen had kept on her habit. She had a way
of sitting about for an hour or two just as she came
off her horse, with rumpled hair and bespattered
skirts. She was sitting on the hearth rug almost at
her lover's feet, staring at the fire in an idle reverie.
Lady Belfield had left them half-an-hour ago seated
just in the same attitudes. It was not that they
had very much to talk about. It was happiness to
Adrian even to be in the presence of the woman he
loved, to have her near him, a beautiful enchanting
creature, whose every tone was music, whose every
movement was grace.

^' She said that you and Valentine are utterly
unlike' pursued Helen '^ and yet I have heard
your mother say that you are the image of each
other."

'^ I believe we are alike in face and figure — alike
with a difference' answered Adrian dreamily.
'^ Our features were cast from the same sketchy but
not in the same mould. You will see him very
soon, I hope, and judge for yourself. He and I
have never lived so long apart,, and if I had not
had you to give a new colour to my life, I should
have felt miserable without him. Even with your
sweet companionship I begin to weary for his
return."

'^ Take care ! I shall be jealous of any one who
steals your thoughts from me — even of a brother.
You must be very fond of each other ? "

Fondness can hardly express our feeling.
It is something more than affection. It is a sympathy
so close that his vexations and his pleasures
move me almost as strongly as my own. I have
never seen him out of temper without being
agitated myself ; and in all his great triumphs — on

the river, in the cricket field, at a steeplechase — I
have been as elated as if I myself were the victor
Yes, I have felt a thrill of pride and delight far
keener than common sympathy."

I don't think sympathy is by auy means
common' said Helen lightly. '' I believe that the
great majority of people are supremely indifferent
to the joys and sorrows of others. The world
could hardly go on if it were otherwise. AVe have
such a little time to live that we must live fast if
we want to get anything out of life."

Is not that rather a selfish theory ? '^

I suppose it is ; but I frankly own to being
selfish. Selfishness is one of my numerous failings''


'^ I will not hear you say so. I know you better
than you know yourself' he said tenderly, leaning
down till his lips touched the golden-brown
hair.

That is a delusion on your part. You only
know an ideal Helen, a Helen of your own invention,
faultless, a bundle of virtues, a concatenation
of noble qualities and lofty feelings. I am not

even a blood relation of your Helen. I am full
of faults'

Then I will love you with all your faults. I
have plenty of my own to balance them'

'' No. You have only three — three great faults."

'name them. Let me know the worst."

'^ First, you are too good for me. Secondly, you
are far too clever for me. Thirdly, you are not a
sportsman''

The goodness and the cleverness might be
easily got over, since they belong rather to your
ideal Adrian than to the actual man. But I fear
I can never be a sportsman."

'^ I should have liked my husband to keep a
pack of hounds, and to hunt four times u week,"
sighed Helen, with the air of a child that has been
baulked in some eager fancy.

My dearest, I can never be the typical English
squire ; nor can I allow the wife I love to spend
half her days and nearly all her thoughts in the
hunting-field. I want to share your life, Helen ; I
want your company all day long — your mind, your
heart, and all your thoughts and fancies. I would

VOL. I. N

not have one of your thoughts wasted upon horses
and hounds

I have been brought up to care more for forfeited
friends than any others

Perhaps you never had a friend who loved you
as I do. Such friendship is exacting, Helen.
There must be sacrifices."

'^ Must there ? Well, it is not a very great
sacrifice for a penniless Irish girl to be your wife,
and to live in this lovely old house. It will not be
my house, though ! I shall only be a secondary
person. Your mother must always be the first."

You do not mind that ? ''■' asked Adrian.

^^ Mind ? No, I adore her. She is as much
above me as if she were an angelic being. But I
shall be Lady Belfield too. AYill not that seem
strange ? Two Lady Belfields in one house. We
must live half the year in London and Paris,
Adrian. We must not rust away our lives here."

'^ Do you call this rusting ? " he asked tenderly.

Her head rested against his knee, her eyes were
looking up at him, starlike in the dim light of the
low wood fire.

•'' No, this is fairyland, dreamland, what you
will. But it cannot last much longer — not a
moment longer'' — as the timepiece chimed the
half-hour. '' There is half-past seven, and I shall
be late for dinner again."

'' Don't if you can help it, darling. It is one of
the few things that vexes my mother."

Helen made u moue as she ran out of the room.
It seemed to her that there were a good many
things which vexed Lady Belfield. Disorder of all
kinds set that gentle lady's teeth on edge, and
Helen was the very spirit of disorder.

Half-way to her room she met one of the housemaids
in a corridor.

^^ Is that you, Margaret?" she cried. "Come
and help me to dress. " I'm awfully late again."

Margaret, alias Madge, was Lady Belfield's last
protegee, the new girl who had been taken into the
household out of charity. Mrs. Marrable had
pronounced her very amenable, and had taken
pains to instruct her in certain domestic duties.
Her province was on the upper floor. Helen, who
had brought no maid to the Abbey, was struck

N 1

by the girl's good looks and had in a manner
appropriated her services. She was much quicker
of intellect and handier altogether than the average
housemaid.

With Margaret's help, Helen contrived to appear
in the drawing-room just two minutes before the
butler announced dinner.

CHAPTER Vii

'' NO GENTLEMAN WOULD HAVE ACTED SO "

There had been but the briefest letters from
Valentine either to Lady Belfield or to Adrian.
He was at Monte Carlo, shooting pigeons, riding
other peoples horses in steeplechases, drinking the
cup of pleasure to the dregs, and he intended to
return to the Abbey in time for the last of the
hunting. This was all that was known about him,
and now the season was nearly over, and he might
be expected at any time. His rooms were ready,
his horses fit, his own particular groom was on the
look-out for his return.

It was a dull afternoon in February, and Helen
was alone in the library, her lover's favourite room,
the very sanctuary of his life, as it were — the place
where he read, and thought, and played, and lived
his own sacred inner life, with which the rest of
the household had little in common.

It was not a conventional library — not a place of
massive bookcases and regulation sets of books. It
was half a music-room, with an organ at one end,
and a grand piano in the angle near the old-fashioned
fireplace. Adrian had inherited his
mother's love of music, and played both organ and
piano. The books were chiefly of his own collecting,
a library of modern belles lettres, in several
languages.

^' You are so awfully learned exclaimed Helen,
after glancing at a shelf of German metaphysics.
^^ Do you really, really read those dreadful books ? '*

^' I have spent some thoughtful hours that way,
love. I won't go so far as to say that I understand
them''

'' Does anybody ? "

And then she would take out a volume of Keats
or Wordsworth, and twirl its pages for a little while,
and declare that the poetry was quite too lovely.

"Which do you like best, Keats or Wordsworth
? " he asked.

I don't quite know," looking up at him with
interrogative eyes, to sec which of the two she

ought to prefer. " They are both so sweet. Keats
is delicious — but Wordsworth is — Wordsworth.
No, I cannot find the right words to express my
appreciation ; but I can feel his poetry'

And Adrian was content to accept this kind of
thing as the expression of a spiritual essence that
had not been concentrated into speech.

This afternoon Helen had the library all to
herself. Adrian had gone a long journey to Exeter,
to look at a pair of horses which he had been
advised to buy for his mother's barouche. The
horses she was using were beginning to show signs
of wear. He was not expected back till dinner-time.
Lady Belfield had complained of a headache
after lunch, and had gone to her room to lie down.
She had been having bad nights of late, and sorely
wanted sleep. The cause of these wakeful nights
was as far off as Monte Carlo. The mother had
been full of anxiety about that wayward younger
son, whose prolonged absence might mean mischief
of some kind.

This afternoon was dull and cold, with occasional
showers. Helen made up her mind to spend

it indoors. She would amuse herself in that dear
old room, free to peer and pry about like an inquisitive
child.

The delight of looking at things all by herself —
opening private drawers — turning over books and
papers — lasted about half-an-hour. Then she
played the piano a little, trying first one piece and
then another, never getting beyond a page of any
composition before she was tripped up by a difficulty,
and turned the leaf in disgust. Wearying
of this, she went to the organ, and pulled out the
stops and touched the dumb, senseless keys ; and
then, in a fit of temper, she flew to the bell and
rang it sharply.

It is miserably dull indoors," she said to herself
; '' I must get a good gallop."

The footman appeared in the usual leisurely
manner of a servant who reproves any ill-bred impetuosity
in the ringing of a bell by being a little
slower than usual in answering it.

Will you ask Dodman to saddle a horse forme,"
she said ; *^ I should like Mr. Belfield's last
new chestnut."

*eyes; ma'am. Will you require Dodman?"

^^ I shan't require him, but I suppose I shall be
obliged to have him," said Helen.

It was one of her grievances that Adrian would
not allow her to ride without her groom. She
liked the sense of freedom, being accountable to no
one for where she rode or what she did with her
horse.

She had heard a good deal about the chestnut
hunters evil propensities, and it was naturally on
that account she wanted to ride him.

But Dodman was not the kind of man to be
caught napping ; and he knew that Sir Adrian
would not put his future wife on an ill-disposed
brute like the chestnut. So when Helen ran down
to the hall in her habit and hat, eager for the fray,
she found the pretty skewbald Cinderella standing
in front of the porch.

Am I to ride that brute ? " she asked.

It was the brute she generally rode with Adrian.

'' You don't find no fault with her, do you,
ma'am ? '' asked Dodman, immovable as a rock.

No, except that she is a sheep. I sent you a

message by Bellows. I wanted to ride the chestnuts'


^' You couldn't manage that 'loss, ma'am. He's
too much for any lady."

'^ He wouldn't be too much for me."

I should be very sorry to see you on him,
ma'am."

Oh, you are much too careful. You have
spoiled Sir Adrian's riding, and now I suppose you
want to spoil mine."

Dodman was too superior a person to notice this
unworthy petulance. He flung the young lady
into her saddle, and gave her the bridle without a
word, and then he mounted behind her and
followed her along the avenue.

She punished him for her disappointment by
taking the skewbald over some of the worst ground
in the neighbourhood, and at a breakneck pace.
She did everything that she ought not to have
done in the course of an hour and a half of hard
riding. It was six o'clock when she went back to
the Abbey.

There was a good fire in the library. She saw

the red light shining through the lattices and the
emblazoned glass of the upper mullions. She was
cold after her ride in the wind and rain, and she
went to the library with the idea of enjoying herself
for half-an-hour in front of the burning logs.

She did not expect to see Adrian till dinner-time,
but to her surprise there he was, sitting in a
low armchair by the hearth, figure and face both
in shadow, as she approached him.

She stole towards him on tiptoe, bent over the
back of his chair and kissed him.

The kiss was returned with interest. Two
strong arms were thrown back to clasp and
encircle her. She was caught and pinioned as
she bent over the chair.

But in the next instance she snatched herself
from those encircling arms, and drew back with an
indignant exclamation, crimson with rage.

^' It is not Adrian's*' she said. ^' How dare you ?
How dare you ? ''

A tall figure rose from the chair with a careless,
easy movement, and stood before her, erect.
Taller and broader than Adrian's figure, stronger

- — different somehow, and yet so like, so like — that
it was difficult to believe that this man was not
Adrian himself.

How dare you ? " she muttered again, almost
beside herself with anger; all her Irish blood
boiling in her veins.

** My dear young lady, you must allow me to observe
that it was you who began the assaults said
the stranger, with provoking placidity. '^ That consideration
ought at least to mitigate your wrath."

To— to kiss me like that ! ''

He laughed at her rage, as if she had been an
angry child.

Would you have a man's lips meet the lips of
beauty as if he were kissing his laundress ? " he
asked lightly. " Besides, I had a right to kiss you
as your future brother'

'^ No gentleman would have acted so' she said,
still fuming, her riding whip vibrating in her
clenched hand.

What would she have given to have horse-whipped
him ! There were women in the world
who had done such things.

"No gentleman ! Perhaps not' said Valentine.
I have never prided myself upon that conventional
distinction, to which every grocer's son
aspires from his cradle. I would rather be a
blackguard; and a man. I am a being of nerves
and muscles, passions and impulses. Whether
that kind of thing can be gentlemanlike, I don't
know aud don't care. Come, Helen, don't be
angry. 'Twas no stranger who returned your kiss
just now, but your lover's twin brother, who
claims the right to love you. You cannot be
greatly loved by him without being a little loved
by me. We are two halves of one whole, and I
am the stronger half. You cannot be wax to him
and marble to me ; melt at his touch, and freeze at
mine. Our natures are too closely interwoven.
To love one of us is to love the other. Come,
Helen, forgive and be friends."

He held out his hand, and she could not refuse
to give him her own. But the little gloved hand
lay supine in his strong clasp, and there was no
such thing as pardon in her heart.

^' I have always heard that you arc a very

strange person," she said, " but as you are Adrian's
brother, I suppose we must be friends."

And with this not over-civil speech she left him
to his reflections.

He threw himself into the chair by the fire,
stirred up the logs, and took out his cigar-case fora
comfortable smoke before he went to his dressing-room.
When the door was shut upon Helen — he
had not troubled himself to open it for her — he
laughed softly to himself.

As lovely as her namesake and as spirited as
Kate the curst,-" he muttered. "I like her ever so
much better for that flash of temper. Upon my
soul, Adrian has not made half a bad choice. I
hardly gave him credit for such good taste. But
then the girl was flung into his lap, as it were.
No doubt Deverill came here of malice aforethought,
to plant his daughter upon my mother's
son. Hark, there's the cart, and Adrian."

He went out to the porch to receive his brother,
who was almost overcome with delight at seeing
him.

^^ My dear fellows what ages you have been

away. How glad my mother must be ! You have
seen her, of course''

'' Not yet. I have only been here an hour ;
came by the slow afternoon train from Exeter.
They told me my mother was lying down, not over-well,
so I wouldn't have her disturbed. Fve been
sitting over the fire in the library, half asleep.
I came by the Rapide from Marseilles, straight
ahead, crossed the Channel last night, and have
been travelling ever since''

And you have not seen Helen ? ''

'' Oh, yes, I have. Helen and I have made
friends already."

He laughed a little as he spoke of her, and the
light danced merrily in his eyes. He wondered
whether she would give her betrothed a detailed
account of their skirmish. The odds were against
it, he thought. Women are curiously shy about
trifles. She would lock the story up in her own
heart, and always bear malice against him on
account of it.

And you like her ? " asked Adrian eagerly.

There has been no time for liking, but I admire

her immensely, and I congratulate you on
your good luck."

Yes, she is lovely, is she not ? And as dear as
she is lovely

Clever and accomplished into the bargain, I
suppose ? "

^' 1 doubt if you would call her either; yet she
is the most fascinating girl I ever met''

I'm glad she's not learned, or a paragon in
the way of accomplishments. Every step that a
woman travels in the road to mental perfection is
a step that leads away from feminine loveliness.
A beautiful woman should be only beautiful. All
the rest is outside her sphere. Imagine a lovely
forehead that has grown wrinkled over Darwin."

He rattled on lightly, with his arm through
Adrian's, as they went into the house and upstairs
together.

Not a word to my mother' said Valentine, as
they parted ; '' I want to surprise her when I go
down to dinner."

"I shan't see her till then. I've only just time
to dress."

Half-an-hour later and Lady Belfield was sitting
in her accustomed chair at a respectful distance
from the drawing-room lire, with her book-table on
one side and her work-basket on the other, when
her two sons came in together, more like than
usual in their evening dress, which hardly varied in
the smallest detail.

The mother rose in a tumult of delight to
receive the wanderer.

My dearest, how could you stay away so
long ? " she asked, almost piteously.

A truant disposition, and the perversity of my
favourite colour. Never mind, mother. Here I
am, and here I mean to stay till after Adrian's
wedding. ^^

I am so glad. I am so happy. Flow well
you are looking. You must have enjoyed yourself
very much to stop away so loug."*'

Oh, I was with very good fellows, and the sky
was blue and the wines were good, and we had a
yacht, and knocked about a good deal in some
deuced rough weather. The Mediterranean isn't
all jam. But altogether the life suited me. There

VOL. I.

were plenty of pretty women, but not one so pretty
as my future sister-in-law." he added in an undertone
as Helen entered, in her esthetic frock of
pale blue cashmere, with short sleeves and a short
waist, and a babyish bodice which set off her
perfect shoulders and swan-like throat.

She came into the room more slowly than her
wont, and a sudden rosy flush swept over her face
and neck as she drew near the spot where the two
brothers were standing.

Helen, let me introduce my other sons began
Lady Belfield.

'^ We are friends already," answered Valentine.
Are we not, Helen ? "

He called her by her Christian name in the
easiest way, as a right.

And will be more than friends — brother and
sister, in the future, I hope," said his mother.

"Amen to that sweet prayer," answered Valentine.
" Come, mother, it is my privilege to take
you in to dinner to-night," as the butler made his
announcement, *' and I shall astonish you by the
justice which a man who has been fed on kickshaws

at a Monte Carlo hotel can do to your old-fashioned
English fare — your inevitable saddle of mutton and
your elderly pheasants

They went in to dinner, a snug little party of
four. The room looked all the brighter for that
fourth presence. Their triangular dinners had been
marked of late by a gentle dulness.

Lady Belfield was in high spirits, enraptured at
the return of her younger born, and Valentine was
full of talk about himself and his adventures,
good luck and bad luck, the people he had met,
and the women with whom he had flirted.

Helen was unusually silent, as if somewhat
oppressed by that exuberant gaiety.

Valentine was right in his surmise. Not one
word did she say to her betrothed, on that
night or afterwards, about her skirmish with
Valentine in the library.

CHAPTER IX.

NOT THE AVERAGE GIRL

Adrian/^ said Helen, in the breakfast-room next
morning, '' I want to go homes

It was half-past nine o'clock. Breakfast was
over, and Lady Belfield had gone off to her hothouses
and morning interview with the head
gardener. It was a hunting day, and Valentine
was lolling in an easy chair by the fireplace, waiting
for his horse to be brought to the door.

Helen and Adrian were standing in front of the
window watching the drizzling rain. It was a
Devonshire morning, wet and warm, with a low
grey sky, and a mist from the distant sea.

Go home, dearest — but why ? "

First, I have been here much too long already.
I have no doubt the Treduceys and Toffstaffs are
talking about my living here, and expatiating upon
my pauperism. ^ Hardly bread to eat at home, poor

creature ! ' and so on. But that is a detail. My
secondly is more important. Leo and the governor
went to Paris ostensibly for a few days, and have
stayed three weeks"*

Darling, if you knew how it sets my teeth on
edge to hear you say ' the governor'' "

'^ Then in future it shall be ' my Father " with
a solemn air. " But if I really were your darling,
nothing I could say would ever set your teeth on
edge. However, as I was saying, those people
have stayed too long in Paris. They must be
spending a great deal of money. Somebody told
me the Grand is an expensive hotels

'' It is not cheap."

'^I shall order them home immediately, and the
only way to make them obey is to go home myself.
As long as the gov — my father knows I am provided
for here, he will pursue his reckless career abroad.^^

We can't spare you yet awhile, Helen," said
Adrian tenderly. '^ You have become the daughter
of the house. My mother couldn't do without
you. AVe shall only let you go home in time to
get your frocks ready for your metamorphosis. I

believe the law which insists upon new frocks as a
preliminary of marriage is like the laws of the
Modes and Persians and altered not with the
march of enlightenment.^^

Perhaps when a man marries a girl out of the
gutter he does it to escape being pestered about
her trousseau' said Valentine ; " and that when
a fellow runs away with another man's wife it is
for the sake of skipping the horrors of the marriage
ceremony and the ordeal by wedding presents'

'^ No, Helen, we can't spare you yet' pursued
Adrian, ignoring this ribald commentary.

No, Helen, we can't spare you yet' echoed
Valentine, from his easy chair. " There's my
horse. I'd better be off pretty sharp. It's a long
way to Tadpole Pond."

He jumped up, took his hat and whip, and
hurried out. Adrian and Helen watched him
mount and ride away, tall and straight, wearing
his weather-stained scarlet coat with an easy grace,
as much at home on the impatient hunter as he
had been in his easy chair.

The horse reared straight on end, while Helen

and Adrian were watching, and this progress for
the first few hundred yards seemed to be more
upon two legs than on four.

Oh, how I envy him ! how I should like to be
going with him ! ^^ cried Helen spontaneously,
forgetting that only a few minutes before she had
been trying to get herself out of that house,
deeming that she could not exist beneath the same
roof with Valentine Belfield. " Would he take
me next Fridays do you think ? Would you
mind ? "

Would I mind ? Well, no, not if you really
care for hunting so very muche

Care for it ? I adore it. Why, you know it
is my passion. I wish with all my heart it were
not. Just for once in a way, that I may see a
little more of your picturesque country's she
pleaded.

'^ I could drive you all over Devonshire, Helen''

Oh, but there is no fun in driving ; and there
are lots of places where you could not drive —
break-neck hills, boggy bits of moorland, woods
and winding streams. The only proper way to see

a country is after the hounds, when one's blood
is up, and one's horse is on fire with eagerness.
You'll let me hunt a little more before the season
is over — just once or twice or so — won't you,
Adrian ? Think how very good I have been for
the last three weeks'

This was said with the air of a martyr.

My poor, self-sacrificing Helen' said her lover,
half sad and half ironical. ^^ Yes, you must hunt,
I suppose. You must go and hazard that life on
which hangs my own in the most break-neck
country in England. I wall go out with you and
potter about while you follow Valentine, who
always takes the most hazardous line, and will
lead you over some of the worst ground in devonshire'


Then may I send for my little Irish mare
tomorrow ? Your horses have charming manners,
but they are not quick enough for hounds. North
Creina is nothing much to look at, but she's a
splendid goer."

Naturally, Helen had her way. The Irish mare
was sent for that afternoon, and the young lady

said no more about her desire to go back to
Morcomb.

She tried to forget Valentine's offence and her
own indignation. " After all he is to be my
brothers she told herself.

His presence in the house was a disturbing
influence ; even the expectation of his return
fluttered her spirits a little as she sat at work
with Lady Belfield that afternoon, while the rain
pattered against the windows. She was not very
fond of needlework, but she had felt constrained
to put on an air of occupation in the long wet
afternoons, lest her future mother-in-law should
take offence at her idleness.

This afternoon her thoughts were in the steep
break-neck lanes or on the brown barren moorland,
rather than with her basket of many coloured silks,
or the bunch of poppies which she was stitching
at mechanically, caring very little whether the
shading came out well or ill, stopping every now
and then to stifle a yawn.

Adrian was in the library writing letters, and
the two women were alone together.

What dreadful weather for the hunting," said
Lady Belfield, looking up at the window for the
twentieth time in half-an-hour.

They won't mind it' exclaimed Helen, with a
regretful air. " What does rain matter if they
have a run ? There is nothing more enjoyable than
dashing through wind and bad weather after a
good fox. It is only when one is standing about
in a hopeless condition that one minds the rain.
I only wish I were with them under that down-pours''


'^ My dear Helen, I hope you will never forget
that Adrian has been strongly warned against
hunting."

I am not likely to forget it' answered Helen,
with a touch of pettishness.

And you won't tempt him to disobey his
doctor, will you, dear ? "

'^ Of course not. But I suppose there will be
no harm in my going out with Mr. Belfield next
Friday. I should not give him any trouble. I
can always take care of myself."

Any harm — no I suppose not," replied Lady

Belfield, with an air which implied that she
thought the proposition somewhat incorrect.

Valentine came home earlier than usual. The
day had been unsatisfactory. He had had two of
his best horses out, and there had not been work
enough for one. He went off to change his clothes
in no very agreeable humour. It was dusk when
he left his dressing-room, but the lamp was lighted
in the corridor, and there was light enough for him
to see the face of a girl whom he met half way
between his room and the open gallery above the hall.

She was dressed in the Abbey livery of dark red
merino and long white apron. She wore the
muslin mob cap of the Abbey housemaids ; but she
looked no more like them than if she had been a
duchess who had just put on that costume in a
frolic, a duchess whom Gainsborough might paint
and cognoscenti adore.

Her dark eyes flashed upon Valentine Belfield
like a danger signal. He pulled up suddenly, and
stood face to face with her.

What in the devils name brings you here ?^'
he exclaimed.

I hope you arc not sorry to sec me, Mr. Bel-field
?"

Never mind what I am. Tell me what devilry
has brought you here, in that get up. You are nota
servant here, I hope ? '^

But I am. I have been living here more thana
month. There was no devilry in it, I assure you.
It was my first and only friend, the Vicar, who got
me the place — and it was Lady Belficld's kindness
which made room for me. I have been trying to
improve myself,''^ she added, looking up at him
shyly. '^ I get a glimpse of your mother and of
other ladies now and then, and I am trying to find
out what ladies are like and how they behave, that
I may learn to be a lady's'

You are a fool," muttered Valentine scornfully.
'^ Your wildness was your charm. What
have you to do with women of my mother's status ?
You were a beautiful, ignorant creature, knowing
nothing of the world and its deadly-lively ways.
You were a woman for a man to love — a splendid,
untamed, perhaps untameable, being, for whom a
man might go to the devil. Do you suppose that

electro-plated gentility Till improve you ? Do you
think your gipsy blood will show to advantage in a
Paris bonnet and gown ? ''

I think that if I am ever to be a gentleman's
wife I must first learn to be a lady' she answered
gravely.

Come, Madge, don't be a fool' said
Valentine, with a touch of tenderness, putting
his arm round her, and trying to draw her towards
him.

She drew herself away from him, pushing him
from her with an arm which was a good deal
stronger than the average young lady's arm.

He laughed at her vehemence.

'^ By Jove' he cried, " was that a specimen of
your new manners ? Is that Herculean style your
notion of gentility ? Why, my girl, ladies are like
lilies : they snap at a gust of wind. Listen here,
Madge, there's no use in our talking nonsense.
You know 1 am ridiculously fond of you, and that
I would do anything in reason to make you happy;
but there is no use in our talking about marriage.
You must have seen a little more of what life is

like since you have been under this roof, and you
must begin to understand that ''

He hesitated, looking down at his embroidered
slippers — the mother s gift — at a loss how to frame
a sentence that would not end in a brutal admission.


I must understand that gentlemen don't marry
girls of my class"* said Madge, finishing his sentence
for him, with those brilliant eyes of hers
fixed with steady gaze upon his downcast countenance.
He could feel their light, was conscious of
that earnest scrutiny, though his eyelids were
lowered. "Was that what you were going to
say?'^

*' Something like that."

Well, that's what I don't understand. What
I do understand is that if a man loves a girl well
enough he will have her for his wife, however low
she may be. If he really and truly loves her, he
doesn't want to bring shame upon her. It is only
half-hearted love that would do that. If a man
loves in earnest, and with his whole heart, he will
marry the girl he loves. Yes, if he were a duke,

and she a girl of blemished character. There is
nothing against my character,, Mr. Belfield, and
you know it. So you had best understand at
once that I shall never be anything more to you
than your mother's servant — unless I am your
wife."

"That's hard upon me seeing that I am a
younger son and not a free agent. Dukes can do
as they like, but I canst. You know I am
passionately fond of you, Madge. Come, child,
don't be unreasonable'

Again he tried to draw her nearer to him, to
bring those lips closer to his own, and entangle
those flashing glances of hers in the light of his
own dark eyes, which were hardly less brilliant.

*' My dearest girl' he pleaded, ^' you know I
adore you. What more can you want to know ?
You ought never to have put yourself into this
false position. A servant, you ! The queen of
beauty handling a broom ! You should have
listened to me, Madge. I know of the sweetest
little cottage, in a garden on the bank of the
Chad, far away from your vile swamp. A gentleman's

cottage, half hidden under flowering creepers,
with a verandah where a fellow could smoke his
cigarette after dinner in the summer evenings, and
a boathouse where a fellow could keep his boat.
You would be in your place, Madge, in that cottage,
with a couple of servants to wait upon you. 'V^'hy
should we not be happy, sweet ? This world was
made for love and lovers'

This world was made for honest men and
women. You are a scoundrel. Yes, you are right,
I was a fool to come to this house. But the
temptation was too great — to see you — to be near

you."

You might be more than that, my dearest.
You might be with me always, if you would. AVill
you go with me tomorrow to see that cottage,
Madge ? You could slip out at the back of the
house quietly, and I could pick you up near the
stables, and drive you there in an hour. The place
would not look so pretty as in summer, but it is
always picturesque, and — Madge," pleadingly, " we
might be so happy there''

No," she answered resolutely, not with the air

of a woman who means yes ; " I could never be
happy that way."

Your mother was of another way of thinking,,
Madge."

How dare you throw my mother's shame in my
face. What do you know of my mother ? "

I have had the honour of meeting her in
London society's he answered with a malicious
sparkle in his eyes.

And I do not even know if she is alive."

Oh, she is a lady who has made herself a reputation
in London, I assure you. When was it i
met her ? About five years ago, I think, my second
year at Cambridge. I was up in town on the quiet,
went to a theatre, and supper-party afterwards — a
sporting nobleman's party. Your mother was there.
Mature, gone to seed a little, perhaps, but remarkably
handsome still, and dressed as only 2/
woman of genius knows how to dress at forty —
dressed to make forty more attractive than twenty.
Your mother would never wear a housemaids cap,
or trundle a mop, I can assure you. She knows
her own value too well. She has better scnse.'^

VOL. I. p

'^ What is her name in London ? I have never
heard of her by any name but my own, Madge."

Oh, she has a name of greater dignity than
that. I was introduced to her as Mrs. Mandeville.
There was a Major Mandeville, about whom people
told some curious stories but I did not see much
of him."

Do you know where my mother is living now ?"

No, child. But I dare say I could find out.
Do you want to know ? ''

Yes , I want to know all I can about my
mother. Even if she is a wicked woman, leading
a bad life, she is more to me than any other woman
on this earth. The day may come when she will
want my helps

I fancy she is too clever for that, Madge ; but
I have no doubt she would be glad to see you, if it
were only to be reminded how handsome she was
twenty years ago."

A bell rang in a lobby below, the servants' tea-bell.


"I must go'' said Madge hurriedly, and so they
parted, Madge to the back stairs and the servants'

hall, Valentine to his mother's drawing-room, where
tea had been waiting for him for a quarter of an
hour, Lady Belfield excusing the delay to Helen
and Adrian, on the ground that afternoon tea was
more to the returning sportsman than to any one
else. ^' And it is so much nicer for us all to have
our tea together,'^ she said.

Don't apologize, mother'' said Adrian, smiling
at her, ^^ as if we didn't know that your tea would
be worse than tasteless if you began without
Valentine."

You have not been so expeditious as usual,
Val," said the mother, as her younger son sauntered
into the room in velvet jacket and slippers,
and with a Byronic throat.

'' I was wetter than usual, mother, and taking
off my boots was like drawing double teeth," he
answered, as he seated himself at Lady's Belli eld's
side and attacked a pile of toast.

He looked across at Helen, who was sitting on
the other side of the fireplace with her workbasket
in her lap, the image of propriety. He looked at
her critically, as he sipped his tea and munched

P 2

his toast comparing lier delicate beauty with that
darkly brilliant face he had just now been gazing
upon. No two faces could have been more distinct
in their beauty more widely diverse in their
characteristics. In Helen's countenance the lightness
of a frivolous and shallow nature was as
obvious as her beauty ; in that other face there
were suggestions of the sublime in passion or in
thought. It was the face of a roman strong for
good or for evil.

There was a relief in watching the play of
Helenass countenance after the passionate earnestness
and fixed purpose of that other face, so fall of
evil augury to him, the would-be seducer. Here
he could gaze appalled.

How pretty she is, just as butterflies and
flowers that last a day are pretty' he said to himself,
*' and how soon a sensible man would get tired
of her. Perhaps she may do for my brother all the
same' he went on, musing lazily as he ate and
drank, " he is a dilettante : loves prettiness in
everything, from architecture to bookbinding. Yes,
she may succeed in making him happy, shallow as

she is. He will play the organ to hers expatiate
upon Bach and Beethoven, read Shelley and Keats
to her, and she will pretend to be interested ; and
they will get on pretty well together in their
namby-pamby ways

He could read Helenass thoughts easily enough ashe
watched her face in the lamplight. Her eyes
were cast down for the most part on her teacup or
her work-basket, but now and then she glanced
shyly , inquisitively in his direction.

She feels embarrassed still on account of yesterday's
escapade' he said to himself, ^' yet she is
monstrous curious about me, would like to know
what manner of man I am ; would like to be
friend's

He condescended to describe his day presently,
when he had taken the edge off his appetite, and
then asked Helen why she was not out.

The Toffstaffs and the Treduceys were full of
inquiries about you, thinking it such a pity you
don't hunt now. You seemed to enjoy it so much
they said."

They were not over civil to me when I was

outs said Helen ; " I shouldn't ride to hounds for
the pleasure of their society — but , l)ut/' faltering a
little, and with a deprecating glance at Adrian,
I should very much like to get one or two more
days before the end of the season'

One or two more days," cried Valentine.
What bosh ! You must go every day — get every
chance you can. There are horses enough to give
you two a day if you like. I hope Adrian is not
so selfish as to want to keep you at home."

Does it rank as selfishness, Val, for a man to
want his wife's society ? If Helen were to hunt
three days a week after we are married, it would
be a kind of semi-divorce, for which I am not
prepared'

^' All the more reason that she should make the
most of her time while she is single," retorted
Valentine. " If I were you, Helen, I would not be
denied a single day. I would make the most of
my freedom in anticipation of a life of captivity'

'^ I shall not think it captivity," murmured
Helen, with her sweetest smile ; and Adrian was
content.

There was a telegram from Colonel Deverill
next morning to announce this arrival in London.
He would be at Morcomb next day with Major
and Mrs. Baddeley, and hoped to find Helen at
home.

Then I shall not have to trouble you, Mr.
Belfield," said Helen. "Frank is devoted to
hunting and he will take care of Leo and me —
if, if you don't mind my having one or two more
days, Adrian."

'^ You will be out of my jurisdiction, Helen — if
you really must go home."

Oh, indeed I must. Father is very peremptory.
I ought to go, dear Lady Belfield, though
I am heart-broken at ending this happy visit."

It will not be long, dear, before this house will
be your home," answered Lady Belfield gently,

Do you know that this is a very uncivil way
of throwing me over, Helen," said Valentine
laughingly. " You engage a man to show you
the country — a man who knows every inch of the
ground ; and then you inform him that a certain
Major Baddeley, who perhaps never put his nose

in North Devon before, will be ever so much
better a guide."

'' Only because he is an old friend, almost a
relation."

And am I an enemy ; and am I not to be
almost a relation ? "

'' T think you know what I mean, Mr. Belfield.'"

She was going to answer her telegram. Quicker
'in his movements always than his brother, Valentine
sprang to the door.

'why am I Mr. Belfield?" he asked in a
lowered voice, as he opened it for her, " why not
Valentine as well as Frank ? "

"Oh, I could not — not yet," she said.

Strangers yet ? Strangers, after the day
before yesterday ? " in still lower tones, detaining
her on the threshold.

She flushed crimson, looked at hit angrily, and
passed him as if he were dirt.

The butterfly can hold her own," he thought,
as he went back to the table to finish his breakfast.

He did not see Helen again till they met at the
covert side, where he was presented by her to sirs.

Baddeley, who was in high glee at returning to
country life after her Parisian dissipations.

'^ What did we see ? Everything ! " she answered,
when Valentine questioned her about '^ Le
petit Muffle," the last burlesque opera which was
convulsing the boulevards and commanding forty
francs for a stall. " We sent for an agent on the
morning after our arrival gave him a list of the
pieces we wanted to see, and gave him carte
blanche as to the price of seats. The tickets were
dear, but we saw all the pieces which native
Parisians had been waiting for months to see. It
is the only way."

Yes, it is the only way," said Major Baddeley,
a fat fair man, who looked too heavy for his horse,
and whose province in life was to coincide with his
wife.

Valentine contrived to show his future sister-in-law
the way, in spite of Major Baddeley 's prior
claim as a brother-in-law in esse. He led her up
and down break-neck hills, and forded the stream
in all manner of risky places. Those two never
lost sight of the hounds, nor of each other, and

were the first in at the death after the hunt servants.
When the Baddeleys came up, Helen and
Valentine had dismounted, and were standing side
by side, while the hounds were fighting over the
mutilated remains of poor pug.

It was their first day together, but not their
last. Mrs. Baddeley was devoted to fox-hunting,
and her devotion was an excuse for Helen.

'' It is my last season," she told Adrian. " I
shall give up all masculine sports when I am
married."

Will you, dearest ? Then your self-sacrifice
shall not be unrewarded, for I will get you the
prettiest yacht that can be built at Davenport.
Shall it be steam or sailing, eh, Helen ? "'

AVill you really ? Oh, you darling. Yachting
is my ruling passion. Yes, you may think I am
mad about hunting, but ray real lunacy is the sea.
Give me a yacht — a schooner, sailing of course, I
hate steam — and I shall adore you."

Helen ! " reproachfully.

More than I do now, if that be possible."

I will write to the builders this evening, and

ask them to send me drawings and estimates for
the handsomest two-hundred ton schooner they
can build."

Two-hundred ton ! Oh Adrian, you are only too
adorable

He smiled at her eagerness, her childish delight
in the pleasures she loved. She had taken his
gifts of jewellery almost with indifference, pleased
with the glitter and dazzle at the first opening of
the cases, but seeming to care very little to ornament
herself with her spoil.

They never look so lovely as in their velvet
beds/^ she said.

Perhaps she knew that a limp white gown and a
cluster of Dijon roses were enough for her fresh
young loveliness, that neither gems nor gold could
add to her beauty.

And so things went on to the end of the hunting
season. Adrian spent a great deal of his time at
Morcomb, and the sisters came very often to lunch
or afternoon tea at the Abbey. There were dinner
parties also at both houses.

Morcomb was much gayer than it had been before

the advent of Major Baddeley. If not brilliant
himself — and it appeared to Sir Adrian that he
was a good-natured dullard — Frank Baddeley was
the cause of brilliancy in others. The house
brightened at his coming. He seemed to be popular
with his friends, for two of them came all the
way from London, with a string of horses, and put
up at the old-fashioned family inn by Chadford-
Bridge, in order to be near him.

These two gentlemen were Lord St. Austell and
Mr. Beeching, and their appearance in the hunting
field was not without interest to the native
mind.

The Miss Treduceys had met St. Austell '' in
society," and knew all about him. Sir Nathaniel
had been at Eton and Christ Church with his lordship's
father. It was almost a kind of cousinship.
Matilda affected to know the gentleman's history
from his cradle.

The St. Austells have gone to Oxford for centuries,
but this one is a Cambridge man. He was
at Trinity, and went out a low wrangler ; " she
said. " He went into Parliament directly he left

college. People thought he was going to distinguish
himself, but when his father died he went
wrong somehow — racing, I suppose — and he quarrelled
with his wife. I believe it was she who frau
away from hhrij but I've heard my father say he
drove her to it, so one couldn't help feeling sorry
for her, especially as she was Lord Helvellyn's
daughter — and we knew her people. They were
not divorced — and she went to live abroad with an
old aunt's

This to Dorothy Toffstaff, who listened inwardly
writhing. It was hard to be so instructed whenas
a young lady aspiring to be in society she
ought to have known all about Lord and Lady
St. Austell.

I believe my father knows him/^ she said carelessly.
'^ I fancy I have heard these old stories.''^

But it was made clear presently that Mr. Toff-staff,
who was sitting on the roadside in his mail
phaeton, pretending to criticize the appearance of
the hounds, did not know Lord St, Austell, for
there was Mr. Belching introducing Toffstaff to
that nobleman.

TofFstaff and Beechiug were old friends. Toff-stair
had made his money out of colonial produce
in the days when fortunes were to be made in
Mincing Lane. The Beeching family had grown
rich on the Stock Exchange. Mr. Beeching knew
all about the money market, but he had never
soiled his fingers with scrip. The Beeching fortune
had been growing and quarrelling itself for
three generations,, since Beeching, grandfather, had
made his great coup in the railway mania year.
Joseph Beeching was an only son, and was reputed
to be fabulously rich. His wealth was a standing
joke among his particular friends. He did not
mind being chaffed about his millions. He took
the thing quite calmly.

Hang it all, you know, a fellow can help it if
he comes of a money-making ancestry. I know its
deuced vulgar to have plenty of cash nowadays.
One ought to be ruined. Every gentleman is hard
up. To own oneself rich is to confess oneself a
cad ; only Td rather be a rich cad than a poor cad,
if its all the same to you.^'

Lord St. Austell and Mr. Beeching were received

at Morcomb with the open hand of friendship.
Colonel Deverill had an Irishman's ideas of hospitality,
and considered it his duty to receive all
comers, in and out of season. The entertainment
might be of a somewhat scrambling and slovenly
order, the dinner might be very good or very bad —
a feast or a famine, as the Colonel said ; the wine
might be abundant or the last bottle out of the
cellar. The Colonel was equally at ease among his
guests, and equally delighted to have them round
him. What he wanted most, perhaps, was an
excuse for enjoying himself and forgetting black
care.

No house could be well conducted where the
going and coming was always an uncertainty, and
the number of guests at dinner a riddle that was
only solved when they sat down. Neither Leo nor
Helen pretended to any talent for housekeeping;
they left everything to Donovan, the butler, and to
an old Irish cook and housekeeper who had been
in the Colonel's service ever since his marriage, and
from whom he had no secrets.

Lord St. Austell rode by Mrs. Baddcley's side

when the hounds moved off, while Major Baddeley
followed, in conversation with Dorothy Toffstaff, who
was social and loquacious. Mr. Beechiug rode
alone, and talked to nobody. lie was not a particularly
agreeable looking young man. He had a
low forehead, a pug nose, a large jaw, and altogether
too much of the bulldog type for beauty ;
and his dark sallow countenance and sullen expression
contrasted curiously with St. AustelFs
delicately fair skin, blue eyes, and pale auburn
moustache. St. Austell had the air of having just
stepped out of a picture by Sir Peter Lely.

Miss Toffstaff was extremely gracious to ^lajor
Baddeley, but she was debating in her own mind
all the time how she could easiest get at St. Russell,
who must be captured at once for display at
Wilmington. It was not to be endured that there
should be a nobleman in the neighbourhood who
was not an intimate of the Toffstaff^\

Father must ask him to dinner immediately,"
she thought, *' even if wc are obliged to ask the
Morcomb people too."

CHAPTER X.

CHANGEFUL AS THE WIND

The Lamb at Chadford was a spacious old-fashioned
family inn and posting-houses with long
passages, low-pitched rooms, a garden, and a pretty
view from almost every window. The garden was
on the banks of the Chad, and the house stood
close to the bridge, and commanded a winding
reach of the river, the hilly high street, and the
old Norman church whose chimes marked the
progress of the hours for those who lay at the
Lamb.

Lord St. Austell and Mr. Beeching shared the
prettiest sitting-room of the inn, a room with a
bow window facing the bridge and the town, and
with two other windows opening on to a balcony
above the garden and the river. They sat in this
balcony after breakfast, smoking their cigars and
hearing the dip of the oars as a boat went slowly

VOL. I. Q

by in the morning sunshine. But neither St.
Austell nor his friend spent much of their time
at the Lamb. Colonel Deverill was too hospitable
to leave his son-in-law's friends to mope at an inn.
They were welcome at Morcomb at all hours, and
were to be found there at all hours. 'With
Beeching's five horses, and St. Austell's three,
there was always an animal of some kind to carry
the two young men to Morcomb, or they would
ride home with Mrs. Baddeley after the kill, and
have their dress clothes brought over to them by
a valet.

"We might almost as well be living here
altogether' said St. Austell. '' I think we
must be more trouble than if we were in the
house''

Mr. Beeching said nothing. lie accepted
everything tacitly, almost as if it were his due.
He was the most unemotional young man Colonel
Deverill had ever encountered. lie was polite and
accommodating enough in social intercourse, but
he was — or seemed to be — as cold as a stone.

I can't think what you can see in him to

like," the Colonel said to St. Austell one night ,
in the confidence of the smoking-room.

^' I don't see anything in him, and I don't like
him particularly."

'^ Well, then, put it in another way. I can't
think how you can get on with him so well."

Oh, I can get on with anybody, from Satan
downwards. That's my temperament. Beeching
is a useful person to know. He has a capital
stud, which his friends use pretty freely. His
drag and his yacht are good and serviceable ; and
he has a kind of table d'hote at his chambers
which we all use. In fact, he does whatever we
want, and makes no fuss about it."

'^ I shouldn't think he would make a fuss about
anything — not if you cut his head off. I never
saw such an unimpressionable young man ! "

Oh, I don't know about that. Still waters
run deep, you know. I have an idea there arc
depths under that dulness of Beeching's. Ho
is not a fool, and I believe he could be a blackguard."


So much for Joseph Beeching from his dearest

Q 2

friend's standpoint. There was a link between
the two which St. Austell had not taken the
trouble to explain. They were partners in a
raging stable. Beeching found the money, St.
Austell the intellect and social status. St. Austell
had got the commoner into the Jockey Club), and
into a certain fast and furious set in London,
which esteemed itself the very cream of Society —
a set on which royalty had been known to smile,
and every member of which was on the high road
to moral or financial ruin.

Sir Adrian Belfield saw a great deal of the two
men. He liked St. Austell, who was eminently
likeable, and never showed the cloven foot except
to his intimates ; but he did not like Mr.
Beeching, still less did he like his future sister-in-law's
manner with that young gentleman.

It was not that Mrs. Baddeley openly flirted
with him, or encouraged his attentions. She only
allowed herself to be worshipped by him : let him
follow her about like her dog, and screw himself
insidiously into the chair nearest hers on all
occasions. She hud a charming air of being

totally unconscious of his admiration and almost
ignored his presence; and yet Adrian felt instinctively
that she knew all about him and his
feelings for her, and that she tacitly permitted his
adoration.

^^ I wonder Baddeley doesn't see what is going
on and give his wife a hint'' thought Adrian,

But Frank Baddeley was one of those easy
tempered mediocrities who never do see what they
ought to see; men who, so long as they have good
dinners and good horses to ride, and pretty wives
to smile upon them, think that life is as it should
be. It never occurred to Frank that a wife who
was so invariably complacent could hardly be
seriously attached to him. He never asked himself
whether love would not have been more exacting
and more fitful in its manifestations —
whether that monotony of sweetness might not
mean indifference. He was a sleepy kind of man,
fond of commonplace pleasures, and not on the
alert to find a thorn among his roses.

He had been a little perplexed by his wife's display
of jewellery one evening, and had questioned

her about it as they drove tete-astute in a fly to a
dinner at the Abbey.

Where did you get those diamonds, Leo ?
You hadn't them in India. You had to borrow
some jewellery for the ball at Government
Ilouse/^

*^ No, I left them with father. They are my
grandmother's diamonds — old Lady Sudbury's, don't
you know""

^' Oh, she left you her jewels, did she ? ''

'^ Some of them. I was her god-daughter."

Ah, to be sure. But you've had them re-set,
I suppose. They don't look a bit old-fashioned."

No ; they are just as they came to me. Diamonds
are never old-fashioned''

He asked no more questions, perfectly satisfied
with the explanation; but that night, when the
sisters went home after the dinner party, Leo
followed Helen to her room.

Helen, I want you to do me a favour."

*^ What is it, dear?"

You know the old garnet necklace Lady Led-bury
left me ? "

Of course I do ; but you never wear it'

I told Frank she left me diamonds. Don't let
the cat out of the bag, that's a darling. I didn't
want him to know that I had bought them out of
the money I won backing horses last spring. He
oughtn't like me to bet.''''

Of course he wouldn't like it. Nos I won't
betray you. But if I were you, Leo, 1 wouldn't
tell my husband lies. It can't answer long''

Wait till you have a husband of your own
before you sermonize. Anything for a quiet life,
Helen. That is my motto''

Adrian and Helen were to be married in June —
the first of June. The date had been fixed, the
trousseau had been put in hand under Mrs.
Baddeley's instructions. A foreman from one
of the most modish houses in London came
down to Morcomb to measure Miss Deverill for
her gowns.

I am afraid my things will cost a lot of money,
Leo," Helen said doubtfully, when this Parisian
personage was gone with her pattern boxes.

They will cost a goodish bit, but tvc are not
ordering many gowns, you see. Those we have
chosen will be lovely ; but there will be none to
hang idle in your wardrobes, getting dusty and
old-fashioned, as some brides gowns do'

But the prices seem enormous. Will father
be able to pay for them ? "

Mrs. Baddeley made a wry face, which expressed
doubtfulness on this point.

^^ Some one will have to pay' she said.

Not Adrian. You will not let him ever see
those bills''

"Adrian's wife, perhaps. Mrs. Ponsonby will
not press for her money, knowing what a good
match you are making."

But to let Adrian pay for my wedding clothes,
directly or indirectly, would be so degrading, so
humiliating ! "

My dear child, you cant be married without
clothes, and it's my opinion your father has not a
stiver."

I wish I could win money on the turf, Leo,
like you."

Mrs. Baddeley reddened at the allusion.

Oh, that is all very well once in a way ; a mere
fluke. It is not to be thought of.''^

But you always seem to have money for everything.
If Frank were a rich man you could not
dress more extravagantly."

*' My dear child, I am awfully in debt. I dare
not think about my affairs. They are horribly
entangled. But you are such a lucky creature.
What can it matter who pays for your trousseau,
or when it is paid for ? Adrian has offered the
most liberal settlement. You will have six hundred
a year to do what you like with.^^

Six hundred ! It seems a great deal. I shall
be able to help you, Leo."*'

You are very good, darling ; but I hope I
shall never be obliged to sponge upon you.
Women were not made to prey upon each other.
Man is our natural quarry."

As the days went by and the hunting season
drew to its close, it seemed to that acute observer,
Lord St. Austell, to whom the study of a pretty

woman's sentiments was more interesting than any
other problem, that Helen Deverill had not quite
so happy an air as she ought to have had, considering
that she was soon to he married to the
man of her choice, and the very best match in the
neighbourhood. It interested that student of character
to perceive that the young lady had often a
preoccupied manner, even in her lovers society, as
they sat side by side in a corner of the drawing-room
after dinner, or loitered in the billiard-room
at dusk.

She never seems preoccupied when the brother
is showing her the way across the moors' said
Lord St. Austell.

He had watched those two riding together
across the rough broken ground on the moor,
over hillock and hollow, their horses neck and
neck, the riders full of talk and happy laughter,
enjoying sky, landscape, rapid movement, everything,
as it seemed to St. Austell, as he passed
close beside them, or followed in their track.
Little gusts of laughter were blown towards him
on the keen, moorland air.

How well you and your future brother-in-law
suit each other' he said to Helen one day, when
they were out with the hounds.

She crimsoned; and was suddenly speechless.

He really is a fine fellow, and I don't wonder
you like him : but a very rough diamond as compared
with his brother, I should say."

^' Yes' she faltered, " Adrian is ever so much
more accomplished."

Musical, artistic, highly cultured, a young man
in a thousand," pursued St. Austell, cruelly persistent.
^' I believe you are quite the luckiest
young lady of my acquaintance. Miss Deverill."

She was silent ; all the happy light had gone
out of her face. Lips and eyes were grave and
mute. St. Austell watched the downcast face
with a deepening interest. He thought he had
never seen a lovelier countenance, and he was a
man who worshipped beauty.

I used to think her sister the most beautiful
woman I ever met," he said to himself, " but this
one is lovelier. There is more of the wild rose —
the pure and delicate perfection which blooms and

dies in a day. To be true to her type this girl
ought not to live to be thirty. And she does not
care a rap for Sir Adrian Belfield, and she is overhead
and ears in love With his brother. A
troublesome complication in the present stage of
affairs. She should have waited till she Twas
married."

Adrian was not jealous either of Lord St.
Austellj whom he admired, or of Mr. Beeching,
whom he disliked ; but the atmosphere of Morcomb
was not agreeable to him after Major Bad-delays
arrival. The house had too much the tone
of bachelor shooting quarters. Every room was
steeped in tobacco; for although men were supposed
not to smoke in the drawing-room or
morning-room, there were so many exceptions to
that rule, and Mrs. Baddeley and her sister were
so ready to rescind it upon all occasions, that,
practically, there was smoking everywhere. Cigarettes
and whiskey and water were the pervading
atmosphere. ^Vhatcvcr the hour or the occasion
there was generally a little table lurking in a

corner with a brace of spirit decanters and a
syphon. The talk, too, had the same masculine
flavour, and ranged from the stable to the kennels,
from billiards to baccarat. Reminiscences
of high play in London clubs or foreign
casinos were a favourite topic ; and the sharp
things that had been done on the turf by men
of high standing afforded a perennial source of
interest.

The sisters seemed in no wise out of their
element in this barrack-room society. They spent
their days in idleness, sat about among the men,
first in one room and then in another : played
billiards, pool, or pyramids with skill and success,
asked no points from any one, and pocketed a pool
with the easiest air in the world.

To Adrian the whole thing was hateful. He
could not tell Helen that her father's house and
manner of living were detestable, nor could he ask
her to live a life apart under her father's roof, or
to put on an air of exclusiveness which would provoke
ridicule. All he could do was to try and get
her away from that obnoxious abode.

He came one morning charged with a letter from
his mother.

Dear Helen,

'*■ Adrian wants you here again, and I want
you almost as badly. I lost my new daughter just
as I had learned to feel that she was a part of my
existence. Come back dear. You have had quite
enough hunting and excitement of all kinds since
you left us. Come back and learn to reconcile
yourself to the quiet life and the grave old house
that must be yours in the future. However happy
you may be in the old home with your father, dear,
I think it must be better for you to be in your new
home with your mother.

'soever your affectionate,

'^ You made her write this, Adrian"'
Made her ! My mother is not a woman to be
made to write what she does not feel, Helen. You
should know her well enough by this time to know
that."

Oh, but I believe she would make any sacrifice
for her son."

^' There is no sacrifice. She really wants

you."

She is too good, too sweet to me. How shall
I ever repay her ?"

^' You will comcj won't you ? ''

Of course I will come. This letter is a command.
Yes, I shall like to come' she added
eagerly. '' I have had more than enough
hunting, and this house is hateful since Frank's
return."

I am so glad. I feared you liked the life."

No, I am used to it, and the days go by somehow.
I shall be very pleased to get away from
home."

Mrs. Baddeley was not so pleased at losing her
sister.

'•' You put me in a false position," she said.
It wont be very nice for me to be the only
woman among all these men."

I thought you only cared for men's society. I
have never known you to cultivate women."

That was because I had you. Sisters can go
anywhere and do anything. But now I suppose I
shall have to take up with an outsider. Perhaps
one of those Treducey girls would answer. They
seem to like flirting with St. Austell, though les a
detrimental."

CHAPTER XI.

A DANGEROUS PILOT

Lady Belfield came next morning to fetch her
future daughter-in-law, and Colonel Deverill was
not displeased to see his younger daughter carried
off to a haven of safety. He had a vague idea
that the billiard-room at Morcomb was hardly the
best place for an engaged girl, and that a kind of
society which was all very well for Helen Deverill
was not good enough for the future Lady Belfield.

It is a capital match, and it would be a deuced
pity to burke it," thought the Colonel.

So Helen drove away in the roomy barouche,
sitting by Lady Belfield's side, with Adrian seated
opposite. She seemed pleased to go with them,
and she had a quieter and more thoughtful air,
which charmed her lover. That chastened and
softened manner seemed only natural to a girl on
the eve of a new life : a girl for whom the

VOL. I. R

responsibilities of womanhood were so soon to
begin.

It was early in April, the hedgerows were budding
in the soft Devonian air, and there were
violets nestling here and there along the grassy-banks.
The final meet of the foxhounds had been
advertised, and people were beginning to put up
tennis nets on asphalte courts, and to talk of the
otter hounds that were to be out in June.

Lady Belfield was delighted with Helen's more
thoughtful mood. It seemed to bring them nearer
together. They sat together and worked and
talked in the quiet morning hours ; and in the
evening, when Valentine had carried his brother off
to the billiard-room, Constance Belfield would sit
down to her beloved piano and play ; while her
young companion sat on a low chair close by,
listening, thinking, or dreaming, with her work-basket
standing by untouched, or her book open
in her lap.

That dreaming mood was a new phase in Helens
character. On her former visit she had been all
gaiety and lightness, full of movement and sinfulness.

The mother loved to talk of her sons, and lie
found a sympathetic listener in Helen. She talked
of both, but she talked most of Valentine ; of his
errors and failings, his wildness, recklessness, follies
of all kinds ; but somehow or other the result of
all the mother's talk was to prove that wayward
son the most brilliant and loveable of young men.
Unconsciously, that favouring love pleaded for him,
and spread a gloss over all the dark spots in his
character.

I am sorry you and he are not better friends,"
said Lady Belfield, after one of these conversations,


^' Oh, but we are excellent friends. Mr. Belfield
was very kind to me out hunting. He was my
pilot through some of our best runs."

A dangerous pilot, I fear, child. But you are
so very distant to each other."

Are we ? " faltered Helen. " Perhaps we have
very little in common except our love of fox-hunting.
]mr. Belfield cannot care to talk to au
inexperienced girl."

'- Ob, but I think it is you who keep him at a

R 2

distance. You might be a little more sisterly in
your manner."

*' I'll try," said Helen, ^' but as I never had a
brother, I hardly know how brothers are to be
treated"'

'^ If you liked him there would be no difficulty,'
answered Lady Belfield, reproachfully.

Helen hung her head and said never a word.

Constance Belfield had been struck by something
strange in her son's manner to his brothers
betrothed, and in her manner to him. There was
not that frank, easy friendliness which the mother
would have liked to see ; and, knowing Valentine's
difficult temper, she foresaw trouble in the
future.

The Abbey belonged to Lady Belfield for her
lifetime, but it had been agreed between Adrian
and his mother that he and his wife were to live
there, and to be master and mistress in all things.
Constance Belfield would slip into the second place.
She could lead her quiet intellectual life just as
happily as queen dowager as she had done when
she was queen regnant. She would have her own

rooms, and lier own occupations, her own old
friends.

'^ Everybody will naturally look to your wife as
the principal personage in this house' said Lady
Belfield. " It would never do for her to be
secondary in anything. She had better begin as
sole mistress. She will fall into her place more
naturally, and fill it better in the days to come.
With such a housekeeper as Mrs. Marrable, she can
have no difficulties. As for myself, I shall be quite
happy when I am no longer sovereign. And I
shall not be too continually with you. I am contemplating
a cottage by the sea, somewhere on the
north coast of Cornwall — a wild, lonely spot —
where I can take an occasional rest from all
society."

Dear mother, do you suppose I could ever
have too much of you, or Helen either. She will
look to you for help and counsel in all things.
And when you start your Cornish cottage, it must
be big enough for all three of us."

I have only one difficulty about the future,
Adrian."

What is that ? "

'^ Your brother Valentine has been used to think
of this house as his home."

"And it "will be his home still, after I am
married. There will not be the slightest lessening
of his freedom. You know what he and I have
been to each other, and that I could hardly live
without him''

This was satisfactory, but Lady Belficld had a
lurking dread of evil. She could not help thinking
that there was a silent antagonism between
Valentine and Helen. There was such a chilling
reserve in their manner towards each other ; they
seemed so scrupulously to avoid all occasions of
friendly companionship. Valentine seemed to take
a diabolical delight in withdrawing Adrian from
the society of his betrothed. There was always an
excuse for carrying him off somewhere in the
morning; and in the evening there was the billiard-room,
which at the Abbey was an exclusively
masculine apartment. Valentine smoked there,
and smoked furiously. He kept his guns and
single-sticks there, his foils and fencing apparatus.

and had contrived to stamp the room with his own
individuality. The billiard-room was as much his
peculiar den as the library was Adrian's.

Madge had been more than three months at the
Abbey, and she had given no reason for fault-finding
in either Mrs. Marrable or the upper housemaid.
She had worked well, and had shown
herself quick and clever in learning the duties of
domestic service. She was very quiet in her
demeanour, kept herself to herself, as the other
servants said, and was not good company. She
had a little room of her own in the great gabled
roof, a room with a dormer window that overlooked
the wooded valley and that broad deep stream which
was the chief glory of Belfield Park. She would
stand for an hour looking out of this window, faraway
over the valley to the distant moorland,
thinking or dreaming, just as Helen sat thinking or
dreaming in the drawing-room below stairs, lulled
by the pathetic melodies of Beethoven or Mozart,
or by soft, sad, wordless songs by Schumann or
Schubert.

In the heart of each girl there dwelt a profound
sadness, a yearning for escape from the actual into
the unreal.

Madge had seen Valentine but few times since
their conversation in the corridor, and their meetings
on those occasions had been accidental and
brief. The girl would have passed him without a
word, without a look even ; but on their latest
meeting Valentine was in a conversational humour,
and he stopped her with a strong hand upon her
arm.

"Well, Madge, how are you getting on?"

Very well, thank you, sirs'

"Sir. That's rather formal, ain't it?^^

No, sir. You are a gentleman, and a
stranger."

A stranger. Come, Madge "

I told you I could be nothing to you if I
wasn't to be your wife. I could never be that, you
said — so there it ended. Can't you understand
that?"

She spoke as deliberately as a man of business
who wants to be decisive and definite about a

business matter : she looked him in the face as
resolutely as a man looks at a man.

No, I can't," he answered doggedly. " What
devilish hard wood you are made of, Madge. I
never met a woman like you."

^^ I know my own mind. Some women don't
know even as much as that. There's one in this
house that doesn't, anyhow."

What do you mean ?" he asked, angrily.

No need to say. You know well enough.
Good afternoon, sir. I'm too busy to stop here
talking."

She made him a courtesy, and left him, left him
brooding, with his head down and his hands in the
pockets of his shooting jacket.

The corridors at Belfield Abbey were places to
live in : low and wide, with Tudor windows deeply
recessed, and provided with cushioned seats, on
which a man might loll at full length. There were
old pictures, old china jars, old cabinets to break
the monotony of the long straight passages ; there
were thick damask curtains to keep out the cold.

'^ Trust a jealous woman for scenting a rival,"

muttered Valentine, flinging himself upon one of
those comfortable window seats and taking out
his cigar case. " Yet I thought I had kept things
very dark, and that no one but my angel herself
knew the state of the case. She knows. She
knows, I'll swear. I've seen it in her face when
we rode over the break-neck ground together.
Once when I was leading her across a stone wall
that might mean broken bones, I looked back as
my horse rose for the leap, and saw her eyes.
They said as plain as words can speak, ' I don't
care if I follow you to your death.' Yes, I saw
the love-light in those eyes, and I knew she was
mine. Poor Adrian. He's so absurdly fond of her
that it seems a pity to come between them ; and
she hasn't a stiver, and it will be altogether a
wretched match for me. I certainly ought to fight
it out, and give her up."

The third week in April began with south-west
winds and sunny skies. The old oaks and beeches
in Belfield Park seemed to smile in the sunshine,
though not a leaf showed upon their rugged

branches. But there was the purple of ripening
leaf-buds there was the warmth of reviving nature,
even in things that seemed dead.

It was glorious weather for tennis and everybody
at Chadford and in the neighbourhood seemed to
be seized with a tennis mania. All the young men
and women put on flannel garments, and met at
each other's houses and played with all their might
and main.

There was no tennis club at Chadford. There
had been talk of such an institution, but no one
lead been enterprising enough to set the thing
going ; so play on private lawns, and tea drinking
after the play, were eminently popular. Valentine
excelled at tennis, as at all athletic games; so
directly the hunting was over, he had the ground
marked and the nets out, and, invited Helen to
play with him. They played all the morning, and
a messenger was sent to Morcomb to invite ]Mrs.
Baddeley and Mr. Beeching over for the afternoon.

Do you know, that surly fellow, Beeching, is a
crack player ? '' said Valentine, at lunch.

I'm rather sorry you've asked him over, however

good he may bc/^ answered Adrian. '^ I
dislike him intensely, and so I think does Helen."

He certainly is no favourite of mine," agreed
Helen, " but Frank seems deeply attached to him.
Frank has always some friend of that kind, without
whom he seems hardly able to exist."

Oh, but one doesn't ask for a certificate of
character from a man who is wanted to play
tennis," said Valentine contemptuously. " All I
ever inquire is. Can the fellow play, and will he help
me to keep up my form ? There's no use in
playing against one's inferiors."

Helen and Valentine went off to the lawn again
directly after lunch. It was hardly weather for
sitting in the garden yet, or Adrian would have
sat by and watched the play. As it was, he
strolled up and down an adjacent path with his
mother, stopping now and then to look at the
players.

^' How well she plays, and how graceful she is''
said Lady Belfield, watching the slim, girlish figure
in a simple cream white gown.

"Yes; she is like Valentine. She excels in all

outdoor sports, in all games of skill. She plays
billiards better than many young men, and she
rides better than any woman I know. She is just
the wife for a country squire. I only wish I were
better fitted for making her happy.''-'

'^My dearest Adrian, how can she fail to be
happy with you who are so kind and good to
her ? "

Ah, but goodness doesn't count for very
much in this life. People would rather have
congenial tastes. It is a constant trouble to me
that I cannot share the pleasures Helen loves —
that if we are to be much together by-and-by,
as man and wife, she may feel like a snared bird
in a cages

'' She will never feel that if she loves you.''-'

Oh, I know that she loves me. I have been
sure of that from the first ; but I don't know if I
am right in accepting the sacrifice she will have
to make in marrying a man who may be always
something of an invalid — forbidden to do this
and that — a dull companion for a high-spirited
girl."

'' But as a wife her whole nature will undergo
a change. You will not have a high-spirited girl
to deal with, but a woman, full of loving care and
womanly thoughts."

Do you think so ? " he asked, wonderingly.
'^ Will not that be asking too much of her — that
she should pass all at once from girlhood to
womanhood, from the holiday of life to the
bearing of burdens. She is so bright a creature ;
she does not seem made for thoughtfulness or
cares

but she has been much more serious of
late. I have seen a marked change in her''

*' Yes, she is certainly more serious''

A ripple of girlish laughter came like a mocking
commentary upon his words. Helen and
Valentine were finishing a single sett, in wild
spirits.

You play as if you were bewitched," said
Valentine, when they had finished. " I never
saw such strokes from a bit of a jiirl like

o

you."

Mrs. Baddelcy and mr. Beeching appeared upon

the lawn at this moment — the lady in a terra-cotta
tailor gown, which would do for tennis or anything;
the gentleman in flannels. They would
only stop to shake hands and say a few words
to Lady Belfield, and then began a double sett,
with Valentine and Helen on the same side.

Mr, Beeches distinguished himself at tennis,
and behaved rather nicely at tea. He unbent
considerably, and showed a somewhat boyish
simplicity which pleased Lady Belfield. Mrs.
Baddeley was superbly patronizing to the three
young men, allowing them to wait upon her and
administer to her appetite for pound-cake and
chocolate biscuits. It was arranged that they
were to play tennis on the Abbey lawn every
afternoon until Lady Belfield gave them notice to
quit.

''^ I am not likely to do that," said that lady;
I am very glad for Helen to be amused. Her
life here has been somewhat dull hitherto'

The tennis afternoons were highly appreciated.
Jack Freemantle and his sister Lucy were invited,
aud came frequently. The Miss TofTstafTs and the

Miss Treduceys ]put in an appearance, and !Major
Baddeley sometimes drove over to the Abbey, not
to play — he was too lazy for that — but to fetch
his-wife.

*' I am bound to show my allegiance occasionally,"
he said ; and people agreed that the
Major's devotion was altogether occasional.

He was a large, placid man, with a broad, good-tempered
face — a man who liked to take everything
easily, and to whom dinner was the leading
event of every day. He admired his wife as
much as it was in his power to admire anybody,
but he had never knovvn what it was to feel a
pang of jealousy. He had far too high an estimate
of his own merits, and had never met with
a better fellow than himself. He was very particular
as to what kind of champagne he bought or
drank, but he was not over choice in the selection
of his friends. So long as they amused and
served him he never stopped to consider whether
they might or might not be worthy associates for
his wife. Tn a word, he was frankly and uncou-
consciously selfish.

Lord St. Austell had vanished from Chadford
with his hunters at the end of the season, but
Mr. Beeching and his string of horses still remained
at the Lamb, and there was no talk of his
departure.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XII.

TOTAL SURRENDER

All Helen's seriousness seemed to have taken
flight, as i£ blown away by the balmy west wind.
Once more she was gay and volatile, for ever on
the wing, with a ceaseless vivacity. The change
puzzled Lady Belfield, who liked her daughter
better in her serious mood.

My dear child, you seem as if you were bewitched'*
she said.

Helen blushed and was silent for a few moments,
then replied, with a laugh :

^' I am so glad summer is coming, so glad to be
out of doors again. You must not forget that I
am a wild Irish girl, and love my liberty .''

I am pleased to see you happy, Helen,"
answered the mother kindly, and then Helen went
back to the tennis court, and the balls were flying
across the net again, and the girl's graceful form

was sklmmmg over the grass, swift as the flight of
a bird.

She came back to the drawing-room flushed and
excited at tea time, and then Adrian had her all
to himself for an hour or so while she lolled in a
low easy chair, resting from the fatigues of the
afternoon, and allowing her lover to wait upon her.
She had a prettily deprecating air, as if apologizing
for taking pleasure in a sport which had no interest
for him.

It is a foolish, childish game, I dare say,"*^ she
said ; '' but it is something to live for'

She did not know how such a speech as that
wounded Adrian ; or how much it revealed to
him.

He went up to his room to dress for dinner one
evening, after having lingered longer than usual in
the drawing-room with Helen. She had been out
of spirits, fretful, like a child overtired with play,
and he had been soothing her as tenderly as a
mother might soothe a wilful child.

He was so deeply in love that all her failings,
her childishness, her triviality, endeared her to hims

2

only the more. There was a fascination in lier
very faults which seemed to be inseparable from
her beauty.

Fastened to the pincushion upon his dressing
table he saw a slip of paper, with four words written
upon it in a firm round hand, " Somebody is false.
Watch."

He felt as a man feels who finds a cobra on his
pillow. Who could have dared to put that diabolical
scrawl there ? Some one in his mother's
household — some servant eating his mother's bread,
had been black-hearted enough to stab an innocent
girl's reputation.

His first impulse was to tear the paper to atoms ;
his next was to put it in his letter cas, with a view
to identifying the writer.

I will have every one of the servants in the
library tomorrow morning's he thought, " and each
shall write those four words before my eyes, until I
discover the wretch who penned that lie."

Yet to do this would create a scandal. Better
that than to exist under the same roof with the
venomous traitor who wrote that insult to truth and

purity. False ? With whom should she be false ?
What tempter had ever tried to seduce her from the
straight line of faith and honour since she had been
his plighted wife ? Spurn that paper as he might
the suspicion it suggested forced itself upon his
mind ; haunted him and goaded him almost to
madness as he hurriedly dressed, anxious to be early
in the drawing-rooms to see Helen again before
dinner, to be reassured by her presence, by the
steady light of truth in those lovely eyes.

Not a word would he say to her of that foul
slander, that stab in the dark ; not for worlds would
he have her know of that base attempt to blemish
her name. But he wanted to be with her again.
Never since the first hour of their betrothal had he
been so eager to see her.

It was a little more than half-past seven when he
went downstairs, his heart beating impatiently for
the sound of the only voice that could give him
comfort. There was the sound of the piano in the
drawing-room, but not his mother's touch. A
modern waltz lightly played ; fitfully, as if the
player were preoccupied.

He noticed tins detail us lie opened the door and
went in. Helen was seated at the piano at the
further end of the room, her head bent over the
keys, in an attitude of self-abasement ; Valentine
was leaning upon the piano, talking to her, his head
close to hers, his lips almost touching her hair.

The girl started guiltily at the opening of the
door; the man went on talking.

Say yes/-' he urged ; " say yes.-"

Well, yes, if you like," she answered carelessly,
and resumed the waltz, which she had stopped for a
moment.

She played more brilliantly than usual, it
seemed to Adrian, with the spasmodic brilliancy of
an indifferent, unscientific player, who has spurts
of execution and dash now and then, occasional
moments in which the fingers have an unaccustomed
precision and power. She played for the next ten
minutes — a waltz, a mazurka, a nocturne of Chopin's;
all with the same air of being engrossed by the
nnusic.

Then she rose from the piano suddenly, and
went across the room to Adrian.

IIow early you are down ! '■* she said.

'there is nothing strange in that's he answered
coldly, '' but you are not generally so early. What
compact were you making with Valentine just
now ? "

His brother was sitting at a book-table near the
piano, reading a newspaper, and apparently unconscious
of anything going on in the room.

*' It was about our tennis tournament. We are
thinking of a tournament, you know.'^

Indeed I know nothing about it. The tournament
will be something to live for, I supposes'

*' Oh, Adrian, you never spoke to me before
with a sneers'

Did I not ? There must be a beginning for
all things''

She stood looking at him, stricken, guilty.
That light nature might be false, but was not yet
skilled in hypocrisy. His mother entered the
room at this moment, and he went over to her,
taking no further notice of Helen.

His heart was as heavy as lead. Good heavens !
AVhat an idiot he had been to need this rough

awakening to au obvious bitter fact ; what a blind
besotted idiot he must have been not to see that
which was visible to every servant in his mother's
house.

'^ I trusted her so completely' he said to himself;
"I thought her so pure and true."

Pure ! True ! He could never think her either
of these again, after that little scene by the piano.
It was so little, yet it had told him so much. The
drooping head and arms, the half-despairing languor,
as of one who submits to superior will ; and
Valentine's attitude, his lips so close to her hair
and brow, his easy air of mastery.

Not for a moment after that revelation could
Adrian doubt that his brother had stolen the heart
of his betrothed.

'' Nature made him to rule and me to serve'' he
told himself. '' How could I ever hope to be victorious
where he could be a competitor. He has
beaten me in all things in which men care to
conquer. He has left mc my books, and my
music : a woman's occupation, not a man's. He
might have left mc my bride. There are women

enough in the world for him to subjugate. He
might have left her free''

Watch, '^ wrote the anonymous denouncer.
He had not watched ; but the discovery had been
made ; the humiliating truth had been forced upon
him ; accident had given him the key to that
secret accusation.

He had considerable power of self-controls and
exercised it this evening. He talked easily and
even gaily all through dinner, but the conversation
was a trio. Valentine talked much and seemed in
excellent spirits, Helen sat silent, and Adrian did
not attempt to draw her into the conversation.

'' How tired you look, Helen," said Lady Eel-field,
after an animated discussion upon the news
in the papers of the day.

Adrian and his mother were strong Conservatives,
but Valentine had taken upon himself the
opinions and the arrogance of an advanced radical.
Hence politics always offered a theme for lively
discussion and a little temper. Nothing so dull asa
one-pinioned family !

Yes, I am rather tired' answered Helen,

listlessly. " The day has been so dreadfully
"warms

Adrian went back to the drawing-room with the
two ladies. Valentine stopped behind, ostensibly
for his after-dinner smoke.

The old mullions windows were closed and
curtained; but a large bay window, which had been
added to the drawing-room twenty years ago, both
to give more light and as an outlet to the garden,
stood wide open to the moonlight and the soft
evening air. This modern window was an eyesore
to architects and all persons of artistic temperament
; but it was very convenient to the dwellers
in the room, and it brought Lady Belfield's
drawing-room and Lady Belfield's garden into one
perfect whole. In summer, people sat indifferently
in room and garden, and teacups circulated freely
between the Persian carpet within and the velvet
lawn without.

The day had been one of those precocious
summer days that perk themselves up in the midst
of the spring, and Helen's complaint of its sultriness
was not unfounded. There were two or three

small logs burning on the open hearth, for show
and not for heat, and Lady Belfield took her accustomed
chair, not remote from the hearth ; but
Helen went at once to the open window, and seated
herself on a low ottoman close to the threshold.

The moon was near the full, and all the garden
was steeped in light. The girl sat idle, watching
the night sky', above the tall cypresses and
deodaras that bounded the shrubbery.

Adrian seated himself at his mother's book-table,
and took up a volume of biography which
had arrived that afternoon. Helen stole a look at
him presently, and saw him engrossed in his book.
She was not surprised that he should be so, as it
was a book he had been particularly impatient to
see, and the librarian had been slow in sending it.
Lady Belfield, finding the other two silent, had
resumed a new German novel which she had been
reading in the afternoon. They had been all three
seated thus for about a quarter of an hour, when
Helen rose quietly and went out into the garden.

Softly as she moved, Adrian heard the flutter of
her muslin gown as she passed out. He lifted his

eyes from the page uliicli he had hccQ staring at
fixedly, without the faintest knowledge of its
contents.

\Yatch.'^

He put down his book softly, and went across
to the window.

Helen was slowly walking along a path that
skirted the lawn. His eyes followed the white-robed
figure till it disappeared at a turn of the
path which led into the heart of the shrubbery,
where a narrow walk wound in and out among
thickets of converse laurels and arbutus.

Those shrubberies had been laid out and planted
a century before, and had been improved and
added to by every new owner of Belfield Abbey.

The ground fell away steeply on the other side
of the shrubberies and there vere grassy banks
sloping down to a long Italian terrace beside the
river.

This terrace had always been a favourite promenade
with the ladies of the Belfield family.

Scarcely had the white gown vanished into
darkness, when a man's figure skirted the lawn

upon the opposite side, and then disappeared, in
the shrubbery. There was just light enough for
Adrian to identify that hurrying figure as his
brother Valentine.

He went out, bareheaded, and crossed the lawn
to the shrubbery. His quick ear caught the sound
of a man's footsteps on the winding path, and with
that sound for his guide it was easy for him to follow
in the right direction, though there was no one
visible in the leafy labyrinth.

Presently, that quick firm step stopped, and the ,
after a pause, went on with slackened pace. He
could guess that those two were now together,
walking slowly side by side, the girls light footfall
inaudible amidst the sound of the man's firmer
tread.

He knew he was gaining upon them presently,
for he could hear their voices at intervals faint
gusts of sound blown towards him on the evening
air. He followed to a narrow walk, parallel with
the river-terrace, and standing there in the shadow
of a cypress saw them on the moonlit walk below
him. He was near enough to hoar every word,

every breath, and lie had to control his own hurried
breathing lest they should hear him. They were
standing by the waterside, she clasped in Valentine's
arms, with her head upon his breast, and
Adrian could hear her sobs in the stillness, the
passionate sobs of a despairing love. Never had
his arms so held her, never had her passionate
tears been shed for him. They had been like
children playing at love. Here was love's stern
reality — tears and despair. Valentine's head was
bent over the half-hidden face. He was trying to
kiss those sobs into silence. And then came the
sound of his voice, deep and resolute.

"Break with him. dearest? — yes, of course you
must break with him. You were meant to be
mine, not his. He has most of the good things in
this life. He is the elder born, the honoured and
wealthy. Vit I have you, and I mean to keep
you, and hold you against all the world''

Lady Belfield has been so good to me,"
faltered the girl's tearful voice. ^' She has been so
loving — and for me to disappoint her "

Who knows that you will disappoint her ? She

shall love you still, my sweetest — love you all the
better perhaps for that which you call treason.
Don't you know the secret of my mother's heart,
Helen? She does her duty to Adrian, but she
gives the liou^s share of love to me. She will love
any wife who loves me.^^

You are cruel to say so/^ cried Helen, escaping
from his arms. " What, are you to have everything
and he nothing, he who is so good ? "

He has the estate, and he is Sir Adrian. Do
you call that nothing ? ^'

Yes, nothing, nothing, nothing, if he is not
happy. No, I won't betray him, I won't be called
a jilt and a hypocrite. I loved him before I knew
you. I will try to forget you, and to be true to
him/^

Helen, don't be a fool''

He drew her to his breast again, snared her as
easily with an unmannerly speech as with the
honeyed phrases of a modern Romeo. His influence
over her was a thing apart from words. It
was the despotic power of a strong man's will,
which to a weak woman represents destiny.

Adrian stepped lightly down the sloping bank, and
stood suddenly beside them. The girl started away
from her lover, horrified at being seen by a gamekeeper
or some such insignificant person ; but at
sight of Adrian she clasped her hands before her
face and stood motionless, as if she had been
turned to stone.

I did not think myself passing rich, Valentine,"
he said quietly, as his brother faced him boldly
and resolutely, with the defiant look with which
he had faced angry college dons and aggrieved
authorities of all kinds. " I was like the poor
shepherd with his one ewe lambs laying his hand
lightly upon Helen's shoulder, " and you have
robbed me of my one inestimable possession."

Don't talk about robbery," said Valentine,
that's arrant nonsense. Men are the slaves of
circumstances in such matters. You bring a lovely
fascinating girl into the house where I live, and
say, * She is mine, she is taboo, you are not to fall
in love with her.' But I am mortal. I am of a
clay that is quicker to take fire than most other
clay. I have not been under the same roof for

four-and-twenty hours with your privileged young
lady before I am over head and ears in love with
her. I don't give myself up without a struggle.
I say No surrender, and try to be as uncivil as I
possibly can to the young lady. Helen will bear
me out that I was a thorough savage during the
earlier part of our acquaintance. And then we
hunted together and I got fonder and fonder of
her, and she — yes, I know she began to get rather
fond of me. But she too cried No surrender, and
then she took to being uncivil ; and then I knew
it was all over with us both. Tennis finished us ;
and you will please to remember, Adrian, that
tennis was my mother's proposition, not mine.
Poor simple soul, she wanted to see Helen and me
more like brother and sister, and she thought
tennis might help to bring us together."

You are laudably candid now," said Adrian.
Would it not have been better to be candid
before resorting to a secret meeting like this, and
degrading your future wife by a clandestine courtship
while she was betrothed to your brother ?
Would it not at least have been wise to spare her

VOL. I. T

the humiliation of bciug spied upon by servants?"


'' What do you mean ?"

"Only that it was some servant or hanger-on iu
the Abbey who gave me the hint that brought me
here to-night."

'^^ One of the servants spoke to you about me,
about Helen ?"

No one spoke to me. I found a paper in my
room with a suggestion that there was falsehood,
and that I should watch."

'' The she-deviij" muttered Valentine, between
his set teeth.

What ! you know who wrote it? " asked Adrian.

No. but I can guess ; some old busybody. The
housekeeper perhaps."

What ! Mrs. Marrable ? That good old soul
never did anything underhand in her life. But
whoever my informant was I am grateful to the
hand that lifted the veil. You and Miss Deverill
might have left me in my fool's paradise ever so
much longer."

There you wrong us both. Things had come

to a crisis to-night , and it would have been our
duty to confess the truth to you tomorrow. Ml
I wanted to be sure of was that Helen would give
up an ample fortune and the privilege of being
Lady Belfield, in order to share the obscurity of
a younger brother's position."

'• And Miss Deverill has made her choice? "
'' Well, I believe she was on the point of making
it definitely when you interrupted us''

I can at least simplify the question'' said
Adrian, "by assuring Miss Deverill that after what
has happened to-night I withdraw all claim upon
her fidelity or her consideration. She may hold
herself as free as the wind that is moving yonder
leaves.'^

Helen's hands had fallen from before her face,
which showed death-like in the moonlight. She
tried to take Adrian's hand, but he recoiled from
her touch.

Forgive me 1 " she cried, with passionate entreaty
; " oh, forgive me, Adrian. I hate myself
for my inconstancy, my weakness, my folly. Be more
merciful to me than I am to myself. Forgive me ! ''

T 2

"When I cans he answered, and left them without
another word.

He had left the Abbey before Helen came down
to breakfast next morning, and he left the following
letter for his brother : —

You have shown yourself my superior as a
lover, as you have in all other accomplishments in
which men wish to excel. I submit to fate, which
gave me failure and disappointment as a part of
my birthright. I think you have used me ill, and
that Helen has used me worse; but it is a quality
of my nature to love you, and, even while smarting
under the sense of a deep wrong, you are still tome
something more than a brother. You are a
part of myself. Be as happy as you can, and I
will take comfort in my desolation from the
thought of your happiness. But above all things
make her happy. She is all that is lovely and
sweet in womanhood, but she lacks strength of
character and stability of purpose, as you have
already proved. Bear with her, and be patient
with her, as I would have been. Her nature will

expand like a flower in the warmth of your love,
but it will be warped and withered by unkindness
or neglect. I resign her to you as a sacred trust.
Let me never have to call you to account for her
peace of mind. When once my mind and heart
are reconciled to my loss I shall accept my position
as your wife's broth er and shall assume all a
brother's responsibilities. Tell Helen I am leaving
England in the hope that absence may teach me the
lesson of forgiveness. Good-bye""

This was all : but in a letter to Lady Belfield
Adrian explained that he was going to London,
whence he would start for Norway, after a day or
two spent in preparation for his journey. He
meant to spend the summer and early autumn in
Norway and Sweden, and thence to go to Vienna,
and to follow the Danube southward, and winter in
Greece.

'' If you should feel tempted to join me during
any part of my travels, I would go to Frankfort to
meet you, and would adapt my wanderings to your
comfort and pleasure. My engagement is broken
suddenly, like a dream from which one awake

All the good fairies were at my brother's
christening feast, and one of them gave him power
over the heart of woman. He has stolen Helen's
love — almost involuntarily, I believe, so you must
not upbraid him with treachery. Make the best of
the position, dear mother. Do all you can for your
younger son and his betrothed, and be assured of
my co-operation in all you do."

The letter was a shock to Lady Belfield. Her
loyal nature revolted against Helen's treachery.
She, who was truth itself, could not understand
how any other woman could be false. However
her heart might secretly incline to the wayward
self-indulgent younger son, her sense of honour
and justice were outraged by his triumph.

Helen came into the breakfast-room while Lady
Belfield sat with Adrian's letter in her hand. The
girl's white face and hollow eyes, With traces of
prolonged wTcpiug, made a silent appeal to the
mother's pity, but even that remorseful countenance
could not lessen Constance Belfield's contempt for
the offender.

I find, Helen'' she began coldly, '' that I have

been looking on at a comedy, and that you Lad
your secrets, while I thought that you were to meas
a daughter, and that I knew your heart as a
mother knows the heart of her child."

Do mothers always know ? " faltered Helen.
There are things in life that no one can reckon
against. Oh, Lady Belfield, forgive me if you can.
I can't help your despising me ; I don't wonder at
it. He has told you how base I have been," with
a glance at the open letter, " but indeed if you
only knew, if I could ever make you understand
how I struggled, how I tried to be good and true,
and how my heart went to Valentine in spite of
myself. Indeed I tried not to love him — tried to
hate him, to avoid him, to shrink from all contact
with him, but it was all in vain. From the hour
we first met — a fatal, foolish, mistaken meeting on
my part, a cruel sport on his — from that hour I
was lost, my fidelity to Adrian was shaken, and I
began to ask myself if I had ever really loved
him.^'

She flung herself on her knees before Lady
Belfield and buried her tearful face in the mother's

lap, sobbing heart-brokenly. It was hardly possible
to be angry with a creature so bowed down by
remorse and the consciousness of her own sin.

"My child, it is the most miserable turn that fate
could have taken said Constance Belfield gravely.
You were all the world to Adrian, and the loss
of your love may darken all the best years of his
life. He is not the kind of man to recover quickly
or easily from such a blow. You will never be all
the world to my other son. I have studied them
both from their cradles, and know what stuff each
is made of. Fondly as I love Valentine, I am not
blind to his faults. He has a passionate self-willed
nature, and to be loved by him will not be all
sunshine. This young head will not escape the
storms of life, Helen, if you are mated with my son
Valentine. It is your heart that will have to bear
the heavier burdens in a our life journey, it is you
who will have to suffer and submit. Adrian would
have subjugated his own inclinations to make you
happy. Valentine will expect you to yield to him
in all things."

I know that he is my mastcr,^^ ans^^crcd

Helen, in a low voice. '' If his will were not
stronger than mine I should have been true to
Adrian. I know that in our life to come I shall
be his slave — his fond adoring slave. But I shall
be utterly happy if he always loves me as he loves
me now/^

^' It would be hard if that should ever waver,
when you have sacrificed so much for his sake.
You know that jour position as Valentine's wife
will be very different from what it would have been
as Lady Belfield/'

'' 1 have never thought of position — not even
when I accepted Adrian. I thought it would be
nice to have a home of my own, and to hear no
more of debts and difficulties and unpaid rents.
That is all I ever thought of from a mercenary
point of view."

'^ Well, Helen, the die is cast, and we must
make the best of fates said Constance Belfield
gently. " Adrian is gone, and if we were to ask
him to come back he would not come."

He has gone ? So soon," exclaimed Helen.

Yes 5 he knew, no doubt, that his presence here y

TOTAL SUl;l:EXD£Jt

would have been an embarrassment to you and
Palestine. He leaves you mistress of your own
life. And' now I think, to lessen scandal, the
sooner you and Valentine are married the better.
Jut the first thing is to obtain your father's consents'


^' He will be dreadfully angry' said Helens with
a shiver of apprehension.

She was still crouching at Lady Belfield's feet.
Her sobs had ceased, but her whole attitude
betokened the depth of self-abasement.

*' He is a man of the world, and we can scarcely
expect him to be pleased."

"I dare not see him' said Helen. "Oh. Lady
Belfield, you are so good to me, even in my disgrace.
^Vill you break the news to my father?
You have only seen the sunny side of his character.
He is dreadful when he is angry."

I will do all I can, Helen. I will send for him
this morning."

"No, no; not so soon. Not to-day. There is
no hurry."

I will not delay an hour, Helen."

Valentine came into the room, carrying himself
as easily as if his conscience were without stain
had received his brother's valedictory letter,
and had digested its contents at his leisure. He
thought that everything was settling itself in a very
comfortable manner, and that there need be no
more fuss.

He went over to his mother and kissed her.

I see you know all about it," he said ; ^' that
foolish child has been crying and confessing, and
breaking her poor little heart about that which
neither she nor I could helps

He took the tone of a master at once, spoke of
his newly-betrothed with the free and easy air of
a husband of five years' standing. There was none
of the reverential tone with which a lover usually
speaks of his mistress, none of the respect which
the worshipper gives his divinity in the early days
of betrothal.

** It is all very sad, Valentine's said Lady Bel-field,
while Helen rose slowly, and went to her
place at the breakfast table, downcast, pale, and
unhappy-looking.

Bosh, my dear mother. There need be no
sadness about it/*'' answered her son, seating himself
before a savoury dish, and helping himself
Tvitli the air of being in excellent appetite. " I
wish you'd pour out my coffee, Helen instead of
sitting there like a statue, l^ray, mother let us
have no funereal faces. Adrian is disappointed, I
admit, and has the right to feel angry, with us or
with his destiny. But he has acted like a sensible
fellow, and he is going the right way to get the
better of his disappointment. Six months hence I
dare say he will be engaged to somebody else ; and
then you will feel what a simpleton you have been
to make a tragedy out of such a very simple
matter."

Constance Belfield said no more. She knew her
son's temper too well to argue with him. To her
mind the whole business was fraught with wrougr
and folly ; but if Valentine's happiness were at
stake — if he could be happy this way, and in no
other, her love for him forbade her opposition. It
might be that in this strong and passionate na^pre
there might be a greater capacity for love than in

Adrian's calmer temperament; that Adrian could
better bear the loss of his promised wife than
Valentine could have borne disappointment in his
unreasonable love.

A mounted messenger was despatched to Morcomb
directly after breakfast and Colonel Deverill
was with Lady Belfield before luncheon.

The interview was long, and in some parts
stormy. Colonel Deverill was deeply indignant.
He would have sent for Helen and wreaked his
wrath upon her, but Lady Belfield interfered.

^* You shall not see her till you are calmer, till
you have taught yourself to think more indulgently
of her error' she said. " She is in my charge,
poor motherless girl, and I am beholden to act to
her as a mothers

She was engaged — engaged herself of her own
free will, mark you — to a gentleman of high position,
a man of wealth and substance : and without
the faintest justification she jilts that estimable
highly accomplished young man to take up with
his brother. She is so false and fickle that she
cannot keep steadfast for half a year to the man

who has honoured her by his choice. She is a
shameless "

She is your daughter and my future daughter-in-law,
Colonel Deverill/'

'^ Pardon me, Lady Belfield, she was to have been
your daughter-in-law, and that connection would
have been at once an honour and a source of
supreme happiness to me; but I have not consented
to her marriage with your younger son. Forgive
me if I say that with my daughter's exceptional
attractions she ought to make a good match.
Beauty rules high in Society just now ; a really
beautiful girl has the ball at her feet. Now, Mr.
Belfield is a very fine fellow, but he is not a good
match."

*your daughter loves him. Colonel Deverill, and
she will never be happy with any one else."

My dear Lady Belfield, you know that is a
bacon de parler. Every girl says as much when she
fancies herself in love. I have known a girl say as
much six times about six different men. My
daughter Helen will have to subjugate her inclinations.
She has forfeited a splendid position and

stamped herself as a jilt. She has shown herself
incapable of managing her own life. It will be
my business to look after her in future''

Lady Belfield was silent for some moments.
She knew her sons determined character, and she
told herself that once having won Helens heart, he
would find a way of marrying her with or without
the father's consent. He was not the kind of young
man to submit his inclinations to Colonel Deverill's
authority. Opposition would only lead to a clandestine
marriage.

My younger son may not be a good match''
she said quietly, after that interval of thought,
'but he will not be penniless. He will inherit my
for tune''

'^ May it be long before his day of inheritance,
dear Lady Belfield. But in the meantime, if he
marries he will have to maintain his wife. Pardon
me if I remind you that he can't do that — upon
expectations.^^

I would make a settlement. I could spare five
or six hundred a year''

You would settle that upon my daughter. A

very liberal settlement on your part, and more thana
penniless girl like Helen Las the right to expect ;
but if the young people had to live upon it —
starvation, or at least genteel penury. I should be
sorry to see my pretty daughter fading in a third-rate
West End lodging, afraid to accept invitations
on account of the expense of cabs, or dying of
dulness in a small country towns

If my son marries, he must turn bread-winner,
take up a profession."

*' Very good in intention, dear Lady Belfield, but
there are so few professions that will take up a
young man who has not been bred to work from his
fifteenth year. Your son Valentine has a splendid
intellect, but I doubt if he will ever earn
sixpence''

** Then I must do more for him. Trust me with
your daughter's future, Colonel Dcverill, and she
shall be to me as my own child."

She is a fool, and I have no patience with her'
said the Colonel, pacing the room. '^ She had as
fine a chance as a girl need have, and she flung it
away. And now you ask me to reconcile myself to

genteel poverty for a girl who might have set the
town in a blaze. But you are all goodness, Lady
Belfield. You would melt a stone — and I am nota
stone, as you might have known nearly thirty
years ago. It seems natural that my daughter
should marry your son. Such a marriage links
past and present curiously together. Please send
for Helens'

You will not be unkind to her — you will
not scolds pleaded Constance, as she rang the
bell.

There is no good in scolding. The girl is a
fool, and there is no more to be said about hers'

Helen came, pale and trembling.

*'Y^ou have trifled with a good man's affection,
and with a splendid position, girls said her father
sternly. " You ought to be desperately in love with
Mr. Belfield."

I love him with all the strength of my heart. ^^

'^ And were I to forbid you to marry him ? AVhat
would happen then, do you think ?"

'^ I believe I should die.'^

Well, you need not die. You can take your

VOL. I. U

own way. Lady Belfield; I leave everything to
you — settlement, everything. I submit myself to
you in all things ; and as for this young lady, I
wash my hands of her and her fate.

CHAPTER XIII.

MAKING THE BEST OF IT

While Lady Belfield pleaded lier sons cause with
Colonel Deverill, Valentine himself was engaged ina
business which had very little to do with Helen's
future happiness.

He was trying to find out the writer of the
anonymous warning which opened his brother's
eyes.

Mrs. Marrable had been his mother's housekeeper
for nearly twenty years, and Valentine had
been her favourite as a boy. She had indulged all
his juvenile whims, and had kept him liberally
supplied with preserves and pickles, pound-cakes
and Devonshire cream, when he was at the University.
Marrable's jams had been a famous institution
among the undergraduates who breakfasted
with him.

He went to Mrs. Marrable's room this morning

u 2

under pretence of inquiring about a groom who
had been on the sick list ; and then, after allowing
the housekeeper to enlarge upon the efficacy of her
beef-tea and the infallibility of her mutton broth,
he asked casually :

How about that half-gipsy girl my mother
took in ? Does she get on pretty well ? "

^^ It's a very curious thing, sir, that you should
ask that question to-day above all other days'
she said. " The young woman worked with a
good heart,, and did her very best to give satisfaction,
up to yesterday. She was a very reserved
young woman, and did not seem to be altogether
happy in her mind. She was always on the watch
and on the listen for what was going on in the
drawing-room and library, and such like; seemed
to take more interest in the family's doings than
it was her place to take ; but beyond that I had
no fault to find with her. But this morning she
did not appear at the servants' breakfast ; and
when one of the maids went up to her room to see
if there was anything amiss with her, she found a
letter pinned on her pincushion, and the bird was

flown. She had taken some of her clothes in a
bundle, I suppose, and had left the rest in her
drawers. There's the letter, Mr. Belfield. I took
it to the morning-room an hour ago, meaning to
show it to ray lady ; but I thought she looked
worried and upset at Sir Adrian's having left home
so suddenly ; and I made up my mind to say
nothing about Margaret for a day or two. Why
should I trouble my lady about such an insignificant
matter ? "

Why, indeed ? I hope she hasn't eloped with
my brother. ^^

Fie, for shame, sir ! It's just like your mischievous
ways to say such a thing."

Let me look at her letter."

The letter was fairly written, in a bold hand,
more masculine than feminine in character, and
there were no errors in spelling :

Dear Mrs. Marrable,

'' You have been very kind to me,
and I can assure you I am grateful to you and
to all at the Abbey who have been good to a

waif and stray like me. I am going to London to
seek my fortune in service or in some other
employment. You need not be afraid that I am
going wrong. I am not that kind of girl. I
believe I am made of very hard stuff, and that I
can stand the wear and tear of ]ife. I thank Lady
Belfield, if she will allow me to do so, for her
goodness to a nameless girl. I shall always remember
her with loving gratitude.

^'^ Yours truly,

'' Madge."

'^ She must be a determined hussy"' said Valentine.


'^ She's a curious kind of girl, but I believe
what she says of herself in her letters answered
the housekeeper. '^ She is not the kind of girl to
go wrong."

'' Bosh ! " cried Valentine, contemptuously.
She goes to London, and she goes to perdition
as surely as a raindrop is lost when it falls
into the sea. She has gone to look for her mother,
I dare say. Her mother went to the bad before

this girl was born ; and this girl is tired of rusticity
and servitude, and has gone after her mother. I
wonder you can be humbugged so easily, Mrs.
Marbles'

"I know more of girls and their dispositions
than you do, Mr. Belfield, and I believe this one
is no common girl'

She may be an uncommon girl, but it will all
come to the same in the end," answered Valentine,
as he went out of the room.

Lady Belfield had her own way. Valentine was
impetuously eager to seal his fate, would not have
heard of a long engagement, had the impediments
to speedy marriage been ever so numerous. Happily
there were no impediments. Lady Belfield's private
income, inherited from her father, and settled
upon her at her marriage with full disposing power,
amounted to nearly three thousand a year. She
settled six Indeed a year upon Helen, with remainder
to her children, or to Valentine in the
event of his wife dying chillness ; and she gave her
son an allowance of four hundred a year. They

would thus have a thousand a year to live upon.
Lady Belfield's position as tenant for life of the
Abbey and home farm obliged her to maintain a
certain state, and her income would henceforward
be barely adequate to her expenses ; but she knew
Adrian's generous temper, and that she would be
assisted by him to any extent she might require.
They had divided some of the expenses between
them hitherto, his purse maintaining the stables
and paying his mother's coach builder. She had
saved some thousands since her husband's death,
and had added two or three hundred a year to her
income by the judicious investment of her accumulations
: all this without detriment to her charities,
which were large.

Valentine accepted her sacrifice of income lightly
enough, dismissing the subject with brief and
careless thanks. He was living in a lover's paradise,
spending all his days with Helen, in the
gardens, on the river, on horseback in the early
mornings before the sun was too hot for riding ;
thinking only of her, living only for her, as it
seemed.

They were to be married on the tenth of June,
just ten days later than Adrian's appointed
wedding day.

In a week after Sir Adrian's departure everybody
in the neighbourhood knew what had happened,
and pretended to know every minutest
detail. There were at least six different versions
of the breach between Adrian and his betrothed,
and not one of them was in the least like the
truth. But every account was dramatic, and had
a life-like air, and made excellent sport for
afternoon tea parties.

Mrs. Baddeley had not been reticent. She had
gone about everywhere lamenting her sister's
fatuity. ^' Such a nice marriage, and we were all
so fond of Sir Adrian, and to take up with the
younger brother. I feel vexed with myself for
having ordered such a lovely trousseau. It is far
too good'

Happily very few wedding presents had arrived
before the change of plan. Those premature gifts
were sent back to the donors, with an explanation,
and duly came back again to Helen. It was for

her pleasure and not for her bridegroom they were
given, wrote the givers reassuringly.

Except for those early morning rides, or for
boating on the river, Helen hardly left the
grounds of Belfield Abbey till she went back to
Morcomb at the end of May. She was never in
the drawing-room when callers came to the Abbey.
She ran away at the sound of the bell, and hid
herself somewhere — afraid to face people, who had
doubtless condemned her as a jilt and a hypocrite.

You should brazen it outs said Valentine,
laughing at her.

So I will, when I am your wife. But now it
tortures me to think of the way people talk about
me.^^

'' I never cared a straw for the opinion of my
dearest friend, much less for that of a set of busybodies,"
said Valentine contemptuously.

It was all over, and Helen was Valentine
Belfield's wife. The wedding had been the
simplest of ceremonials : no guests had been
bidden, and relatives only were present. There

were no bridesmaids, and there was no best man.
Colonel Deverill, his elder daughter and her
husbands and Lady Belfield were the only witnesses
of the marriage, save the clerk and pew-opener.
The bride was married in her travelling dress, and
bride and bridegroom drove straight from the
church to the station, on the first stage of their
journey to Switzerland, where they were to spend
a long honeymoon, moving about by easy stages as
fancy led them, and not returning to England
until September.

^' Foolish people ! " exclaimed Mrs. Baddeley.
'^ They will have more than time enough to get
tired of each other."

While they were honeymooning, Lady Belfield
was to find a small house at the West End, just
fitted to their requirements and their income; such
a house as exists only in the mind of the seeker.
She was to spend a month in London, in order to
accomplish this task, and when the house was
found she was to furnish it after her own taste,
and at her own expense.

No wonder they were married in that

sneaking fashion' said Miss Toffstaff. when she
heard that !Miss Devcrill's wedding was over. '• It
shows how thoroughly ashamed of themselves they
all are."

*^ Come, now, Dolly, after all, it must be owned
that the girl was not mercenary," remonstrated
her sister. " It ain often a girl throws over a
rich man to marry a poor one."

'^ How do you know it was the girl who broke
off the engagement ? She flirted audaciously with
Mr. Belfield, and Sir Adrian threw her over.
That's the truth of the story."

The Miss Treduceys shrugged their shoulders,
and declared they had never expected any good to
come of Sir Adrian's foolish entanglement. They
talked of it now as an "' entanglement," and
congratulated dearest Lady Belfield upon her elder
son's having got himself disentangled.

You must be so glad," said Matilda.

But I am not at all glad. I am very fond of
Helen, and I am pleased to have her for my
daughter upon any terms ; but I had much rather
she had proved true to her first love."

'' She is very sweet," murmured Matilda, perceiving
that it would not do to depreciate Lady
Belfield^s daughter-in-law, "' but I cannot think,
from what I have seen of her, that she has much
strength of characters

She has no strength of character," replied
Lady Belfield, " but she has a warm affectionate
nature, and she will make an admirable wife for
Valentine. He has too strong a character himself
to get on with a strong-minded wife."

Yes, I understand. He will have his own way
in all things, and she will be like an Oriental wife,
Nourmahal, the Light of the Harem, and that kind
of thing."

I believe she will make him happy," said Lady
Belfield decisively; whereupon the Miss Treduceys
told all their acquaintance that Lady Belfield was
very soft about her daughter-in-law, and inclined
to be huffy at any word of disparagement.

CHAPTER XIV.

NOT A COMMON GIRL

The thing-which decided Madge upon leaving the
comfort and protection of Belfield Abbey for the
uncertainties of a great city, with its imminent
dangers and possibility of starvation, was a passage
in the police reports of that London paper vrhich
was most affected in the servants' hall.

Mrs. Mandeville, of No. 14a, Little Leopold
Street Mayfair, was brought before the magistrates
at the Westminster Police Court for attempting
to commit suicide by taking oxalic acid. The
evidence showed that the lady had been dining
with a gentleman who passed in the house as
Major Mandeville, but who is supposed to have
lived there under an assumed name, and that after
dinner a scene of some violence occurred between
Mrs. Mandeville and the gentleman in question, in
the course of which Mrs. Mandeville rushed from

the room, and ran to a cupboard upon an upper
floor, where a solution of oxalic acid was kept by
the housemaid for the purpose of cleaning lamp-glasses.
She drank a large quantity of this
solution, and was immediately seized with all the
symptoms of virulent poison, and was for some
hours in danger of her life. The person passing
as Major Mandeville left the house while she was
lying in agony. The screams of one of the
servants had attracted a police-constable, who
entered the house, and took the prisoner in charge
as soon as she was so far recovered as to be
brought to the station. It was not the first time
she had attempted suicide.

'^ His Worship : And I suppose you had no more
intention of dying on this occasion than you had
upon your previous attempt. You only wanted to
give Major Mandeville a lesson?

^' The Prisoner : I wanted to make an end of myself
on both occasions. I have been very cruelly
treated, and I have nothing in the world to live for.

His Worship : That is a bad hearing from a
person of your attractive appearance.

The Prisoner : I might have been better off if
I had been as ugly as sin.

His Worship : Is Mandeville your real name ?

The Prisoner : It is the name I have borne for
nearly twenty years.

His Worship : And you think you have a pretty
good right to it — a squatters right. But it is not
your real name ?

The Prisoner : I have no real name — not in the
Red Book — if that's what you mean. My father
is a basket-maker in the country. He was always
called John Dawley in my hearing. I never heard
that he had any other name."

Hereupon followed a brief lecture from the
magistrate, and the prisoner', having promised to
refrain from any future attempt upon her life, was
finally dismissed in a spirit of half-contemptuous
pity upon the part of his worship.

The paper gave the little scene and dialogue in
extenso. The offender was a handsome woman,
living in Mayfair, and the case was therefore
deemed of sufficient interest to be reported fully,
with a sensational side-heading, "Mayfair Morals'

The perusal of this report turned the scale of
Madge's mind, which had been wavering for sometime.
She would go to London and seek out her
mother, rescue that brand from the burning, if it
were in the power of her intelligence and her
affection to do as much. It would be something
for her to do, some fixed purpose and useful end
in life at the least. Here she had neither end nor
aim. She despised herself as an impostor and a
spy. To watch Valentine from a distance, to see
him falling deeper and deeper in love with Helen
Deverill, to hear an occasional snatch of talk
between those two ; words and tones which said so
much to that eager ear — to know that whatever
fancy he had once had for her was dead and forgotten
: all this had been acutest agony : and yet
she had stayed on at the Abbey to endure that
jealous pain, that bitter humiliation.

The report in the newspapers decided her. She
would go to her mother at once, in the hour of her
despair. That was surely the time in which a
daughter's love might avail most, might mean
redemption.

VOL. I. X

She would go; but before leaving she would
launch a thunderbolt. Those two — traitor and
traitress — should stand revealed to the man who so
blindly trusted them. She wrote her few words of
warning, and put the slip of paper in Sir Adrian's
room in the twilight, after his valet had laid out
his master's dress clothes and made all ready for
the evening toilet.

Within an hour of daybreak next morning she
had left the Abbey, and was trudging along the
road to the station. She had a little money, just
enough to pay for a third-class ticket for Waterloo,
and to leave her a few shillings in hand. Mrs.
Marrable had given her three sovereigns on account
of wages to be fixed in the future, when it was
decided how much her services were worth in the
household.

She had been on trial hitherto, as it were, an
apprentice to domestic service. She had taken one
of her sovereigns to Mr. Rockstone, and had insisted
upon his receiving it as part payment for the money
he had advanced for her clothes. She had given
ten shillings to her grandfather on her last Sunday
visit to the hovel by the river. She had thus thirty

shillings with which to begin the world. What
was she to do when those few shillings were exhausted,
when she found herself penniless in the
great desert of London ?

Did she mean to live upon her mother, Mrs.
Mandeville, whose West End house might be an
abode of wealth and luxury ?

No, she had no intention of accepting either food
or shelter in that house, which seemed to her as
Tophet in little. Mrs. Marrable had said of her
that she was not a common girl, and her intentions as
to her future life were not those of a common girl.
She was exceptionally strong, and she meant to
work for a living, to labour with those strong
hands and robust arms of hers, to accept the
roughest toil, were it necessary, to earn her bread
in the sweat of her brow, and if possible to earn
her mother's bread also.

I will rescue her out of that hell upon earth, if
I cans' she said to herself. '^ People can live upon
so little if they have only a mind to do il. Bread
is cheap, and I have lived upon dry bread before
now."

In the basket-maker's household life had been

X 2

sustained upon the hardest fare. Madge had never
seen smoking joints or good cheer of any kind till
she went to the Abbey. Her soul had almost
revolted against that plethora of food in the
servants hall. She thought of the multitudes who
were starving, those seething masses of London
poor about whom the Vicar had told her, and she
sickened in that atmosphere of plenty. Not by
any means a common girl. She thought she had
a mission, something to do in this life ; and that
her first duty was to care for the mother who had
never cared for her.

She had been carefully taught in her place in
the village school, taught earnestly and conscientiously
by Mr. Rockstone, and she had a stronger
idea of duty than many a girl who has been expensively
trained by French and German governesses,
with occasional supervision from the parental eye.
She had taken the Vicar^s teaching in her onyx
way ; worked it out in her own way ; and she
was assuredly not a common girl.

She kncAV that she was handsomer than one
woman in fifty. She had looked at herself in the

shabby little glass which her mother had bought
of a travelling hawker five-and-twenty years before
the blurred and clouded glass which hung against
the whitewashed wall in the old basket-maker's
cabin — and the reflection had told her that she was
beautiful. Those flashing eyes with their long
black lashes and arched brows that rich olive complexion
with its warmth and colour, the perfect
mouth and teeth, and beautifully moulded chin,
set on to a throat that might have given immortality
to marble — these were elements of beauty
not to be mistaken, or underrated by the ignorance
of an inexperienced girl.

She knew that she was beautiful, and in her
scanty converse with the world she had learnt just
enough to understand that beauty is a rare and
wonderful gift, and that her whole future life
might depend upon the use she made of it.

Beauty has its price all the world over. What
was to be the price of hers ? Not shame and
infamy, she told herself. Not such a name as her
mother had left behind her amongst the villagers,
who still remembered and talked of her.

Thus it was that when Valentine Belfield came
to the basket-maker's hovel, prepared for easy
conquest, he found a woman of a different stamp
from other women whom he had admired and
pursued in the past. Not so easily did the bird
fall into the net of the fowler.

He came upon her unawares one day as she
stood at the cabin door, watching his boat drift
slowly by with the tide, while he sat lazily reloading
his gun. He looked up and saw her at her
cottage door, a dazzling apparition.

He put down his gun and took up a boat-hook
and pushed in towards the bank, tied his boat to
the trunk of a pollard willow, and landed.

He went straight up to the threshold where the
girl was standing, and accosted her easily and
frankly, asking some commonplace questions about
the ground and the shooting. She answered him
as freely, looking him full in the face, in no wise
abashed by his striking presence or superior rank.
She told him all that could be told about the sport on
that dreary bit of marsh. And then he went on to talk
of other things, and asked her for a light for his cigar,
and seated himself on a bench by the door to smoke.

She had seen him in church occasionally with
his mother and had recognized him at the first
glance. She was in no wise abashed by his
presence. She looked at him fearlessly with those
deep inscrutable eyes of hers which seemed fraught
with the mysterious influences of an ancient race.
It was he who felt abashed in her presence as she
stood in a careless attitude,, leaning against the
door post looking gravely down at him.

He lingered for an hour ; went again the next
day; and the next and the next and so on daily,
remaining longer and longer each day, until he
reached the limit of safety, and only left just
early enough to escape a meeting with the basket-maker.
He went as one drawn by a spell. He
carried his gun and game-bag with him every
morning, but the birds had an easy time. The
only bird he wanted to snare wore a different
plumage.

He had practised all the tempter's arts, and yet
he seemed no nearer success than he had been
when he first stopped his boat, surprised by that
sudden vision of low-born beauty. His proffered
gifts had been refused with a quiet scorn which was

a new thing in his experience. His subtlest flatteries
had been resisted with a steadfastness which
might be pride or calculation. And yet he thought
she loved him ; that beneath this strength of
character there burned hidden fires. Yes, he had
seen her face light up at his coming, and had noted
the cloud of sadness when he bade her good-night.
Yet to his reiterated prayer that there should be
no such parting, that their lives should flow on
together in some luxurious retreat, some dainty
villa beside yonder river where its banks were
loveliest, some hidden haven where they might
make their mutual paradise apart from the outer
world, she had been as adamant.

She provoked him at last into quarrelling with
her. That stubborn persistance roused his worst
passions, his pride, his cruelty, his anger against any
creature who opposed his will. He upbraided her
with her coldness, her selfish, calculating temper,

"You are playing me as an angler plays a
fishes' he said. " You think that by keeping meat
bay, driving me to madness with your coldhearted
obstinacy, you will make a better

bargain. It is a matter of exchange and barter
with you. If you loved me you would not treat
me so."^

'' Perhaps I don't love you."

You are a strange girl, with a heart as hard as
the nethermost millstone," he answered, and left
her in a fit of temper.

Never before had he been so thwarted, never
had he been so resolved on conquest. He hardly
knew whether he loved or hated her most, that
winter evening, as he tramped along the causeway,
leaving tell-tale footprints in the clay which were
to be frozen hard before tomorrow morning.

He would leave her to her pride and her folly ;
he would leave her to find out what life was worth
without him, once having known the sweetness oi
his flatteries, the delight of his company. He had
a letter from an old college friend in his pocket, a
letter proposing a month at Monte Carlo. Yes, he
would go ; he would forget this gipsy girl, and let
her forget him if she could.

He returned from his holiday half cured of his
passion for that strange girl, and it was a shock to

him, and far from a pleasant one, to find her in his
mother's house.

He accepted her presence there as a sign of her
complete subjugation. She had risked everything
to be near him. He felt certain of ultimate
conquest. She might carry herself ever so proudly,
but at heart she was his slave.

Then came an unexpected distraction in the
presence of another woman. He began to make
love to his brother's betrothed in sport. It pleased
him to discover his influence over that weak and
giddy nature, like the power of a snake over a bird.
Poor little bird, how it fluttered and drooped under
the spell, and waited helplessly to be caught. His
earlier feelings were those of amusement, flattered
vanity only. He did not mean to be disloyal to
Adrian. And then arose within him the old
thirst for conquest, the hunter's passion for the
chase and the kill. It was not enough to have
fluttered that foolish heart. He must be sure of
victory. His own fancy had been kindled in the
pursuit, and he told himself, as he had often done
before, that this was the most serious passion of his

life. "What was fidelity to a brother that it should
hinder a man's life-long happiness ?

It was seven o'clock in the evening when Madge
found herself at Waterloo Station. In her ignorance
of railways and time-tables, she had contrived to
spend a long day upon a journey that might have
been easily accomplished in five or six hours. She
had wasted hours at various junctions, and it
seemed to her that she had been travelling for a
week when she alighted amidst the crowd and
bustle at Waterloo. She had eaten only a penny
roll upon her journey, and she longed for the
refreshment of a cup of tea after the dust and heat
of the way; but she had to husband her few
shillings, and so tramped off, faint and thirsty, in
the direction which a policeman had indicated to
her as the nearest way to Mayfair.

The nearest way seemed a very long way to that
solitary explorer before she had reached her
destination, and York Road, Lambeth, gave her a
sorry idea of the great city. But when she came
to Westminster Bridge the grandeur of colossal
London burst upon her all in a moment. She was

awed by that spectacle of Senate Houses and
Abbey, the broad river veiled in the mists of evening,
the long lines of golden lamps. It was all
grand and wonderful ; but the heavy smoke-laden
atmosphere oppressed her. She seemed to lose all
the elasticity of her nature, the light free step of
the rustic.

It was a weary walk from the bridge to Little
Leopold Street for at almost every turn she had
to inquire her way , and the roar of the traffic
bewildered her, while every omnibus looked like a
Juggernaut car bearing down upon her with
murderous intent.

Little Leopold Street seemed a haven of rest
after the noise and bustle of the great thoroughfares.
It was a quiet little street, lying perdu
among streets of greater altitude and social importance.
It was an exclusive little street, or
gave itself airs of aristocracy, and there were
flowers in all the windows. Number 14a was
brightened by red silk blinds, behind which lights
were shining in drawing-room and dining-room,
shining dimly in the dusk. Madge's heart almost

failed her as lie rang the bell. The house had
such an aspect of elegance and luxury, as she
waited there, with the perfume of the flowers in
her nostrils. Every window was full of flowers.
And it was from such a nest as this she was to ask
her mother to go out with her into the stony
wilderness of London, to toil for daily dread.

She had to remember the dialogue in the police
court in order to give herself courage.

A smartly dressed young woman opened the
door.

I want to see Mrs. Mandeville, if you pleases
said Madge.

I ain't at all sure as she can see you. What's
your business?"

"• You can tell her that I am a relation of hers,
and that I have come a long way on purpose to
see her.^^

'^ You can step inside while I go and ask ; but
Fm pretty sure Mrs Mandeville won't be able to
see you to-night. She's expecting company."

Please ask her to let me speak to her, if it's
only for five minutest

Well, I'll see. You can take a seat while I
go upstairs."

Madge entered the hall. It was small, but made
important by the artistic trickery of the fashionable
upholsterer: white panelling, Japanese curtains,
Japanese lanterns, Japanese jars. Madge sat on a
bamboo bench, and waited. The door of the diningroom
stood open, and she saw a table luxuriously
arranged for four people. While she was looking
at this bright interior, the table, sideboard, and
mantelpiece lighted with wax-candles, and glowing
with flowers, the door of a back room was stealthily
opened, and a shabby-looking old man with a grimy
countenance peered curiously at her, and then withdrew.
She had but just time to see a small room,
with two candles and a jug and glass upon a table.

Who could that horrid looking old man be, and
what had he to do amidst all this smartness and
glitter ?

The maid reappeared upon the narrow staircase.

You can step this way,"*^ she said, beckoning,
and Madge went up to the second floor, wondering
as she went at the hothouse flowers on the staircase,
the velvet-covered hand-rail, the amber

brocade curtains which veiled the large window
on the landing.

The servant flung open the door with an angry air''

She ain't in a ista-te to see any ones she said
as she retired, and left Madge standing just within
the threshold.

She had never been in such a room before, so
gaudily decorated and richly furnished, and so
wanton in its disorder. The low French bed was
draped with velvet and lace, and the silken coverlet
was heaped with things that had been flung there
haphazard one upon another. A silk gown, a
riding habit, hat, whip, and gloves, a pearl and
feather fan, a pair of satin slippers, a newspaper or
two, and a volume of a novel. All the chairs were
encumbered. There was a Persian cat asleep upon
one, a heap of books and newspapers on another,
a tea-tray on a third. Mantelpiece and fireplace
were draped with point lace, over turquoise velvet.
There was a fire burning in the low hearth, and
the atmosphere was oppressively hot.

A woman was lying on a sofa in front of the
fireplace, her long black hair hanging loose over
her white muslin dressing gown. A woman who

had once been strikingly handsome, and who was
handsome still, even in decay. Her cheeks were
hollow and there were lines upon the low broad
forehead, but the large dark eyes had lost little of
their splendour, and the finely cut features were
unimpaired by time.

The woman who called herself sirs Mandeville
turned those darkly brilliant eyes upon the intruder
with a look of keenest scrutiny. Then slowly,
without a word, she rose with languid movements
from her sofa, walked across to ]\Iaclge, and laid
her hands upon the girls shoulder.

She scanned her face, silently and deliberately, as
they stood thus, confronting each other. Madge's
eyes seemed transfixed by those other eyes, so like
her own.

To my knowledge I have but two relations in
the worlds said Mrs Mandeville slowly, " my father
and my daughter. Are you my daughter ?^'

'^ Yes, mothers' answered !Madge, with her arms
round her mother's neck.

END OF VOL. I.

t\J

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

or ILLINOIS

8:23

for disciplinary action and may result
the University. .

7 W'i2

Mas 't^ 199k

Lii— O-10')6

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/likeunlikenovel02brad

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," "VIXEN,"
"MOHAWKS," Etc. Etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. 11.

LONDON

SPENCER BLACKETT

(Successor to 3. $c lH. J^aitocll)

MILTON HOUSE, ST. BRIDE ST., LUDGATE CIRCUS
And SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET, E.C.

[All rights reserved \

v.^

CONTENTS TO VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

Made WILDFIRE

The mother neither repulsed nor encouraged her
daughter's embrace. She let the girls arms rest
upon her neck for a few minutes, while she stood
silent, with clouded brow.

What do you want ? ■'■' she asked at last.

Nothing — in this houses

Why have you come here ? "

For two reasons ; first I wanted you, and next
I thought you wanted me""

'-' You thought I wanted you," cried Mrs.
Mandeville, with a scornful laugh — that discordant
laugh which tells of an habitual assumption of
mirthfulness. '^ Don't you think if I had wanted

VOL. II. B

you I should have gone to fetch you? I knew
where you were to be found."

'you might want a daughter's love without
knowing your need of her," answered the girl
firmly, unabashed by the disorderly splendour of
the room, or by her mother's mocking laughter.

She stood before the sinner as calmly as if she
had been her guardian angel, sent to her from the
Eternal Throne.

^' I saw that you had been in great misery and
despair," she continued ; " I read of your unhappiness
in a newspaper, and I felt it was time forme
to go to you. The newspaper told me where
you lived. It was my first chance of finding you."

Poor child ! And pray what use did you think
your coming could be to me ? "

I might help you to make up your mind."

*^ To make up my mind ! About what ? "

'^ About leaving this house, mother dearest ;
about leaving a home in which you have been so
miserable that you would have killed yourself to
escape from it. Indeed, indeed, dear mother, there
was no need to take that last desperate step. The

world is wide enough for every one. Let us go
out into it together. You can never be more
unhappy than you were when you tried to end
your life. You may be happier, guarded by your
daughter's love''

*^ Guarded by you ! " exclaimed the other mockingly,
yet with a touch of gentleness. " Oh, my
poor, loving, forgiving child, what do you suppose
you can do for me — you ? No : it is all over with
me, Madge. You should have kept clear of me —
as I have kept clear of you. I might have come
after you — might have brought you here — might
have shown you London life and its pleasures
and finery as I know them ; but I was wiser for
you than I had been for myself. Any kindness I
can try to show her will be poison, I said to myself
better let her starve in the old man's hovel than
feast with me. I kept clear of you for your own
sake, Madge, though I dare say I seemed a cruel
mother. Yes, for your own sake — and a little,
perhaps, because I am hard by nature, and have
never felt the want of a child's love. No, I mayas
well be candid. I didn't want you in the years

b2

gone by, and I don't want you now. You have
done a foolish thing in coming to this house, and
the best thing you can do is to get out of it the
first thing tomorrow morning, and go back to
Devonshire by an early train — go back, and never
tell the old father you have seen me."

^' I am not going back. I have come to London
for good. I am going to share my life with you.
I am strong, and I can work for you — if I can get
work to do. If I canst, we can starve together. It
will be better than what you were going to do.''^

Oh, done harp upon it like that, girl. Don't
ram that odious police report down my throat, or remind
me of the devil that brought me to such a pass.
I was out of my senses that night. You don't suppose
I am always in the same humour, do you ? "

I think your life must have been very unhappy
before it came to that."

Yes ; I have been miserable enough by fits and
starts ; but it has not been all misery. I have
been the slave of a bad man — yes, his slave, though
before the world he pretended to make me his
queen. I have felt the bond wearing thin on both

sides — his and mine — have felt that the tie must
soon snap ; but I have held on, like grim death,
rather than let him go. I think as our love has
lessened I have grown more determined to hold
him, and to prevent his going after any one else.
I have made him pay pretty dearly for every insult
he has put upon me. It has been pull devil, pull
baker; but the baker — meaning me — has sometimes
got the upper hands

She broke into a vindictive laugh as she turned
away from Madge, seeming almost to forget her presence.
She stood with her elbow on the mantel-board,
looking moodily down at the expiring fire.

No, he has not had things all his own way'
she muttered. " I have been a match for him —
sometimes'

After an interval of brooding, she turned upon
Madge sharply.

Tell me the truth, child' she said. ^' I am a
woman of the world, not easily humbugged. What
brought you here ? ''

I have told you my reasons, mothers

Oh, that's all flummery. I've treated you very

badly. I was in low water when I took yon back
to the hovel where I was reared, or I don't suppose

1 should have done such a thing. And then afterwards
— it was wiser to leave you there. What love
can there be between us then ? Mother and child !
The words are a mere empty sound to you and me.^'

'not to me, mother, I have nothing in the
world to love — but you. You can have my whole
heart if you will. I will be your slave, if you will
leave this house and go out into the world with me,
trusting in Providence for the rests'

^' Have you any money ? "

A few shillings'

Any home in London ? ^'

*^ Not yet. We can look for a lodging together."

The girl is mad."

Not madder than you were, mother, when you
tried to poison yourself," said Madge resolutely.
*' You confessed that it was not the first time you
had tried. And you meant to die, you said.
There can be nothing that you and I may have to
face together worse than death: and you will at
least escape from — shame."

Her voice sank almost to a whisper as lie spoke
that final word.

"You talk like a book," said the mother, still
cynical.

I talk to you from the depths of my heart'
answered the girl. "I had been thinking and
wondering about you' for a long time before I saw
that newspaper. I had yearned for you in the
loneliness of my life, and when I saw that, I
thought my time had come. I had more than one
motive. I hated my life down yonder — hated
myself. I wanted some one to work for — some purpose
to strive for. 1 come to you penniless, but
not helpless. I am young and strong, and know
how to work. Mother, you will trust your life tome,
won't you? You were not afraid of death;
why should you be afraid of poverty."

Because it's a great deal worse than death.
One means the blowing out of a light ; a puff,
and all is over. No more pain, no more rage and
bitterness. No growing old and ugly, when one
has been an acknowledged beauty. Poverty is the
smouldering of the candle, burning slowly down in

the socket, guttering, flaring, stinking itself out
into darkness. Poverty for a woman who has
lived as I have lived is worse than a hundred sudden
deaths, if one could die a hundred times over by
pulling a trigger or tying a noose."

But, mother, to escape from a bad life — from
all that has ever been evil in your life — to feel
yourself honest and brave and true. Who would
not eat dry bread for the sake of that ? "

Mrs. Mandeville did not answer immediately.
She began to pace the room, with her hands clasped
above her head, her hair streaming over her
shoulders, the white round arms bare to the elbows
arms that a girl might have been proud of, arms
which had been the admiration of a whole theatre
sometimes, when this woman sat perdue in her box,
one white arm lying on the dark velvet cushion,
spanned with diamonds.

She paced the room silently for three or four
minutes : and then stopped abruptly, facing her
daughter.

Madge, had you come to me three years ago
with such a proposition, I suppose I should have

laughed in your face. I was in luck then — this
house was just furnished. I had two of the best
saddle-horses in London and a victoria that took
the shine out of half the titled ladies — those straitlaced
ones I mean who hold their heads high
because they have not been through the Divorce
Court. I had it all my own way just then — yes
I was better off than when I was your age. But
things are changed. We have gone too fast both
of us. It's all up money gone — and love gone with
it girl. You know what they say — when poverty
comes in at the doors love flies out of the window.
We never took to quarrelling desperately till he
began to lose his money. There is very little
choice for me, Madge — death or the workhouse —
that's about what it means — unless — unless "

*' Unless what mother ? "

Unless there should be a pigeon so well worth
plucking that the crow can feather his nest again .^'

I don't understand you , raother.^^

I don't want you to understand me. You
ought never to have come here' answered Mrs.
Mandeville impatiently.

She was a creature of impulse and whim, having
hot fits and cold fits, now all sentiment, anon vulgar
almost to brutality, a brilliant uneducated woman,
who had seen the world in many phases, and always
on its worst side.

She rang a bell violently, and the maid who had
admitted Madge appeared so much more quickly
than is the manner of her kind, that it might
be guessed she had been listening on the
landing.

Has Colonel Mandeville come in ? ''

No, madam, and cook says the dinner won't befit
to throw in a pig trough."

She had better serve it decently for all that, if
the Colonel should bring the two gentlemen I
expect."

'' I don't think there's much use in expecting
anybody now, ma'am. It's past nine o'clock," the
maid answered, with an ofi'-handed air.

They may come any time before midnight.
Let the dinner be kept back somehow, and not
burnt to a cinder, as the quails were the last time
the Colonel dined at home, tell cook."

The girl went out, slamming the door behind
her.

Madge/^ said her mother, " if the man I expect
is not here before midnight, I will go where
you like tomorrow mornings

"Dear mother," cried the girl, trying to caress
her.

'^ Don't touch me ! I. feel like a tigress. It is
not for love of you I shall go, but for hatred of
him. Oh, the scoundrel, the relentless scoundrel, to
leave me like this in my old age. He told me the
other night that I was an old woman, and that was
why nobody cared to come to my house. He said
that, when it was his shameless cheating at cards
that had frightened away all but the greenest young
fools ; and there were not fools enough to serve his
turn ; and he rounded on me — his decoy. And he
deserts me now, with an execution in the house
and a man in possession, and every jewel and every
rag I own stripped from me. And yet there are
women who are not half so handsome as I have
been, who have saved fortunes and bought landed
estates. It is an infamous shame. I will go with

you tomorrow morning if things are not set
straight to-night. You shall have some supper, and
there is a room over this where you can sleep."
She put her hand upon the bell, but Madge stopped
her.

'^ Don mother' she said resolutely, yet not
ungently. '' I can't stop in this house."

'' You can't ! Why not, pray ? "

There's no need to say why. I have to get a
lodging in the north of London, near the Gray's
Inn Road."

^' To-night ! Nearly ten o'clock, and you a
stranger in London. You must be mad."

'^No, I am not, mother. I know where to go,
and I don't care how far it is. I shall be here tomorrow
morning ; if you won't come with me tonight
— at once''

Go with you to the East End ; to hunt for a
room to shelter us — to spend the night in a casual
ward, perhaps. A tempting invitation, upon my
soul."

We shall not have to hunt. I have the address
of a respectable lodging-house. It was given

me by a housemaid at Lady Belfield^s, a girl who had
been in a factory before she went into services

'^ How do you know that there will be room for
you in your respectable lodging-house, or that the
housemaid told you the truth about its respectability
? "

She was a good, honest girl, and I can trust
her. Mother, why not come with me now ? '^
urged the girl pleadingly.

No woman's voice had ever addressed Margaret
Mandeville with so much tenderness, never till tonight
had a woman's arms entwined themselves
about her neck. And this girl was her own flesh
and blood, her only child, looking at her with
appealing eyes, trying to lure her away from the
brimstone path. And of late the brimstone path
had not been a way of pleasantness.

'' No, I must see to-night out' said Mrs. Mandeville,
between her set teeth. " I must see if ha
can be villain enough to abandon me."

*' Mother, were you ever fond of this cruel man,
who treats you so shamefully ? ■" asked Madge
earnestly.

VOL. n. c

Her own hopeless love made her sympathetic.
She could pity this older woman who had sacrificed
all for the man from whom she now had only
neglect for her guerdon.

'' Was I ever fond of him ? Yes/^ muttered Mrs.
Mandeville. '^ Don't I tell you that I was his
slave. I have had my admirers by the dozen — I
have had my victims, too and have wasted three or
four fortunes in my time. I was not called Madge
Wildfire for nothing. But this one was the only
man I ever cared for — the only one who was the
same to me in riches or poverty — the only one for
whom I made sacrifices. You would think I was
lying, perhaps, if I were to tell you the chances I
have had, and thrown array for his sake. You
think, perhaps, that such as we don't have our
chances. But we do, girl, and better chances than
the women who are brought up in cotton-wool,
and looked after by affectionate mothers and high-minded
fathers. I might have married a man with
half a million of money. I might have married a
man with a handle to his name, and might have
been called my lady, and your ladyship — I, Madge

Wildfire. But I flung away my chances, because
I loved Jack Mandeville — loved him and stuck to
him till he got tired of me, and only valued me asa
handsome decoy, to sit at the head of his dinner
table, and look sweet at his rich young dupes when
they dropped in for a nights play. This house has
cost Colonel Mandeville very little, Madge ; but he
is tired of it, and of me. He let me give a bill of
sale on the furniture to my milliner, and there is
an execution in for nine hundred pounds odd, and
if that's not paid out every stick will be sold, and
I shall be turned into the street. I owe my landlord
three quarters' rent, and he's furious about the
bill of sale. There'll be no mercy from him, even
if I could live in a house without furniture. That's
how the land lies. That was what drove me to
poison myself. I saw ruin staring me in the face,
and I saw that Mandeville did not care what became
of me."

^' Why stay here then ? Why not come with meat
once .? "

Because he may change his mind — he may
bring me the money to-night. Tie has not been

chere

since that business with the poison. But I
wrote to him this morning at his club , a letter
that might melt a stone. He may help me after
all. He may be here to-night."

'' Very well mother. I will come again tomorrow
mornings said Madge^ kissing her mother's
burning forehead , and then moving towards the
door.

You had better stay upon the premises if you
want to save me from myself."

^^ Anything but that. Nos mother I must go.
But I promise to be here early."

But tomorrow I don't promise to see you/^
answered Mrs. Mandeville angrily. ^' You are a
proud , cold-hearted , insolent slut. I never want to
see your face again."

'' I shall be here tomorrow mornings said
Madge , unmoved by this burst of temper ; and she
was gone.

CHAPTER II.

IN THE WILDERNESS.

This journey to a strange city was not so wild an
act upon Madge's part as it might seem on the
surface of things. She had thought long and
seriously before launching her frail bark upon that
tempestuous sea. She was a girl of strong character,
a resolute, energetic nature, which could
scarce go on existing without an object to live
for. The mere sluggish, monotonous eating and
drinking and sleeping and waking, the empty
mechanism of life, was not enough for her. She
must have some one to love : she must have something
to do.

Her fellow-servants at the Abbey had wondered
at the impetus with which this novice in the art
of house-cleaning had set about her work, the
vehement industry with which she had cleaned
brasses and polished looking-glasses, and swept

and dusted. That strong frame needed movement >
that tumultuous heart could only be calmed by-constant
occupation.

She had loved Valentine Belfield with all her
might. She had been tempted many a time to
fling herself into his arms, to throw herself in the
dust at his feet to surrender to him as a beaten
foe surrenders, slavishly knowing not what her
future was to be what the cost of that self-abandonment.
But she had battled with that
weaker half of her nature — the woman's passionate
heart; and the strong brain which had something
masculine in its power, had come to her rescue.
She had sworn to herself with clenched hands and
set teeth that she would not go that easy, fatal
road by which so many girls have travelled ; girls
whose stories she knew, girls who had been
shining lights in the parish school, model students
in the Scripture classes, white-veiled saints at confirmation.
She would not do as they had done,
yield to the first tempter.

If her mother had gone wrong, there was so much
the more reason that she should cleave to the right.

She fought that hard fight between love and
honour, but the agony of the strife was bitter, and
it aged and hardened her. She hardened still
more when she saw her lover transferring his
liking to another woman. She was keen to note
the progress of that treacherous love. Helen had
found her the handiest and cleverest of the housemaids
and had preferred her services to those of
any one else. And while she assisted at Beauty's
toilet, Madge had ample opportunity to note the
phases of Beauty's mind, and to discover the kind
of intellect that worked behind that classic
forehead, and the quality of the heart which beat
under that delicately moulded bust.

She found Colonel DeverilFs daughter shallow
and fickle and false. She discovered her treason —
had seen her with Valentine just often enough to
be sure of their treachery against Adrian. And
by this time she had discovered Adrian's infinite
superiority to his brother in all the higher
attributes of manhood. She knew this, yet she
had not wavered. Her nature was too intense for
the possibility of fickleness or inconstancy. She

loved with purpose and sincerity, as well as with
passion. There was no wavering in her affection,
yet she admired Adrian with a power of appreciation
which was far in advance of her education.
Passing to and fro in the corridor near the library,
she had stopped from time to time to listen to
the organ or the piano, under those sympathetic
fingers. Music was a passion with her, and till
this time she had heard scarcely any music except
the church organ, indifferently played by a feeble
old organist. This music of Adrian's was a revelation
in its infinite variety, its lightness, its
solemnity, its unspeakable depths of feeling.

Once in the winter twilight she heard him
playing Gounod's ^' Faustus*' gliding from number
to number, improvising in the darkness of the old
sombre room, where there was no light but the
glow of the fire. The lamp had not yet been
lighted in the corridor ; the other servants were
all at their tea ; Madge crouched in the embrasure
of the door, and drank in those sounds to her
heart's content.

When he played the ^' Dies Frae '^ she fell on

her knees, and had to wrestle with herself lest
she should burst into sobs.

In another of those solitary twilight hours,
while Helen and Valentine were out with the
hounds, he played " Don Giovanni'' and again
Madge crouched in his doorway and drank in the
sweet sounds. The lighter music moved her
differently, yet in this there were airs that thrilled
her. There was an awfulness sometimes in the
midst of the lightness. When the spring came
and the afternoons were light she could no longer
lurk in the corridor ; but her attic was in a gable
above the library, and when Sir Adrian's windows
were open she could hear every note in the still
April air.

The sound of that music seemed a kind of link
between them, for apart as they were in all other
things, and over and above her jealousy on her
own account, she was angry and jealous for
Adrian's sake. She could have wept over him as
the victim of a woman's feebleness, a man's
treachery.

And now she told herself that she had nothing

to love or care for upon this earth. He who had
wooed her with such passionate persistence a few
months ago had transferred his love to another.
She stood alone in the world ; and in her loneliness
her heart yearned for that erring mother of
whose face she had no memory.

She tried to penetrate the mists of vanished
years, to grope back to that infantine existence
before her grandfather had found her squatting
beside his hearth in the autumn twilight. He
had told her that she was old enough to talk a
little,, and to toddle about at his heels. Surely
she ought to be able to remember.

Yes, she had a kind of memory, so faint and
dim, that she could scarcely distinguish realities
from dreams in that remote past.

Yes, she remembered movement, constant movement,
rolling wheels, summer boughs, summer dust,
clouds of dust, white dust that choked her as she
lay asleep in that rolling home, amidst odours of
hay and straw. She remembered rain, endless
days of rain and greyness, dull, dreary days, when
she squatted on the loose straw at the bottom

of a gipsy's van staring out at a duil^ dim
world.

There was a dog, which she was fond of. The
sensation of a dogs warm, friendly tongue licking
her face always recalled those long, slow hours of
dull grey rain or sunlit dust ; that strange vague
time in which the days rolled into the nights,
without difference or distinction, and in which
faces mixed themselves somehow, no one face
being more vivid than another. There was no
memory of a mother's face, bending over her in
day-time and night-time, nearer and more familiar
than all the rest.

Despite this void in her memory, she had
yearned after the mere idea of motherly love.
She had seen other girls with their mothers,
scolded and petted, kissed and slapped by turns :
and in spite of the slaps and hard words, she
had seen that a mother's love was a good thing
strong and tender, and inexhaustible. And
then, as she progressed from the knowledge of
good to the knowledge of evil, she brooded over
the mystery of that life which she had been told

was full of shame and began to meditate how she
was to help and save her erring mother. She had
heard her grandfather prophesy evil for his ungrateful
daughter ; the evil days that were to come
with faded beauty and broken health, the natural
end of a wicked life.

At the Abbey, Madge's knowledge of the world
grew daily. Her fellow servants were older than
herself, quick witted, experienced in that seamy
side of life which is seen from the butler's pantry
and the servants hall. The old Abbey servants
were rural and narrow enough ; but there were
those who had served in many households before
they came to the Abbey, and these knew the world
in many phases.

One to whom Madge took most kindly was a
woman of thirty, who had taken to domestic
service only five years before, after losing a
widowed mother, with whom and for whom she
had toiled in a factory from fifteen to five-and-twenty.


It was a cartridge factory in the Gray's Inn
Road, at which Jane White and her mother had

worked the mother oflp and on as her health permitted,
the daughter from year's end to year's end
without respite. They had occupied a couple of
attics in a side street not far from the factory;
they had their own poor sticks of furniture, and
had lived in their two little rooms under the tiles,
happy enough, till death came to part them ; and
then Jane White sickened of her loneliness and
her independence, and she, who had once sworn
that she would never eat the bread of servitude,
never call any one master or mistress, changed her
mind all at once and went into service for company's
sake.

She was an energetic, hard-working girl, and
made a good servant, so good that, after emigrating
to Devonshire with a middle-class family,
whose service she left after a year or so in a huff,
the rumour of her good qualities reached Mrs.
Marrable through the butcher's foreman, and she
was engaged as second housemaid at the Abbey.

Here Madge took to her, as the kindliest of all
her fellow-servants, and from her Madge learned
all she knew of London, and the possibility of an

industrious girl maintaining herself by the labour
of her hands.

"Was cartridge making hard to learn, Madge
asked.

No, it was learned by easy stages. There were
hands taken on that knew nothing about it before
they went there. Jane White gave Madge a little
pencil note addressed to a man who was an
authority in the factory, who engaged the hands
and dismissed them at his pleasure.

^^We used to walk out together on Sunday
evenings said Jane, '' and I think he'd do a good
turn to any friend of mine. He might want to
walk out with you, perhaps, if you took his fancy,
but it would be for you to settle that. He's a
well-conducted young mans

smiled a smile of exceeding bitterness,
but was mute.

And now in the mild spring night she tramped
from Mayfair to Gray's Inn Road, inquiring her
way very often, and plodding resolutely onward
with her face to the east, caring nothing for the
strangeness of those everlasting streets, or the

lateness of the hour. She had such a dogged air,
seemed so absorbed in the business she was bent
ripon , that no one addressed her, or tried to hinder
her progress. But fast as she walked it was
nearly eleven o'clock when she arrived in the
dingy, little street at the back of Grass Inn Road ,
so far behind the road as to be in the rear of the
prison, which she passed shudderingly, for the idea
of captive criminals was new and thrilling to her.

Jane had told her that the woman with whom
she had lodged was a sempstress, and always at her
sewing machine till after midnight ; so, though the
clocks were striking eleven as she passed the prison,
Madge had no fear of finding the door shut in her
face. The only question was as to whether the
landlady would have an unoccupied room to give
her. She found the number. The street was
squalid, but the house looked tidier than its neighbours,
and the door step was clean. There was a
paraffin lamp burning brightly in the little parlour,
and the lean elderly female who answered the door
had an air of decent poverty. She looked at
Madge suspiciously, but on hearing Jane White's

name,, she softened, and at once became friendly,
and acknowledged that she had room for a lodger.

'sit's the bedroom where Jane and her mother
used to sleep," she said. '^ I furnished it after
they left. Its a clean, airy room, with a nice lookout
towards King's Cross. It'll be half-a-crown a
week, and you'll have to pay for washing the linen,
and beyond boiling your kettle for you in summertime,
you mustn't expect any attendance from me.
I'm too busy to wait upon lodgers, and I only
charge the bare rent of the room''

^^ That will suit me very well," answered Madge.
It will be for my mother and me."

Oh," said the woman, " you've got a mother,
have you ? What does she do for a living ? "

Madge reddened at the question.

'^ Nothing, just at present," she said ; '*' she's out
of health."

But I suppose you are working at something,"
asked the woman, waxing suspicious. " You're not
living on your fortune," with a sneer.

Madge explained her views about the cartridge
factory, and, reassured by this, Mrs. Midgery took

her up the steep, uncarpeted stairs to the attic,
with its one dormer window, looking over a forest
of chimney-pots towards the glories of Kings
Cross and its triple stations. At this hour there
was nothing to be seen from the window but the
distant whiteness of the electric lights shining
between the smoke and the clouds.

It was a small, shabby room, with an ancient
iron bedstead, two rush-bottomed chairs , a rickety
chest of drawers , and a still more rickety table.
Everything in the room was one-sided and uneven
beginning with the floor, which was obviously uphill
from the door towards the window. However
the room looked clean, and had a wholesome odour
of yellow soap as of boards that had been lately
scrubbed.

Its an old houses said Mrs. Midgery, with a
deprecating air, " and an old house never pays anybody
for their work ; but there's no one can say I
done slave over it.^^

Madge took out her shabby little purse, a cast-off
purse of Mrs. Marrable^s, which that good soul had
bestowed upon her one morning with other unions

II. D

ordered trifles that had been eliminated in the process
of tidying a bureau. She gave Mrs. Midgery
one of her last half-crowns a weeks rent in advance;
and at this unasked-for payment she rose
considerably in her landlady's estimation.

'' I believe we shall get on very well together'
she said. '' I hope your mother is like you''

Madge was silent looking round the little room
in a reverie comparing it with the luxurious
litter the velvet and lace curtains and heaped-up
cushions and easy chairs of the room in Mayfair.
Could she hope that any woman with her mother's
experience would endure life in such a garret as
this?

But what if there were only the choice between
the garret and suicide, and if the garret meant
rescue from a bad man's alternate tyranny and
neglect ?

CHAPTER III.

BREAKING THE SPELL

For Valentine and Helen the summer and autumn
of that eventful year drifted away unawares in one
long honeymoon. They lived for each other in a
fond and foolish dream of love that was to be
endless, contentment that was to know no change.
They scarcely knew the days of the week, never
the days of the month, in that blissful dream-time.
They wrote no letters, they scarcely looked at a
newspaper, they held no intercourse with the outside
world. For a time love was enough — love
and the luxurious idleness of the lake or the
mountain side, the languid bliss o£ long moonlight
evenings in the balcony or verandah, or on terraced
walks, looking down upon a lake. The mountains
and lakes were with them everywhere — an everlasting
background to the mutability of honeymoon
lovers.

d2

They were happy in being at least six weeks in
advance of the common herd. They had the
great, white hotels almost to themselves. There
was a reposeful silence in the empty corridors and
broad staircases. They could lounge in gardens
and summer-houses without fear of interruption
from cockney or colonial, Yankee misses or
German professors. In this happy summer time,
Valentine gave full scope to the counterbalancing
characteristic of his nature. He, who as a sportsman
or an athlete was indefatigable — a creature of
inexhaustible energies and perpetual motion — now
showed a fine capacity for laziness. No languid
sesthete, fanning himself with a penny palm-leaf,
and sniffing at a sunflower, ever sprawled and
dawdled with more entire self-abandonment than
this thrower of hammers and jumper of long
jumps.

He would lie on his back in the sun, and let
Helen read to him from breakfast to luncheon.
He would lie in the stern of a boat all the afternoon.
He would find it too great a burden to
dress for dinner, and would take the meal 

in an arbour , sprawling in a velvet shooting
He would allow his honeymoon bride to
run upstairs for his handkerchief, his cigar-cases his
favourite pipe or tobacco-pouch, twenty times a
day.

I like running your errands, loves the fair
slave declared. " It does me goods

I really think it does sweet ; for you always
look prettier after one of those scampers. But
you needn't rush all the way, pet. I am not in
such a desperate hurry' added the Sultan graciously.


But I am, Yal. I want to be back with you.
I count every moment wasted that parts us""

They stayed at Interlaken till the first week in
July and then went up to Murren for a week.
It seemed further away from the herd which was
now beginning to pour into Switzerland. And
then they wandered on to the Buff el, and anon
into Italy, and dawdled away another six weeks
beside the Italian lakes, always in the same placid
idleness, reading only the very whipped cream of
the book world, the lightest syllabus and trifles in

the shape of literature ; knowing no more of the
progress of the great busy bustling world than
they could learn from Punch or the Society papers
Helen reading the sporting articles aloud to her
Sultan and poring over the fashion articles afterwards
for her own gratification.

She would clap her hands in a rapture over one
of those enthralling essays.

Isn't this too lovely,, Val ? Madge says that
there is to be nothing but olive green to be worn
next winter; and I have three olive-green gowns
in my trousseau."

What a pity/^ said Valentine. '' I like you in
nothing so well as in white like that gown you
have on to-days for examples soft white muslin
rippling over with lace."

'^ But one can walk about in white muslin in
January, Val. I think you'll manage to like mea
little in my olive-green tailor gown, with Astrachan
collar and cuffs."

Fve no doubt you look adorable in it ; but my

taste inclines me to all that is most feminine in

^ woman's dress. The stern simplicity of a tailor

gown always suggests a strong-minded young
woman with stand-offish manners — the kind of
person who talks politics and calls young men
puppies

'^ You need not be afraid of my talking politics
said Helen proud of her ignorance.

No, love ; that pretty little head has no room
in it for big questions

The longest honeymoon must come to an end at
last. Long as it was , Valentine knew no satiety
in that solitude of two, that unbroken dialogue in
which the subject was always lovers young dream.
Helen was pretty enough and sweet enough in her
fondness and subjection to keep wis self-willed and
selfish nature in a paradise of content. Still , the
dream-life among lakes and mountains must come
to an end somehow. Valentine gave up otter-hunting
without a sigh; he let the Twelfth slip
by, though he had an invitation for Scotland
and another for Yorkshire — moors that were to
cost his friends three or four hundred pounds for
the season, and which were well worth shooting
over. He gave up the beginning of the partridge

season and disappointed a particular chum whose
estate in Norfolk was famous for its partridges.
But he told Helen one day that he must be back
at the Abbey in time for the pheasants.

'^ We can be in London for the last week in
September he said, " and we can inspect the flat
which my mother has furnished for us in the wilds
of South Kensington. I should have preferred
Mayfair or St. Rameses ; but I am told our income
would not stretch to Mayfair."

Our income' sighed Helen. '' How good of
you to say ' ours when I did not bring you a sixpence."


'' What did Helen bring to Paris ? Not much
I fancy, dearest ; and yet even the old fogies of
Troy thought she was worth fighting for. You
brought me beauty and youth and love. ^Tiat
more could the heart of man desire ? "

He kissed the fair face bending over him, as he
lay on a sofa by an open window, with the moths
droning in and out from the dewy garden, and with
the mists of night rising slowly between lawn and
lake.

Yes, dear, we had better go back about the
twentieth, I take it/^

And this is the fourth ! So soon ! And then
our honeymoon will be over/^ said Helen sorrowfully.
^^ Shall we ever be as happy again as we
have been among the mountains and lakes ? ^*

'^ Why not ? We shall be just as happy next
summer, I hope — somewhere else. We would not
come here again, of course."

Oh, Val, does that mean you are tired of Maggiore
— tired of our honeymoon ? "

'' No, love, but I think we have had quite enough
of Switzerland, and the Italian lakes — at any rate
for the next ten years."

Oh, Val, there is a tone in your voice as if you
had been bored."

He yawned before he answered.

I have been intensely happy, child — but, well,
I think we have been idle long enough, don't you ?'

No, no, no — not half long enough. I should
like this delicious life to go on for ever."

'^ And you arc not longing to see your sister,
and the shops ? "

Not a bit."

Well, I confess to a hankering after my tailor,
and an inclination for my favourite club."

"Oh, Val, do you belong to a club?" she exclaimed
ruefully.

Not being a naked savage I certainly do belong
to more than one club, my pet ; or rather I have
three or four clubs belonging to me by right of
election."

And your favourite club which is that ? "

"It is rather a — well — a rapid club. It is a
temple whose name is rarely spoken in the broad
light of day. It only begins to have any positive
existence towards midnight, and its pulse beats
strongest on the brink of dawn."

Is it one of those dreadful clubs where they
play cards ? "

Yes, it shares that privilege in common with a
good many other clubs, from the Carlton downwards."


But now you are married, Val, you will give
up most of your clubs, I hope."

My dearest child, that shows how little you

know of the London world. London to a man in
my position means club-land. It is nothing else.
A man lives in London because his clubs are
there ; not because his house is there. The club
in modern life is the Forum, the Agora, the rendezvous
of all that is best and wisest in the
town."

But a club that only begins to exist at
night "

*' Is the necessary finish to a man's day. I shall
not go there so often as I used to go, of course,
now I am married ; but you will have your evening
engagements, and while you are listening to
classical music, which I abhor, or dancing, which I
was always a duffer at, I can slip round to the
Pentheus for an hour or so, and be back in time to
hand you to your carriage."

The Pentheus. Is that the name of your
favourite club ? "

Yes ; that is the name."

Helen had an unhappy feeling from the moment
the date of their return was fixed. She had
revelled with a childish joy in her honeymoon.

She had been proud of its length. " So long, and
we are not the least little bit tired of each other,
are we , Val ? " she had said twenty times, in her
enthusiasm, and had been assured with kisses that
there was no shadow of weariness on her adoring
husbands part.

Leo declared we should be sick of each other
before the end of June,^^ she said, '' and we shall
have been away three months. But I can't help
feeling somehow as if going back to England will
be like the breaking of a spell''

Her prophecy seemed to her to realize itself
rather painfully on the homeward journey. It was
a long journey, and Valentine was in a hurry to be
in London. They travelled by considerable stages,
and the heat was intolerable, such heat and such
dust as Helen had never experienced before. The
stuffiness of the carriage, the slowness of the train,
the frequent stoppages, the crowded buffets, the
selfish crowd, were all trying to a man of difficult
and imperious temper. Valentine's temper, after
the first three hours of that ordeal, became diabolical.
He ignored Helen ; he thought of nothing

but his own discomfort. He angrily rejected all
her little attentions , her fanning and darlings of
eau-de-cologne, her offers of grapes and peaches
her careful adjustment of blind or window.

I wish you'd stop that d d worrying he

exclaimed. " The heat is bad enough without your
abominable fidgeting to make it worse. ^'

Yes the spell was broken. The honeymoon was
over. They stopped in Paris for a couple of days
at the Hotel du Louvre, and here life was pleasant
again, and Helen was happy with her Sultan, sitting
about under the great glass roof, reading the
newspapers and sipping cool drinks. But on the
second evening of their stay,, Valentine went off
directly after dinner to hunt up a bachelor friend
in the Faubourg St. Honore, promising to be back
early.

He kept his word in one sense, for it was early
next morning when he returned. Helen had been
lying awake in the spacious bed-room with its
three long windows facing the Hue de Tivoli. The
night was very warm, and all the windows were
open. She had heard every stroke of the bells of

Notre DamCj and she knew that it was nearly three
o'clock when her husband came in.

Oh, Val' she exclaimed, reproachfully. " You
promised to be home early. It has been such a
long dismal night'

^' Why the deuce couldn't you go to sleep and
make it shorter' retorted Mr. Belfield, in accents
that were somewhat thicker than his ordinary
speech. '^ I couldn't get back any sooner. De
Marat had some fellows to supper and I wasn't
master of my time."

CHAPTER IV.

NOT A DOMESTIC MAN

The nest for the love-birds from honeymoon-land
was as pretty a nest as one could find after the
new fashion of many homes under one roof. It
was a third floor flat in a newly erected range of
mansions near the Victoria Road, Kensington , a
range which had been called Wilkie Mansions
because the great painter had once lived somewhere
thereabouts, in the long forgotten days when the
villages of Kensington and Brompton were separated
by rustic lanes and market gardens. The
houses were red brick, flamboyant-Flemish in style,
miscalled Queen Anne. Oriel windows jutted out
at every available point, and wherever a niche and
a flower-pot could be introduced, the niche and the
pot were there. Impossible balconies of artistic
ironwork projected from every story, sunflower

minarets glittered along the roof, and no two
windows were of the same shape.

The flat had been ostensibly chosen and ostensibly
furnished by Lady Belfield ; but she had in
her graciousness invited Mrs. Baddeley to be her
counsellor, and Mrs. Baddeley had been the prevailing
spirit in all things. When it was found
impossible to get a small house in a good neighbourhood
at a reasonable rent , it was Mrs. Baddeley
who suggested a flat and dwelt upon the privilege
of paying no taxes.

^' But I think one is hardly a gainer by having
one's taxes included in ones rent' said Lady
Belfield , "and the rents of these flats seem to bs
extortionate''

'^'^The rents are high no doubt but then it is so
nice to pay rent and taxes with one cheque and
not to be obliged to puzzle one's poor uncommercial
brain about highway rates or Queen's taxes' said
Leo pleasantly. " I have taken a delicious little
flat in Wilkie Mansions. It is on the third floor ;
but there is a lift so distance is no consequence.
There are four rooms, and a dear little squeeze

room , lighted by a skylight opening on the stairs ,
which will just accommodate two servants. The
decorations are lovely ; pure Queen Anne and the
rent is only a hundred and fifty. Why should not
Mr. Belfield and Helen take the corresponding flat
on the other side of the stairs ? It would be so
nice for Helen and me to be living in the same
house;, always at hand to help each other in any
way and yet thoroughly independent of each
other'

Lady Belfield received the suggestion favourably.
No doubt it would be good for the sisters to be
near each other. Helen was very young to begin
life alone ; and Valentine was too restless a spirit
to settle down into the stay-at-home domestic
husband who lectures the maidservants finds out
cobwebs in the corners of the cornice,, and twaddle
through existence at his wife's apron-stria g. The
mother's experience of her son had warned her that
he might prove a neglectful husband.

She took kindly to the idea of those rooms
opposite Mrs. Baddeley's apartments. They were
bright and airy and the topmost boughs of the

VOL. II. E

good old elms in Kensington Gardens could just be
descried from the oriel window.

"A charming views said Mrs. BaddeleV;, who
was always in love with a new abode.

Her husband was to go back to the East in
November and was likely to be away two or three
years. Colonel Deverill^ having safely established
his second daughter had become a nomad. His
yearns tenancy of Morcomb would expire before the
end of the year; and he had told his elder child
frankly that he should only have Kilrush for a
pied-parterre henceforward .

'^ There, my love you will always be welcomes
he said kindly.

Poor papa forgets that I loathe the places
Leo told her husband. "I must have my own
jned-a-terre, and it must be in London ; and then
there will be a home ready for you Frank, when
you leave the army and look about you for something
to do."

It was understood that Major Baddeley was to
retire from active service in a few years, and that
he was to eke out his income somehow. His ideas

upon the subject were shadowy. He had floating
visions of turning wine-merchant , guinea-pig , or
going on the stage. He had a notion that a man
of his appearance, and with the true cavalry-mess
manner ought to do well at a West End theatre.

He gave a long whistle at the idea of his wife
setting up an establishment of her own.

'"'^Won^t it go into money Leo?^' he said.

'' Not much , and it canst be helped if it doest
she answered coolly. " I must live somewhere,
and there will be no home for me with papa after
he gives up Morcomb. I shall be very economical,
and I mean to earn a hateful of money by
literature. I am sure I could write better than
lots of people whose books sell, if I put my
shoulder to the wheel."

I am sure you could, Leo. You're out and
away the cleverest woman I know, and I think
there's nothing you could not do," said Frank,
with enthusiasm.

So the rooms were taken, and furnished in the
Japanese style, Mrs. Baddeley having obtained an
introduction to a wholesale Oriental firm in the

E 2

City , one of whose members had a son in Major
Baddeley^s regiment.

It was to this Oriental warehouse that Mrs.
Baddeley conducted Lady Belfield when the matter
of furniture was first discussed. The Japanese
style was her passion, and Lady Belfield allowed
herself to be influenced by the sight of gold-embroidered
screens and bamboo blinds enamelled
vases, and curiously carved ebony cabinets ; and
almost before she knew what she was doing, she
had allowed her sons new home to become a kind
of temple, where josses nodded in every corner
and beaded bamboo curtains rustled at every door,
and where the floors were covered with a parti-coloured
rush matting, which looked delightful in
summer, but which might have a chilly effect in
winter. Here, however, the remedy was easy, and
Mrs. Baddeley selected half a dozen costly Indian
rugs which were to lie about the rooms in your
true artistic style and trip visitors up unexpectedly.
To this Japanese bower Mr. Belfield and his
wife came on a sultry September afternoon about
tea-time, and were warmly welcomed by Mrs.

Baddeleyj "whose dexterous hands had filled the
vases "with poppies, cornflowers, and nasturtiums,
in clusters of vivid colour, and had made picturesque
arrangements of bulrushes and palm leaves
in the fireplaces and lobby. Everything "was very
small, very elegant, and harmonious.

The master of the dainty little house "was the
only object that looked out of place. He seemed
ever so much too big for his surroundings.

^' What a fine toyshop you have got for a
drawing-room, Leo," he said, looking round him
in scornful amusement. ^' I hope our sticks area
little more substantially

"My dear Valentine, these are your sticks.
This is your apartment, don't you know. Mine
is almost exactly like it, over the way''

Valentine's brow darkened.

Do you mean to tell me that my mother chose
all this trumpery ? " he asked rudely.

Lady Beltield certainly chose the furniture,
with a little assistance from me ; but 1 beg to
assure you that there is not a bit of trumpery in
your rooms. Everything is substantial, solid

Good heavens, Valentine, how clumsy you are ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Baddeley, interrupting herself
hastily, as a lacquer table, gold and vermilion,
twelve legged, beautiful, was whisked over by the
owner's coat tails.

'rand you expect me to live in a room of this
kind, like a stall at a charity bazaars ejaculated
Valentine. '* I thought my mother had more
sense. I thought she knew me better than to
waste her money on such accursed rubbish'

But, dearest Val, everything is positively
lovely pleaded Helen, looking as if she were
just going to cry, ^' and it is all the height of
fashion."

'' Fashion ! '^ cried her husband. " Does a man
sit upon fashion, or eat his dinner off fashion, or
keep himself warm with fashion ? There is not a
chair in this room I should like to sit in, and
in cold weather it will be a place to shiver in rather
than to live in. Egad, I shall have to sit in my
Astrachan coat if I sit here at all'

'^ A drawing-room is usually considered the
wife's province. Her taste is supposed to be paramount

there," observed !Mrs. Baddeley, sith
dignity.

'^ I suppose that's the reason so many men live
at their clubs'' said Valentine.

^' Oh, Val, we can change all the furniture if
you don't like it' exclaimed Helen piteously ;
don't say that you'll desert me for those horrid
clubs."

"^ Is the dining-room — Japanese — too ? " Valentine
asked Mrs. Baddeley, with ineffable disgust,
completely ignoring Helen.

You had better look at it and judge for yourself,
■'' replied Leo, with her stateliest air. " Goodbye,
Helen. I thought I might have poured out
your tea on your first afternoon, as you must
be rather tired. But VW come and see you
another time, when your husband is in a better
temper."

She sailed out of the room with her head in the
air, and Mr. Belfield made not the faintest attempt
to prevent her departure, nor did he take anymore
notice of her exit than if a fly had flown out
of the window.

Helen had learnt her lesson of submission
already.

Let us look at the dining-room , Val' she said
sweetly. " Tm sure that will be nicest and her
husband followed her in dogged silence.

Drawing-room and dining-room were divided
only by an archway and an Oriental curtain. Very
picturesque, very inconvenient,, draughty in winter,
stuffy in summer, letting the smell of the dinner
into the drawing-room at all seasons.

How convenient for throwing the two rooms
into one when we have an evening party' said
Helen, waxing hopeful at the idea.

^^ And when you have thrown your two rooms
into one, where are you to feed your people ? '^
asked Valentine.

'^ Oh, one doesn't feed people of an evening.
We could give tea and coffee and ices in the
lobby."

The drawing-room was light and aerial; the
aiming-room was dark and ponderous. Here, too,
all was Oriental, but it was the Orientalism of
India; mysterious, uncanny, suggestive of Juggernaut

and Brownie. The sideboard was Bombay
black-wood, richly carved, and flourished all over
with dragons and demons, surmounted with a
sacred bull, in bronze, copied from the antique.
The curtains were tawny, splashed with red, and
might have been symbolical of fire and gore. The
square centre carpet was rich, yet sombre, with a
surrounding of slippery floor, stained dark as ebony.
Three Titanic armchairs, covered in different tones
of olive and tawny plush, nearly filled the room,
and a small oval table, heavily carved, indicated
that only the most select dinner parties would be
given in that Oriental temple. The fireplace
glowed and glittered with brass and blood-red tiles;
the over-mantel was black-wood, carved and fretted,
and the niches of the woodwork were relieved by
brazen and copper vessels of classic form, bought
in Naples for a few francs, and sold in Regent
Street for a few pounds. Heavy Indian curtains
darkened the latticed windows, and obscured the
view of housetops and intersecting railways, tall
chimneys and signal posts.

"Not quite so bad as the drawing-room," said

Valentine, flinging himself into the most luxurious
of the three chairs, and taking out his cigar-case.
If we have only these two rooms, this will have to
be my den, I suppose. Luckily you done mind
smokes

'^ As if I should mind smoke, when you are a
smokers' protested Helen, with her worshipping
look. "I am so glad you like our dining-rooms'

^' I didn't say I liked it ; only it's a little better
than your gimcrack drawing-room. The whole
establishment is too much like a doll's house for
my taste. I would rather have had a first floor in
Russell Square. It would have been nearer the
clubs than this, and we should have had room to
breathe in."

Dearest Valentine, you know nobody lives in
Russell Square. I should have been alone in a
desert."

The bed-room and dressing-rooms were unobjectionable.
Here Lady BelPicld's good sense had
prevailed over Mrs. Baddeley's Oriental yearnings.
All was neat, simple, and convenient. Helen's
dressing-room, intended by the butler for a double

bed-room, was large enough to do duty for a boudoir.
Valentine's was of respectable dimensions, and
afforded plenty of accommodation for bath and
wardrobe.

Then we have only one bed-rooms said Mr.
Belfield, when he had completed his survey. '^ I'm
very glad of that'

Why, dear ? "

'' Because we can't have any girl-friend of yours
to stay with us."

^' You would rather we should be quite alone'
said Helen, nestling up to him with one of her
honeymoon gushes of tenderness.

'' Of course I would. Girls are always a bore —
want to be taken out every night — expect a man to
dress for dinner — can't stand smoke — regular

nuisance

I"

You wouldn't be troubled by any friends of
mine, Val, even if we had a spare room. We led
such a roving life with father that I never had time
to get attached to any girl I met. Leo and I were
always good friends and very fond of each other.
Of course after she married I felt a little lonely —

but I never took to any one else. I always felt at
a disadvantage with other girls. I was not so well
off, or so well educated as they were — and they
seemed to look down upon me. And now what can
I want with girls, when I have you ? My world
begins and ends in my husbands she concluded,
perching herself on the arm of the big chair in
which he was reposing.

I hope you have a servant who can cook
decently," said Valentine.

Your dear mother has attended to that. We
have two Devonshire girls, sisters, the daughters
of a tenant farmer in reduced circumstances,
who have been obliged to go out into service.
Very superior to the common run of
servants."

'^ I hope that doesn't mean that they are arrant
duffers," grumbled Valentine, with his cigar between
his lips. " It sounds like it."

"You may be sure Lady Belfield would not
have engaged them unless they were capable and
clever."

Perhaps you'll ring and let me see if one of

these treasures is capable of giving me a ."


With the utmost pleasure, dearest and Helen
flew first to the electric bell, and then to a silver
Tantalus on the sideboard, which had been one of
her wedding presents.

A fresh-coloured girl answered the summons.
She was prettily dressed in a dark-red gown, a large
muslin apron, and a mobcap, with a coquettish red
bow at the top. The dress had an artistic air, and
had been specially designed by Mrs. Baddeley.
The girl, who answered to the name of Phoebe,
seemed perfectly at home in her duties.

Valentine drank his brandy-and-soda, and looked
at his watch.

You don't dine till eight, of course," he said,
^' I think there'll be time for me to go to the club
before dinner."

On our first day, Val ! And it's nearly seven
now."

'eyes, it is rather late. I'd better go after
dinner."

What, in the evening ! And leave me alone —

as you did in Vsltis/' exclaimed Helen almost
crying.

Paris was an exceptional affair — an unexpected
party which I was let in for. To-night I shall only
go to look about me and see who's in town.
Besides , you need not be alone here. You have
your sisters

Helen's only answer was a heart-broken sigh.
Yes , the spell was broken. The honeymoon was
over.

CHAPTER Y.

THE RETURN OF PROSERPINE

Those veteran elms in Kensington Gardens , whose
wind-blown crests were just visible from Helen's
windows, were older by more than a year and a
half since that first inspection of the flat in Wilkie
Mansions, and Helen had grown accustomed to
married life as understood by Valentine Belfield.
She had learnt to recognize the fact that although
he was fond of her, and proud of her beauty, he had
no idea of making any alteration in his own manner
of living, or sacrificing any one of his pleasures or
amusements on account of his wife. If his amusements
were such as she could share, he was willing
that she should share them. He took her to race
meetings, and cricket grounds, and regattas, when
she was well enough to go with him ; but when her
delicate health kept her at home, that fact made no
difference in his arrangements. There came a time

when she was nervous and low-spirited, unable to
go out of an evening, yet feeling the burden of her
loneliness almost intolerable; but her husband
frankly told her that she could not expect him to
sacrifice his evening amusements — his whist club
or his theatres — because she was moping at home.

^' What the deuce would be the good if I were to
sit upon the other side of the fire and mope with
you ? '^ he said. " Besides you have your sister."

^^ You talk as if Leo were laid on like the water
and the gas," Helen said irritably ; " she has her
evening engagements as well as you."

'' Uncommonly selfish of her to be gadding about
just when you want her most/^ said Valentine. " It
is a woman's place to look after her sister at such a
time."

Helen sighed and was silent. Those sighs and
silences irritated Valentine. It was a relief to
him to run downstairs and get out into the mild
ugliness of a London autumn, to hail a cab, and
be off to his daily haunts at the West End ; it was
a still greater relief to sally forth with gun-case or
hunting gear, on his way to a railway which was to

take him to some pleasant country-house or snug
bachelor den, where there were sport and good
fellowship, pretty women, or congenial men.

The fond hopes which had soothed Helen in her
solitary evenings were doomed to bitterest disappointment.
Her baby-son died before he was a
week old ; and the shock of the infant's death,
which came upon her suddenly, brought on a
nervous fever.

For more than six weeks Helen was seriously
ill ; and during some parts of that time her life was
in danger. Trained nurses took possession of that
small domicile in Wilkie Mansions. Lady Belfield
came up to London to watch over her daughter-in-law
; and Mrs. Baddeley showed a great deal of
solicitude, though she did not forego her evening
engagements or desert Sandown Park. For the
first two or three weeks Valentine was anxious and
attentive ; but after the illness had lasted a month
his attentions relaxed, and he began to regard his
wife's condition as chronic. There was a dreary
monotony about the sick room which bored him
beyond endurance. The nurses in their uniform ;

VOL. II. F

the recurrent visits of the doctor ; the reports of
the invalides condition — for ever fluctuating between
good and evil — the whole business hung upon Mr.
Belfield''3 spirits like a nightmare. He was gladder
than ever to get away from his home keener
than ever to accept invitations from his bachelor
friends.

All this had happened six months ago. Helen
had escaped from doctors and nurses soon after
Christmas, but she seemed only the shadow of her
former self when she first came out of the sickroom
, and went for an hour's drive with Mrs.
Baddeley, in the pretty little victoria which that
lady had found necessary to her existence. It
was only a jobbed victoria, as she told her friends
piteously ; but it was a very smart little carriage,
with a smart coachman. Mrs. Baddeley's page sat
beside him on the box, and the turn-out was
altogether respectable.

The necessity for a victoria, exchangeable in the
evening for a brougham, was indisputable, seeing
that within the last twelve months Leonora Bad-delay
had become in sometime a public character.

She had taken to literature. She wrote for the
Society papers. Stories, essays, hunting articles,
racing articles, fashion articles — nothing came amiss
to her facile and somewhat reckless pen. She wrote
with the air of a woman who lived among duchesses,
and who dined every night with Cabinet Ministers.
Upon politics, morals, art, sport, finance, she wrote
with equal authority, and a self-assertive audacity
that convinced the average reader.

Nor was literature the grass widow's only occupation.
She had burst upon the fashionable world
as an amateur actress of distinction and capacity.
She gave recitations at charity concerts, she acted
in open-air plays. She reminded elderly gentlemen
indifferently of Mrs. Honey, Madame Vestries, and
Mrs. Nesbitt. It was not to be supposed that she
earned any money by these charity performances,
and her gowns must have cost her a good deal ; but
as she was reported to be making a handsome income
by literature, this did not matter ; and nobody,
except Helen, wondered at the elegant way in which
Mrs. Baddeley contrived to live, or at the openhanded
and thoroughly Irish hospitality of those

pretty rooms on the right hand of the third floor
landing.

I canst think how it is that money goes so
much further with you than it does with me/^
Helen said , with a faint sigh , as she looked round
her sisters luxurious drawing-rooms with its profusion
of tulips and narcissi in the window sills and
the fireplace,, and its vases of tuberoses and lilies
of the valley.

My dear you forget that 1 am a bread-winner,
while you and Valentine are like the lilies of the
field, neither toiling nor spinning

^' I wish / could write for the papers, Leo."

Everybody can't write for the papers, child,"
Mrs. Baddeley answered, rather sharply ; " there is
something in the way of talent wanted, or at
least knack. Besides, the papers are not big
enough to hold everybody's contributions. I
happen to please them ; and I have got into a
groove that suits me exactly."

Helen sighed again. Valentine's way of life was
expensive; and there were a good many accounts
that ought to have been paid at Christmas, and

which were still unpaid in April. IIelen\s walking
gowns were shabby and her evening gowns bore
the stamp of last season ; yet she dared not go to
her milliners lest she should be reminded of an
account of some standing. First-class fares, tips
to gamekeepers, and club subscriptions — to say
nothing of that far deadlier item, losses at cards —
had absorbed the cash that should have kept the
little household in Wilkie Mansions free from debt.
And now Helen came out of that little world
of the sick room into the bright big world outside.
She came out of darkness and weariness and
constraint, like Proserpine returning from her six
months sojourn in the under-world. She was pale
and thin and shadowy looking after her long illness ;
but the lovely Irish eyes were as brilliant as ever,
and the mobile lips had all their old charm and
sweetness. Never had she looked fairer to the eyes
of that connoisseur in beauty. Lord St. Austell,
than she looked this April afternoon, when Mrs.
Baddeley^s carriage drew up against the railings by
the Row, in order to give that lady time to talk to
her friends. The pensive light in those large violet

eyes, the delicate transparency of the wild rose
complexion, had a poetical charm which touched
the sybarite^s fancy ; and St. Austell looked from
the elder sister to the younger, wondering how he
could ever have thought Leonora Baddeley beautiful.

He had heard of Helen's serious illness and of
Valentine's neglect, and this alone would have
given her an interest in his eyes. Neglected wives
had been his specialty from the year he left
Cambridge.

He told her how rejoiced he was to see her out
again after her long imprisonment.

'' It is like the awakening of the year," he said.
'^ I really think this is the first perfect spring day.
You and Chaucer's old English April visit us together.
I hope we are going to see you everywhere
now."

She is hardly strong enough yet to go everywhere'
answered Mrs. Baddeley, ^' but I mean to
take her about with me more than I have done
hitherto. I shall not let her play Joan to a husband
who never plays Darby. My brother-in-law
is a delightful young man ; but he is just one of

those delightful young men who should always

remain bachelors. He has no vocation for domestic

life."

You have no right to say such a thing, Leo,"

said Helen, flushing indignantly. " You know how

happy Val and I are together."

When you are together no doubt, dear. The
rarity of the occurrence must give it a factitious
interest."

Oh, please keep your smart sentences for the
Macrocosm or the Bon Ton, Leo, and let me manage
my husband my own way."

Those bright spring days, which were full of
gladness and animation for a good many people at
the West End of London, brought only dejection
and apathy for Helen Belfield. She looked out of
the window and saw*the carriages driving by to the
Park, or a hansom cab bowling gaily along the
street with that rakish, devil-may-care air which
seems inseparable from a hansom. She listened to
the hawker's dreary cry, borne from some invisible
shabby-genteel street round the corner. She lay
on her sofa by the open window yawning over a

new novels until she threw the book aside in sheer
weariness of fictitious woes which touched no chord
in her heart, and sat brooding over her own
troubles, which seemed so very real.

Valentine was at Sandown or Epsom, or at Newmarket,
and not expected home for a day or two.
Last night she had waited dinner till nine o'clock
to-night it might be ten. He was not unkind
to her. He professed to be as devoted to her as in
the days of their honeymoon ; and yet his indifference
wounded her to the quick. He told her that
a man must live his life — that marriage would bean
insufferable institution if it obliged a husband
to abandon his favourite club and to be home at
eight o'clock every evening.

^' If you done like waiting dinner, I had better
dine at my club," he said. " I would rather do
that than have to dine opposite a dismal face."

No, indeed, Val, I done mind waiting. I
have never complained of having to wait, so long
as you do come home. But sometimes you have
disappointed me altogether ; you have gone to a
theatre or to one of your late clubs, and have left

me to wonder and worry all the evening — such a
long melancholy evening without you/^

You had no need to wonder and worry.
You must know that a man who has a lot of
friends is not always master of his actions

'' But a woman's mind is not always to be
governed by needs. I could not help wondering.
Sometimes I have wondered if I had married
your brother Adrian whether I should have had
quite so many solitary evenings

It's a great pity you did not marry Adrian,
if you are beginning to repent your preference
for me' said Valentine, with a darkening countenance.


Dearest Val, how can you say such things ?
You know I have never repented. I never could
repent my choice. My heart went out to you
from the first, and I knew all at once that I had
never really loved Adrian. He had been to meas
a kind and dear friend, never as a lover. But
I can't help sometimes wishing that you were like
him in just one respect — that you were as fond
of home as he is."

In other words, you loved me because I was a
man ; and now you Lave got me you would like
me to be a milksop. No , Helen, I am as unlike
Adrian in my tastes and pursuits as I am like him
in my person. I don't care for music, or books, or
fireside musings. I am a man of action, cannot
live without movement and variety. If you are
wise you'll follow my example, and, instead of
moping at home, go into society with your sister.
I could often look you up of an evening if I knew
where you were goings

You promised that last year, Val, and you
never came to any of my parties. I have sat for a
whole evening watching the door, and refusing
every dance, for fear I should miss you when you
came — and you never appeared'

It wasn't my fault, I assure you. There was
always something to prevent my turning up."

I think it was my disappointment about you
that made me detest parties. I made a vow to
myself that I would never go out again without
you."

Ah, that was last year when you were out of

health. Now you are blooming again, and it will
do you good to see a little of life. If I were a
jealous husband I should be very glad for you to
shut yourself up in these rooms ; but Vin not
jealous, and I know I can trust you.^^

^' Indeed, dearest, you can," she said fondly,
with her hands clasped upon his shoulder ; '' you
know that for me you are the only man on earth'

'^ Well, I believe as much, Helen. You are one
of those foolish loveable young women who are not
ashamed to admire their own husbands. But
really and truly, my pet, it grieves me to see you
mope in the pleasantness time of the year. Leo
says you would be included in all her evening
invitations if her friends only knew you were
willing. You have but to show yourself to be
admired and sought after''

There is one objection, Val," murmured Helen,
blushing as she spoke.

'' What is that ? "

'' I have not had a new gown since last summer,
and people dress so much nowadays. I should
feel myself an old-fashioned dowdy."

'' In last yearns gown — although it cost nve-and-
thirty guineas, and was declared by you and Leo
to be perfection — quite the gown of the seasons
cried Valentine mockingly, and then he took out a
bloated pocket-book, and from a confusion of tissue
paper. Holt's lists, and bank notes intermingled, he
selected a note which he handed to his wife.
'' There, Helen, I was rather luckier than usual at
Chester the other day. There's a fifty to sweeten
Madame Bouillon. You might order two gowns, I
should think, on the strength of it'

I will," cried Helen gaily, overcome by her
husband's generosity " How good you are,
Yal."

I like to see my little wife happy," he said
blandly, not deeming it necessary to inform her
that he had over a thousand pounds in that bloated
pocket-book.

He never worried her about his losses, so why
should he tell her of his winnings. He left her
with a kiss, and was off to his afternoon lounge at
Tattersall's. He left her happier than she had
been since her convalescence.

''^ Dear fellows lie said to herself " I know he
loves me although he may sometimes seem neglectful


It was a lovely afternoon at the beginning of
May. The sky was bluer than London skies
generally are, the balmy west wind blowing the
smoke eastward to darken the dwelling-places of
the poor. Aristocratic London was dressed in
smiles ; suburban Kensington had a verdant and
almost rustic air in the bright glad weather ; and
Helenass drawing-room was odorous with hothouse
flowers.

Lord St. Austell had been sending her flowers
two or three times a week since their chance
meeting by the railing of the Row. He sent
flowers and plovers eggs and premature strawberries,
as to an invalid. Mrs. Baddeley heard of
these attentions, and lifted her finely pencilled
eyebrows with a somewhat scornful air.

He is more foolishly generous than any one I
know' she said. " He is always sending hothouse
fruit and flowers to sick chorus girls''

'' I hope he does not rank you and me with

chorus girls protested Helen. '' I suppose it is
he who supplies you with all those lovely gardenias
and lilies of the valley ? ^'

'^ He and other people , my dear. I have more
than one string to my bow."

Helen ran across to her sister's rooms soon after
Valentine left hers and exhibited her fifty-pound
note.

If you like to take me out with you this afternoon,
Leo, I can order a new gown ; and then I
can go with you to some of your parties. '^

Certainly, dear, but one gown won't go very
far''

'^ Oh, I can have some of the old ones touched
np — if I have just one new one in the very latest
style, with the season's cachet. Even one gown is
an effort when one has a limited income. I can
never understand how you manage to have so
many, and from Mrs. Ponsonby, who is ever so
much dearer than Madame Bouillon."

Oh, Mrs. Ponsonby does not charge me as she
does other people. I know how to manage her,"
Leonora answered carelessly.

The new gown was a triumph of art. Helenass
was a style of beauty which needs no embellishment
from colour. She always looked loveliest in
white, and this last achievement was simplicity
itself. A white satin gown, plainly cut, with a long
train, and with no other trimming than a cascade
of ostrich feathers, soft and pure as snowfiakes. A
cluster of these snow-white plumes adorned the
bodice, and accentuated the whiteness of the wearer's
bust and shoulders.

Mrs. Belfield had been admired last season, but
she had not been talked about. This year it suddenly
dawned upon that particular section of
Society — neither the best nor the worst — in which
Mrs. Baddeley moved, that Mrs. Belfield was the
new beauty. Perhaps she would hardly have been
so promptly elevated to this social pinnacle if it
had not been at the same period discovered that
St. Austell was over head and ears in love with
her. Nobody had a word to say against the lady
as yet ; but it was obvious that wherever Mrs. Bel-field
appeared Lord St. Austell was to be seen
hovering near her, obvious to every one except to

the lady herself, who saw nothing extraordinary in
the fact of his lordship's presence.

She accepted his attentions at first with supreme
indifference. He was her sister's admirer. He
had been devoted to her sister at Morcomb two
years ago, and she had no idea of any change in
his sentiments. Leo's flirtations and Leo's admirers
were taken for granted by Leo's sister. There was
no harm in any such deviations from the beaten
track. It was only Leo's way. Perhaps St.
Austell was tired of worshipping a divinity who
had so many other votaries ; Mr. Beeching for
instance among the most devoted. He certainly
began to neglect the elder sister and to concentrate
his attentions upon the younger. He would
spend five or ten minutes with Mrs. Baddeley, and
then come across to Mrs. Belfield's drawing-room
with a book or a piece of music, or tickets for
opera or theatre — tickets which had been sent him
by importunate managers, according to his own
account.

'^ I was told last night that people had to wait
six weeks to get stalls," Helen said incredulously,

on one occasion, when St. Austell brought her
three places for a fashionable theatre, " and yet
the manager gives you tickets"*

Strange,, isn't it ? The fellows will send me
tickets. They like to see me in the stalls. By-the-by,
that is just the objection to those tickets.
You will have me as an incubus. It would be bad
form to accept the places and not show myself. If
you and Mrs. Baddeley go will you much mind
taking me ; or perhaps Mr. Belfield might go with
you and would let me make a third."

He would be delighted, but I'm afraid there's
no chance of his going. He has so many evening
engagements."

Of course. I know his set. Men who always
spend their evenings together. And will you and
Mrs. Baddeley really not mind having me ? "

How could we be so ungrateful?"

Oh, but I won't come if I am to be asked out
of gratitude. That would make me actually an
incubus. May I come, Mrs. Belfield ? Just tell
me my society won't spoil your evening."

'' How can it, when we meet almost every

VOL. II. G

evening' Helen answered naively. " If I didn't
wish to see you I should never go anywhere, for
somehow or other we are always meetings

^' Society is like the last figure of the Lancers
said St. Austell. *' You must needs meet the same
people over and over again. Meeting and passing
on, always passing on ; and the last chord separates
one even from one's partner."

When was the time that Helen began to watch
the door for the appearance of Lord St. Austell, as
she had once watched for the coming of her husband,
only that in this latter case there was no
disappointment ? When was it that the assembly
first began to brighten at his coming; when was
it that his voice first began to move her like
music? When was it that the day only began in
that lazy afternoon hour when etiquette allowed
his lordship's visits to the Japanese drawing-room ,
which daily looked more and more like a tropical
bower , beautified by the flowers which he sent
every mornings musical with the rare and costly
birds which he had chosen for its adornment ?
Helen could never remember how and when her

sin began : how and when it was that she passed
from the liberty of perfect innocence to the constraint
of conscious guilt; but she awakened one
day to the discovery that the husband she had once
adored had become indifferent and was growing
odious to her, and that the man who pursued her
with unspoken love was the sole master of her
heart and of her fate.

g2

CHAPTER VI.

DRIFTING

Sir Adrian Belfield had been a traveller over the
face of the earth for nearly two years before he
turned his face homewards. He had seen most
of the fairest spots in the Old World. He had
spent half a year in Greece, and had seen Algiers
and Tangier, Egypt and the Holy Land. He had
devoted the best part of a year to a leisurely
saunter through Spain and Italy, taking his own
time, and living the life of the country, roughing
it a little now and then, so far as his health would
allow, and seeing much more of people and of
places than it is given to the average traveller to
see. He had gone abroad to cure himself of a
wound which he had at first thought incurable ;
and he did not turn his face homeward till he felt
that he was heart-whole once more, and could meet

his brothers wife without one pang of regret, one
thrill of passionate feeling.

Yes, he was cured. A love which has its origin
in the fancy or the senses is not difficult to eradicate.
A love that has no more solid foundation
than a beautiful face does not take a very stronghold
of an intellectual character. Adrian was too
clever a man not to discover, when the glamour of
that first love had faded a little, that the woman
he had adored was too shallow and light-minded
to be worthy of broken hearts. She who could so
easily transfer her allegiance from one brother to
the other, who could break faith at the first temptation,
was not a woman for whom to die. And
even that potent charm of beauty began to lose its
power over his memory after a year's absence.
Greece showed him women as beautiful ; Italy
showed him a more picturesque loveliness in
the faces of peasant girls by the wayside ;
while in Society he met women who, with a
little less than Helen's beauty, possessed the
charm of intellectual power and brilliant accomplishments.


He learnt his lesson in those years of exile and
thanked God that he was able to learn it.

I have been away from you an unconscionable
time dear mothers he wrote, knowing how keenly
Lady Belfield had felt his absence ; " but the purpose
of my banishment is fulfilled. I am going
home to you cured. No hidden feelings of mine
will ever make a difficulty between Valentine and
me , or put Valentine^s wife to the blush. I can be
to her henceforward as a brothers

This letter relieved Constance Beliefs mind of
the fear of bad blood between those two sons who
were her all upon this earth. She loved them both
too well to have been happy while there was any
shadow of ill-feeling between them. However she
might lean to Valentine, she knew that Adrian was
in all things the finer character and the better son ;
and the sorrow that had fallen upon him through
his brothers rivalry had been a source of deepest
pain to her.

It was not till he had gone from the Abbey that
she knew how dear that elder son had been to her,
or how essential to the happiness of her life. His

wayward brother had occupied more of her thoughts,
and had been a constant source of anxiety ; but
Adrian had been the companion of her days, had
sympathized with her in all her pursuits, entered
into all her plans for the good of others , joined in
every elevating thought. He had been her second
self; and she only knew it when he was gone.

The letter announcing his return made her feel
ten years younger. It was so delightful to her
that he should write in good spirits.

'' 1 should like to see what the world is doing
before I bury myself at the dear old Abbeys he
wrote ; "so I have engaged rooms at the Alexandra
for the second and third week in June with
the notion that you would not mind joining me
there. We can do the round of operas and
theatres , and see all the picture galleries in a fortnight
leaving a margin for your dressmaker and
my tailor."

Lady Belfield had not been in London since she
went up to see her invalid daughter-in-law. Valentine
and his wife had visited her at the Abbey
twice since their marriage,, and Valentine had been

there for the hunting and shooting without his
wife; running down to hunt or shoot for a few
days and going back to London at the first unfavourable
change in the weather. He treated the
house as if it were his own telegraphing to announce
his arrival , leaving at half an hours notice,
and standing upon no kind of ceremony. Lady
Belfield had been pleased that it should be so.
She was glad that her son should use her house as
his second home.

She came to London a day before Adrian was
expected , so that she might be at the hotel to receive
him, or meet him at the terminus. She had
brought books and scent-bottles, paper-cutters, and
work-baskets enough to give a home-like aspect
even to an hotel sitting-room. She had brought
a great basket of flowers from the Abbey gardens
and hot-houses, and she and her maid were at work
nearly all the morning after her arrival filling
vases and building up a bank of bloom in the fireplace.


Adrian was not expected till six in the evening,
when his train was to arrive at Charing Cross.

Lady Belfield ordered a carriage and drove to
Wilkie Mansions after luncheon. Mrs. Belfield
was not at home.

^' I think you will find my mistress over the
way , my lady's said the maid , when she saw Lady
Belfield^s look of disappointment. " Or I can
fetch her if you like."

^' She is at Mrs. Baddeley^s, you mean ? "

'' Yes, my lady."

'' Thanks. Til go there at once."

A silvery ripple of laughter greeted Constance
Belfield^s ear as the door was opened, by the very
smallest individual of the page genus — the smallest
and the smartest. His livery was in perfect style ,
his innocent flaxen hair was brushed as carefully as
if he had been a subaltern in a crack regiment.

The lobby into which this infant admitted Lady
Belfield was picturesque in its arrangement of
Oriental drapery and tropical palms ; but it was
very small, and only divided from the drawing-room
by a curtain, through which the visitor
heard masculine voices and laughter before the
page could announce her.

On the curtain being lifted she saw the sisters
lounging gracefully in low bamboo chairs, dressed
almost alike in limp white muslin morning gowns
diaphanous, ethereal. Helenass heavy plaits of
auburn hair had fallen down, and were hanging
on her shoulders. Her dress had altogether an air
of deshabille which Lady Belfield did not approve
in a lady who was receiving masculine visitors.

The visitors were two, Lord St. Austell and Mr.
Beeching.

Helen started up from her chair and ran to welcome
her mother-in-law.

Dearest Lady Belfield, I am electrified ! '' she
exclaimed. ^' You did not say a word in your last
letter about coming to London."

^' I had no intention of coming when I wrote'
replied Constance, shaking hands with Mrs. Bad-delay,
and then with the two gentlemen.

She told her daughter-in-law of Adrian's return,
and of their residence at the Alexandra. Helen
blushed faintly at the mention of her jilted lover,
and a flood of memories swept across her mind at
the sound of his name.

Ohj how long it seemed ago, that old time when
she and Adrian were engaged,, when her heart was
light and glad with a childish pleasure in her
conquest and her lovers devotion, and the sunny-future
that lay before their feet. All was altered
now ; she had loved and suffered ; her pride had
been crushed her spirit broken : and then, all at
once, like the awakening of Spring, life had begun
again, as if all the world were newly made.

Mrs. Baddeley brought forward her most luxurious
chair, and established Lady Belfield in a
shady nook by the oriel window, while Helen stood
dreaming.

You find us in rather a dishevelled condition'
said Mrs. Baddeley ; " we were late home from our
ride this morning. Our horses were very fresh, and
we were obliged to give them a little extra work.
I think we were the very last people in the Row,
weren't we, St. Austell ? "

She called him St. Austell tout court; a freedom
which was very objectionable to Lady Belfield.

I am glad you are riding, Helens'' the mother-in-law
said gently.

Yes it is very nice to ride ia the Row when
there is no better riding possible. Valentine was
so kind as to buy me a horse'

'' He only did what was right' said Lady Bel-field,
wondering why the young wife blushed crimson
as she mentioned her husband's gift. ^' Does
he ride with you ? "

^' Oh, no : his hunters are in Devonshire, you
know. He says he hates the Row. Leo and I
ride together."

'you have a good groom, I hope."

^^ No, we have no groom. The man comes round
from the livery stables to mount us, and we generally
have an escort of some kinds explained Mr:i.
Baddeley. ^'^ We are perfectly safe, I assure you."

Lady Belfield was not to be assured upon this
point.

'^ I think my son is wrong in allowing his
wife to ride without a servants she said gravely.

St. Austell turned the conversation into a
pleasant channel. How long did Lady Belfield
contemplate remaining in town, and what was
she going to see ? He ran over the names of the

theatres — lie talked of Hurlingliam and Ranelagh,
the picture galleries, the latest conjuring trick, the
newest thought-reader.

I am not very eager about amusements said
Lady Bel field. '^I want to see as much as I can
of my daughters

Helenass eyes filled at that word " daughter'
spoken with extreme tenderness.

You are too good to me' she faltered. " I
wish Valentine were in London to help me make
much of you ; but he has gone over to Paris for
the Longchamps races. You know how devoted
he is to racing. I suppose he will be back in two
or three days'

You don't know when he is to be back ? "
I seldom know till within an hour or two of
his return. He is so erratic. He says he never
likes to forecast his life, to forfeit the privilege of
changing his mind. He comes back from Newmarket,
or York, or Paris, just as unexpectedly ashe
comes from his club."

He is the best of fellows, but I really think
he was made for a bachelor," said St. Austell

airily. '' He has such a thorough appreciation of
manly liberty. You must have exacted very little
from him in his boyhood, Lady Belficld.^'

I hope I never exacted anything from cither of
my sons/^ answered Constance gravely.

That light tone of St. Austell's jarred upon her.
The manes presence in that room, and his easy
familiarity-with both sisters, gave her an uncomfortable
feeling. She found herself-wondering
whether he was often there ; and whether he was
chief among the " escort " of whom Mrs. Baddeley
had spoken so confidently.

Can you go to the opera with me tomorrow
evening , Helen ? " she asked.

Helen looked at her sister.

Vm afraid not/^ said Mrs. Baddeley, " we are
booked for a dinner in Park Lane, and a dance in
Grosvenor Gardens."

^'The next night, then?"

"There is another dance — two dances, on opposite
sides of Grosvenor Square," replied Helen ;
^' but I can go with you to the opera before my
dances."

No, I will not allow that. You look fragile
enough as it is. I won't cause you any extra
fatigue. But do you really go out every
evening ? '^

"^y dear Lady Eelfield, remember it is the
very height of the season ! " said Mrs. Baddeley.
^' If we had not a good many engagements now we
should be indeed very little in request. When I
cease to be wanted at three or four different
houses every night in June I shall know that I
am on the shelf"

It is a wretchedly exhausting life, for any
young woman," said Lady Belfield.

It is a wretchedly exhausting life : but one
must endure it for a month or six weeks in the
year, unless one wants to fall out of the ranks
altogether. Helen moped horribly till Valentine
and I took her in hand, and shook her despondency
out of her ; and now she is as happy asa
bird ? "

Lady Belfield contemplated her son's wife
thoughtfully for a few moments ; and it did not
seem to her that the expression of the lovely face

was one of perfect serenity. There was a troubled
look in the large dark eyes, a nervous restlessness
about the mouth.

Mr. Beeching sat in a low chair, teasing Mrs.
Baddeley's poodle all this time, and did not
commit himself by speech. He had acquired
almost a reputation for stupid speechlessness.

The poodle was an artificial personage, spoiled
by London hours and high living, blase, cynical.
He wore three tufts on his shaven back,, and three
tufts on his aspiring tail ; he wore a silver collar
and silver bracelets, and would bite his dearest
friend. He had been over-educated, and was
supposed at these times to suffer from pressure on
the brain. He played the piano, walked upstairs's
on his hind legs, shut the door, and insulted Mr.
Gladstone in dumb show whenever a piece of sugar
was offered to him coupled with that statesman's
name. It may be supposed, as the performance
must have been irksome, that he really detested
Mr. Gladstone.

No doubt there are Liberal poodles in London
to whom the name of Lord Salisbury is equally

odious; but the Tory poodle is the more general
ornament of a lady's boudoir.

Come to breakfast Tvith me tomorrow morning
, Helen' said Lady Belfield, when she was
going away, after half-an-hour of the shallowest
kind of talk, in which Mrs. Baddeley and Lord
St. Austell" were the chief performers. " You can
hardly be engaged at breakfast-time."

^^ If I were I would give up my engagement for
you' replied Helen, with her caressing smile. " I
will give up my dance tomorrow night, if you
like."

'' No, no. You shall make no sacrifices. Come
at ten o'clock tomorrow. That will not be too
early, will it ? "

'^ No. I always wake early. I never sleep
more than four or five hours."

Very different from me," said Mrs. Baddeley.
I sleep like a dormouse till it is time to put on
my habit for the Row."

She gave a great yawn and a sigh of relief
presently when the outer door closed upon Lady
Belfield.

VOL. II. H

That dear soul is quite too charming in devonshire
she said ; " but she rather palls upon one
in London. She requires the background of a
mediaeval abbey'

She is the most unselfish woman in this world,"
protested Helen warmly, and then she turned her
back upon the trio — Mr. Beeching, St. Austell, and
Leonora — and walked to an open window at the end
of the room, and stood looking out, watching Lady
Belfield's hired victoria as it turned the corner of
the street, with her eyes almost blinded by tears.
St. Austell followed her to the window.
'^ What a sensitive nature it is which every
chance touch can move to pain' he said. " You
ought not to expose yourself to this kind of thing,
Helen. You ought to be far away from these
jarring influences."

Mr. Beeching had found speech by this time, and
was exchanging muffled remarks with Mrs. Baddeley,
as they shared the attentions and casual snaps of
the Tory poodle.

When had Lord St. Austell begun to call Mrs.
Belfield by her Christian name ?

Helen could not remember the exact moment of
that marked change from conventional respect to
privileged familiarity. It was in a waltz perhaps,
when, lured by exquisite music, she had held on too
long, and had been almost fainting on his shoulder,
with the world all melting round her, as if there
were no more reality in life, only a sweet vague
dimness, the perfume of golden lilies, golden lights
glimmering in a pale haze, and his voice murmuring
tenderly, " Helen, my Helens

Was it thus, or in some other way, the change
came about ? She hardly knew. Nothing in her
life seemed to have had a beginning. She had
floated along she knew not whither, lulled in balmy
zephyrs, lapped in warm sunshine ; she had drifted
down a tropical river in an atmosphere of dreamland.
He called her Helen now as a matter of
course ; and he told her every day and many times
a day that there Alas something amiss in her life.
That which was wrong was her feeble hold upon
propriety, her last tenacious clinging to her duty asa
wife. Her footsteps were faltering just upon the
hither side of the line that severs innocence from

II 2

guilt. She could still hold up her head and say to
herself, " I may be passionately in love with St.
Austell,, as he is with me; but I am true to my
husband all the same and nothing could ever tempt
me to betray him." Telling herself this, she lived
in daily commune with the tempter, the man whose
name was a synonym for seduction ; and who was
so much the more dangerous in her case because
this time he was profoundly in love.

CHAPTER Ill.

MRS. PONSONB\'s ULTIMATUM

Helen was ushered into Lady Belfield's sitting-room
next morning as the clock struck ten, and
found her mother-in-law and Sir Adrian ready to
receive her. The breakfast-table had been placed
near the open window looking out upon the park,
with its brilliant flower-beds, palms, and tree-ferns,
and its early riders cantering up and down
the Row.

Adrian came forward to meet his sister-in-law
with frankest greeting ; but Helen grew paler as
their hands met, and it seemed to him that her
beauty had a wan look in the morning light. The
freshness had vanished from the young face, and
that bright and joyous outlook, the careless happiness
of girlhood, which had charmed him at their
first meeting, had given place to weariness and

languor. It was not the face of a happy-wife in
the early years of marriage.

Helen grew naore at ease presently as they sat at
breakfast, reassured by Aclrian''s fraternal manner.
It was a relief to her to find such perfect friendliness
in the man she had jilted ; and yet her vanity
was wounded by the idea that he could forgive her
so freely, could meet her with frank goodwill.

^' He could never have cared very much for
me/^ she thought.

His presence recalled bitterest memories. She
had been false to him, and for whom ? For a
man who neglected and abandoned her, left her to
Fate and to the chances of evil ; left her to run
the gauntlet of London society without a husbands
protection.

Adrian was eager to see his brother. He had
written to Valentine in a friendly spirit twice
during the last year, first on New Yearns Eve, and
again on their mutual birthday, and his brother
had answered both letters in a free and easy tone,
taking their reconciliation as it were for granted,
ignoring the past and the wroi:g that had been

done. And now Adrian yearned after that other
half of himself, from which he had so long been
separated. He was vexed at Valentine's absence,
and still more vexed at Helenass vagueness about
her husbands return.

I'll telegraph to him' he said, " if you'll give
me his Paris address."

I don't know where he is staying."

You don't know ! But surely he has written
to you ? "

Yes, but he wrote to me from his club, or
from a club that he uses when he is there. I'm
not sure that he is a member. I suppose if you
telegraph to him at the club he Avill get your
telegram."

Sooner or later, no doubt ; but there may be a
considerable delay," answered Adrian. " I want to
hasten his return if I can. Our time is short in
London."

Helen gave him the address of the Parisian club,
and he went downstairs to send his telegram.
Lady Belfield carried off her daughter-in-law for a
morning in the picture galleries. She took possession

of her sons wife as if in the exercise of a
natural right. Helen had promised to be in the
Row between twelve and one. St. Austell would
be there no doubt expecting her. She had parted
with him at four o^ clock that morning, after a ball,
and he had stopped at the carriage door to ascertain
her plans for the day. He knew all about her
engagement with Lady Belfield.

Less than a couple of hours will polish off your
mother-in-law/^ he said, " and you can be in the
Row by twelve. You mustn't lose your ride. Its
the one thing that keeps us all alive."

She had promised not to lose her ride ; but now
that she was asked to go to the Academy she had
not the courage to refuse.

I want to have you with me as much as I can
while I am in town," said Lady Belfield. " We
have seen so little of each other since you have
been my daughter. Adrian is full of business this
morning, so he cannot come with us."

Helen was glad to escape from Adrian's thoughtful
gaze. It seemed to her that he must be able to
read all her secrets, that he must know how false

and wicked she was she who had begun her downward
course by falsehood to him.

That morning with Lady Belfield was slow torture.
The wife's remorseful sense of her own
unworthiness changed every tender word into a
scorpion. She tried to appear happy and lighthearted,
but she felt that her gaiety was a miserable
assumption which could hardly deceive anybody.
It certainly did not deceive Lady Belfield.

"My dear child, let us sit down," she said.
You are looking so pale and weary. I am afraid
you are not well, Helen ; that they did not take
enough care of you after your long illnesses

Oh, no, it is riot that. I am very well ; but
I was dancing till nearly four o'clock this morning."

And you are going out again to-night. Do you
think it is worth any one's while to lead such a
life ? "

'' I don't know. I suppose it is natural to like
dancing and gaiety while one is young. And there
is no other kind of life for me to lead. If I were
to stay at home, as I did last year, I should only
have leisure to be unhappy, and to fancy myself a

deserted wife. When I am out in the world,
among a lot of thoughtless people, I too am
thoughtless. It is better than thinking bitter
thoughts.'^

My poor girl, I wish Valentine were fonder of
home, and that you two spent more of your lives
together. There is something amiss in your present
life. I am grieved to see it, I am grieved to
speak of it; yet I feel that I ought to speak."

'^ Oh, please don't say any more,'^ said Helen
fretfully. " It can do no good. Valentine has
always had his own way, and I have left off
thwarting him. I used to beg him to stay at home.
I fancied we might be so happy together ; and I was
so ridiculously fond of him''

Was fond of him ! Why you speak as if your
love were a thing of the past."

No, no. Lady Belfield, you misunderstand. I
mean that in those days I had a foolish way of
pestering him with my affection. I was too
demonstrative, and I thought I could keep him at
home of an evening. A fatal mistake. We get on
ever so much better now that we each go our own
way."

My love, it is all wrong. It cannot mean happiness
for either of jour'

Indeed you are mistaken ; Valentine is perfectly
happy."

^^ And are yon perfectly happy ? "

Well, yes, I suppose I am. We are having a
brilliant season. Leo and I are invited almost

everywhere. It is very pleasant, and '' with a

faint sigh, '' one has no time to think."

They where sitting in the inner sculpture gallery,
where there were very few people, though the other
rooms were full. Lady Belfield left at one o'clock,
thinking that Helen was tired.

Shall we drive through the Park before you go
in ? " Helen asked, as they came to Hyde Park
Corner.

'^ Yes, dear, if you like," and Lady Belfield gave
the order.

Go slowly up and down the drive," Helen said
to the coachman, and then added to Lady Belfield :
If there are any people we know we may as well
see them."

*' By all means ; we have half-an-hour to waste
before lunch."

Helen was thinking of St. Austell. Would hebe
there waiting for her? Would he be angry
with her for having broken faith with him? She
had given him a kind of right over her life from
the moment in which she had listened to his unhallowed
love. He had the right to be miserable when
he was away from her ; the right to accuse her of
cruelty if she avoided his company.

She had allowed him to tell her of his love ;
but she had affected to make light of his declaration.


'' This means nothing from you/^ she said ; " I
should be angry if it were any one else who talked
such nonsense.'^

Under that lightness her lover had seen indications
of the deepest feeling, and knew that she was
to be won ; not so easily won as other victims had
been and so much the more worth winning.

The Now was almost deserted, but a little way
past the barracks they met Mrs. Baddeley and
Lord St. Austell riding side by side, while Mr.
Beeching skulked in the rear on a thick-set, bullnecked,
black cob, vcrv smooth and sleek and

stoutly built, and having a kind of fanciful resemblance
to his rider.

Everything belonging to Beeching is like him/^
said one of his particular friends ; *' his horses are
like him, his dogs are like him, his guns are like
him, and his furniture is like him. The fellow has
his own image and superscription upon everything.
When he bothered me about the lines of his new
tandem cart I told him not to worry. ' However
you have it built, its sure to come out like you,^ I
told him : and, by Jove, it did.^'

Lord St. Austell was one of the few men who
look well on horseback, and yet do not disappoint
people when they dismount. He was tall and slim,
dressed to perfection in so quiet and subdued a
style that nobody had ever succeeded in imitating
him. There was an indescribable cachet, a subtle
neutrality of tint, which the copyist never could
attain. To-day he had a languid air as he sauntered
slowly along, talking with Mrs. Baddeley, who
looked fresh as a June rose, and seemed in high
spirits. She was to act for a charity that evening,
at one of the most fashionable places in London —

half picture-gallery half ball-room. She was to
play Peg Woffington in " Masks and Faces' for
the benefit of the Convalescent Chimney Sweepers'
Institute, and she was telling St. Austell about her
conception of the part and her gowns.

The character was important, but the gowns were
the pivot upon which success depended.

''^They are my own idea, worked out from Sir
Peter Lely/^ she said ; " but that wretched Mrs.
Ponsonby had not sent them when I came out this
morning. I am in a state of suspense till I see
them. They may be failures after all."

^^ You employ Ponsonby, do you ? " asked St.
Austell, who was learned in all the ways of women;
^^ Pve been told she's dear''

Dear ! She is exorbitant, a perfect harpy !
But she is the only woman iu London who can
make a gown."

She must be as rich as Croesus. Lord
Pevensey told me the other day that he nearly lost
an estate he was negotiating for in Yorkshire, because
Mrs. Ponsonby was hankering after it. He was
not told who had been bidding against him till

after he lead secured the property. ' By Jove, St.
Austell, I felt humiliated he said, ' to think that
I had just missed being outbidden by my wife's
dressmaker ^^

I have no doubt she is richer than Lord Sevens
replied Leo, laughing. '^ I am longing to
see how lie has carried out my ideas. I am
like a child that is going to have a new frock
for her birthdays'

They saw Helen and pulled up their horses, and
the victoria drew up by the rails. They talked fora
few minutes, Helen explaining how Lady Belfield
had been so kind as to take her to the Academy.

You might have sent me a messages said
Mrs. Baddeley. '^ Your horse and I both waited
half-an-hour for you.^^

Yes, I ought to have sent a message. It
was very forgetful of me. Poor Ravioli ! ''

Baliol was the horse.

I am glad you find it in your heart to pity
Ravioli,^^ said St. Austell, with one of those looks
which speak volumes at the initial stage of an
intrigue.

Language and looks become much less subtle in
later stages.

He timed that pathetic glance at a safe moment
when Lady Belfield was talking to Mrs. Badges


Leo was begging her to go to the performance at
the Victoria Hall.

I dare say the acting will be very bad though
we most of us think ourselves geniuses'' she said ;
but we shall have all the best people in London
to see us, and it is for a good cause ; so if you
and Sir Adrian are disengaged "

I believe we are disengaged. It is only as a
favour that we are to get stalls for the Lyceum
next Saturday and we are not to go to the Hay-market
till tomorrow. It is not so easy to do a
round of the theatres as we fancied it would be/^

*' Then as a pis aller come and see ' Masks and
Faces ' by the Kentish Ramblers and your humble
servant. If we don't succeed in making you cry,
we are sure to make you laugh. '^

^' Don't be too sure of that' said St. Austell ;
there is a dismal state between laughing and

crying, which I have seen produced by the performance
of your real painstaking amateur. He is just
too good to be laughed at and he is not good
enough to draw tears. His performance produces a
dreary vacuity of mind, a sense of the intolerable
length of time. I think the feeling is most acute
during such a piece as ' Plot and Passion which,
being tedious and long-winded, is a favourite
with amateurs.'^

'^ You talk like a disappointed man' said Leo.
*' I have no doubt you tried to act in early youth,
and are embittered by the memory of failure''

No, I was one of those few sensible people who
are aware of their incapability beforehand."

'' Are you coming home presently, Helen ? "
asked Mrs. Baddeley.

She is coming to lunch with me first,"
answered Lady Belfield ; " I'll drive her home
in time for tea."

"Please don't keep her late. She has the
Victoria Hall and two parties after. To-night
is one of our field nights," said Mrs. Baddeley, and
then with a smile and a wave of her whip hand,

VOL. II. I

she yielded to the impatience o£ her horse, and
trotted away, her two cavaliers accompanying her.

St. Austell left her at the Piccadilly end of the
Row, but Beeching rode back to Wilkie Mansions
and lingered at the door when he had helped her
to dismount, and had delivered her horse to a
hireling from the livery yard.

"■ Come in and see my gowns," said Leo ; ^^ they
must have arrived by this time, or I am in for a
fiasco. Come and tell me what you think of my
gowns, and then I will give you some lunch."

Mrs. Baddeley was eminently hospitable; her
little luncheons were delightful in a small and
studiously simple way. She gave herself no airs
of epicureanism, but her roast chicken or her cutlets
a la Maintenon, and her mayonnaise of salmon
or lobster were always perfection. Even a shoulder
of lamb and a custard pudding had a grace on her
table, and satisfied her admiring guest. She rarely
dined at home, and so her cook was able to concentrate
her energies on that wholesome two-o'clock
meal which everybody eats with a better appetite
than the evenings elaborate banquet.

She ran gaily upstairs, Mr. Beeching following,
ashamed to confess that his less agile legs would
have preferred the lift. She opened the door with
her latchkey, and pounced upon the page,, who was
discovered in the lobby reading the adventures of
"" Sixteen String Jacks reclining in a luxurious
bamboo chair, with his heels on the card table.

Get up, you horrid little monkey," cried his
mistress indignantly. "^ Has the dressmaker sent
my gowns ? "

No, madam. There ain't no basket come, but
there was a young lady brought this;" and the boy
snatched up a brass salver, took a letter out of his
pocket, put it on the salver, and handed it with due
ceremony.

^'^A letter," exclaimed Leo angrily, as she tore
open the envelope. *^^What can the woman mean
by writing ? "

Mrs. Ponsonby's meaning was clear enough.

With profound respect she reminded Mrs. Bad-delay
that her account had been running a longtime,
and that she had not received a cheque from
her honoured customer for over a twelvemonth.

l2

The costumes were finished and ready for delivery ;
but on referring to her ledger she had discovered
that Mrs. Baddeley was much deeper in debt than
she had supposed, and she must therefore regretfully
decline to send the costumes unless Mrs.
Baddeley favoured her with at least a hundred
pounds on account.

Leo read the letter as she passed into her 
followed by Mr. Beeching, who felt that
the atmosphere was tempestuous.

You are too good to ask me to stay," he muttered,
" but I have just remembered a particular
appointment at the Junior Carlton."

He was going, but she stopped him with her
hand on his coat sleeve.

^' You are not such a poltroon as to run away
because Tm in trouble, are you, Beeching?" she
asked contemptuously.

She called him Beeching, or Joe, indifferently,
with a familiarity which seemed half scornful, but
which he liked, nevertheless, in his dull way.

I'll stop if you like," he said. What's the
row ? "

He had seen her in trouble before to-day, and
had been ordered to help her, and the result had
been duly recorded on the debit side of his bankbook.
He could see the figures on the clean white
page now as he stood there, helpless and half
reluctant. Nothing had come of that former
chivalry on his part ; nothing except that he was
called Joe, or Beeching, and was occasionally bitten
by Tory, the poodle.

Tory was under a sofa now, represented by a pair
of fiery yellow eyes gleaming in the darkness.
Tory had taken it into his over-educated head to
detest Mr. Beeching.

What's the row ? '' he asked again, as Leo
pored over the letter.

The row is, that I shall be ruined, humiliated,
disgraced, unless I can produce a hundred pounds
in the next hour or two. Does the creature think
I keep hundred-pound notes under my pillow ? ''

I don't suppose she cares where you keep 'em
as long as she gets 'em," replied Beeching broodingly,
bending down to poke his whip-handle at
Tory under the sofa, and receiving a growl and a

glare from that celebrity for his pains. " You'll
have to pacify her somehow, I supposes he went
on, still intent upon Tory. " If you canst give her
money you must give her money's worth. You've
got your diamond's

He seated himself on. the carpet at this j juncture,
in order to be nearer Tory, who was waxing
furious.

'' 0£ course I have my diamonds, and I must
wear them to-night. Everybody knows about
them ''

'' Well, not all about themes muttered Beeching,
under his breath.

Everybody knows I have them , and will expect
me to wear them. What sweet things would be
said about me if I didn't wear them. My diamonds,
indeed ! I am to take my diamonds to
Mrs. Ponsonby. Upon my word, Beeching, I feel
grateful to you for the generous suggestion. '^

'' Yah ! '' cried Beechiug sharply ; not at this
stab, but at a very tangible bite from the aggravated
poodle.

'^ Luncheon is on the table. Are you going to

sit there teasing Tory all the afternoon or are you
coming to lunch with me ? " asked Mrs. Baddeley,
suddenly changing the conversation.

Mr. Beeching got up, and followed her to the
dining-rooms looking the very image of sheepishness.
It was only on the other side of an Oriental
curtain, the quaintest, snuggest little room, fenced
off from all rough winds that blow by perforated
sandal-wood screens and clusters of tall palms. On
the small round table, among quaint old silver and
hothouse flowers, there appeared a dainty little
luncheon of salmon cutlets, a duckling, with all
accompaniments in perfection, and a bottle of G. H.
Mum, delicately wrapped in an embroidered
doyle. The glass was Venetian, the plates and
dishes were Wedgwood.

Mr. Beeching ate his luncheon, and fed Tory,
and while the salmon and duckling were being
discussed there was not another word spoken
about Mrs. Ponsonby, or that hundred pounds
which had to be found for her ; only Mr. Beeching
observed that his hostess, although she ministered
delicately to his wants, ate hardly anything herself,

and pushed away her plate with a heartbroken
air which made him feel very uncomfortable.


Don't mind me' she said, when she caught
him looking at her. " The difficulty must be faced
somehow. As you say, I have my diamonds. I
may have to humiliate myself so far as to offer
that odious woman one of my bracelets as a
security for her debt''

This was a concession to the stringency of Fate,
and Mr. Beeching felt that the lady was becoming
more reasonable.

"Was Peg Woffington the sort of person who
would wear diamonds ? " he asked, presently.

She was a famous actress, and she was very
beautiful. I leave you to judge."

Yes, I suppose she would have diamonds.
They always do. But are there not stage jewels
that you could hire ? "

Stage jewels ! / wear stage jewels ! When
every chorus girl in London wears diamonds of the
first water. I wonder that you don't know me
better'

She leant across the table to fill his glass for
him. She had filled it so often with that £friendly ,
almost motherly air, that he had finished the bottle
unawares not knowing that his hostess had only
sipped half a glass to keep him in countenance.
He began to be more sympathetic than he had been
before luncheon, and to be really concerned about
Mrs. Baddeley's dilemma.

A hundred pounds. Such a sum was a mere
bagatelle to a man who counted his thousands by
the hundred, and felt a little uncomfortable when
he began upon a fresh hundred thousand, just as
humble poverty does when it changes a sovereign.
A hundred pounds more or less could not make
any difference to him ; and yet he did not like lending
that beggarly sum to Mrs. Baddeley, intensely
as he admired her. He had lent her a good many
hundreds before, sometimes for Mrs. Ponsonby,
sometimes for the Oriental warehouse, sometimes
for the livery stable. She had not paid him, and he
had not expected or even wished to be paid ; but he
had expected that she would be grateful. He expected
to be favoured exclusively as one who had

helped her in the hour of need ; and he had not
been so favoured. She had allowed him to haunt
her drawing-room, and to go about with her as a
kind of unofficial purse-bearer, paying for carriages,
and opera boxes, and picnic luncheons, and
gloves, and frivolities of all kinds, and scarcely
getting thanked for his pains. He was so inordinately
rich that such outlays were not supposed
to count.

That which hit him hardest was the idea that
St. Austell was preferred to him ; that, adore as
faithfully as he might, Lord St. Austell had but to
smile his all-conquering smile and Joe Beeching's
devotion was forgotten.

'' I believe that all I am good for in your
life is to play propriety when you go about
with St. Austell,^^ he said one day, in a savage
humour.

'' My dearest Beeching, how can you talk so
wildly. Do you suppose I am in love — I, Leonora
Baddeley — with Lord St. Austell. Do you forget
that I have a dear, good husband toiling for me in
India ?^^

I think some of us forget him occasionally'
growled Beeching.

And now to-days ruminating on that question of
the cheque, to write or not to write,, Mr. Beeching
thought also of Lord St. Austell. He had seen
that gentleman wavering in his allegiance to the
elder sister, had seen him transfer his devotion to
the younger sister ; and he told himself that as a
rival St. Austell was out of the running.

He felt more kindly disposed after the duckling
and champagne which were both excellent after
their kind. He trifled with some olives and helped
himself to a glass of claret, a wine he had himself
chosen for Mrs. Baddeley — and paid for. She took
all such contributions in the lightest way, as a
flower absorbs dew, taking no heed of the giver.
He looked askant at her as he sipped his wine.
How handsome she was, and how well she looked
in her habit ; and there were tears in her eyes,
yes, absolutely tears. She was not crying about
her gowns. It was the sense of humiliation which
crushed her.

Don't be unhappy' he said ; " Til go and see

this woman, and see what can be done. Do you
owe her much ? "

Vm afraid I do owe her a good deals

'' Tell me the worst. Give me her last accounts


You'll be shocked, Fm afraid," said Leo, taking
a paper out of her davenport. '^ Her prices are
extortionate, and I have been so unlucky at all the
races this year. Last year I paid her a heap of
money after Ascot, and another heap — well, over a
hundred each time — after Doncaster."

ril see what I can do," said Beeching, making
a wry face as he looked at the total.

It was just under nine hundred pounds.

CHAPTER VIII.

MR. Belching's Ultimatum

Mr. Beeching took a hansom and drove to a street
off Cavendish Square — a street well known to the
best-dressed women in London. As he drove along
he debated what he should do for Mrs. Baddeley.
He was so inherently a man of business — albeit he
had never inked his fingers in a City office — that
it irked him to fling a hundred pounds into this
harpies maw, as a sop is flung to Cerberus. It
would please him better to make some kind of
bargain with the harpy, even if the transaction
should cost him more than a hundred pounds.
He wanted to get some advantage for his
money.

He sent his card to Mrs. Ponsonby, and was
at once admitted into the very sanctuary of the
house near Cavendish Square — the lady's private
room, study, office, or boudoir, whichever she might

choose to call it; and here he Twas received with
gracious smiles by Mrs. Ponsonby herself.

She needed no explanation of his errand, for she
had seen him in attendance upon the handsome
Mrs. Baddeley at race-meetings and other places
of public resort,, whither Mrs. Ponsonby went occasionally
to see how the world was using her
customers. It was there that she made up her
mind about all her doubtful patronesses, as to how
far they might be worthy of her confidence. That
which she saw at Hurlingham or at Sandown
served as the chart by which she steered in dangerous
seas. In the dressmaker's estimation of Mrs.
Baddeley — whose account was a bagatelle compared
with some other accounts — Mr. Beeching was an
important factor. He had never crossed her
threshold until to-day, and she felt pleased with
herself for having written the letter that had
brought him there.

She was not so pleased, however, after a quarter
of an hours conversation with Mr. Beeching.

Of money on account he would not give her a
sixpence. If she were prepared to settle her account

upon equitable terms say thirty-three per cut.,
he would give her his cheque and take Mrs. Bad-delay
a receipt in full of all demands. If she
were not disposed to accept this offer, she must
look to Mrs. Baddeley alone for her money. He
would have nothing to do with it. He knew what
dressmakers bills were, and the usurious profits
they exacted. He was assured that thirty-three
per cent, would pay for all that she had supplied,
and leave a margin of profit. At any rate that
was his ultimatum. Mrs. Baddeley had given him
plenary powers. As for the gowns for this evening,
Mrs. Baddeley could do very well without them.
It was by her acting, not by her costume, she was
to please her audience. It was not to be supposed
that he was to be frightened into paying an
exorbitant account.

Mrs. Ponsonby held out for a long time. She
was not in the habit of compromising an account.
She was in no immediate want of money. She
meant to have her due. Mrs. Baddeley would be
obliged to pay her.

^^My good soul, it is all very well to talk,"

replied Mr. Beeching, who was more at his ease
in a business interview than in society ; " but can
you get blood out of a stone ? Can you get nine
hundred pounds out of aD officer's wife — a lady
whose husband is being roasted alive at Kandahar
or somewhere in order to keep body and soul
together. You have made your mistake intrusting
a lady in Mrs. Baddeley's sad position;
and you ought to think yourself uncommonly
lucky if you get a clear third of your
account without law expenses or bother of any
kind."

Mrs. Baddeley may not have money, but she
has friends argued the dressmaker doggedly.

'' No doubt she has friends — hosts of friends —
but I take it I am the only one among 'em who
would pay six-and-eightpence in the pound to get
her out of a difficulty. One thing I can assure
you, Mrs. Ponsonby, I won pay seven shillings.
I have made my final offer."

He had his cheque-book in the breast-pocket of
his summer overcoat, the end showing distinctly
against the silk lining. He touched the book

lightly as he spoke, and that touch decided Mrs.
Ponsonby.

She had felt some uneasiness about Mrs. Bad-delays
account, and it was something to get the
cost price of her materials, with the advantage of
having dressed a lady who was known and admired
in a particular set, and who had brought
Mrs. Ponsonby a good deal of custom.

^' I should be sorry to disoblige a lady for whom
I have a great liking," she said, with a patronizing
air ; " and rather than do that I will accept your
cheque."

"And give me a receipt in full of all demands
? '^

Yes, so far as the account you have there.
The gowns that are to be delivered this afternoon
are not in that account."

What are they to cost ? "

Mrs. Ponsonby looked at a document on her
davenport.

One hundred and seventy-seven pounds
eighteen shillings and ninepence."

I'll add sixty-five pounds to your cheque, and

VOL. IL K

you can cross Mrs. Baddeley out of your books
altogether."

What ! I am to take a third of my account
and to lose my customer."

^' Not at all. She says there is no one in London
but you who can make her a gown. She will go on
dealing with you , I have no doubt ; but if she takes
my advice she will always pay ready money, and
always know what she is going to pay when she
gives the order. You'll both of you find that
system ever so much pleasant."

"Not if my prices are to be cut down in this
absurd way," replied Mrs. Ponsonby.

There was a further discussion ; but !Mr. Teachings
logic and his cheque-book prevailed. He
wrote his cheque, got the two receipted accounts,
saw the milliner's basket deposited on the top of a
cab, with a young woman in charge of it, and then
drove back to Wilkie Mansions. He passed the
four-wheeler and the big basket before he reached
the Park.

Mrs. Baddeley was in her drawing-room, pale,
anxious, but lovely, in a Japanese tea gown, lime-blossom

green under a cloud of coffee coloured
lace.

Dearest Beeching, have you got me my gowns ?'^
she gasped, with clasped hands, as he stood just
within the doorway.

Tory, always eager to distinguish himself, rushed
at the half-open door and banged it, and then came
back to his mistress on his hind legs to demand his
accustomed reward of biscuit or sugar, but Leo was
too agitated to think of Tory.

Your gowns will be here in ten minutes. I
passed them on the road. Could you think I would
allow you to be unhappy for the sake of a paltry
hundred ?^^ said Beeching tenderly. ''^ Oh, Leonora,
how little you know me ! ''

This was a plunge. He had never called her
Leonora before.

Tory gave a short indignant bark, either at
Mr. Teachings familiarity or at his mistress's
neglect.

"I have done something more than you asked, ^'
continued Beeching, growing boastful. " I have
got you out of debt. You don't owe Mrs. Pone

2

sonby a shilling. There is the old account, and
there is the account for your new gowns, both
receipted."

You darling ! How can I ever be grateful
enough ? How can I ever repay you ? ''

You might repay me easily if you liked,
Leonora. Show me a little of that favour which
you lavish so freely upon your sister's lover.
Give me some of those smiles you give to St.
Austell. Let me be something more to you thana
stop-gap and a convenience. Leo you know
that I adore you.^^

He drew nearer to her, regardless of Tory, whose
yellow eyes were shining ominously.

You won't refuse me one kiss, Leo ? '''

^' One ! Half-a-dozen if you likes

He sprang to clasp her waist, to press those
exquisite lips, and was met by a cold black muzzle,
which touched him for an instant, and was withdrawn
just as it widened into a growl, preliminary
to a snap. Mrs. Baddeley had snatched up Tory.
He was to her as Medusa's head was to Minerva,
and made her almost as invincible.

'^My dear Beeching, I hope your kindness in
helping me out of a difficulty does not make you
forget that I have a husband in Indians she said,
with dignity; and Beeching stood before her,
crestfallen and angry, but unable to reply.

He began to understand that he was to write
cheques whenever they were urgently wanted ;
but that he was to get nothing but afternoon tea
and Tory's attentions for his money.

You are very cruelty he said sulkily. " Good
day."

^' You^U come to see the play, dear Beeching," she
said, as he was departing.

'' ril be if I do ! "

Oh, I hope you won be that ; but I know
you'll come to see Peg Woffington."

He met the milliners basket and the young
woman just emerging from the lift. He had none
of that generous glow which is said to follow the
doing of a good action. He felt savage at being
foiled.

"The next time she's in a difficulty she may
whistle for me," he said to himself; but when

eight o^ clock came he could no more keep away
from the Victoria Hall than a moth can keep
away from a candle. The hall was so near his
chambers in the Albany. He had not even to
order his brougham. He just slipped on his overcoat,
took one from half-a-dozen guinea tickets on
his chimney-piece, and walked to the place of entertainment.
Carriages were setting down at the
entrance. Lady Belfield, Helen, and Sir Adrian
were going in just in front of him, amongst a
fashionable crowd. His stall was next but one to
Helenass, and St. Austell occupied the seat between
them.

^' How odd that we should be side by side," said
his lordship, loud enough for Lady Belfield to
hear.

Helen made no answer. She was not yet
mistress of those arts of hypocrisy which enable
a woman to glide from flirtation to flirtation, and
from intrigue to intrigue, with a bold front and
a lofty crest. She had not passed the border line
of guilt, and yet her head was bent by the burden
of conscious shame. That slight droop of the head

and pensive air enhanced her beauty in an age
when brazen mirthfulness is the commonest attribute
of woman. She had a fragile look like a tall
white lily, bent almost to breaking. Some of her
friends said she looked consumptive, and would not
last many seasons.

She knew that St. Austell had taken infinite
trouble to get that stall next hers. He had been
with her at tea-time to find out the number of her
seat ; had been with her, they two alone, in the
Japanese drawing-room — with not even Tory to
make a diversion from perilous sentimentality —
and then had driven off to the hall in a hansom
to get his own number changed ; and now he
expected her to act surprise.

Masks and Faces " was listened to with polite
approval by people who remembered Fanny Stirling
in the heyday of her charms as Peg Wellington ;
by people who could hardly dissociate the character
from Mrs. Bancroft ; and by other people who had
seen Mrs. Bernard Beer. As for Mrs. Baddeley,
her diamonds and her gowns were lovely. Her
acting was easy and refined, and utterly undramatic ;

but she was above the level of her fellow-performers,
and was supposed by them and by herself to betaking
the town by storm. Applause is given so
freely to amateurs since approval means nothing
and compromises nobody. People who have been
coaxed into buying guinea stalls for an old familiar
play must at least pretend to enjoy themselves ;
and the audience was decidedly smart and could
console itself with the idea that it was the right
thing to be there.

Lady Belfield and her daughter-in-law parted in
the vestibule. Helen was going on to a party in
Regent Terrace with her sister. She had to go to
Mrs. Baddeley^s dressing-room and wait there while
that lady changed her dress which would be rather
a long business, no doubt. St. Austell offered to
take her to her sister's room ; but Adrian gave her
his arm, as if by a superior right.

If you'll take care of my mother, FU be back
in a few minutes' he said to St. Austell, as he
walked off with Helen.

It was the first time she had touched his arm
since they were affianced lovers, and her fingers

trembled faintly as they rested on his sleeve. She
had so many causes for agitation. St. AustelFs
pursuit — unobtrusive but fatal ; her fear of her
husbands return, which might occur at any
moment : and now her dread of this grave , earnest
brother-in-law,, whom she had wronged in the
past, and from whom she shrank in the present
as from one who had an occult power to read
her heart.

You are looking pale and tired, Helen," said
Adrian, as they went along a passage leading to the
back of the hall. "Must you really go to a
party to-night ? "

I am due at two. There is Lady Slanderers
musical evening, which I would not miss for
Worlds, and a dance afterwards — a late dance —
which means coffee and carriages at six o'clock
tomorrow morning."

I believe you are killing yourself with this
kind of life."

Oh, but it is only a spurt : it lasts so short a
time. ' A rose's brief bright life of joy,' as somebody
has said."

^^ And you go from party to party — from crowd
to crowd — alone ? "

What do you mean by alone ? I am under my
elder sisters wing, always."

I don't think that wing is quite enough to
shelter you, Helen. I done like to think of you
in society without your husband."

I should see very little of society if I waited
for Valentine to take me about. Do you know
that I should have gone melancholy mad a few
months ago if Leo had not come to my
rescue ? "

'^ That is very sad, Helen. I must talk to my
brother "

Done ! It would only make bad blood between
us. It is all over with us as a devoted
couple; it was all over directly after our honeymoon.
I was so fond of him, and I thought we
were going to be so happy together — not commonplace
married people, leading commonplace semi-detached
lives, but wedded lovers. I soon found
out my mistake."

"But you have only been married two years

You cannot be tired of each other yet. Valentine
is too much accustomed to have his own way, and
to seek his own amusement ; hut I have no doubt
he loves you as fondly as ever."

You have not seen us together, or you would
know better."

^^ I cannot believe that there is any change in
his feelings," persisted Adrian; '^^but I think the
kind of life you are leading is calculated to
estrange him. The knowledge that you are going
about in society without him will make him more
and more careless of his home, more intent upon
his own pleasures."

They were at the door of the dressing-room by
this time.

Good-night," said Helen, offering Adrian her
hand.

He pressed it gently, with a brothers kindly
grasp.

We may meet again, perhaps, before morning.
I saw Glandore at the Carlton, and he asked me to
look in at her ladyship's party, and hear Patti."

^' Au revive then," said Helen, with an undefinable

feeling that Adrian's presence would spoil
her evening.

He had told her that he did not approve of her
butterfly life ; and she could not shake off the idea
that he could read her thoughts and knew the
downward road on which she was travelling.

CHAPTER IX.

ON THE TERRACE

It took Mrs. Baddeley a considerable time to
transform herself from Peg Woffington to a lady of
the period. The concert was over in Regent
Terrace when the sisters arrived. Patti had sun"*
and departed, and a stream of smart people were
flowing out of the lofty hall on their way to
dances; but the pleasantness feature of Lady
Glandore's parties was the lamplight terrace, where
her ladyship s guests sauntered up and down, or sat
about in friendly groups among groves of palms
and pyramids of exotics, and listened to a band
stationed at the end of the terrace. Whatever
band was best and most fashionable was to be heard
at Lady Glandore's ; and the change from the
brilliant rooms and operatic music, the crowd, and
the dazzle of the house, to this cool region of palms
and flowers and multitudinous lamps clustering

among the greenery and Japanese umbrella canopies,
and little tables provided with strawberries and
cream, and talk, and flirtation, and iced drinks, and
stirring national melodies, was a change that delighted
everybody. And there, across the shadowy
Park, in darkly solemn grandeur, showed the dense
bulk of Abbey and Senate House ; the place where
the dead, who seem so great, are lying; and the
place where the living, who seem so small, are
trying to talk themselves into fame and immortality.


There were many people in London who preferred
Lady Glandore^s terrace to the smartest
dance of the season, and who lingered and loitered
there between lamplight and shadow, strolling up
and down, or leaning on the balustrade, dreamily
contemplative of that dark bulk of towers and roofs
touched here and there with points of vivid light.

Mrs. Baddeley was neither dreamy nor contemplative,
and the only ideas the Abbey or the Senate
House awakened in her mind were that death in
any form, even when glorified in marble, was an
inevitable nuisance, and that politics were perhaps

a still greater bore. She was of the earth
earthy, and always made the most of the present
moment. She speedily took possession of one
of the strawberry-and-cream tables, and had a
cluster of admirers about her, whom she sent on
errands to the supper-room.

I am going to frighten you all by eating a
most prodigious supper," she cried. '^ Remember,
I have been acting comedy and tragedy, laughing
and crying, and loving and suffering, for three
hours, and have had nothing but one poor little
split and a tea-spoonful of brandy. I am on the
verge of exhaustion. What, is that you, Beeching
? " she cried, as a dark figure and an expanse
of shirt-front rose up in the shadow of a neighbouring
palm, like the ghost in the *' Corsican
Brothers." " I did not think I should see you
here to-night. How did you like my Peg ? "

She was lifting a champagne tumbler to her rosy
lips as she spoke, and Beeching thought she was
alluding to some particular order of drink.

*^ How did you like Peg Woffington — and — my
gowns?" she said impatiently.

I suppose it was all very fine, but I ain't much
of a judge of anything but a burlesque

Ohj but I hope I made you cry,'^ said Mrs.
Baddeley, attacking a plateful of delicacies, which
a practical admirer had collected for her : foie-gras,
chicken, lobster salad, all on the same plate.

^' It saves time," he said ; ^^ and one don't seem
to be eating so much' to which Leo laughingly
agreed.

When I have finished my supper I mean to
wallow in strawberries and cream for the rest of the
evening's said, with frank vulgarity ; ^' and you
will all have to amuse me. I am much too exhausted
to do any talking myself."

^' Then Fm afraid you must be at death's doors
retorted Beeching.

*^ Good gracious ! " cried Leo, starting up suddenly
and looking about her.

Have you dropped anything?" cried a chorus
of admirers. '^'^ Your fan — your handkerchief?"

No, if s my sister. Vm chaperoning her, don't
you know, poor young thing, and I haven't seen
her since we left the cloak-room."

'^ Oh she's quite safest said Belching in his
slow sullen voice. " I saw her at the other end of
the terrace — the dark end — looking at the view,
with St. Austell."

Tm afraid I ought to go and hunt them up
presently said Mrs. Baddeley , pushing away her
plate with a sigh of satisfaction ; " and now you
dear good Colonel you may go and get me some
cream and things — whatever looks nicest. You are
an admirable caterer. St. Austell is a dear fellow,
but it's unlucky he has made himself such a bad
reputation."

'^ I don't think he took much trouble about it,"
answered Beeching. " I fancy it came naturally."
^^ Such a pity," sighed Leo. " He is so handsome,
and distinguished, and clever — so altogether
nice " — as if the last word expressed supreme merit ;
^' and yet people will talk about him, and its almost
dangerous for a young married woman to be civil
to him."

You arc not afraid, though," said Mr. Mount-nesting,
a man about town, who was very devoted
to Mrs. Baddelcy, but who had never imperilled

VOL. II. L

his peace of mind or depleted his purse for any
woman living. '^ You are uncommonly civil to him/^

^^ Oh I don't count. I am a Bohemian of the
Bohemians. I make no distinctions. I know so
thoroughly well how to take care of myself said
Leon devouring an iced souffle.

Upon my word I believe you do' said Mr.
Beeching, to which the chorus agreed.

^' But my sister is younger than I anl^ and knows
very little of the worlds and ought to be looked
after'' said Leo attacking a pine apple cream.
Not nearly so good as the souffle Colonel ; you
should have brought me more of the shuffles'

And Mrs. Belfield has not the advantage of a
husband in India' said Colonel Dotterel.

Nos indeed, poor thing ! '' agreed Leo, '^ A
neglectful husband at home is not nearly so great
a protection for a wife as a dear kind fellow in
India, toiling for one under a tropical sun''

So touching ! " said the Colonel.

There were fewer lamps and less people at that
end of the terrace where Helen leaned against the

stone balustrade, looking across the low level Park,
with its parallel rows of lamps, like strings of
jewels hanging across the darkness, and its distant
boundary of Gothic pinnacles and dark walls, pierced
with spots of light.

St. Austell was by her side. They had been in
the same spot for nearly an hour. They had talked
of many things, beginning in the lightest strain,
Helen intending that there should be only the
lightest talk between them that night, such talk as
all the world might hear. Yet they had drifted
somehow from gaiety to seriousness, from airiest
talk of their neighbours to tenderest talk of themselves
— and from seriousness they had lapsed into
silence.

She leaned her chin upon her hand, gazing at
the distant Abbey, with eyes dimmed by tears ; but
it was not the associations of that solemn pile which
moved her. It was no thought of the dead lying
there, or of all that the living had lost by the aeatli
of greatness. It was of herself and of her own
sorrows she thought, and of the lover who stood by
her side, and whose lips had been pleading to her

L 2

as never mortal lips had pleaded before, with a
silvery eloquence that thrilled and subjugated her
senses and her soul.

What was that rough power, the mere force of a
vigorous nature and a dominant will, by which
Valentine had conquered her allegiance and won
her to himself, compared with this tender and
spiritual charm, the fascination of a man who
seemed all intellect and emotion, a creature compounded
of fire and light, rather than of gross
earthy substances. She had never known what
love meant until this magical voice whispered in
her ear, until this light hand touched her own, and
conquered at a touch.

There are tears in your eyes, Helen," he said,
trying gently to draw her face towards his own.
I know it, though I cannot see them. Love, why
are you crying ? I tell you again the gulf is not
impassable. All good things are on the other side.
If your life were happy — if your fate were what it
ought to be — I would not ask you what I have
asked to-night. But I have seen how you are

ignored and neglected — I know how little there is
to lose — while for me there is all to gain, and for
you — at least this much — to be loved and cherished
and honoured as you deserve to be."

Honoured ! Oh, how can you use that word ? "
she said with a sob.

Why should I not use it ? Do you think,
dearest, if you were to make this sacrifice for me, I
should not honour you so much the more for that
sacrifice than for all else that is lovely in your
nature ? "

And then he went on with arguments that have
been worn threadbare in the cause of illicit love,
but which always seem original to the yielding ear
of the woman who listens. He went on in that
low melodious voice which had charmed honour
and conscience to fatal oblivion many a time before
to-night ; the voice of the accomplished seducer,
who has just heart enough to fancy himself eternally
in love once a year, and who pleads to his mistress
in all the glow and fervour of a passion which
seems as true as a boys first love, and which is

foredoomed to change and forgetfulness even in its
golden dawn. He talked as a man ttIio had never
loved before, and could never cease to love. He
believed in himself, and the reality of his own
transient emotions gave him all the force of sincerity.
He was sincere only it was the sincerity
of a single season, and would be gone and forgotten
before next year's roses bloomed on Lady Glandore's
terrace.

Helen heard and seemed on the point of yielding.
He had been imploring her to leave a husband
who neglected her, who was obviously unworthy of
her fidelity, and to trust her lot to him. They
would leave England together — for ever, if she
chose. She should not be made unhappy by the
vicinity of people she knew, or who knew anything
about her. He cared not where his lot was cast so
long as he was by her side. He had been told that
if he wanted to escape early death he ought to
winter in the East — Egypt, Algiers, or Ceylon.
Would she not go with him ? They could spend
the early autumn in Northern Italy, and then in
October they could start for Ceylon — a land where

all things would be nevv^ where life would be as
fresh and full of wonder as if they were children
again. They would live for each other, apart from
society under an assumed name. No one need
ever know their history.

We would have no history except the story of
our loves he said.

She listened with drooping eyelids listened with
one hand locked in his , listened almost in silence.
Yes, she could imagine that life which he described,
a life in the liberty of strange lands, in perpetual
sunshine, among picturesque people; a life for ever
changing, for ever new, and brimming over with
love ; such a life as she had fancied possible in that
long honeymoon among Swiss mountains and lakes,
when she had waited as a slave upon her Sultan,
made happy by a smile or a careless caress. She
had fancied herself happy in those days, and had
been a willing slave ; but he who now pleaded to
her was to be her slave, and she was to be Sultana.
His love was devoted, reverential, even ; she felt,
for the first time, what it was to be young, and
beautiful, and adored.

St. Austell looked his best in that dim light.
The delicate features, the pale complexion, somewhat
wan and haggard, after many seasons of
reckless dissipation ; the dreamy blue-grey eyes,
the refined mouth and chin, and the high intellectual
brow, on which the hair grew thinly, were
all characteristic of a type that women call ^^ interesting."
Helen felt the charm of that
emotional countenance as deeply as she felt the
magic of that musical voice. She stood by his
side in silence, letting him plead, letting him
clasp her hand, letting him assure himself of
victory.

The band was at the other end of the terrace,
and it was near that end that Lady Glandore and
her friends clustered in little groups, which were
rapidly thinning. The sound of a waltz came
brokenly, from the distance, to those two in their
solitude. They heard nothing but that fitful ebb
and flow of melody, no sound of voices ; till a
voice close to them startled them like a peal o£
thunder.

I have been looking for you everywhere,

Helen' said Mr. Belfield, ^' and I began to think
Adrian had made a fool of me when he told me
you were to be here'

The two brothers were standing side by side in
the uncertain light of the little gold coloured lamps
dotted among the palms, and twinkling among the
flower beds. They stood side by side, clad exactly
alike in their evening dress, like and yet unlike.
Valentine, broad-shouldered, vigorous-looking, taller
than his brother by an inch or two ; Adrian, slender,
fragile, with features delicate to attenuation.
It was as if spirit and flesh were embodied in two
different forms.

Helen's voice faltered as she greeted her husband,
but a little agitation was only natural at so
unexpected a meeting.

'' When did you come back, Val ? " she asked.
'' It isn't like you to look me up at a party."

Of course it isn't like me," he answered, with
a carelessness which reassured that guilty heart.
*' I should not be here if it was not for Adrian. I
went to find him at his hotel before going to my
club, and he made me come here with him instead

of going to the club with me,, as I wanted him todo.
How white you are looking, Helen /^

"It is the light of the lamps she faltered.

"Then they must be doomed unbecoming lamps.
How-d^e-do, St. Austell ? ''

The two men nodded to each other ; but St.
Austell kept in the background, leaning against
the balustrade. It was just possible for him to
avoid shaking hands with Mr. Belfield without
appearing constrained or particular in his conduct.
It would seem almost that he held himself aloof
from delicate feeling, loth to interrupt the meeting
between husband and wife.

Mrs. Baddeley came sweeping along with her
satin train trailing on the gravel, and with Mr.
Beeching, Colonel Dotterel, and Mr. Mount-nesting
in attendance upon her.

Do you know that we are outstaying everybody
? '^ she exclaimed, " and I have no doubt Lady
Glandore is dying to get rid of us all and go to the
Duchess's ball. What, Valentine, is that you ? I
am glad you are back again. Helen, do you feel
fit for going on to Grosvenor Gardens ? '^

"No; I shall go nowhere else to-night. I am
tired to death."

Not a word of satisfaction at having her husband
back again ; no reference to him in her reply.
Adrian marked the omission and wondered at it.
Was love dead between those two? The fire that
had burned so strongly that night by the river;
the flame to which he had sacrificed his own
rights — was it quite extinct? He looked at
Helen thoughtfully. She was no less lovely than
in that old time when he had loved her; but he
saw the beautiful face with a clearer, calmer eye
now, and he saw weakness of character in every
line — a sweet, lovable, yielding nature, perhaps,
but not a woman for any man to build his hopes
upon, not a woman for whom to venture all things.

Adrian had a good many opportunities for observing
his sister-in-law after that evening at Lady
Glandore^s, and every new meeting only convinced
him the more that all was not well with her. St.
Austere shadow followed her like a blight; and
yet Adrian had never seen anything in her conduct

which would justify him in remonstrating with her,
or even in warning her against Lord St. Austell.
She could hardly refuse to know her sister's friends
while she was chaperoned by her sister ; and St.
Austell was an old friend of Major and Mrs.
Baddeley's.

He took the opportunity of a tete-astute lunch
with Valentine at the Junior Carlton, to speak of
his married life.

You are quite happy, Val ? " he asked.
Your marriage has realized all your hopes ? "

"Well, yes, I suppose it has. I don't know
very precisely what my hopes were. I only know
that I was desperately in love, and that you were a
good fellow to give me the field, and are a still
better fellow for forgiving me as you have
done."

He stretched across the table to shake hands
with his brother, with more feeling than he was
wont to exhibit.

Time has been very good to me, Val. I am
heart-whole again, and I can think of Helen as my
sister, and love her as a sister should be loved. I

can never forget that she is the first woman I ever
cared for''

^' How about the second, Adrian ? ''

'* There is no second yet. I will not say of
myself that I shall never love again. Life means
mutability, and so long as a man lives he may
change. I can't help wishing, Val, that you and
Helen were a little less fashionable. I don't like
your semi-detached way of living''

"^ My dear soul, we live as most of our fellow
creatures live' answered Valentine lightly. '^ I
am not the kind of man to be tied to any woman's
apron-string, wife or mistress ; to stand in doorways
while my wife dances ; to sit out plays I am
sick of while my wife looks on ; or to jog up and
down the Row at her side while she nods good
morning to all the silly people in London, and
shows off the last fashion in riding habits. If
Helen and I are to hang together for the rest of
our lives we must be free to enjoy ourselves after
our own ideas. She has an excellent chaperon,
and I am letting her sow her wild oats. She will
be tired of gadding about in a season or two."

*^ And when lie is tired of gadding about, is she
to sit by the fire — alone ? ''

My dear Adrian, don't lecture. Who knows ?
By that time I may be tired of knocking about
London, and may sit by the fire and smoke — or
take to books, like you. In the meantime, Helen
and I get on capitally."

'' Yes, and she gets on capitally with men who
are ever so much more attentive to her than you
are — men who don't mind looking on when she
dances, and don't mind jogging up and down the
Bow. St. Austell, for instance."

Valentine frowned, and then shrugged his
shoulders.

"^ You done suppose you can make me jealous ? ^^
he said. " I am not that kind of person. My
wife may accept as much admiration as she likes
from other men. I know her heart is mine."

He smiled, recalling his slave's devotion ; her
delight at a kind word, her blushing pleasure at a
casual kiss. He forgot that those things belonged
to his experiences of last year. He had not even
noticed the growing change in his wife's manner.

SO completely was lie absorbed in himself and his
own pleasures.

Indeed, Valentine, I have never doubted
Helenass affection for you ; but I think she deserves
a little more of your company — a little more of
your care. She is too young and too beautiful to
stand alone in London society'

^' Bosh ! A good woman always knows how to
take care of herself. It is only the bad ones that
want looking after."

Adrian was silent. He felt that he had said as
much as he could safely say to Valentine; but
there was something which he meant to say to
Helen before he went back to Devonshire.

He rode in the Row the day before he left
London, to try a saddle-horse which he had bought
at TattersalFs on the previous afternoon. He rode
early, and was surprised to meet his sister-in-law
coming in at the Kensington Gate, quite alone, as
the clocks were striking nine.

'^' I heard you were to be at two dances last
night, Helen, so I hardly expected to see you out
so early," he said.

I couldst sleeps she answered ; " so it was
just as well to have my ride before the herd came
ouV

She had flushed suddenly as he rode up to her,
but the colour faded the next minute and left her
very pale.

You look as if you wanted sleep, more than an
early ride," he said gravely, shocked at her waxen
pallor, but still more at the startled look with
which she had recognized him.

'' I dare say I do," she answered carelessly.
We were dancing the cotillon at five o^ clock. I
had no idea you rode in the Park."

^' I am only here because of my purchase yesterday.
How do you like him ? "

Helen looked critically at the handsome upstanding
bay.

Very much. He looks every inch a hunters'

Isn't it a pity that I only want him for a
hack ? " said Adrian, with a touch of bitterness,
remembering those days when his betrothed had
lamented his deficiencies as a sportsman. " Never
mind, Helen, you can hunt him in the autumn

when you come to the Abbey. You will come, of
course ? ''

'' I don't know'

Oh, but you must come, Helen. You must
come and stay with my mother, and take your fill
of rest, and dulness, and country air, after the
whirl and wear of London life. There is nothing
in the world so good as perfect rest in a quiet old
country-house. Valentine will have the shooting
in September and October, and you can have
plenty of cub-hunting. I will get one of the Miss
Treduceys to look after you. They never miss a
mornings'

And then, bending over her horses neck, he
said, with gentle earnestness :

Remember, Helen, the Abbey is your natural
home, and my mother your natural protector,
second only to your husband. In the hour of
doubt or trouble that home ought to be your
haven of refuge. Never fear to go there for shelter :
never fear to confide in my mother's love."

^' You are very good. Lady Belfield is the
dearest woman in the world. Of course I shall be

VOL. II. M

charmed to go to the Abbey if Valentine will take
me and I dare say he will like to go there for the
shooting replied Helen hurriedly, with a troubled
manner, Adrian thought; not as one whose mind
was at ease.

"Your horse has more breed than mine," he
said, by way of changing the conversation. " He
is a very beautiful creature. Where did Valentine
pick him up ? '^

He was bought at TattersalFs. It was not
Valentine who chose him. It was Mr. Beeching
or Lord St. Austell — I am not sure which of
them really bought him. They are both considered
good judges.

'' No doubt. But Val paid for the horse, of
course ? ■'"'

Of courses answered Helen, reddening at the
question. '' Who else should pay for him ? "

He must have given a high figure, I take
it?"

No ; the horse was a bargain. When I
begged him to buy me a horse, Valentine said he
would only give sixty guineas — that was all he

could afford — and I believe Ravioli was bought
for about that money."

'^ Then there is something wrong with him, I
suppose. I hope he is not a dangerous horse."

Dangerous ? Not the least. He has perfect
manners."

'' And he is not a whistler, or a roarer ? "

'' Certainly not."

*^^Then I congratulate you on having secured a
wonderful bargain. Any one would give you credit
for riding a three hundred guinea horse. I gave
very nearly two hundred for this fellow, and he is
not half so handsome as yours. Ah, here comes
St. Austell. Was he in your cotillon last night ? "

^^ Yes ; he is devoted to the cotillon."

Lord St. Austell met them both with the easiest
air. He, too, complained of sleeplessness.
These late parties are killing us," he said.
One loses the capacity for sleep. I shall have
to go to a Hydropathic in the wilds of Scotland
or Ireland for a month or two, just to pull myself
together before I go to the East for the
winter."

^' I should hardly have given you credit for
being out so early," said Adrian.

^' Wouldn't you ? Oh, I am better than my
reputation, I assure you. I hate the Row "when
the mob are out, and the band, and the talk, and
the nonsense. Good day." He saluted Helen,
and cantered away, as if he had no other purpose
in his ride than healthful exercise, and Adrian and
his companion saw no more of him.

They rode up and down for an hour, Adrian
trying the paces of his new horse, which behaved
in the ^' new broom " manner of horses that have
been nourished in a dealer's yard for a space, to
the temporary subjugation of their original sin.
After that quiet hour's ride and quiet talk, Adrian
escorted his sister-in-law back to her door, where
the man from the livery-yard was chewing his
customary straw ; and here they parted.

My mother and I go back to Devonshire tomorrow
morning, Helen. You'll not forget ? "

^' A thousand thanks, no. Good-bye."

And so they parted. She said not a word
about going to see Lady Belfield that afternoon,

and Adrian did not ask her. He heard afterwards
that she and Mrs. Baddeley were at the Ranelagh,
dined there, and drove home late in the evening to
dress for a ball. The beautiful Mrs. Belfield was
invited everywhere this season, and her fresh young
beauty had opened many doors which had hitherto
been closed against Mrs. Baddeley.

There was an awkward story about that lady's
diamonds, the particulars of which had been only
correctly known to a select few, but which the
select few had not forgotten, while even the vulgar
herd knew there was a story of some kind, not
altogether creditable to the wearer of the gems.

CHAPTER X.

'^ IT CANNOT BE''^

Lady Belfield went back to Devonshire dispirited
at having seen very little of her younger son
during her stay in London, and not altogether
satisfied with the aspect of his domestic affairs.
That marriage which was no union, that laborious
pursuit of pleasure which husband and wife were
carrying on in opposite directions, filled her with
anxiety.

Those darker clouds which Adrian had perceived
on the horizon had not revealed themselves to the
matrons innocent eyes. Her experience of life
had not familiarized her with the idea of false
wives and deceived husbands. These two had married
for love, casting all other considerations to the
winds, and it never occurred to her that such lovers
could weary of each other. She saw that they
were leading frivolous lives, and living very much

apart ; she saw many tokens of folly and extravagance
on both sides ; and she left London full of
vague fears for the future. But there was no
forecast of sin or ignominy in her mind when she
hade Helen good-bye in the little Japanese drawing-room,
just before she drove to Haddington.

It was within an hour of noon, and Helen came
out of her bedroom,, pale and wan, in her white
muslin wrapper.

You have had a very short night, I fears said
Lady Belfield.

'^ Oh, I wouldn't mind how short it was if I
could only sleep," answered Helen impatiently.
^^ My nights are always too long. The birds were
singing when we came home, and I thought if I
could only sleep for a couple of hours I should be
as fresh as they were ; but I lay awake till the
birds changed to the milkman, and the milkman
to the postman, and then came the tradesmen's
carts."

"You must come to the Abbey, Helen; there
will be silence and rest for you in your old

'' Oh, I love those old rooms, though I have had
some sad thoughts in them. Yes, Val says he will
be delighted to go to you for the pheasant-shooting''


^' But that is a long time for me to wait. I
want you very soon, Helen. A quarter-past eleven.
I must go, love. The express starts at a quarter
to twelve. Good-bye.'^

And so they parted, with kisses, and not without
tears on Helenass part.

The door had scarcely closed when she flung
herself on the sofa and buried her face in the
cushions to stifle her sobs. Valentine was sleeping
soundly after a late night at his club.

Adrian met his mother at Paddington, and they
went down to Devonshire together in the seclusion
of a reserved coupe, with books and newspapers,
fruit and flowers, and all the things that can
make a long journey endurable on a sultry summer
day.

I'm afraid Mrs. Baddeley is not quite the best
companion Helen could have, although she is her
sister," said Lady Belfield, after a long reverie.

I only hope she is not quite the worst replied
Adrian, laying down the new Quarterly. " I
wonder that Valentine does not see the danger of
such an association''

'^ Danger is an alarming word, Adrian'

I can use no other. The beautiful Mrs. Bel-field,
the latest fashion in beauty ought not to be
met everywhere in London without her husband,
and with such a woman as Mrs. Baddeley for her
chaperon; a woman who prides herself in going
everywhere with three or four men in her train."

It is all very sad, Adrian .''^

It was all very sad ; and it was sadder that Lady
Belfield and her son could do nothing to stop this
headlong progress of reckless husband and frivolous
wife drifting towards ruin. Constance Belfield felt
that it was worse than useless to dwell upon the
subject in her conversation with her elder son.
She wished, on his return home, that all things
should be made bright and pleasant to him ; and
yet her own uneasy fears about that other son
made happiness impossible.

She was surprised one morning, within a week

of her return, at receiving a letter from Helen,
hurriedly written, and with unmistakeable signs of
agitation.

You told me there were silence and rest forme
at the Abbey, and that you wanted me soon,"
Helen wrote. " May I go to you at once ? I am
tired to death of London and the season, and I
think sleeplessness would kill me if I were to hold
out much longer. Valentine has Goodwood and
half-a-dozen other race meetings coming on, so he
really does not want me here, since he can hardly
ever be here himself. May I go to you tomorrow,
dear mother? I shall not wait for a letter, but
shall start by the 11.45 train, unless I receive a
telegram to forbid me''

The telegram sent in response to this letter was
one of loving welcome. '^ Ask Valentine to come
with you, if only for a few days'' was the last
sentence in the message.

Lady Belfield drove to the station to meet her
daughter-in-law. She stood on the platform as
the train came slowly in, and the first glimpse of
Helen's face shocked her. That pale wan look

which she had noticed on the morning after the
ball had intensified to an almost ghastly pallor.
Helen looked wretchedly ill, and there was an
expression of misery in that pallid countenance
which was more alarming than any physical
decay.

Constance Belfield had too much tact to notice
the change as she and Helen clasped hands on the
platform, or during the drive to the Abbey.

I am very glad to have you here, my dearest,^^
she said, and that was all.

Helen was curiously silent, and offered no explanation
of her sudden visit. She nestled affectionately
against Lady Belfield^s shoulder, resting
her weary head there, smiling faintly, with a smile
that was sadder than tears.

I feel so much happier here than in London'
she said. "I feel so safe with you, mother."

She had hitherto refrained shyly from that familiar
name ; but in her yesterday's letter and in her
talk to-day the word " mother " seemed to come
naturally from her yearning heart.

Yes, dear, you are safe with Adrian and me.

He has forgotten and forgiven the past, and you
are to him as a very dear sisters

That is so good of him. But how poorly he
must think of me. Yes I know he must despise
me for my conduct in the past, and for the foolish
frivolous life I have been leading this last seasons

'the season is over now, Helen, with all its
frivolities. It is not even worth thinking about."

Yes, it is all over now/^ sighed Helen. " I
done suppose I have been much worse than other
people. I know I have not been half so bad as
some women — and yet I hate myself for my folly."

^' As long as it has left no sting behind it,
dearest, the folly may so easily be forgotten''

Oh, but there is always a sting, the sting of
self contempt."

I will not hear you talk of self contempt.
You are coming to the Abbey to be happy, and to
get back your roses. Adrian has a horse that he
says will suit jon admirably. You will enjoy
riding on the moor in the early mornings."

'hadrian is too kind; but I don't care much for
riding now."

'^ Don't you think some moorland rides would
brace you up after your long spell of late hours
and hot rooms ? At any rate there will be cub-hunting
for you in a month or six weeks , and that
you are sure to enjoys

Helen only answered with a sigh, which sounded
like an expression of doubt , and was silent for the
rest of the drive, as if too weary for speech.

Adrian was in the porch ready to receive his
sister-in-law ; and he too was startled at the change
for the worse which the last week had made in
Helenass appearance.

Helen's rooms were in the southern wing, immediately
over the library. There was a large
bed-room with a wide Tudor window, and an oriel
at the south-western corner ; and there was a
spacious dressing-room adjoining, which served
also as a boudoir, and was provided with all
luxurious appliances for reading and writing, or
repose. There was a secondary dressing-room on
the other side of the bed-room, which Valentine
had used on former visits, and where there were
still some of his canes and riding-whips in

the rack and some of his hunting gear in the
drawers.

The casements were open, and the scent of tea
roses and honeysuckle came in with the soft breath
of summer winds. The view from that wide old
window was of the loveliest, a wooded valley
through which the broad full river ran sparkling in
the western sun, and beyond the vale the bold
dark outline of the moor, like a wall that shut off
the outer world.

Helen sat on the broad window-seat after Lady
Belfield left her, looking out at the oaks and
beeches, the thickets of hawthorn and holly, and
the river flowing below them at the foot of the hill ;
looking and not seeing any of those things which
showed themselves with such exceeding loveliness
in the golden haze of afternoon. She was seeing
another scene, far less fair, yet not unbeautiful.
A lawn sloping to the Thames, with fine old trees
here and there, and in the background a white
lamp-lit house, with classic portico and long French
windows. Across the river are other lamps, shining
in many windows, and chimneys and dark roofs.

and a black barge sailing by upon the moonlit
stream ; and on the rustic bench beside her, in the
shadow of a veteran elm, sits a man whose voice
thrills her like music, a man who pleads to her,
who dwells with ever-increasing urgency upon his
own misery if he is to be doomed to live apart from
her, who implores her to pity and to bless his
despairing love, to let him be the sharer of her life,
the guardian of her happiness. He pleads as poor
humanity might plead to the angels. He reveres,
he honours her in tenderest phrases, in sweetly
flattering speech, while he exercises every art ho
knows to bring her down to the level of the lost
among her sex. He dazzles her with the glitter of
artful phrases, with the fancy picture of the future
they two would live together, once having broken
the bondage of conventionality. ^' Conventionality ! '^
That is the word by which Lord St. Austell defines
duty to her husband, respect for the worlds
laws, and fear-of God. Conventionality alone is
to be sacrificed.

So he pleads to her, half in moonlight, half in
shadow, in that quiet corner of Hurlirigham lawn.

far away from the racket of the club-house and the
terrace where frivolity chatters and saunters in
the moonshine.

Here there is no frivolity. Here is deepest
purpose. He pleads and she answers weakly,
falteringly. No, a thousand times no — it cannot
be.

She is utterly miserable, her heart is broken —
but it cannot be. She returns again and again to
the same point — it can never be. And he, as he
hears her half-sobbing speech, as he sees her bent
head and clasped hands, tells himself that it will
be. The woman who can resist a tempter does
not answer thus — does not listen as she has
listened.

But for that night at least he can win no other
answer than that despairing refusal. They part
after the drive home , on her sister's threshold,
where they have driven in a party of four, the
inevitable Beeching in attendance upon his liege
lady, albeit resentful of ill-treatment. They part
in silence, but even the clasp of St. AustelFs
hand at parting is a prayer, scarcely less insistant

than those spoken prayers in the Gillingham
garden.

This had all happened the night before last and
she has not seen him since and she has sworn to
herself that she will never see him again.

What shall she do with her life without him ?
That is the question which she asks herself
despairingly now, in the golden light of afternoon,
sitting, statue-like , with her hands clasped above
her head J leaning against the deep embrasure of
the massive old window. What is to become of
her without love, or mirth, or hope, or expectancy ?
All things that gave colour to her life have
vanished with that fatal lover, who came as
suddenly into her existence as a rainbow comes
into the sky, and glorified her life as the rainbow
glorifies the horizon.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XI.

PAST CURE

Lady Belfield was content to cherish and make
much of her daughter-in-law without asking any
awkward questions. There was no letter of remonstrance
from Valentine,, therefore it might be
supposed that he took no objection to his wife's
absence; and so far all was well. Early hours
fresh air, pleasant society would no doubt soon
exercise a good influence upon Helenass health and
spirits. Brightness would return to the fair young
face, and reviving health would bring a happier
frame of mind.

Helen went to her room soon after ten o'clock
every night, except when there were visitors ; but
she rarely came downstairs until after the family
breakfast. This privilege was accorded to her
indifferent health. She walked and drove with
Lady Belfield^ and took afternoon tea with Lady

Belfield^s friends. She did not care to ride or to
play tennis; and those amusements were not pressed
upon her either by Adrian or his mother. It
might be that all she wanted was rest. Adrian
watched her attentively, without seeming to watch.
He knew now but too well how weak a reed this
was upon which he had once hazarded the happiness
of his own life.

Mr. Eockstone and the Freemantles were the
most frequent visitors in the long summer days,
dropping in at all hours, sitting about the lawn
with Lady Belfield and her son, bringing all the
news of the parish and discussing the more
stirring though less interesting news of the outer
world.

Sometimes the Miss Treduceys came in, an hour
before afternoon tea, just in time for a double set
at tennis, with Adrian and Lucy Freemantle, who
was less sheep-faced and a good deal prettier at
twenty than she was at eighteen.

She was a tall, fair girl, with light brown hair
and clear blue eyes — eyes in which the very spirit
of candid and innocent girlhood seemed to smile

N 2

and sparkle. She was a happy tempered, bright,
industrious girl, helping her father and mother in
all their hobbies and all their plans, and ruling her
very inferior brother with affectionate tyranny.
There could have been no more striking contrast
than that between Lucy Freemantle, in
the vigour and freshness of her girlhood, and
Helen Belfield, in her broken health and
spirits.

"What a very sad change in your pretty
daughter-inlaw' said Mrs. Freemantle to Lady
Belfield. '^ She looks as if she were going into a
decline.-'^

Oh, we won't allow her to do that. She is hereto
be cured'' Constance replied cheerfully.

She did not want to have Helen pitied and
despaired about by half the county.

People told me she was quite the rage in
London when I was there in June," said Matilda
Treducey. " I met her at two or three parties,
but she was always so surrounded that I couldn't
get a word with her ; and 1 hope, dear Lady
Belfield, you won't feel offended if I own that I

don't like Mrs. Baddeley, and that I rather avoided
any encounter with her J'

Lady Belfield was silent. She too had her
doubts about Mrs. Baddeley, and was not inclined
to take up the cudgels in that lady's behalf, albeit
she inwardly resented Miss Treducey's impertinence.


The days went by peacefully and pleasantly
enough but there was no revival of Helen's spirits.
Country air and country hours were doing her
some good perhaps. She was a little less wan and
pale than she had been on her arrival ; but Adrian's
calm watchfulness perceived no improvement in
her moral being. If she smiled, the smile was
evidently an effort. When she talked there was
the same air of constraint. If he came upon her
suddenly in the drawing-room or the garden it
was generally to find her sitting in listless idleness,
with the air of one for whom life had neither
pleasures nor occupations.

This state of things went on for more than a
month. It was the middle of August, and the
weather was sultrier than it had been in July.

Mrs. Baddeley was astonishing the quieter visitors
at a Scarborough hotels and delighting her train of
attendants, who had rallied to that point from
various shooting-boxes on the Yorkshire moors.
Valentine was going to and fro over the earth like
the Evil One, in his journeying from one race
meeting to another. He occasionally favoured his
wife with a few hurried lines from a provincial
hotel, telling her his whereabouts.

He appeared thoroughly to approve of her residence
at the Abbey, and promised to join her there
before the first of October.

This, so far as it went, seemed well, or at least
it so seemed to Lady Belfield. Adrian was not
altogether satisfied.

I don't like Valentine's passion for the turf'
he said one day, when he and Helen were sitting
on the lawn after luncheon, she making believe to
work, he with a volume of Herbert Spencer on his
knee, and his thoughts very far from the pages of
that philosopher. " I hope, Helen, there is no
truth in a rumour that I heard at my club when 1
was in London the other day."

^' What rumour ? ''

'^ A man assured me that Valentine has a share
in Lord St. Austell's racing stables."

She crimsoned at that sudden utterance of
St. AustelFs names and could scarcely answer
him.

^' I — I — have never heard of such a thing," she
said.

'^ But you know that St. Austell and your husband
are close friends, although they only met a
little while before your marriage, when St. Austell
ras at Morcomb. If there is any truth in the
report, Valentine is in the right way to ignominious
bankruptcy. He has only your settlement,
and the allowance my mother makes him.
Neither of those would be available for his creditors.
Practically he is a man of straw, and
has no right to speculate in a racing stud."

I don't believe he does speculate. He likes to
go to races, and he bets a little sometimes. He
has given me money that he has won on the turf.
I know that there is a stable belonging to — to —
Mr. Eeechiug — and Lord St. Austell ; but I don't

think Valentine lias anything to do with it beyond
going to look at the horses now and then."

I hope yoa are right, Helen. The turf is a
dangerous distraction for any man ; it would be
deadly for my brother. I hope he will have had
enough of race meetings by the end of this year,
and that he will sober down to a more domestic
life. That pretty Japanese drawing-room of yours
ought not to be always empty."

Helen did not reply. Her head bent lower over
the group of poppies in crewel-stitch which she
carried about with her in a basket all day long,
and which seemed to make no more progress than
Penelope's web.

Two or three days after this little conversation.
Sir Adrian was surprised by a subtle change in
his sister-inlaw s spirits.

It was not that she seemed happier than before ;
but she was certainly less listless, less despondent.
She had an air of suppressed excitement, which
showed itself in a forced gaiety. She talked a
great deal more, laughed at the smallest jokes,
and she suddenly took it into her head to play

tennis violently with Jack Freemantle. To Adrian
it seemed as if she was impelled by some hidden
agitation which found relief in movement and
occupation of any kind.

Looking back at the events of the previous day,
he remembered that she had been wandering about
the park alone in the afternoon for two or three
hours. She had, for the first time, avoided driving
out with Lady Belfield, on the ground that the
afternoon was oppressively warm ; and then soon
after luncheon she had taken a book and strolled
out into the garden. He had missed her later on,
and had met her three hours afterwards returning
from the Italian terrace by the river, that cypress
walk where he had received the proof of her inconstancy.


He felt that there was an evil influence at
work, and he feared that the evil influence was
St. Austell.

He had seen enough while he was in London to
inspire him with grave doubts as to the relations
between his brother's wife and that nobleman. St.
AustelFs position and St. Austell's reputation were

alike dangerous, and that light nature of Helen's
was not formed for resistance in the hour of
temptation. Adrian remembered the scene on
Lady Glandore^s terrace and the morning ride in
the Park ; and his heart was ill at ease for the
woman who was to have been his wife.

CHAPTER XII.

OPENING HIS EYES

While Helen was pacing the cypress walk in the
long August afternoon, Valentine was at York,
where the summer meeting was in full swing.
Interest as well as pleasure had led him to the
northern city. He was not, as his brother had
been told, a partner in the St. Austell and Beeching
stable, but his interests were deeply involved
in their successes , and he had mixed himself up in
their turf speculations in a manner which might
result in a great coin) or a great disaster. One of
their horses was entered for the Great Ebor, and
stood pretty high in the betting ; another ran in a
smaller race, and there were three of the stud
entered for selling stakes.

Valentine had backed Postcard rather heavily
for the Great Ebor, and he knew that Belching
and St. Austell had both laid their money pretty

freely, and that both believed in the horse. To
Teaching losing or winning was a matter of slight
consequence ; but, like most millionnaires, he was
very intent upon making his stable pay, and was
very savage when the luck went against him. St.
Austell was by no means rich, and to him Post-cards
success must be a matter of importance.
The value of the horse would be quadrupled if
he won this great race, to say nothing of his
owner's bets.

Under these circumstances, Mr. Belfield was surprised
at not finding St. Austell at Kings Cross
when he arrived on the platform just in time for
the special. It had been arranged a week before
that he, Beeching, and St. Austell were to travel
together by this train, which left London at eight
in the morning on the first day of the races, and
were to occupy a suite of rooms together at the
hotel till the meeting was over. Mr. Beeching
had charged himself — or had been charged — with
the duty of engaging the rooms, and of securing a
coupe for the journey.

Mr. Beeching was on the platform, with his

valet in attendance upon him. The coiqye was engaged
and a pic-nic basket containing a Strasbourg
pie, a chicken and a couple of bottles of extra
dry champagne, was in the rack ; but there was no
St. Austell.

'* What does that fellow mean by being behind
time ? ^^ asked Valentine, when he and Beeching
had taken their seats, and the doors were being
shut.

'* St. Austell ? He's not comings'

'^ Not coming ! Not coming to see Postcard win
the Great Ebor ! ''

No. He's chucked up the stable'' answered
Beeching coolly. " You see he owed me a hatfal
of money one way and another, and the other night
he and I had a general square-up, which resulted in
my taking about seven shillings in the pound all
round. He surrendered his interest in Postcard
and the rest of the stud, and I gave him back his
I O U's. He is going to India next week."

'^ Why India ? "

Lungs. Can't stand a European winter. His
doctors advise him to try Ceylon or India. He is

keen upon an Oriental tour, and he's off to Venice
next week on his way eastward. He'll potter about
in Northern Italy , perhaps, for a month or so, and
then put himself on board a P. & O."

Queer' said Valentine. '^ He never told me
anything was wrong with his lungs, though he looks
a poor creature at the best of times."

We can't all be gladiators like you. I don't
think St. Austell knew there was anything radically
wrong till he went to Sir William Jenner a little
while ago and had himself overhauled. But he has
been laid up more or less every winter for the last
three or four years, and he has lived pretty fast as
you know. I should think India would be a capital
move for him."

'perhaps' assented Valentine, pondering deeply,
with bent brows.

On the Knavesmire all their acquaintances were
surprised at St. Austell's absence, and ^Alr. Beeching
had to give the same explanation to a good
many people. Valentine was irritated by this
iteration.

"Deuce take the fellow, what a lot of trouble

he has given us' he said angrily. " He ought to
have come to see the horses performance, although
he had parted with his interest in him. He has
got a good deal of money on the race, anyhow."

The great day and the great race came. The
Knavesmire was a scene of life and movement, of
vivid colour and ceaseless animation — a scene of
universal gladness, one would suppose, taking the
picture as a whole. But in detail there was a
good deal of disappointment. It is only the
disinterested lookers-on, the frivolous people who
go to race meetings to eat and drink and stare
about them in the sunshine, the clodhoppers and
bumpkins who loll upon the rails and gaze at the
scene as at the figures in a kaleidoscope — it is
only for these that there is no bitter in the cup of
pleasure, no fly in the ointment.

Postcard, after a magnificent lead, which elated
all his backers, shut up — in Mr. Belfield's parlance
like a telescope. He was a powerful horse, and
would have pulled splendidly through heavy
ground; but the weather had been peerless, and
the course was as hard as macadam, so the lighter

horses had the advantage. Beeching and Belfield
ate their lunch in moody silence, and drank twice
as deeply as they would have done to signalize a
triumph.

^' V\\ be hanged if I spend another night in this
cursed hole' said Valentine when the day's racing
was over.

'^ Oh, you'd better see it out. I've got the
rooms for the week don't you knows and I shall
have to pay pretty stiffly for them, and I've
ordered dinner. You may just as well stay."

Make it Yorkshire if you're afraid of the
expense, and when you come back to town I'll
square up," retorted Valentine sulkily. " Vm tired
of the whole business. Your stable has never
brought me luck. Good-night ! "

It was only half-past five ; the sun was high
still, but sloping westward, and carriages and foot
people were moving out of the green valley in
masses of shifting lights and colours. A pretty
scene ; but far from pleasant to the jaundiced eye
of Valentine Belfield.

He got into a cab drove to the hotel, bundled

his things into a bag and a portmanteau, and had
them carried to the adjacent station just in time
for one of the special trains which were taking
the racing men back to London. He got into a
saloon carriage, coiled himself up in a corner away
from the dust and the glare, and presently, when
the express was flying across the country, past
those broad fields where the corn was still
standing, low hills where lights and shadows came
and went in the softening atmosphere of evening,
he fell fast asleep, and slept for nearly three hours,
sleeping off that extra bottle of champagne which
he had drunk almost unawares in his exasperation.

It was dark when he awoke, black night outside
the carriage windows — and within there was only
the dim light of the lamp, almost obscured by
tobacco smoke.

There were very few passengers in the spacious
carriage, and of those few, three were asleep,
sprawling in unrestrained repose upon the
morocco cushions, worn out with open air, sun,
dust, and drink. Two men sat in the angle of
the carriage, in a line with Mr. Belfield's corner,
VOL. II.

and those two were talking confidentially as they
lazily consumed their cigarettes, talking in those
undertones which are sometimes more distinctly ,
audible than the brawl and rattle of loud voices.

I tell you, my dear fellow, everybody knew
all about it except the gentleman most concerned
said one ; '' and whether he didn't know,
or whether he was wilfully blind, is an open
question. I don't like the man, and I should be
willing to think anything bad of him, but he's a
good bred 'un, anyhow, and I suppose we ought
to give him the benefit of the doubt."

^^ He was never about with her," returned the
other man, " she went everywhere with her sister,
and we all know the sister."

^'^A very charming woman," said his friend,
with a laugh, ^' and a very dangerous one. She's
about the cleverest woman out, I think; for,
without compromising herself seriously, she has
contrived to make more out of Tier admirers than
any woman in London. She must have bled
Beechiug to a pretty considerable tune, I fancy."

Oh, Belching is fair game," said the other

mau. ^'^ Nobody minds Beeching. That kind of
pigeon was only fledged in order to be plucked;
besides, Beeching is uncommonly careful. Nobody
will ever do him any harm. He has the
commercial intellect fully developed. You may
depend he keeps a close account of his menus
plaisirs, his grass-widows and such like, and
knows to a shilling what they cost him, and will
never exceed the limits of strict prudence.^^

Mr. Belfield's attention was fully awakened by
this time. He had turned himself round in his
shadowy corner, and was listening with all his
might. He knew one of the men, a member of
the Badminton and the Argus, slightly; the other
not at all.

The worst story against her is the story of
the diamonds," said the man whom he did not
know.

Ah, you were in India when it happened, and
knew all about it, I supposes replied the other.
It was a rather ugly story, I believe, but I never
heard the details,"

I was in Baddeley's regiment when she came



to India with him' said the other. '' She had
not been married six months and was about the
loveliest woman I ever saw in my life. As handsome
as Mrs. Belfield is now — that splendid Irish
beauty, which is unsurpassable while it lasts, great
grey eyes with black lashes, a complexion of lilies
and carnations, form and colour alike lovely and
luxuriant, a woman who makes every cad in the
streets stop all agape to look at her. She
startled us at our hill station I can tell you,
and the Baddeley madness raged there all that
season like hydrophobia. One of our men, a poor
little lieutenant, a mere lad. Lord Promptings son,
took the disease very badly. What was sport for
us was death for him. He fell madly in love with
his Major's wife, and hung about her and followed
her about in a distracted way that would have
been laughable had it not verged upon the
tragic."

Did she encourage him ? "

"Of course she did. He was a swell, and ridiculously
generous. She nicknamed him Baby,
talked of him as ' a nice boy,' and before long he

was known everywhere as Mrs. Baddeley's Baby.
He didn't serai to mind people laughing at him.
We went to Calcutta later on, and there were balls
and all sorts of high jinks going on, and Mrs.
Baddeley was the belle of the place, and everybody,
from the Governor-general downwards, was
avowedly in love with her. Poor young Stroud
hung on to her, and was savage with every man
she noticed. One night, at the Governor-generals
ball, she came out in a blaze of diamonds. One of
us chaffed the Major about his wife's magnificence ;
but he took it as easily as possible. She had hired
the gems from Facet, the great Calcutta jeweller, he
told us. ' I suppose I shall have to pay pretty
stiffly for the use of them,' he said, ' but if she
likes to cut a dash in borrowed plumes, I can't
complain. It'll be a deuced long time I'm afraid
before she'll be able to show a diamond necklace other
own.' "

The speaker stopped to light a fresh cigarette,
and then went on lazily dropping out his sentences
between puis of tobacco.

Baddeley is a big, good-natured, self-indulgent

ass but I done know that he's anything worse than
that. We all laughed at his story of the hired
diamonds , and six months afterwards when young
Stroud broke for six-and-twenty thousand, most of
it money 'borrowed from Calcutta Jews, we all
knew that Mrs. Baddeley^s diamonds counted for
something, and Mrs. Baddeley^s little caprices for
something more, in the lads entanglements. We
were all very sorry for him. Brompton was said
to be a martinet, and the young man went about
Calcutta looking as white as a ghost for a week or
two, while he was trying to make terms with his
creditors. Then one morning in barracks there
was a great scare. Young Stroud had shot himself
half-an-hour after morning parade. He had left
two letters on his table, one addressed to his father,
the other to Mrs. Baddeley.''

'' How did the lady take it ? ''

''\ suppose she was rather sorry. She never
showed herself in Calcutta after the catastrophe.
The regimental doctor went to see her every day,
and the Major told every one that she was laid up
with low fever, and that the climate was killing

her. She went back to England a month or so
after Shrouds deaths and she carried the spoils of
war with her , and has worn them ever since."

And you think the younger sister is as bad ? "
said the other man thoughtfully.

There was no malevolence in either of them.
They were only discussing one of the problems of
modern society.

I done know about that. I believe she has
more heart than Mrs. Baddeley ; and that she is
over head and ears in love with St. Austell. They
have been carrying on all the season, and I wonder
they haven't bolted before now."

My dear fellow, nobody bolts nowadays.
Elopements are out of fashion. There is nothing
further from the thoughts of a modern seducer thana
menage. The days of post-chaises and Italian
villas are over. We love and we ride away. St.
Austell is a man of the world and a man of the
time. Here we are, old chap. My trap is to meet
us here."

They took up their sticks, hats, and overcoats,
and left the carriage before Valentine Belficld's

brain had recovered from the shock of a sudden
revelation.

He started to his feet as they went out called
out to the man he knew followed to the door just
as the porter slammed it, and the train moved on.
He hardly knew what he meant to do : whether
he would have called the slanderer to account,
caned him, challenged him. Ke stood by the door
as the train rushed on, rocking him as it went —
stood there dazed, bewildered, recalling that idle
talk he had overheard from the darkness of his
corner yonder, wondering how much truth there
was in it all.

About Mrs. Baddeley, his wife's sister ? Well,
there might be some ground for scandal there
perhaps. He had long known that she was a
coquette, and a clever coquette, who knew how to
lead her admirers on, and how to keep them off.
He knew that Beeching had ministered freely to
the lady's caprices; and he had always looked upon
St. Austell as the lady's favoured admirer, and the
man for whom she was in some danger of compromising
herself.

The story of young Stroud's futile passion for his
Major's wife and of costly jewellery given, at a
time when Lord Brompton's heir was already
deeply in debt, was not altogether new to him. He
had heard some vague hints in the past ; but men
had been shy of alluding to that old scandal in his
presence.

He had known that his sister-in-law had been
talked about ; but no man had ever dared to insinuate
that she was anything worse than a clever
woman, perfectly capable of taking care of herself.


I back Mrs. Baddeley and her poodle against
Lucretia and her dagger," he had heard a stranger
say one night in the club smoking-room ; and it
had seemed to his somewhat cynical temper that
his wife could not be safer than with a thoroughly
worldly woman, a woman who knew every knot and
ravelled end in the " seamy side " of society.

But St. Austell his wife's admirer ! They two
head over ears in love with each other ! Never
for one instant had such a possibility dawned
upon him ; and yet those two men lead talked as if

that mutual passion were an established fact, known
to all the world, except to him, the deluded
husband.

Helen, his Helen ! The wife who had satiated
him with sweetness, whose devotion had cloyed,
whose fondness had been almost a burden. That
she should play him false, that she should care for
any other man on earth ! No, he could not believe
it. Because two idiots in a railway carriage chose
to tell lies, was he to think that the woman who
had counted the world well lost for love of him had
turned traitress and was carrying on with another
man ?

St. Austell, a notorious rake ! a man who had
the reputation of being fatal in his influence over
women.

The man had seemed safe enough so long as he
had thought of him only as Mrs. Baddeley's lover ;
but, with his suspicions newly aroused, Valentine
Belfield looked back at the history of the last few
months, and saw all things in a new light. He
remembered how in Mrs. Baddeley^s festivities at
Hurlingham, Banelagh, or Sandown, water picnics

at Henley or Marlow Sunday dinners at Richmond
or at Greenwich, St. Austell had always been one of
the party. Beeching and St. Austell had always
been at hand. Whoever else was included, those
two were inevitable. He had reckoned them both
as Leonora's devotees ; they were the pair which
she drove in her car of triumph, like Venus's doves
or Juno^s peacocks. One possessed her heart, and
ruled her life ; the other was her purse-bearer.
Knowing all this, or believing this, he had yet
been content that his wife should go everywhere
under her sister's wing. The arrangement relieved
him of all trouble, and Helen seemed happy.
People complimented him upon his wife's beauty,
and he accepted their praises as a kind of tribute
to himself; pleased to show the world how careless
he could afford to be about a wife whom everybody
adored, secure in his unbounded dominion
over her, free to neglect her and yet to defy all
rivalry.

CHAPTER XIII.

AN UNFINISHED LETTER

Mr. Belfield sat brooding during the rest of the
journey to Kings Cross and his thoughts grew
darker with the darkening night. Yes , St. Austell
had haunted his wife's footsteps all through the
season that was past. He had heard of them riding
in the Row; it was St. Austell who had chosen
Helen's horse at Tattersall's, and who had been
officiously obliging in attending the sale and getting
the animal for a price that seemed almost
ridiculously at variance with its quality.

He could recall the whole transaction : how in
St. Austell's presence one evening, after a little
dinner in Mrs. Baddeley's rooms, Helen had entreated
him to buy her a horse, urging that it was
odious to ride hired animals, smelling of the livery
stables and suggestive of a riding-master in butcher
boots; how he had declared he couldn't afibrd to

buy ; and how St. Austell had told him that it
would be a more economical arrangement than
hiring, and had suggested that a good horse might
be got for a very little money now that the hunting
was all over.

What do you call a little money ? " Valentine
asked, annoyed at his wife's persistence, and at St.
Austell's interference.

Well, I suppose you might pick up a good Park
hack for ninety or a hundreds'

^^ Nearly twice as much as I should like to gives
answered Valentine curtly.

'^ How much would you give if there were an
opportunity ? I am at TattersalPs nearly everyday,
and I would be on the look-out if I knew
what you wanted.^^

I don't want anything. There are plenty of
horses in Devonshire that my wife and I can ride
when we're there'

But Devonshire isn't the Park, Val'' pleaded
Helen. " I want a horse for the Park, awfully."
Whereupon Mr. Belfield shrugged his shoulders,
and said he would give fifty or sixty guineas for a

hack, rather that he bothered; and with this
ungracious permission his wife was fain to be
content.

Three days after this conversation, Valentine
found Lord St. AustelFs groom waiting in front of
Wilkie Mansions with a thoroughbred bay horse,
which he was gently leading up and down the
road.

His Lordship's compliments, and this is the
horse he has bought for you, sir," said the man.
Uavioli, grandson to Macaroni.'^

Valentine looked the animal over critically.

Is he sound ? " he asked.

^^ Yes, sir. His Lordship's vet looked at him
before the sale."

^' Well, he is very handsome ; and, if his manners
are as good as his looks, his Lordship has made a
capital purchase."

Valentine met St. Austell at his club next day,
and gave him a cheque for fifty-seven guineas, at
which sum the horse had been knocked down to
him at Tattersall's. At such a price, the animal, if
sound, was an unquestionable bargain. Valentine

had ridden him round the Eow, and had found his
paces admirable, although he was obviously over-weighted
by anything above eleven stone. For a
light weight like Helen the horse was perfection.

"The yard must have been asleep when you
bought him/^ said Valentine.

Ohj I knew how to bide my time and watch my
opportunity answered St. Austell lightly. " I am
very glad you're satisfied with my choice'

More than satisfied, my dear fellow'

So the matter had ended. Mr. Belfield, full of
his own schemes pleasures and excitements had
thought no more of the horse except to remember
that he had made a sacrifice to his wife in buying
him and that she ought to be very grateful.

To-night, looking back at the past in the new
light of awakened doubts, he shrewdly suspected
that St. Austell had fooled him, and that, under
the pretence of getting a bargain at TattersalFs, he
had presented the woman he admired with a horse
that had cost three times as much as her husband
was willing to pay. And she had known the secret
of the transaction, no doubt, and they had laughed

together at the husband's meanness, and at the ease
with which he had been hoodwinked. Valentine
Belfield almost choked with rage at the idea of his
own blindness.

To think that I should be deceived by any
woman — above all by my wife — the wife I won as
easily as a pair of gloves — and by Heaven, I thought
she was as much my own as my gloves or my hat
as faithful to me as my favourite dogs

Yet remembering how easily she had been won,
how soon she had wavered in her fidelity to Adrian,
he could scarcely wonder that she had faltered in
her truth to him. St. Austell was fascinating, a
man of eminently seductive manners, deeply read
in that modern literature which women appreciate,
distinctly a man to please women — while he,
Valentine, was a sportsman, caring little for
women's society, and making no sacrifices to please
them, looking upon them as a lower order of beings
whose nature it was to be suppliants and adorers of
the master spirit, man. He had never thought of
his wife's love for him as a measurable quantity,
which he might exhaust.

She has been a fool, and she has been a
coquettes he said to himself, as the train steamed
past the shabby streets and gaslit windows of
northern London; " bnt I don't believe she has
been anything worse. It will be my business to
drive her with a tighter rein in future. You have
been allowed to go too free my sweet. It must
b3 curb instead of snaffle, henceforward'

He had business in London which must needs
be done before he could look after his wife. Post-cards
defeat meant losses which amounted almost
to financial ruin. Money would have to be raised,
and at a sacrifice. He could not bring himself to
appeal to his mother for help in a turf difficulty :
first, because she had been very generous to him
already ; and secondly, because there were other
difficulties, other debts imminent, for which he
would be obliged to ask her assistance.

Under these circumstances he went to a Jew
money-lender, and involved himself deeply in order
to raise money against settling day. From the
money-lenders office he went to Tattersall's, where
he was almost as well known as Lord St. Austell.

VOL. II. p

He saw one of the chief clerks, a man with
whom he had been on familiar terms ever since
he had been a frequenter of the famous auction-yard.


^^ There was a horse sold here last Mays he
said, " a thoroughbred bay, grandson of Macaroni.
I want very much to know at what figure
that horse was knocked down. Fve got a bet
upon it.^^

What's your bet, Mr. Belfield, if it's not an
impertinent question ? '^ asked the man easily.

If it was I wouldn't mind it from you, Jones''
answered Valentine. ^' I've laid two to one that
Ravioli fetched over two hundred."

I think you're pretty safe, sir. I remember
the horse. He was one of Captain Popinjay's
lot, and they were all good 'uns. I'll turn up the
catalogue in a minute. May 7th, 10th, 14th ; yes,
here they are — hunters, park hacks, team of coach
horses."

He ran his finger down the pages of a catalogue,
his practised eye following the figures with amazing
rapidity. The prices realized by the horses were

written in the margin beside the lot numbers, and .
the names of the purchasers on the other side of
the page.

Ravioli, five years old, thoroughbred, has been
hunted with the Pytchley, carries a lady' he read.
^' Your money's safe, Mr. Belfield. Two hundred
and seventy-eight guineas. Lord St. Austell
bought him."

That's your ticket," answered Valentine lightly.
I thought I was pretty safe. Good-night ; a
thousand thanks."

He had just time to catch an afternoon train for
the West of England, a train which left Waterloo
late in the afternoon, and which was due at Chad-ford
Road Station a little before midnight. It was
a slow train, and one by which he would only have
travelled in an emergency.

He had telegraphed no announcement of his
coming, either to his mother or his wife. It was
a part of his plan to take Helen by surprise, and
he was willing to hazard the difficulty of getting
into a house in which all the servants might have
gone to bed before lie could arrive. The chances

were that Adrian would be in the library, where it
was his usual habit to sit reading long after midnight.


Chadford Road Station was nearly five miles from
the Abbey, and Mr. Belfield was in no humour fora
long walk. The Station Hotel, a decent inn,
which could provide a one-horse fly upon occasions,
and which called itself a posting-house, was open,
so he went in, ordered a brandy-and-soda and a
trap to take him to the Abbey.

The ostler and the flyman were lazy and slow,
and Mr. Belfield had to wait a quarter of an hour
while the fly was being got ready. He stood in
the bar, drinking his brandy-and-soda, and talking
to the landlady, a large and blooming matron
of the Devonshire dumpling order of beauty, whom
he had known from his childhood.

I never thought to have the pleasure of waiting:
upon you to-night, Mr. Belfield/^ she said.
But 1 always stop np for this train and send
the girls to bed. And yet Ism generally the first
up of a morning. Vve been expecting you down
at the Abbey, too, for I saw Mrs. Belfield driving

with her ladyship the other day, as pretty as ever,
but looking rather pale and out of sorts, I
thought'

Yes, she is not over well. She is down here
for her health''

To be sure, sir. The London season does
take a deal out of a lady' replied the innkeeper's
wife, shaking her head, and with an air of knowing
town dissipations by heart. '^ There's been one of
your friends stopping at Chadford for the last few
days, Mr. Belfield; but he hasn't brought any
horses this time, and not even so much as a body
servant. He came into the place as quiet as any
commercial."

Indeed ! Who is that ? "

Lord St. Austell. My good man saw him
yesterday evening sauntering by the river, just
outside the Lamb gardens, and he heard afterwards
that his lordship had been stopping at the Lamb
for the last three days, which, considering that
there's no sport except salmon fishing at this time
of year, and that the cooking at the Lamb is about
as bad as it can be, puzzled me and my husband as

to what attraction a gentleman like Lord St.
Austell could find heres

Ohj there is always sport for a true sportsman,"
answered Valentine lightly.

'swell, as you say, sir, it may be the salmon,
and that would account for his not bringing any
horses."

Ah, there's the fly ; goodnight, Mrs. Cramp,"
and Valentine jumped into the lumbering old
landau, and was jolted along the road to Chadford.

He looked up at the Lamb as he passed. Yes,
there were lights in the windows of the sitting-room
facing the bridge, the room that St. Austell
and Beeching had occupied three years ago. His
wife's lover was there. Her lover ! He had no
doubt as to their guilty love now. That revelation
about the horse was damning proof of St. AustelFs
perfidy even if it left Helen's conduct still doubtful.
To Valentine,, it seemed that they were
leagued against him, and that they had laughed at
his blindness — at him, the man who prided himself
upon his knowledge of horse-flesh, and who
had been duped so easily. Nor was this all.

He looked back and remembered many incidents,
looks, words, arrivals and departures, meetings that
bad seemed accidental, circumstances of all kinds,
trifling enough in themselves, yet signs and tokens
of secret guilt. He had been so certain of his
wife's allegiance, so secure, as to have been the
last to observe these indications, which had been
obvious to all the rest of the world.

^' If I had known that all women are .

But no, there is one good woman in the world, my
mother; and I have grown up in the belief that
xU well-bred women must be Like her. I thought
That it was in the nature of a well-born girl to be
chaste and true. I ought to have known differently.
God knows I have heard stories enough —
bit I thought there was a line of demarcation, a
gulf between the sheep and the goats."

He ground his teeth in an agony of rage, not
mare infuriated at the idea of his wife's falsehood
tim at the thought of his own blind confidence.
Th hard-worked old horse was rattling along the
roa:l at a good pace, eager to get his business
dote and go back to his stable ; but to Valentine's

impatience it seemed as if he were crawling. At
last the fly stopped shorty and the driver got down
to open the gates leading into the avenue.

The gates were rarely locked at night. The
lodge windows were dark. Before they were halfway
down the avenue, Valentine called to the man
to stop, and got out while he was pulling up his
horse.

I'll walk the rest of the way' he said, giving
the man a shilling out of the loose silver in his
pocket. " Good-nights

Good-night, sir, and thank 'ee/^ and the 
turned and cantered gaily homeward,
while the driver thought what a pleasant man Mr.
Belfield was, and what a cheery voice and manner
he had.

Mr. Belfield was hurrying down the avenue at
almost a run. He wanted to be face to face-nth
his false wife — to surprise her by the suddenness
of his coming, to stand before her without: a
moment's warning, strong in his knowledge of her
guilt. That was the one passionate craving of his
mind, the one hope for which he existed at this

moment. After that there would be another
meeting — between him and St. Austell ; a meeting
which must end in blood. Yes, straight before him
in the near distance he saw inevitable bloodshed.
No modern vengeance, beaten out inch by inch,
thin as gold leaf under the goldbeater^s hammer ;
no thirty days' scandal in the law courts, with all
its pettiness of foul details and lying and counter-lying
of hirelings ; not for him the modern
husbands mode of retribution ; but swift sharp
vengeance, such as one reads of in old Italian
chronicles. Vengeance as speedy and sudden, if
not as secret, as those dealings between man and
man which made the glory of Venice in the good
old days of the Council of Ten, when every seducer
went with his life in his hand, and knew not
whether the sun that rose upon his guilty pleasures
might not set upon his untimely grave in the
Canal yonder, and when every false wife had a
daily expectation of poison in the domestic wine-cup
or a dagger under the matrimonial pillow.

Valentine Belfield had no uncertainty of mind
as to his manner of dealing with St. Austell.

They two would have to stand face to face upon
some quiet spot in France or Belgium , where a
brace of pistols would settle all scores. How he
was to deal with his wife was a more complex
question ; but for the moment his desire was only
to confront her, and to wring the confession of her
guilt from those false lips.

The house was dark for the most part, as he
had expected to find it ; but there were lights in
the library windows, and in the windows of his
wife's rooms above the library. She was not at
rest then, late as it was. Her guilty conscience
would not let her rest perhaps.

He knocked at the glass door in the lobby next
the library, a door which stood open all day in
fine weather, and by which his brother went in and
out of the garden twenty times a day, loving the
old-world garden almost as he loved his books.
He heard the library door open, and Adrian's footsteps
approaching ; and then the shutter was taken
down and the door opened cautiously a little way.

'' Who is there ?''

Valentine's

Valentine !^^ cried Adrian, throwing open the
door, and holding out both his hands to his brother,
Why didn't you telegraph ? Helen went to bed
nearly three hours ago/^

^' Her candles are still burning, anyhow,^^
answered Valentine gloomily. ^^ I take it I shall
find her awake, late as it is. Good-night. Well
reserve all talk till the morning."

Won't you come into the library for ten
minutes ? All the servants are in bed, no doubt,
but I might get you something, perhaps — wine, or
brandy-and-soda."

Not a thing. Good-night

His manner mystified Adrian, and impressed
him with a foreboding of trouble. Never had he
seen so dreadful an expression in his brothers
face — the contracted brows, the rigid, bloodless
lips, the fixed look of the haggard eyes, staring
straight forward, as if intent upon some hideous
vision.

Adrian watched him as he went up the little
private staircase which led only to that one suite
of rooms in the library wing ; watched, and felt

inclined to follow him, and yet held back, not
liking to pry into his brothers secrets. What
could that trouble be which had wrought such an
evil influence upon Valentine ? Money troubles,
perhaps — turf losses. Adrian had heard enough
while he was in London to know that his brother
was the associate of racing men ; and it was easy
enough to guess that he had involved himself in
turf transactions.

Yet there was that in his face which indicated
stronger passions than money troubles should cause
in any reasonable being. But then, Valentine was
apt to give way to unreasonable wrath against anything
that came between him and his wishes.

It is nothing of any moment, perhaps,^^ thought
Adrian. '^ He will be in a better temper tomorrow
morning."

He told himself this ; yet so intense was his
sympathy with this brother, that he went back to
the library troubled at heart. He tried to go on
with the book he had been reading when Valentine
knocked at the door; but his thoughts were with
his brother and his brother's wife in the rooms

above him. He found himself listening for their
footsteps, for the sound of their voices, which
reached him now and then, faintly audible in the
stillness of the night.

The casement was open in the mullions window
yonder, and there may have been an open window
in the room above.

Valentine opened the door of his wife's bed-room
suddenly, and stood on the threshold looking at
her.

She was writing at a table in the middle of the
room, in a loose white dressing-gown, her hair
falling upon her shoulders. The room was in
supreme disorder — drawers pulled out to their
fullest extent, wardrobe doors open, a litter of
discarded odds and ends upon the floor, and trunks
packed as if for a journey.

She heard the door open, looked up, and saw
her husband standing in the doorway, with that
blanched and angry countenance which had so impressed
Adrian. She started to her feet, staring at
him with dilating eyes, and with her hands stretched

out tremulously above the paper on which she had
been writing.

Yes, it is I, your husband' he said. " You
expected some one else perhaps. You thought it
was your lovers'

His quick eye caught the action of her hands,
the fingers spread wide as if to conceal the writing
on the table, while she stood motionless, paralyzed
with fear. He was at her side before she had
recovered from the shock of his appearance, and
had snatched that half-written letter from the
table.

The ink was wet in the last lines, and there was
a long tremulous stroke where her hand had
faltered as she looked up and saw him in the
doorway.

Done read it ; don't read it, for God's sake,
Valentine," she cried piteously.

Not read a letter which is addressed to myself,"
he said. '^ You are a very curious woman,
Mrs. Belfield, and that is a very curious request.
Stay where you are," he cried, seizing her wrist
fiercely, as she made a terror-stricken movement

towards the door ; ^^ when I have read your letter
I shall know how to answer it/^

He held her there pinioned while he read the
following lines : —

"As you have long ceased to care for roe, Valentine
it can hardly be any great loss to you to lose
me for ever. You have lived your own life, and
have left me to live mine. You have done nothing
to make my life happy, or to prove your regard
for me. For a long time I went on loving you,
patiently devotedly,, blind to your selfishness and
neglect, waiting and hoping for a day that never
came. But at last my eyes were opened, and I
began to understand your character and my own
folly in caring for you. And then another love was
offered me, generous, devoted, self-sacrificing, and
for the first time I knew what the passion of a
lifetime means. When you read these lines I
shall be far away from this house — far away from
England, I hope — with the man who loves me well
enough to sacrifice his social position for my sake,
and for whose love I am willing to forfeit my good
name. I have but one regret in taking this step,

dreadful as its consequences may be ; and that is
my sorrow in proving myself unworthy of your
mother's affection. To forfeit her esteem is very
bitter. From you I have nothing to lose, for you
have given me nothing ^^

He stood with this letter in his right hand, and
his left holding her wrist — stood looking in her
face, after he had read the last word, she looking
back at him, terror changed to defiance. She had
been shocked and startled at his sudden entrance,
but it was not in her nature to turn craven.

"Do you mean this?" he asked.

^^ Every word of it — yes every word. You have
neglected me, trampled upon me — treated me as if
you had bought me in a market for your slave.
Yes, while all the best men in London were treating
me like a queen, while I had followers and
flatterers enough to turn any woman's head, you
did not see that there was danger — you did not
care. But there was one who cared — one whom I
love as I never loved you''

And you loved me as you never loved my
brother, and you will change again, and tire of St.

Austell as you tired first of Adrian and then of
me. You are a wanton by nature ; but you have
reckoned without your host, you fair, false devil.
You shall not live to dishonour me/^

He had his Malacca cane in his hand, a cane
with a loaded handle. Did he forget that the gold
knob was weighted with lead, as he raised the
cane and struck her, in blind, ungovernable rage —
struck the fair, pale brow with all the force of a
practised athlete.

She reeled under the blow, and then fell backwards
with a dull thud, fell without a cry, and
lay on the Persian carpet, looking up at him with
wide open eyes, and a red gash upon her forehead.

It was done. He stood looking down at her
an instant, and then his brain reeled, and he staggered
back against a sofa, and sank upon it, half-unconscious,
with a noise like the surging of the sea
in his ears, and a great light in his eyes. Then
came darkness, through which he heard hurrying
footsteps and an opening door, and then nothing.

He re-opened his eyes after what seemed a long
VOL. n. Q

interval, and saw Adrian kneeling beside that
prostrate figure, holding a hand-mirror above
the white lips.

"Adrian's' he faltered hoarsely, as his brother
rose slowly to his feet and faced him.

They stood looking at each other, both faces
rigid with horror ; so like, and yet unlike, even
when the same over-mastering emotion possessed
each in the same degree. They might have been
the principle of good and of evil encountering each
other, love and hate, right and wrong, compassion
and cruelty — any two qualities of human nature
that are most antagonistic.

^''You have killed hers said Adrian, almost
in a whisper.

Are you sure ? " gasped the other. " Is there
no hope ? Is she really dead ? ^^

Yes. Not a breath upon the glass," laying
down the mirror as he spoke. " Not the faintest
throb of the heart. Look at those glassy eyes —
Murderer ! "

It was not murder ! I struck her down in my
fury — struck at her as at an infamous woman who

had betrayed me — who defied me in her shameless -
ness. Yes, she defied me, Adrian ; blazoned her
guilt ; told me she loved him as she had never
loved me. I surprised her as she was writing
that letter ^^ — pointing to the open letter on
the table — " coolly announcing her intention to
dishonour me.

^* She stood there, looking at me, repeating
this; and I had that devilish cane in my hand,
and I lifted it and struck her — struck at her
blindly, as I would have struck at a strong man.
I struck her on the forehead, and she fell. I
knew no more, till I looked up out of thick
darkness and saw her lying there, and you beside
her''

Well, you have killed her. That is how
neglect and cruelty have ended' said Adrian.
If she sinned against you — if she would have left
you for another man — it is you must bear the
burden of her sin. You are the greater sinner.
But now you have to consider how you are to
answer for what you have done. The straightest
course will be the best. I will ffo and awaken

Mrs. Marrable, and then send for the doctor.
He can do nothing ; but it is our duty to have
him here as soon as possible

Valentine flung himself between his brother and
the door.

'' Wake old Marrable ! Send for the doctor ! ''
he echoed. " Are you mad, Adrian ? Do you
want to put a rope round my neck ? '^

I want to save your neck, and your conscience,
too, as far as I can,^^ answered Adrian, with the
calmness of an intellectual nature which rises with
the importance of a crisis. ^' You must face the
situation honestly, awful as it is. There is no
other way. There must be an inquest, and you
will have to answer for what you have done. You
will be sure of sympathy in your character of an
outraged husband, when that letter has been read.
There will be a verdict of manslaughter, perhaps —
impossible, I fear, to avoid that j and you may have
to go to prison for a short times

^^ Was there ever such a fool ? '^ cried Valentine.
Do you think I am going to offer my neck to
the noose, like that ? ^ I am very sorry, gentlemen

of the jury, that I have had the misfortune to kill
my wife. I hope you will be civil enough to call
the matter manslaughter, and to let me off easily ;
but if you choose to call it murder, here I am,
ready for the hangman No, my good brother ;
we must manage things better than that. We
won't call up old Marrable, or send for the family
doctor. We have the best part of the night before
us yet. We must dispose of that ! ^^

He pointed with quivering finger to the pallid
form lying on the carpet. It was a small Persian
carpet of delicate colouring on a white ground,
and the blood from that deep cut upon the temple
had made a crimson patch on the whiteness. How
harshly that crude red showed against the half
tints of the Oriental pattern !

I will have nothing to do with you unless you
take the straight courses said Adrian.

Oh yes, you will. You are my brother, the
other half of myself, bound to me by the most
mysterious tie that humanity knows. You must
help me. You must go with me, hand and foot,
heart and brain ! What, would you have my

mother Take tomorrow to be told that her son had
given himself up to answer for the murder of his
wife? Do you think such a blow as that would
not kill her, as surely as that fatal blow killed
yonder wantons pointing scornfully to his victim.

Valentine are you a man or a devil ? "

** There is a touch of the latter in my nature,
perhaps. When you were made all of milk and
honey, I took the gall and wormwood for my share.
I say you must help me, and without the loss of a
minute ; or if you won't help me you may look on.
At least I suppose you will hold your tongues'

'* 1 tell you again, Valentine, your only safety is
in facing your danger, and answering for what you
have done''

And I tell you again that I am not such a fool
as to take a fools advices

He knelt beside his dead wife, and rolled the
carpet round those lifeless limbs. Calmly, with a
diabolical decision and promptness, he arranged his
ghastly burden.

*' Open the door,"*^ he said, " and bring a candle."

Adrian obeyed, instinctively, mechanically. His

conscience and his intellect alike revolted against
his brother's actions, yet he submitted and went
with him. Perhaps he may have argued that
when a manes life is at stake he has the right to
follow his own judgment rather than any other
man's counsel. The awfulness of the stake may
give exceptional rights.

For the trained athlete that slender form was
no oppressive weight. Valentine carried his burden
with the head lying across his shoulder the long
loose hair falling like a veil over those marble
features, the waxen hand and arm hanging on his
breast. His own face was of almost as deathlike
a hue as that pallid arm. His brows were bent,
his lips sternly set, his eyes dark with desperate
resolves. He would put that ghastly evidence of
his crime away anywhere, anyhow, to save himself,
his own fall blooded fiercely throbbing life, this
vigorous all-enjoying entity which death would
reduce to nothingness and everlasting oblivion.
Brave as a Roman to endure pain, to face danger,
to live down disgrace, Valentine turned craven at
the thought of life's inexorable end. He would

ward off that to the uttermost hour. He would
fight for that as the fox fights, with dauntless
courage and inexhaustible cunning.

What was this burden, that he carried, cold and
still, upon his passionately-throbbing heart ? What
was this that he should think of it, or care for it,
or be sorry for its sake ? A weak, false woman,
slain upon the threshold of her sin — caught like a
bird in the net, just at the moment when she was
going to inflict upon him the deepest wrong that
woman can do to man.

No. He gave not one thought to his victim. He
carried her as the butcher carries the lamb to the
slaughter house. Slowly, deliberately, with steady
footsteps in the corridor and on the stairs, he
carried his burden through the silent house, motioning
to Adrian to precede him with the candle, to
open doors for him, to withdraw bolts — and so the
brothers went in silence out into the silent night.

There were stars shining above the wooded hills
the night was not all silence. They could hear
the ripple of the river in the valley ; a tender
lullaby, music for lovers and happy people. The

summer-wiEcl came over the moor like a Titans
sigh, soft and slow, and full of melancholy.

Adrian left the candle burning on a table in the
hall, and followed his brother across the threshold.
He closed the door behind him, lest the creaking of
the hinges should awaken any member of the
household. The door would open easily from the
outside ; there would be no difficulty in returning
to their rooms by-and-by, when that ghastly load
had been put away.

He found himself considering all the consequences,
calmly and deliberately, as if it were
no new experience for him to be concerned in the
concealment of a murder. Involuntarily he recalled
the history of famous murders, which his
imagination had dwelt upon, fascinated by their
morbid interest.

He remembered ThurtelFs crime, and the body
hidden in the port in the garden, and then taken
out of that pond and carried off to a safer hiding
place. He remembered that still more ghastly
murder done by the two Manning, husband and
wife ; the grave dug beforehand for the victim ;

the snare of sensual pleasures ; the bushel of
lime.

And now his brother, the other half of his own
being, the creature he had loved and clung to and
admired for the strength of his manhood, and
envied for Nature's bounteous gifts — this being
so near to himself had sunk to the level of those
heroes of the Newgate Calendar, and had to bend
his mind, as they had bent theirs, to the concealment
of an irreparable crime.

They had walked a long way in silence, halfway
down the avenue and then across the grass
to a lower level, descending that wooded gorge
through which the river ran, darkened with the
shadow of the foliage. They had reached the path
beside the stream without a word spoken by either.
But here Adrian broke that gloomy silence.

For Gods sake, Valentine, consider what you
are doing, and the consequences that may come of
it. Do you know that you are branding yourself
for ever with the crime of murder. There can be
no question of manslaughter — justifiable homicide
after thisbe

If you will hold your tongue there will be no
question of anything — in relation to nay wife —
except that she ran away from me. There will be
her own handwriting to show how she eloped with
her lover. Yes that will be there to answer for
her, in black and white, in her own hand, when
she lies rotting among the water-rats."

Valentine, be brave, be honest ! Go back.
Take her back. Tell the world what you have
done. It will be better, wiser, safer ! "

'^ It would be the act of an idiot. Go and
scrape the rust off some of that old armour in
the hall, Adrian; and mount Cinderella, and go
clattering along the high roads in quest of adventures.
You are of the temper that makes lunatics
of Don Quixote breed. I am not."

For not one instant had he slackened his pace
or faltered in his purpose, as he argued with his
brother. He knew every yard of water in that
swift deep stream, bearing down with ceaseless
impetus from the quiet hills yonder, from solitudes
that seemed like holy places in the stillness of
night. He kne^- every bend and every pool.

His experience as an angler Lad made him familiar
"with all.

There was one deep pool where he had had
many a tussle with a gigantic pike, a shining
scaly monster, that sulked among the rushes and
set him at defiance. He had landed such an one
many a time in that shadowy corner, where the
water-weeds grew thick and tall.

It was there she should lie.

That should be her grave, deep and secret, deep
in the slimy bottom of the river, entangled among
snaky roots, wedged in with pebbles— hidden forever
from the light and the world.

He laid his burden upon the grassy slope beside
the pool, and then began to collect a score or two
of pebbles, the largest he could find along the
path, taking them at longish intervals, lest some
prying eye should observe that the stones had been
removed from the coarse gravel.

Then, when he had got together as many as he
wanted, he tied them in his handkerchief and
fastened them to the dead girls girdle. Then he
wrapped the carpet more securely round her, tied

it with the large silk kerchief from his neck, and,
so secured he dragged the corpse to the brink of
the water and gently pushed it into that shadowy
depth. It sank like a plummet. The water
rippled and bubbled about it for a minute or so,
and there was a noise of rushing creatures or a
rustle of reeds and water-weeds, and then all was
silent.

Adrian stood with his back against a willow
trunks watching his brother's movements with
wide-open awe-stricken eyes the incarnation of
speechless horror. •

When the water had ceased to ripple round
the spot where that ghastly load had gone down,,
Valentine turned his back upon the rushy bank
and walked quickly up and down the path, looking
right and left peering into the shadowy recesses
between the great brown branches of oak and elm
the faintly shining silver of the beech trees,
looking lest by some diabolical chance they should
have been followed and watched. He waited here
and there for a minute or so, listening intently, ashe
had listened many a time for the hounds, in

the woodland or on the moor ; but be could hear
neither breath nor motion of any living creature,
nothing but the whisper of the wind among the
leaves.

Suddenly came a far off sound, gradually
louder, steady, persistent, inevitable. It was the
sound of an express train travelling along the line
that ran at the bottom of the valley, on the other
side of the stream, and on a level with the water.

'' The mail from Exeter' said Valentine.
'half-past one''

They walked back by the way they had come
in silence, till they came to a point, midway
between the river and the Abbey, where the path
divided, one way leading to the park gates, the
other to the house. Here Valentine stopped
abruptly.

Good-night and good-bye' he said.

Where are you going ? "

I don't know. You needn't be afraid. If
there should be awkward questions asked, or suspicions
aroused, I will come back to answer them.
I won't leave you in the lurch."

I am not afraid of that ; but you had better
come back to the house with me. It will be no
worse for you to bear than for me."

That's your idea," answered Valentine shortly,
as he vanished in the darkness of the shrubbery.

CHAPTER XIV.

1 LORD ST. Auster]

July 19th. — Had a row with Beeching, who
declared that I had undermined his influence with
Leo, whom he adores, and that I have spoiled his
chances without caring a rush for the lady myself.
There was a time when I cared a good many rushes
for the lovely Leo, and would have gone a very long
way for her sake ; but a lovelier than Leo appeared
a fairer star rose above my horizon ; and Adieu
jjaniers^ vendanges sont faites.

I did not tell Beeching this, but rather enjoyed
his jealousy, and let him fume as he liked. After
he had stormed like a Stock Exchange Othello, he
began to talk about money matters, and to " throw
outs as my valet calls it, about my obligations to
him in regard to the stable. He had found most
of the cash, and I had swaggered and made money
at his expense. This was intolerable, so I told him

that I was heartily sick of the stud, and still more
so of him. " There's not a thoroughbred one
among the whole lot," said 1. He flared up at
this, and we became exceedingly bitter.

The matter ended in a way that was eminently
agreeable to me. We agreed to part company as
joint-proprietors of a racing stud, including Postcard;
and I surrendered all interest in that distinguished
animal and his stable companions for a
consideration — said consideration being total release
from all liabilities on behalf of the stud. A very
good bargain for me. The gentle savage was in a
rage. His hereditary instincts, as the son and
grandson of stockjobber, should have warned him
against transacting business while he was in a
passion.

Blessed are those whose blood and judgment
are so well co-mingled," &c. My blood and judgment
are ; for I have never yet allowed temper to
make me blind to my own interest. I really made
an excellent bargain with Belching.

I hate quarrels, and it is always painful to dicto
cut a man with whom I have been very familiar,

VOL. IL R

SO when I met poor old Joe at Hurlingham on the
following day — Saturday, and a capital Saturday —
I clapped him on the shoulder, and suggested that
we ought to be the best possible friends now that
our business relations were at an end.

I told him that I was out of health, lungs
altogether unsatisfactory, and that my doctor
warned me against wintering in Europe. The
Riviera might do for most people, but it was not
good enough for me. I must go to Algiers, Egypt,
or Ceylon.

This, by-the-way, is unvarnished truth. I
seldom get through a winter in England without a
bad attack, and I have been strongly advised to try
the East.

Egypt I have done, to its last cataract and its
last mummy. I have seen the first rays of the
morning sun shining upon Memnon head, and
have learned and forgotten a monstrous number
of lies about Cleopatra. Algiers I know as
well as South Kensington. Ceylon remains — the
land of spices and tea. To Ceylon I will go
if

If she will go with me.

Will she ? That is the question.

I think she will. She has owned that she
loves me ; and when a woman once makes that
confession all the rest is a question of patience and
time. She is too feminine a creature to be false
to the destiny of womanly loveliness, which is to
reward a devoted lover. She is more to me than
ever woman was before her — more to me, dearer tome
— utterly beautiful, and utterly beloved. I
would make any sacrifice to win her, would accept
lifelong exile, and, what is much worse, lifelong
poverty for her sake. My affairs are in low water,
and she has not a sixpence ; but I think I have
enough to rub along upon in Ceylon, where life is
easier and society less exacting than in England.
Stables and baccarat have absorbed more than two-thirds
of my income ; and away from the turf and
the clubs I shall be comparatively rich. With
her for my companion, I shall be infinitely
happy.

July 22nd. — She has bolted. When I called
at Wilkie Mansions this afternoon, the door was

r2

opened by a maid without a cap, who smelt of
rank tobacco — Life Guardsman in the diningroom,
I dare say — and who told me her mistress
had gone to Devonshire. She left by the 11.45
from Paddington on a visit to Lady Belfield.

Will she be away long? "

The maid had no idea ; no date had been
mentioned for her mistress's return. Mrs. Bad-delay
was out. No information on the other side
of the staircase. My Helen has run away from
her Paris instead of running away with him. We
sat for two hours together at Hurlingham last
night, and she gave me no hint of this departure.
She was very melancholy. I saw tears in her eyes
more than once, and thought them a good sign.
They were a bad sign it seems ; for to-day she
bolts.

Does she think Devonshire and the regis of a
mother-in-law can protect her from the pursuit of
a lover? No more than the temple and the
shrine could save Cassandra from Ajax. I shall
not follow her immediately. I have a good many
engagements and some business transactions to

detain me in town. I will give her time enough
to be miserable without me to discover the emptiness
of life without love to pine and mope in
rustic monotony. My chances will be ever so much
better for a judicious delay.

August 17th. — Here I am, without a servant,
keeping dark at the inn where Beeching and I put
up nearly three years ago. I thought of bringing
my man, as he is a shrewd fellow, and would be
useful to me in the event of success — looking after
a carriage to take us to the station, getting off
luggage, and so on — if I could rely upon his discretion.
Bat one can never rely upon that class of
man. The sharper he is the more certain to talk.
A well-trained fool would be an invaluable servant,
if one could have such a combination. Your smart
fellow inevitably gives away his master. So I
decided on coming alone, and here I am, ostensibly
intent on salmon fishing in the Chad. I went sofar
as to bring some of my old Norwegian tackle,
which is now adorning my sitting-room. This is a
deadly dull neighbourhood out of the hunting
season, and the hours I cannot pass with her will

be ghastly. To approach her-will he difficult, as
I don't want her mother-in-law to know I am
here. They drove past the inn this afternoon
in a big barouche, she looking the image of
sadness.

She is martyrising herself — and for what ? Is
it conscience, duty, honour, chastity, fear of the
world's opinion, or doubt of me that weighs heaviest
with her?

Her heart is mine ; and she must know that
she would be happier as my mistress than as the
wife of a clown, who leaves her in a state of semi-desertion,
and has so little knowledge of her value
that he exposes her to the pursuit of every profligate
in London. With me she would be safeguarded
by an infinite love, sheltered from every
harm.

August 19th. — I have seen her. We met this
afternoon in a lonely path beside the river. I
had been paddling easily for an hour, when I saw
her white gown gleaming between the tall dark
trees, and in five minutes I had moored my boat
to a great weeping willow, and I was by her side.

We were together for two hours, walking up
and down by the river, or sitting on a bench
under the willow. Not a creature passed that way
to my knowledge, except some men in a boat who
had been netting salmon further down the stream.
For two hours we had the world, and the sunlight,
and the summer air all to ourselves ; and during
all that time I was pleading my cause, and she
listening and agreeing and disagreeing, and contradicting
herself, divinely inconsistent and illogical,
after the manner of her sex.

But I know that she is won all the same.

She went so far as to talk of our life in Ceylon,
even the kind of clothes she would have to wear
there. There is no situation in life, be it ever so
solemn, in which a woman does not think of her
clothes. " I do not believe I have a gown fit for
the places she said. How like a woman !

Bring three or four white muslin 
I said, ' ' and leave all your smart frocks
behind. You shall have a toilet of banyan leaves
and orchids. You shall have cobweb muslins and
silks, that you can pull through a wedding-ring.

and Indian embroideries dazzling T\ith jewels.
You shall have a gown of peacock's feathers over
a cloth of gold petticoat."

Would not that be too warm for the tropics ? "
she said, smiling at me through her tears. She is
alternate sun and shower like an April day. '^ But
you know I am only joking. You know I am not
going with you."

I know that you are going with me, that you
could not be so cruel as to break my heart. You
know that for me the East means life, but that life
without you would be death. So if you refuse to
go, I shall stay in England, and let the winter do
its worst for me."

*' Y'^ou will stay and die ? " she said, with a
scared look.

That little chronic cough of mine has always an
effect upon women, and it attacked me just at this
moment. I shouldn't be surprised if I really am
consumptive ; I know I detest winter and bad
weather.

After this, we shed a few sympathetic tears, her
head upon my shoulder, under the willow. The

westering sun steeped us in golden light; the air
breathed rustic perfume mingled odours of pine
woods and wild flowers ; the ripple of the river was
like music. If life could have gone on for ever
thus flowing on like the river in sinless ecstasy, I
should have been content. Heaven knows I am
not a profligate. I have never loved a woman who
was not a lady. Love without sentiment or poetry
has always been hateful to me. It is the union of
soul with soul that I have sought ; and in Helen
I have found my ideal.

I told her my plan. She is to receive a telegram
tomorrow morning between seven and eight,
ostensibly from her husband, summoning her to
London. She is to leave hurriedly by an early
train, carrying her luggage with her.

She listened and promised to obey, and 1 believe
she will keep her word. I have been down the
line to Barnstaple, and have telegraphed to my
servant in London, instructing him how to telegraph
to Mrs. Belfield, and in Mr. Belfield's name,
from South Kensington. She will be able to show
her mother-in-law the message, and, short of Lady

Belfield offering to go to London with hers I see
no chance of failure.

She will get away quietly by the 10.40 train,
and I shall start by an earlier one, so as to escape
notice and to be ready to meet her at Exeter.
Thence we shall go on together to London, dine
in a private room at the Grand, and leave Charing
Cross by the Continental mail. There will be no
time lost, and very little fear of pursuit, for I
know that JJelfield was at York the day before
yesterday, and is likely to be there till the end of
this week.

CHAPTER XV.

AFTERWARDS

It was summer still, yet Adrian shivered as he
sat and watched the slow dawn, the dawn that was
rising with such an air of gladness for eager
hunting men round about Chadford, starting up
from their pillows briskly, with thoughts of trying
new horses and young hounds across the dewy
moorlands or the heavy grass. Adrian felt as if
his limbs were lead and his forehead iron. He
sat by the empty hearth in the library, with his
book lying open on the carpet just where he had
flung it last night in his agony of fear. He sat
while the sun rose gloriously, shining with parti-coloured
light through the emblazoned windows,
steeping the sombre old room in splendour. He
heard the cocks crowing triumphantly in the
poultry yard, the horses neighing as they were
brought out of their stables for early exercise.

The world was awake again earth and sky were
bright and blithe ; and she was lying face downward
in that dreadful pool where the great
ravenous pike mustered. She was lying there,
murdered on the threshold of sin, unshriven and
impenitent; the victim of a miserable marriage.

He thought of her lying there — pictured her
under the water-weeds, the lovely hair, dark with
threads of gold in it, surging loosely to and fro
with the slow movement of the tide. He thought
of water-rats and all the foul creatures that haunt
the margin of a river ; but worst of all was the
thought of those shining monsters which he had
so often watched, flashing silvery under the dull
green water.

And then he remembered her as he had first
beheld her in her girlish beauty, light-minded
and gay, gentle, pliable, a creature to entwine
herself about a manes heart, to grow dearer to
him by every folly, and more sacred to him by
every weakness.

So would she have been to him had she become
his wife. It would have been the delight of his

days to cherish and protect her, to strengthen that
which was feeble in her character, to develop all
that was good. Oh, if he could have recalled the
past, and that fatal evening by the river, when he
surrendered her to his brother. It was a base act
so lightly to have renounced her, he thought, tonight,
in his anguish. He ought to have saved
her from herself. He ought to have claimed and
held her against the world, any thing rather than
to have given her over to a scoundrel.

^^ My brothers he said to himself. '' My own
flesh and blood, so near and dear to me that I
could not think him wholly bad, though I knew
that he was selfish and self-willed. But I ought
to have held her to her promise — she was mine,
my very own, to protect and foster ; and I let her
go to another. I should have understood better
what was best for her happiness. I should have
known that she was not to be trusted with her
own guidance."

His mind, completely unhinged by the horror
of the night, wandered from the dreadful circumstances
which he had to consider, dallied with the

memory of the past — lost itself in futilities. What
he had to think of was his brother, and his
brother's position.

A murderer ! He Valentine Belfield, the beloved
son of that tender-hearted mother — he was
guilty of murder. He had committed that
tremendous crime which stands alone among all
other wrong-doing, and by which in one moment
of madness a man may forfeit his life to the law.
He may forge steal, swindle, break hearts, betray
friends, beggar the widow and the orphan, work
ruin on the widest scale, and he may still possess
that dastard life which to him means the universe.
But for the shedder of blood the law has no mercy ;
for him society has nothing but abhorrence.

Adrian looked up at those old armorial bearings,
through which the sun was shining. How
proud he had been of those historical quarterings
every one of which had its meaning. Had
crime ever stained yonder shields before last night?
Those oldest arms, yonder, had been borne by his
Norman ancestor, the Chevalier de Beauchamp,
crusader and hero. The family had divided afterwards

into Beauchamps and Belfields. Yonder
was the shield of the Champernonnes^ with whom
Belfields had intermarried ; and there, on a
scutcheon of pretence, appeared the badge of the
Prideaux-Brunes, marking a marriage with an
heiress of that family.

Had any son of those good old families ever
stained his crest with the red brand of murder ?
Those men of the older time had lived in a violent
age — when the sword was ready to the hand, and
anger, hate, revenge, jealousy, were wont to
recognise no higher law than impulse. Yes ;
doubtless there had been crimes committed, bloodshed
by men who bore those honoured names ; and
the Church had heard the murderer's confession,
and had absolved the sinner. Had not the Church
thriven and grown rich by stories of crime ? The
very stones of old abbeys and minsters might show
dark stains of blood, could they but tell of the
motives which prompted the benefactions of their
founders — of the craven spirits whose gold had
been poured out like water to win forgetfulness on
earth and pardon beyond the grave.

But murder to-day — in this civilized, well-regulated
world, bears a more hideous aspect.
Murder to-day means the newspapers and the
hangman ; and perhaps the newspapers are the
more appalling ordeal.

'' What will he do ? '' thought Adrian. '' Kill
himself !''

There was a new horror. To Adrian it seemed
only a natural consequence of last nights work
that Valentine should put a pistol to his mouth
and blow out his brains. It seemed the only
obvious issue. He knew that religious scruples
would not stop his brother's hand. After what he
had done, his life must needs be hateful to him,
and the most natural thing for him to do was to
destroy that life.

It was of his mother he had thought much more
than he had thought of Valentine, during those
long hours in which he had been sitting there,
waiting helplessly for the morning ; having no
plan or thought as to what he should do, no capacity
to think out the future, for himself or for his
guilty brother. It was of her agony — her ruined

life her broken heart — that he thought ; and he
would have given his own life gladly to save her.

Would it be better for her peace of mind if her
son were to destroy himself and thus end the
horror of last night by a double tragedy ?

However terrible the catastrophe, it might oflPer
the only possible escape from a deeper horror —
the agony of seeing her son in a criminal dock.

What was to be done with him if he lived, if he
clung to the burden of existence with all its
possibilities of infamy? He had chosen the secret
path, which to Adrian's mind stamped him for ever
as a deliberate assassin, he who had sinned almost
unawares in a moment of passion, and who might
have confessed his crime and held himself erect
before his fellow-men, guilty, but not dishonoured.
He had chosen the darker path ; the way of lies
and concealments. He had made his choice, and
would have to abide by it. That murdered corpse
lying in the quiet grave yonder might rise up to
bear witness against him, as other hidden forms
had arisen out of unlikely places, to testify against
other murderers,

VOL. II. S

After sunrise it seemed to Adrian as if the
moments hurried past with inexorable speed. He
so intensely dreaded the awakening of the household
the resumption of the ordinary course of
events and then the inevitable shock of Helen's
disappearance the fear the wonder the confusions
his mother's distress and perplexity. It was
of her he thought always ; to save her pain he
would do anything, sacrifice even conscience and
honour. He who was the soul of truths would
stoop to lie, and would lend himself to the concealment
of his brother's crime.

The first sound of a housemaid's footfall on the
stairs fell heavy on his heart. Then came the
opening of a shutter on the ground floor. The day
had begun. The hour chimed from the stable clock
six ! All the house would be astir before half-past.

Adrian went slowly up to his room to steady his
nerves by a cold bath, and to prepare himself to
meet his mother. He shuddered as he caught
sight of his haggard face in the glass.

'^ It is I who look like a murderers he said to
himself.

He remembered Laving passed a footman on
the stairs, and how curiously the man had looked
at him. He had been scarcely conscious of the
fact at the moment, but he recalled it now at sight
of his own face. No wonder the man had stared
at him.

He made his toilet slowly, deeply thoughtful,
and with a strange incertitude as to the duration
of time — thinking he had spent hours in his dressing
room when he had been there less than an
hour.

His valet knocked at the door presently.

Your shaving water. Sir Adrian. Is there
anything wrong, sir ? "

How the question startled him. Was every interrogatory,
every sound of a human voice to have
the same power to scare him henceforward, until
the dreaded discovery was made, and all was over.

'anything wrongs he answered quietly, opening
his door as he spoke. " No. What should be
wrong ? "

^^ Nothing, sir. I beg your pardon, sir; only
when I went into your room just now I saw your

S.2

bed had not been slept in, and it startled me a
bit, sir."

Oh, was that all ? Yes I dare say you were
surprised. I was reading very late in the library
last night, and 1 fell asleep over my book. And
after I had slept in my chair till daylight; I did
not feel inclined for bed."

The man assisted his master with the final
details of his toilet, brushed invisible specks of
dust off the neat grey lounge coat, handed Sir
Adrian his watch and handkerchief, and glanced at
him furtively now and then.

Nine o^ clock. The prayer bell rang, and Sir
Adrian went down to the breakfast-room, where the
servants were quietly slipping into their accustomed
places in front of the sideboard. It was
Lady Belfield's habit to read prayers at this hour,
no matter who among her visitors came or stayed
away. She exacted no subjection from her guests
in this matter ; but she deemed it her duty to her
servants that she should be one with them in their
devotions.

The prayers were not too long, nor the portion

of Scripture too abstruse ; and when they had all
risen from their knees Lady Belfield would inquire
after the health of any one among them who was
ailing, or would ask the last news of a sick parent,
or would detain Mrs. Marrable for a few minutes'
chat between prayers and breakfast, or take her
into the garden to look at some small improvement,
or at a newly marked geranium, which the
gardener had evolved from his inner consciousness,
as it were, by scientific treatment of the parent
plant.

The bond of love and duty was very strong
between mistress and servants at Belfield Abbey.

Helen had rarely appeared before noon during
this last visit. Lady Belfield made no remark,
therefore, when prayers were finished, and when
breakfast began without her daughter-in-law.

You are looking very pale this morning,
Adrian'' she said, as she began to pour out the
tea, with her son sitting opposite her in the
morning light ; " I hope there is nothing wrong."

Nothing wrong ! It was just what his valet
had said outside his door an hour ago.

Nothing. Only I sat up later than usual last
night — absorbed iu a curious book. In fact I was
so foolish as to read on till I exhausted myself and
fell asleep in my chair. ^^

That does not seem as if the book were very
interesting

Oh, but it was interesting — a most engrossing
books

What was it about, Adrian ? I am always
glad to hear of your new books

'^ This wasn't new' he said hastily fearing
further interrogation. '*" It is a book of Muller
and I was interested in tracing some of Darwin's
ideas to their source in the earlier thinkers

sand you fell asleep in the library,, and you
were very late going to bed I suppose'' interrogated
the mother anxiously.

'' Very late. In point of fact, I What

is its Andrew ? "

Can I speak with you if you please Sir
Adrian ? '' said the footman with a look that foreboded
evil.

Adrian arose hastily, and went towards the door.

Yes, of course."

'* Stop, Andrew," exclaimed Lady Belfield.
What can you have to say to your master that
you canst say before me? Has anything happened
■? "

The man looked from his master to his mistress,
and back again to his master, with a troubled
aspect.

It is about Mrs. Belfield, my lady. Mrs.
Marrable felt a little uneasy at what Jane told
her just now."

'^ What do you mean by all this mystery ? Jane
told her — what ? Is my daughter ill ? " asked
Lady Belfield, hurrying to the door.

'' No, my lady — it's not that, my lady ; only
Mrs. Belfield is missing, and her bed has not been
slept in, and her boxes are packed and strapped,
my lady, as if she had prepared to go away, and
Jane, whose room is on the floor above Mrs.
Belfield^s rooms, not exactly overhead, but very
near — heard her moving about very late last night,
and wondered she should be up so late."

What can it mean, Adrian ? " exclaimed Lady

Belfield. '^ She had no idea of leaving us for
months to come. Why should she have packed
her trunks ? Where can she be ? In the grounds,
perhaps, wandering about somewhere after having
been up all night. Let us go and look for her,
Adrian. There is nothing really amiss, perhaps ; "
and then, in a lower tone she added : " Servants
are such alarmists."

*' A telegram, my lady's"* said the butter, appearing
with the well-known orange envelope on a salver.

For Mrs. Belfield, ^^ said his mistress, looking
at the address. "■ Shall I open it, Adrian ? "

^' Yes, I think you had better," answered Adrian,
trying to school himself to the falsehood which
must needs govern his conduct henceforward, in all
things bearing upon the horrors of last night.

The message was from Valentine Belfield to
Mrs. Belfield, handed in at Kensington at thirty-five
minutes past seven, received at Chadford at
three minutes before eight.

You are urgently wanted at home for reasons
to be explained when we meet. Start by first
train possible from Chadford Eoad.^^

He must be ills exclaimed Lady Belfield.
He would hardly summon her for any other
reason. What could she be wanted at home for
except her husbands illness — an accident, perhaps
thrown from his horse, or something dreadful.
And he telegraphs cautiously, to prevent our being
frightened. I shall go at once, Adrian. I won't
wait till this silly girl is found. I'll go to my son
as fast as the rail can carry me''

She rang the bell hastily, white with a new
terror.

Dear mother, don't agitate yourself so dreadfully
— indeed there may be no cause for fear —
about Valentine's health. I can't understand the
telegram."

He stood with the message in his hand, perplexed
beyond measure. How should Valentine
have been able to telegraph from Kensington at
half-past seven that morning ? He could not possibly
have reached London by that hour, even if
he were travelling in that direction. There had
been no train that could convey him. Or even
had it been possible, why should he have sent such

a message? What end could he hope to gain by
the hideous mockery of telegraphing to the dead?
There was some mystery underlying the message.

Tell Sanderson to pack my dressing bag and
portmanteau for the 10.40 train ! " said Lady Bel-field,
when Andrew appeared, " and order the carriage
at once. Adrian, I must leave you to look
after Helen. There can be nothing really wrong
with her — some foolish freak — an early ramble —
and she has lost herself on the moor, perhaps. I
cannot stop to think about her. She can follow
me by a later train."

The mother's heart and mind were full of her
son, and of him alone. She thought of him
stricken by sudden illness — a consuming fever —
congestion of the lungs — paralysis — or a fatal
accident, his back broken, life ebbing fast away,
life measured by moments; and she so far from
him, with so many weary miles between them,
seeming slow even when travelled by the fastest
express that ever rushed along the iron road.

*' Dear mother, you must do whatever you think
best," said Adrian quietly ; " but I am assured

you are torturing yourself without reason. Why
should this telegram mean illness ? There are a
hundred possibilities. It tells us nothing except
that Valentine wants his wife at home. It may
have been sent in a fit of tempers

The door opened and Mrs. Marrable came in,
clean and fat and homely in her fresh pink and
white print gown and lace cap, but much paler
and less self-possessed than was her wont. Her
broad good-natured countenance had a distressed
look as she approached her mistress with an open
letter in her hand.

'^ If you please, my lady, this was found in Mrs.
Belfield^s room just now, lying on the floor, my
lady, among bits of lace and scraps of paper, and
such like; and I thought it was my duty to bring
it to you with my own hands."

It was Helen's letter : that unfinished letter
which so broadly confessed her wicked purpose.


When you read this I shall be far away from
this house — far away from England, I hope — with
the man who loves me well enough to sacrifice

social position for my sake, and for whose love I
am willing to forfeit my good names"'

Lady Belfield sank into her chair, crushed by
this unexpected stroke. Her son's wife — the girl
she had loved and trusted, and treated in all things
as a daughter — this girl wife, so young and fair
and seemingly innocent, had declared her guilt in
those shameless lines. The mystery of Helen Bel-field's
disappearance was solved. She and her good
name were gone for ever.

"what news for me to take to my son'' she
exclaimed, thinking more of him than of his
guilty wife.

Take my advice, mother. Do not go to him.
There is something wrong about that telegram.
It is a hoax, perhaps'

"No, no, Adrian. Who should invent such a
hoax — to what end ? I must go, I tell you — there
is no alternative. He telegraphs for his wife. He
has no longer a wife ; but his mother can go to
him in his trouble. That tie is not so easily
broken."

'^ Let me go with you, then''

No. You will have plenty to do here. You
must find out all about that miserable girl: how
and when she went, and with whom. Have you
any idea ? Do you suspect any one ? "

Adrian was silent. How could he answer ? how
malign the dead ? She had been on the brink of
sins and yet perhaps had died spotless, save in
the intention to abandon her husband. And had
Valentine been a different man — able to confront
a crisis in both their lives, and to bring an erring
wife back to duty — she might have repented on the
very threshold of that awful guilt. The intention
announced in that letter might never have been
carried out. She might have lived a pure wife to
the end. And was he to betray her now in her
unconsecrated grave, and say, " Yes, I know all
about her. Lord St. Austell was her lover " ?

You done know ? " questioned his mother.
You have no suspicion about anybody, among her
admirers. My God, this is what comes of being
talked about as the beautiful Mrs. Belfield ! You
must telegraph to her father, Adrian : not to
Mrs. Baddelcy. I shall sec her. And you will

find out all you can about her flight. Poor,
wretched, sinful creature ! I was so fond of her,"
with streaming eyes.

Sanderson came in with her mistresses bonnet
and mantle ; travelling bag and portmanteau were
in the carriage already.

Am I to go with you my lady ? ^^ asked the
maid.

Yes mother, pray don't go alone urged
Adrian.

Can you be ready this instant ? "

'' Tve only to put on my bonnet,, my lady. We
shall have plenty of times

It was within a few minutes of ten and the
train was to leave Chadford Road Station at
10.40. Lady Belfield put on her mantle ; Sanderson
ran off to get herself ready for the journey.
Adrian handed his mother into the carriage, and
stayed beside her, comforting and cheering her,
till her maid reappeared, and all was ready for
departure.

Where will you stay, mother ? At the
Alexandra, I suppose. And if — if you find Valentine

is not ill, that the telegram means nothing,
you will come back tomorrow, will you not ? Or
you will telegraph to me to go to you/^

'eyes, ril telegraph when I know what is
wrong. I shall stay at Wilkie Mansions, perhaps.
God grant I may find Helen there added Lady
Belfield, in a lower voice. " She may have
wavered at the last moment and gone to her
husband. That wretched letter may mean less
than we think. It is not even finished, you see,
Adrian. She may have written it in some sudden
fit of resentment. Valentine has sadly neglected
her. God only knows. Good-bye. ^^

Mother and son clasped hands, and Adrian gave
the coachman the signal for departure. He stood
watching the carriage drive away, motionless, as
if turned to stone, paralyzed by despair. Under no
other circumstances would he have allowed his
mother to go to London upon such an errand
alone. Under no other circumstances would he
have failed to see her off" at the station ; but to-day
he dared not do even as much as that. He dared
not leave the house, that dear home of his childhood

and youth , which to him was henceforward
only the scene of murder, a place of hideous
memories.

He went back to the breakfast-room slowly wondering
what next he was to hear. Mrs. Marrable
was pretending to arrange the roses and golden
lilies in the great chrysanthemum bowl which
filled the breakfast table with bloom and perfume.

^' I do declare my lady has gone away without
so much as a cup of teas she said. " If s a sad,
sad day for us all Sir Adrian's

It is indeed a sad day , Mrs. Marrable.^^

^' And to think that sweet young lady — oh sir,
I know it was very wrong — but human nature is
human nature, and we were all so upset in my
room, and Jane she came rushing in with that
letter, half out of her wits, poor girl ; and oh, Sir
Adrian, sheM read the letter on the stairs, not
knowing what she was doing, and she just gave it
into my hand, tried to speak, and couldn't ; caught
her breath, and went off into strong hysterics,
and I make no doubt she's in them at this very
moment'

^^ Then you all know " He was going to

say ^' everything but stopped himself and said :
^' You all know that my sister-in-law began to
write a very foolish letter which she never finished,,
and which may mean nothing. She has some
reason to complain of my brother s neglect and
she may have written that letter as a kind of
warning to him'

^^Yes^ Sir Adrian she may. Only — only — "
faltered Mrs. Marbles who loved '' the family "
with a reverential affection, and would have cut
her tongue out rather than speak disrespectfully of
any one bearing the name of Belfield — '^'^only^ what
can have become of Mrs. Belfield if she has — not
gone away with some one ? "

That question seemed unanswerable, for Sir
Adrian remained silent.

Fll go up to Mrs. Belfield' s room' he said
presently, after walking up and down for a few
minutes, while Mrs. Marrable still lingered, and
still found occupation in the arrangement of the
breakfast table, where the silver kettle was boiling
desperately over a spirit lamp, and the eggs were

VOL. II. T

cooking themselves as hard as stone in a patent
egg-boiler.

'^I may find some — some other letters added
Adrian. " You can come with me if you likes'

Mrs. Marrable waited for no second invitation.
She followed Sir Adrian to the rooms over the
library,, by the private staircase which Valentine
had ascended and descended in the dead of the
night.

The bed-room remained exactly as Adrian had
seen it last nighty except that the windows were
open and the sunshine was streaming in and lighting
up every corner. There was the spot where he
had seen that prostrate form, with upturned' face
and blood-stained forehead ; there stood the table
with its litter of writing materials, scattered books,
and vases of summer flowers, candles burnt low in
the sockets of the massive old silver candlesticks,
an arm-chair in front of the table, the chair in
which she had been seated when she penned that
fatal letter.

Two large oil-skin covered dress-baskets stood
near the door, strapped and locked ready for

departure. Doors of wardrobes were open drawers
and shelves were empty. Everything indicated
preparations for departure. A travelling-bag upon
the dressing-table was filled with ivory-backed
brushes and perfume bottles , and all the necessities
of a woman's toilet leaving the table itself
almost bare.

There could be no doubt that she had prepared
for her departure ; that she had deliberately
planned her flight.

As he stood looking at these preparations the
meaning of the telegram flashed upon him. It
was from St. Austell : a message invented to afford
Helen an excuse for leaving the Abbey.

He looked round the room moving slowly to
and fro, while Mrs. Marrable^s clear honest eyes
inspected everything, and while Mrs. Marrable^s
shrewd mind made its own conclusions. That
letter — unfinished as it was — taken in conjunction
with the packed boxes and dressing-bag , must mean
a runaway wife ; but how was it that the fugitive
had left without taking her luggage, or making
some arrangement for having it sent after her?

T 2

^^ I dare say she was afraid at the last, and dared
not go off to the station with her boxes, as some
have done, bolder than brass," thought Mrs.
Marrable. '' She'll write to me, perhaps, asking
me to send her luggage somewhere. She'd never
dare write to her ladyship'

There were no letters upon the writing-table —
not a scrap of Helen's writing anywhere, except
that one fatal letter in Sir Adrian's breast-pocket.
There was no stain of blood upon the oak floor,
yonder where she had fallen, or on the delicate
chintz cover of the chair near which she fell.

'^ Gracious ! " exclaimed Mrs. Marrable, suddenly,
^^ what's gone with the white Persian rug ? "
Adrian affected ignorance.

^^ The beautiful white rug that used to lie in
front of the writing-table. It was one of my
lady's favourite rugs. She brought it down from
London two years ago when she had been furnishing
Mr. Belfield's house. It was in her own
dressing-room till the other day, and then she
says, ' Marrable, Mrs. Belfield is out of health,
and coming to us to get strong. We must make

her rooms as pretty as ever we can ; ' and this rug
was brought here with a good many other things —
that chair, and the Indian screen , for instance —
at Lady Belfield^s orders. And what can have
become of the rug. It was here the day
before yesterday when I brought in the clean
linens

'the housemaid must have moved it," said
Adrian, looking out of the window. " You done
suppose Mrs. Belfield has packed it in one of her
boxes, do you, Marrable ? '^

No, sir, of course not. But that rug must be
somewhere.''^ And the housekeeper bustled off to
investigate the matter.

Adrian turned away from the window, sick at
heart.

Was life always to go on like this, for evermore,
in alternate horror and shame : was he to feel
always the murderer's terror of discovery, he who
was guiltless of the murderer's crime ? Where was
Valentine, while the hours were going on, and the
chances of inquiry becoming more hazardous?
Had he gone back to London, to resume his old

life to brazen out his guilt by the careless ease of
his manner as he trod the beaten track among his
usual set ? Would he try to prove an alibi were
he ever called to question upon the business of
last night ? Had anybody seen him at the station
or in the town ? Had anybody heard him moving
about the house ?

At the Abbey there was no suspicion of anything
worse than an elopement; but upon that
question the Abbey servants had all made up
their minds. Mrs. Belfield had carried out the
intention announced in that letter which Jane
had read upon her way downstairs. And, like a
young and foolish thing as she was, she had gone
off without her luggage, trusting to the chapter of
accidents for getting her property sent after her.
They were all rather sorry for her, and they were
also all agreed that this elopement had been inevitable
from the very beginning — ay, that it had
been foreseen by them, even while the sound of her
wedding bells was still in the air.

'^ If she had wanted to be happy in her married
life, she ought to have had Sir Adrian's' said Mrs.

Marrable ; and everybody else agreed as in duty
bound.

There was a good deal of discussion as to how
and when Mrs. Belfield had left the Abbey and by
what train she had gone ; but this was finally
settled to everybody's satisfaction. She had slipped
out of the house a little before midnight ; and she
had walked quietly to the station and had taken
her seat in the last train from Barnstaple, which
would reach Exeter in time for the mail from
Penzance. She would be at Paddington early in
the morning. Her lover would meet her somewhere
on the roads most likely.

There was very little question as to the name of
the lover. Sanderson had been at the Alexandra
with Lady Belfield, and had gone to and fro
between the hotel and Wilkie Mansions with
messages, and had seen Lord St. Austell at Mrs.
Belfield's and at Mrs. Baddeley^s, and had heard
things. Even the little page had his opinions, and
had expressed himself freely as to Mr. Belfield's
short-sightedness. Sanderson was too good a
servant to talk much upon such delicate subjects j

but she had talked a little to Mrs. Marrable in the
confidential half-hour after supper. Nobody in the
housekeeper's room or the servants' hall doubted
that Mrs. Belfield had gone off with Lord St.
Austell.

CHAPTER XVI.

UNDER THE RUSHES

Sir Adrian sat in the library, or sauntered about
the lawn and shrubberies near the house all that
long, heavy day. He dared not leave the premises
just yet — so intense was his dread of some new
catastrophe. He wanted to be there to face the
worst that could happen ; to be at hand to answer
questions or to meet calamity with a bold front.

Once he went down to the river, and looked at
that rushy pool where his brother's victim was
lying. The water scarcely rippled in the still
summer air : the lights and shadows played upon
the surface of the pool; the sunbeams glinted
among the reeds tremulous , uncertain , as the
leafy branches moved softly overhead. It was a
lovely afternoon. He had come there to fish upon
many such afternoons in years that were gone.
That little creek under the willows and its

sheltered bank , had been a favourite spot with him.
To-day he lingered there listening to the faint
plashing of the water, and watching the bright-winged
insects as they dipped and fluttered on the
dark surface of the pool, and then skimmed away,
azure, transparent, beautiful, like spots of living
light.

How calm the place was, and how hard it was
for Adrian's over-wrought brain to realize the
horror lying there. He stood staring blankly at
the dark water, and almost wondering whether
there were any reality in last night's experiences —
whether the whole tragedy from first to last were
not an hallucination of his own.

He went back to the Abbey, dreading to find
that something had happened during his absence,
brief as it had been. A constable from Chadford,
or a detective from Scotland Yard, would be waiting
for him perhaps ; or there would be some
frightful news of his brother : a suicide found in
some sequestered spot upon the moor, a mutilated
corpse borne home upon a shutter. No ; there was
nothing changed on his return. The house had

an air of death-like stillness. The Venetians were
closed outside those windows above the library.
He could picture his brother's wife lying there on
her white bed, with folded hands, and limbs decently
composed, under the lavender scented sheet.

That would have been horrible — untimely death
in one so fair and light-minded would have seemed
a reversal of Nature's common law ; but, oh, how
light a calamity compared with that which had
happened !

He went into the library. His open piano, his
books upon the reading-table, his desk and papers,
the grave old organ yonder in the deep recess by
the high oak chimney-piece, the organ he had so
loved — all those things which made up the occupation,
interest, and pleasure of his daily life — all
were there as they had been yesterday ; but they
could yield him neither delight nor comfort — no,
not one minute's respite or distraction.

He sat at his book-table with folded arms, and
his forehead resting upon them, shutting out the
light of day, trying to think out the situation, withall
its sickening perplexities. His mother had told

him to communicate with Helenass father but he
shrank with abhorrence from the task. What
could he say which would not be a lie ? To say-that
she had fled would be to malign the dead ; to
say anything else would be to endanger his brother.
He had to shield the wrongdoer at any cost — for
his mother's sake.

When last heard of, Colonel Deverill had been
yachting in the Hebrides with a wealthy shipbuilder
of Glasgow. He had given his address at
a club in that city. " Wherever I am in August
and September any letters sent to the Imperial
swill find me' he had told his daughters. ^^ I am
sure to get them sooner or later''

As the Colonel rarely answered anybody's letters
it did not seem of much consequence where they
were sent in the first instance. People who were
bent upon writing to him might as well address
him at a Glasgow club as anywhere else.

Adrian told himself that to let the day pass
without making any attempt at communicating
with the Colonel, would be to create evidence
against his brother, a point upon which some

future investigator might put his finger, saying,
here is one small fact incompatible with innocence.
He remembered how in most of the great criminal
trials he had read the balance of proof hung upon
infinitesimals; trifling circumstances, which at the
moment of their occurrence seemed to the criminal
of hardly any consequence, and which yet were
strong enough to hang him.

He seated himself at his writing-table, and
slowly, after much irresolution, wrote his message
—

'from Adrian Belfield, Chadford, to Colonel
Deverill, Imperial Club, Glasgow.

"Mrs. Belfield has left the Abbey suddenly,
leaving a letter which involves trouble for us all.
Her husband is in London. Kindly communicate
with him.^'

There was not much in this. It committed the
sender to very little. It would in all probability
be long in reaching the Colonel ; and in the meantime
Valentine might have got away from England,
beyond the reach of pursuit, should suspicion be
directed towards him.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN ERRING Sisters

Lady Belfield and her maid arrived in London
while the sun was still bright and the town had its
afternoon aspect. All the Royal Oak omnibuses
were faring eastward or westward and the scanty-carriage
population were rolling in at the Marble
Arch , to circulate drearily in a deserted Park.
Constance Belfield saw the whole scene dimly like
figures in a dream ; the flaunting flower beds with
their overgrown geraniums in riotous bloom, the
palms and tree ferns, and second-rate landaus and
doubtful victorias, the country cousins and the
shabby liveries, all the genteel squalor of West
End London when rank and fashion and wealth
have fled. She was driving across the Park in one
of the little hired broughams from the station,
hurrying to her son in an agony of morbid
anticipation, conjuring up visions of horror as she

went. She could hardly speak when she alighted
at Wilkie Mansions, leaving Sanderson in the
carriage. She seated herself in the lift dumbly,
and let the porter take her up to the third
floor.

The maid who opened the door stared in blank
astonishment, expecting to see no one less than
Lady Belfield, and having a guilty consciousness of
the military hovering near, if not actually on the
premises.

Is your master here — and very ill ?" gasped
Lady Belfield, passing the girl hurriedly, and going
straight to her sons bed-room.

No, my lady, master hasn't come back from
York. He went at the beginning of the week,
and he wasn't to be back till to-day, or perhaps
Monday."

Not back from York, and the telegram was from
South Kensington ! Lady Belfield's brain began
to swim. York ! There might have been an
accident at York perhaps — on the railway — on
the racecourse. He might have been riding ina
steeplechase. Her notion of York Summer

Meeting was very vague : she could hardly draw
distinctions between the Knavesmire and Sandown
Park. Her vivid fancy conjured up the vision of
a broken fence, a fallen horse and rider lying in
one heap of death under the summer sun.

Do you know if anything has happened to
your master ?" she asked. ^' Have you heard of
anything ?^^ And then, seeing the girls ignorance
depicted in her face, she asked suddenly :

Is Mrs. Baddeley at home?"

"Yes, my lady. She came home last Tuesday,
and is to be at home till the middle of next week,
long par song J the page says."

Lady Belfield waited for no more. She crossed
the landing and sounded the electric bell at Mrs.
Baddeley^s door. The page admitted her immediately,
having been made to understand that he held
his place on the condition of never keeping a visitor
over two seconds at the door. He might read as
many novels as he liked, and might be as lazy ashe
liked ; but the ordeal by patience which middle-aged
and portly butlers inflict upon visitors was
not to be inflicted by him. He flung open the

drawing-room door with an air and announced
^^Lady Belfield/^

Mrs. Baddeley was en deshabille, muffled in some
loose garment of white cashmere and peacock
plush, half a la Watteau, half t\ la Grecque, handsome
and indolent, with a novel lying on the sofa
all three volumes open, as if she had been
dipping here and there in the story for interesting
bits — a silver-gilt chocolate pot and Dresden cup
and saucer on the spindle-legged table at her side,
and Tory reposing at the end of the sofa.

She started up to receive Lady Belfield without
knocking over the table, or disturbing the dog
who opened his yellow eyes and blinked at the
visitor in sleepy indifference. All her movements
were graceful and sinuous, and she circulated
among her archipelago of dainty tables
as easily as a snake glides in and out of the
bracken.

Dearest Lady Belfield, I am delighted ! " she
exclaimed. '^ Is Helen with you ? "

*' No, she is not with me. God knows where
she is, poor, wretched, lost creature. But I want

VOL. II. U

to know about my son. He telegraphed for his
wife. He must be ill."

He is not much given to worrying about his
wife when he is well I admit," said Leo, " but
what do you mean by talking about my sister as a
lost creature, Lady Belfield. Are you out of your
mind ? "

'^ I shall be if I don't find my son. For God's
sake tell me the truth, whatever it is. Where is
Valentine — what ails him ? Why did he telegraph
for his wife this morning? "

'^ I know nothing about your son. Lady Belfield.
He has lived at his clubs mostly since Helen went
to you. I scarcely ever see him in this house. He
is always going off to some race-meeting. This
week he is at York ; two or three weeks hence
he will be at Doncaster. I have long ceased to
trouble myself about his movements."

He telegraphed this morning — at half-past
seven — from South Kensington ! "

Then I suppose he is in South Kensington —
and alive, or he could not have telegraphed. And
now, Lady Belfield, tell me about my sister, if you

please. By what right do you talk of her as a lost
creature ? What has she done ? "

She has left my house — she has dishonoured
her husbands

'^ How dare you soy that ? By what right ? ^^

Leonora Baddeley had placed herself between
the visitor and the drawing-room door , as if to
keep Lady Belfield there by force, were it necessary.
She stood there drawn to her fullest height, with
an angry spot of crimson flaming in the centre
of each cheek, her eyes flashing, her lips quivering,
and yet with a rigid look, as if the whole face were
turning into stone.

'^ She has gone ofl', then ! " she cried. " Oh,
what art, vrhat hypocrisy, what finished acting !
She fled to you for shelter in the hour of temptation.
She buried herself in the country; she hid
herself from the world ; and she has gone ofl* after
all. That is what it all meant — the tears — the
doleful looks — the flying from the seducer. She
has gone off with him ! Oh, what villainy — what
villainy ! '^

Tears came into her flashing eyes — tears of

U2

agony or of rage. She dashed them fiercely away ,
whichever they were.

How do you know that she has gone off with
any one ? " she asked suddenly.

'^ I have a letter in which she confesses her
guilty determination, a letter in which she tells my
son deliberately, that she has ceased to love him,
and is going away with another man whom she
loves as passionately as he loves her."

'^ As he loves her," echoed Leo, with a mocking
laugh. ^^ God help her if she builds her hopes on
his love. God help her if she counts upon that
for future happiness — or for bread-ands cheese.
God help her next year when he is tired of her,
and leaves her to die in a ditch like any other
drab."

Mrs. Baddeley, is it womanly to talk of any
woman as you are talking, most of all to talk thus
of a sister — a sister you once loved ? "

'eyes, I know, I loved her well enough once.
But am I to love the woman who — God help us
all, Ijady Belfield. I am mad when 1 think of my
sister — and that man."

"You suspect some one , then ? You know who
has tempted her away ? ''

Do you mean to say you don't know ? "

Indeed I do notes

Did you ever see her with St. Austell ? Did
you ever see those two together Lady Belfield,, for
ten minutes — for five — for one? One minute
would have been enough,, if you had eyes.'^

'• Yes, I have seen them together. I feared it
must be he."

You feared ! " cried Leo contemptuously.
Why you must have known that it was so. It
was not possible to doubt her folly, or his infatuation.
Do you know how long Lord St. AustelFs
infatuations usually last, Lady Belfield ? "

Indeed I do not. I know nothing about him,
except that he has a bad name."

His lordship's grand passions — his eternal
irrepressible self-sacrificing amours — last about as
long as his dress suits. I believe he has a new one
every season. To say that my sister has gone off
with him is to say that she has gone to unmitigated
ruin."

It would be unmitigated ruin in any cases
said Lady Belfield.

'^ Oh, no, it wouldn't. There arc mitigations.
There are men who will marry a woman when she
is divorced, they heicg the cause of that divorce.
Lord St. Austell won't. Pas si bete. There are
men who will move heaven and earth to protect
the woman they have ruined from the risk of
becoming a pauper. Lord St. Austell would think
any tolerably clean workhouse good enough for his
victim, when he had grown tired of her. God
help my sister when her brief day of bliss is over.
It will be a dream," said Mrs. Baddelcy, clasping
her hands before her eyes, and speaking in a
softened voice, as if she were dreaming that dream,
a golden dream in a golden land, with a man
whose voice is like music, whose talk has a magical
power, who can make life worth living, ^'es, if it
were in an attic in a back street in the shabbiest
quarter of Paris, or in a third-rate hotel in the
dullest town along the Riviera. It will be a
blissful dream ; but it won't last long. It will begone
like other dreams — and she will wake to
misery."

Help me to save her, if you cans said Lady
Eelfield. " Her honour and good name are lost
beyond redemption, I fear : but let us save her
from the misery of her position — from the dreadful
chances of the future. Let us find her, and
get her away from that villain, and put her somewhere
in safe and gentle care. I have loved her
as my daughter, Leonora. I would do anything
in this world to help her — and I think Adrian
would, too, even in her degradation — even in spite
of the disgrace she has brought upon us. She has
broken for ever with her husband — she can never
be anything to him again ; but she is your sister —
and," added Lady Belfield with streaming eyes,
'^ in the day of her sorrow and remorse she shall
be once again my daughter."

You are a noble woman," said Mrs. Baddeley,
with a touch of softer feeling than she had shown
hitherto, " and I wish I were like you. I wish
my sister had been worthier of your affection.
Her day of sorrow will come soon enough. Have
no doubt of that — with him."

Her passion, that white hot rage which had
transformed her from a woman into a fury, was

calmed all at once. She burst into sudden tears
and, after a fit of sobbing, became womanlike
again.

Poor Helen' she sighed, ^^ poor deluded girl.
May I see the letter ? "

No, it was meant for her husband's eyes only.
I will show it to no one else's"'

*' When did she leave the Abbey ? '*

Early this morning, before any of the servants
were astir. No one saw or heard her go. She
must have gone some distance on foote"*

Not far, you may be sure. St. Austell would
be somewhere near with a carriage. He has plenty
of experience, and he would do things handsomely
at first. Did she take any luggage ? "

'^ Nothing. All was packed ready to go. She
had not even taken her dressing-bag, Sanderson
told me. Sanderson was in her room with the
housemaid this morning."

Yes, I can fancy them prying and exploring.
How like Helen to pack her boxes and leave them
all behind her, trusting to the chapter of accidents
for getting them again. How like Helen to elope

without so much as a brush and comb. St. Austell
will have to buy her a trousseau. I wonder how
he will like that ? ''

'• You done suppose that I shall detain her
property. Her trunks will be sent to her as soon
as it is known where she is.^^

Will not that be to encourage her in sin ?
Better starve her into swift repentance by the loss
of her jewels and gowns. I don't think St.
Austell will cover her with diamonds. He will
give her sweet words.^^

Pray do not talk of them like that as if
sorrow and sin were a theme for laughter."

Oh, there is a ridiculous side to every subjects'
said Leo hysterically. '^ Do you suppose I
am not sorry for her because my sorrow is mixed
with scorn ?'■*

'^ I would rather see you more serious, more
sisterly. Are you convinced that it is Lord St.
Austell who has tempted her away ? '*

As certain as if I had seen them driving away
from your park gate this morning. I tell you
their attachment was notorious. They were invited

out together like man and wife — only on
different cards. If it had been in Italy their
names would have been on the same card. People
are fond of St. Austell for his cleverness and
pleasant way?, and every one is indulgent to him
and his fancy of the moment. I might have told
you they would run away ; only even I was duped
by Helenass flight to the Abbey, and fancied her
safe under your wing. He gave out a few weeks
ago that he was ordered to the East — something
wrong with his lungs. His lungs are always out
of order when he wants an excuse for leaving
Ed gland. He talked everywhere of wintering
in Egypt or in Ceylon. I thought that meant
mischief — but I did not think my sister would
disgrace herself, infatuated as she was.^^

And then, on being shown the telegram, Mrs.
Baddeley at once denounced St. Austell as the
sender. The message was intended to serve Helen
as an excuse for getting away : a hasty summons
from her husband, an order she could not disobey.


Some creature of his sent it, while he was

in Devonshire, close at hand ready to join her
directly she was clear of the Abbey."

But she started before the telegram arrived'
argued Lady Belfield.

A malentendu of some kind, and again very
like my sister. She is the spirit of disorder — loses
her head on the slightest occasion. Everything
was deliberately planned by him no doubt. He
is coolness personified. She forgot ail his instructions
at the last, and ran out of your house like a
mad thing."

After this came a silence of some duration. Lady
Belfield sat in a dejected attitude, trying to realize
the situation and all its hopelessness. Leo paced
the room with hurried steps, stopping every now
and then, as if panting for air. The windows were
all open J and the rolling wheels, light and heavy,
sounded in the high road, muffled by distance,
monotonous as the roaring of the sea; while that
inevitable street cry from some invisible slum rose
shrill upon the nearer silence now and again like
the shriek of the Banshee.

I shall have to tell my son," said Lady

Belfield at last. " Where am I to find
him ? ''

He is at York, I believe — at the Station Hotel,
with Beeching. He was to be Beeching's guest
for the race week."

And the races are not over yet ? "

'^ To-day is the last day'

^^ I must go to York. I must break this trouble
to him''

You had better telegraph to him to come to
you. He will know his trouble soon enough. I
don't think it will break his heart, Lady Belfield.
If he had cared very much for my sister he would
not have neglected her as he has done ever since
their honeymoon."

He has been to blame, I know ; but for all
that I believe he was deeply attached to his
wife, and that the blow will be heavy. Goodbye,
Mrs. Baddeley ; I must go and write my
telegrams. I shall stay in your sister's rooms
all to-day, in the hope of Valentine's return ;
but I shall sleep at the Alexandra."

Leo followed Lady Belfield to the door, subdued,
and even affectionate.

Let me give you some tea at once, and some
dinner by-and-by," she pleaded. " You are looking
so white and worn after your journey."

You are very good, but I would rather be
alone. Phoebe will get me some tea'

Phoebe was the Devonshire parlour maid, a protegee
of Lady Belfield's, delighted to be useful to
her.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ONCE IS A vide ^SVORD

Mrs. Baddeley stood "u-atcbiDg till the opposite
door closed upon Valentine's mother. Then she
went hurriedly back to her drawing-room and
looked at the clock.

^' A quarter to six. More than two hours before
the start of the Continental mails she calculated.
^' If they left Chadford early this morning they
must be in London no\Y — at his house perhaps.
The safest place he would think*

She kept her finger on the electric bell till the
page was in the room.

Get me a hansom directly, and send Parker to
me* she said.

Parker was her maid, with whose assistance she
changed her flowing Grecian robe for a trim tailor
gown and a little cloth toque to match, in less than
ten minutes. She was sitting in the cab before

she had finished putting on her gloves, sitting with
resolute brows and clenched teeth, driving to Park-lane.


If I can save her, I will,''^ she thought. '^ I
am about the only person who can do iV

There are only a few small houses in Park Lane,
and those few are distinctly precious, and rented
far above their value ; for it is an inestimable
privilege to live in that exalted situation without
having to maintain a palace. Lord St. Austell
was one of the privileged householders. He had
secured the short remainder of a lease of a small
house at a corner, a house which to the casual eye
seemed all balcony and flower-pot, but which contained
three or four comfortable rooms, with old-fashioned
panelling and low ceilings.

It was not the first time Mrs. Baddeley had
visited the corner house in Park Lane ; but she had
never been there alone until to-day. She had
gone with one or two chosen friends to take afternoon
tea in the low countrified drawing-room, with
its lively outlook upon the flower beds and the
carriages and the crowd. She had been there on

Wednesdays to see the coaches go by, and to eat
strawberries and cream and ices from Grauge^s^,
and to look at Lord St. AustelFs books. He was
an amateur in books of the lighter sort, and in
bindings, and was proud of showing his latest
acquisitions. He used laughingly to declare that
he had only half-a-dozen tea-spoons, but, so far as
they went, they and his tea were at the service
of his friends. Mrs. Baddeley might take whom
she pleased to Number 333 Park Lane, provided
she kept within the limit of the six tea-spoons.
They are all that remain of the famous St.
Austell plates he said.

What, was all the rest melted down for King
Charles?" asked Leo.

No, a good deal of it was sold off to oblige
Colonel Confessor, alias Key Moses, the West
End money-lender," replied St. Austell.

His lordship's butler knew Mrs. Baddeley, and
offered no hindrance to her entrance, as she
brushed past him and went into the room at the
back of the dining-room ; library, tabagie, or den
the room in which St. Austell wrote his letters

in the morning, and read Zola or Guy de Maupassant
after midnight : a long, irregular-shaped
room, lined with book-shelves, and furnished with
miscellaneous souvenirs of Italy and the East.

St. Austell was in his usual seat before the
writing-table, looking through a pile of letters and
papers which had accumulated in a four days
absence. A hat-box, a travelling desk, and a case
of umbrellas and canes lay on the ground near
him. His luggage had been sent on to Charing
Cross.

He looked up at Leonora with angry surprise.

I told Morgan I was not at home," he said.

Did you really ? But you see I didn't ask
Morgan's opinion upon that subject. Instinct told
me I should find you here."

You are such a clever woman. I am only sorry
that I am too busy to enjoy your conversation
just now," said St. Austell, going on with his letters,
but you may as well sit down all the same. I
have only a couple of hours to settle my affairs,
dine, and start for Dover."

'• You are going to Paris, I suppose ? "
Vol. II. X

'^ I am going to Ceylon — but one has always to
begin with Paris. It is the turnstile in the gate
that leads everywhere'

'^ You are not going alone' said Mrs. Baddeley,
very pale and very resolute.

Of course not. I take my servant. If I could
afford it I would take my doctor. I am going
abroad for my health''

That is a lie. You are going with my sister.
It is on Helen's account that you are going to
Ceylon. You think you can hide yourself therewith
your latest mistress, escape from her infuriated
husband. I doubt if Mr. Belfield is the kind of
husband to take things altogether quietly. There
is a good deal of the original savage in him. A
kind of man to settle matters with a revolver, as
they used to do in America a few years ago, when
New York was further from London and Paris than
it is now'

^' I am glad to say that I am not afraid of Mr.
Belfield, and I am sorry to say that I am not running
away with his wife' said St. Austell, without
looking up from the letter he was reading.

You would like me to believe you, I suppose'
muttered Mrs. Baddeley, beating the devils tatoo
upon the faded Indian prayer-rug.

I am much too busy to care whether you
believe or disbelieve me. Haven't I told you that
I have to settle my aflPairs^ financial and otherwise,
and dine before eight o'clock. If you have any
idea that I am hiding your sister in this
house, par exemple you had better go through
all the rooms and look in all the closets
while I finish my work here. When you have
set your mind at ease by doing that, perhaps you
will honour me by sharing my sole and my
chicken."

You mocking devil, I'll take you at your word,"
said Leo, starting up and moving towards the door.
I know she left Chadford with you this morning.
I know that, I tell you. She must be in this house
or waiting for you at the station. Where else
could she be ? And you could hardly leave her at
the station."

Try this house," said St. Austell, still without
looking up. '^ The investigation will occupy you

X 2

till dinner time, and enable me to finish my business
here."

I will," she said, lingering near the door, and
looking doubtingly at his imperturbable face.

His coolness puzzled her, and she hesitated. She
knew him well enough to know that he was
capable of being as coolly defiant, although Helen
were in the next room. So, after all, imperturbability
counted for very little.

She went into the hall, and looked into the
dining-room. The table, shrunk to a circle, was
laid for one. The room was empty. She ran upto
the drawing-rooms, and pulled aside porters,
and looked into corners, and behind the piano, and
shook a weeks dust out of the fresh, pure looking
chintz curtains. She was not satisfied even with
this, and hastily explored the upper floor — bedroom,
dressing-room, boot-room, bath-room, servants
rooms — ashamed of herself, and giving only
a hurried glance in at each door. It was but the
work of ten minutes in all.

Have you looked in the kitchens and the
cellars ? " asked St. Austell^ when she returned

to his den , crimson with shame, and out of
breath.

"■ She will meet you at the station, or she is
waiting for you there," said Leo.

I hope I may find her there. It would be a
pleasant surprise. May I tell them to lay a knife
and fork for you ? " he asked, rising and going
towards the bell.

Certainly not. I shall not detain you much
longer."

So sorry that I should be obliged to count the
moments in such charming society," murmured
St. Austell, putting away his papers, and locking
his despatch-box. " I have finished my work for
the moment; I am quite at your service," he
said, leaning his back against the mantel-piece,
in his favourite attitude, his slender, languid
figure and pale oval face accentuated by the
background of old Italian oak, and the vivid
colouring of brass and copper, vermillion and
orange pottery, and precious goblets of pale
green jade.

*' You think that you can deceive mc, St.

Austell/^ Leo began passionately, standing with
one knee upon the seat of a prie-Dieu chair, and
with her hands clasped tightly on the carved
cherry-wood back ; " you think I have been blind
all this time — that I have not understood what
was going on between you and my sister."

Upon my honour,, my dear Leo, I have
thought nothing about you, either one way or the
other. When a man is desperately in love with
one woman, he has very little leisure for abstruse
speculations upon the sentiments of another
woman's

^' Not even when he once made passionate love
to that other woman ? "

Once, Leo ? Once is a wide word. The
butterflies were once grubs. This world was once
a misty nucleus floating in unimaginable space.
I know that I was once in love with you — passionately,
as you say — and that I once pursued you —
and that you encouraged my pursuit until it
reached just that one definite point at which it
became inconvenient and dangerous, and then you
threw me over, as you have thrown over so many

better men — poor young Stroud, for instance, who
lost his head and consoled himself with a bullet.
There are men who do not relish being fooled and
flung up, you see, Leo. The foolish ones shoot
themselves. The wiser go away and forget you,
as I did. We are not all patient beasts of burden
after the manner of Beeching."

"Yes, you forgot me — forgot — forgot!" repeated
Leonora, in a choking voice. " I suppose you
thought I did not care for you ? "

That was precisely my idea."

"You did not know. You shall never know.
I would cut my tongue out sooner than tell you.
And you upbraid me with those sweet days when
I could think of you as my friend — when I saw
you every day without reproach of conscience —
when "

When you fooled me to the top of my
bent."

I was so happy — until you threw ofi" the
mask ; and then I could but remember that I
had a good kind fellow in India working for
his country and me."

'' And that you had a character to lose, and
that it is not a pleasant thing to be cut by
other women — even the rather easy-going women
in your set. They have their standard. So far
and no further is the motto of the clan. Oh,
my dear Mrs. Baddeley, sentimentality won't
answer between you and me. You are one of
the cleverest women I know. You know the
age you live in, and you are able to live up to
its requirements. You manage to get everything
in this world that you want — without any sacrifice,
even of character. But you must not expect
more than that."

'^ I expect nothing from you," she answered
moodily. ^' But I mean to know the truth. Why
are you going to Ceylon ? "

For my lungs."

Oh, I have heard that before. That is an old
story."

A true one, all the same. The right lung is
decidedly affected, and my doctor insists upon a
warm climate. Perhaps were that the only
motive, I might have wintered at Bournemouth or

Vintner, but I had another motive which so far
has been thwarted

Mrs. Baddeley sank into a chair, and there was
a silence of some minutes, while the gentleman
lighted a cigarette, and while the lady gave herself
up to reflection.

He was lying to her, this arch deceiver, this
consummate hypocrite, whose countenance defied
her scrutiny. There could be no doubt that Helen
had run away with him. The fact that she had
eloped was indisputable ; and this was the only
man ^ who had exercised any influence over her.
There had never been any confidences on this
subject between the sisters ; but Leonora knew of
her sister's infatuation all the same.

She looked at St. Austell curiously, as he
lounged in front of the mantel-piece smoking his
cigarette. He was very pale, and there was a
drawn look about his mouth which indicated
worry and trouble of some kind. It was not the
face of a successful lover. There was no sparkle
of triumph or of hope in his eyes. The man who
runs off" with his friend's wife ought to look as if

the gates of Paradise were opening before him :
but this man looked as if he was on the threshold
of Arcus.

How's Tory ? '^ he asked, when the silence
began to grow oppressive.

Tory is in excellent health, thanks. And you
are really going to Paris by the mail ? ^^

Really .^^

And you still protest that you are going there
alone?"

'' I have never protested. I simply stated a fact.
I go to Paris with my servant, that is all. If you
want particulars, I shall put up at the Hotel de
Bade. I shall amuse myself in Paris for a week
or so ; and then I shall go quietly on to Brindisi,
stopping wherever I feel disposed. I shall go by
the Lapide as far as Macon, and then in all probability
I shall make a detour, and cool myself on
the Eiffel before I dawdle down into Italy. It will
be time enough if I sail in October."

*' A charming programme, with a sympathetic
companion," sneered Mrs. Baddeley; "but as a
solitary promenade I should consider it rather

dreary. One knows all those places beforehand,
and at our age *' — with a deprecating shrug — "■ they
are only storehouses for memories and regrets.
The world is hardly large enough nowadays for
people who have the capacity to live and to
remember.'

I am not afraid of solitude. I am egotist
enough to find myself tolerable company."

I have a good mind to share your chicken and
your cab to Charing Cross' said Mrs. Baddeley,
after a few moments' reflection. " There are some
friends of mine at Dover who have been plaguing
me to go and see them. I might run down for a
day or two — take them by surprise as they are
yawning in their lodging-house lamplight, after
having exhausted the newspapers and their own
conversation."

Do" cried St. Austell ; " you would burst
upon them with as revivifying a power as if you
were Aurora. And how nice for rae to have you
for a travelling companion. One generally gets
from London to Dover in an after-dinner nap, but
of course that is only a pis-aller."

I won't rob you of your sleep," said Leo,
starting up to go, with an air of having come to
a sudden decision. " I won't go to Dover tonight.
And I have just remembered that Tory
will be waiting for his chop. He always dines an
hour before I do, so that he may behave prettily
and be society for me while I dine."

'' Happy Tory. Good-bye."

'' Good-bye. It means for a long time, doesn't
it ? " she said as she shook hands, his fingers detaining
the neatly gloved hand just a shade longer
than they need have done, with a faint reminiscence
of a worn-out sentiment.

'' Who knows ? "

Ceylon is so far."

There is no such thing as distance nowadays.
Australia means five weeks — no other place need
count. I'll see you to your carriage."

He put her into the hansom, which had waited
for her, and which rattled her back to Wilkie
Mansions in a quarter of an hour. She kept her
word so far as the poodle was concerned, and
looked on while he ate his chop, daintily, on a

plate set upon a table-napkin. She saw him
safely through his meal, and then changed her
smart tailor gown for the lowliest thing she possessed
in the way of gowns — a black silk and
cashmere of two years ago. In this and a black
bonnet and rather thick veil, she might easily
escape recognition in the lamplight at a crowded
station.

She drove to Charing Cross, and was in the
station just a quarter of an hour before the
departure of the Continental mail. She saw St.
Austell's valet getting the luggage registered — a
good deal of luggage, but all distinctly masculine.
She saw St. Austell himself buying newspapers at
the stall. She saw him pass through the gate on
his way to the train — alone ; and she saw no
feminine figure that bore the faintest resemblance
to her sister.

She is to meet him in Paris," thought Leo.
It has been all planned beforehand ; she will go
by another route perhaps. From Exeter to Southampton
and thence to Havre and Paris. By that
way she would escape observation. Yes, she will

join him in Paris. That, is the reason he took
things so quietly. God help her — and me."

She gave a long sigh — regretful, passionate,
despairing even — and stood near the gate while
the whistle shrieked and the Continental express
moved slowly out of the great vaulted station into
the summer twilight. The last rays of the setting
sun gleamed on the brazen engine as it steamed
away, taking St. Austell to warmer skies and faint
sweet odours and spice-bearing trees and tropical
flowers. How long might it be before they two
would meet again. In any case he was lost to
her. He had been dead to her ever since he began
to fall in love with her sister — dead by the worst
of deaths, the death of indifference verging upon
scorn. Once he had been at her feet, the chosen
companion in a round of fashionable dissipations,
bound by no tie but mutual tastes and mutual
pleasures and she had fancied those flowery chains
of hers were strong enough to keep him forever.


END OF VOL. II.

OF Thou

N I Verity

or Ill N015

62,3
v 3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF .mOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

OCT 3 fool
JUN?

I ?no-f

L161— O-1006

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/likeunlikenovel03brad

BY THE AUTHOR OF

LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," "VIXEN,"
"MOHAWKS," Etc. Etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

LONDON
SPENCER BLACKETT

(Successor to 3. $j: 3R. JiStaxtocII)

MILTON HOUSE, ST. BRIDE ST., LUDGATE CIRCUS
And shoe LANE, FLEET STREET, E.C

[All rights reserved]

CONTENTS TO VOL. III.

CHAP.
I.

II.

III.

IV.
V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XV.

XVI.

LIKE A ROMAN

WHAT HER FATHER THOUGHT .
CAPABLE OF STRANGE THINGS .
"would she have TOUCHED MY HAND 1 "

colonel deverill has hopes .
what is it that you fear 1 "
a decided case of dry-rot .
the forlorn hope
"it was the brand of cain"

THE secret of THE RIVER

LET ME BE YOUR SERVANT" .

IS THERE NO BALM IN GILEAD 1 " .

ON THE RACK

"l WILL STAND BY MY BROTHER"
THICKER THAN WATER
A LAST APPEAL
EPILOGUE



































CHAPTER I.

LIKE A ROMAN

Lady Belfield went back to the Abbey after
having spent nearly a week in London, without
having obtained any tidings of Valentine. He
had not appeared at Wilkie Mansions; he had
not written either to his mother or to his wife.

That anxious mother had looked through the
newspapers every morning and evenings fearing to
read of some accident to her son, but the papers
had told her nothing. She had questioned Phoebe,
who assured her that there was nothing unusual in
Mr. Belfield's prolonged absence. He would tell
them that he was going away for a week, and he
would stop for a fortnight, without writing to

VOL. III. B

his wife of the change in his plans. Sometimes
he would send a telegram, but not always. It was
his way.

His mother knew very few of his friends, and
those few had left London. She had no means of
obtaining information as to his whereabouts, yet
she was intensely anxious to see him, to be the
first to tell him of Helen's flight. She went back
to her country home deeply despondent, dreading
to re-enter the house upon which so dark a shadow
had fallen. She had been away only a week, yet
the sense of trouble and apprehension had hung so
heavily upon her, that it seemed a long time since
she had crossed that familiar threshold. She
looked at the landscape with a vague wonder as
the train drew near home, astonished to find the
foliage unchanged, the light and colouring almost
the same.

Adrian was at the station to receive her. If
the landscape were unaltered, there was a marked
change in her son. He looked thin and wasted,
his eyes were sunken, and his checks colourless.

I am heartily glad to get you back," he said.

^' You see there was nothing amiss with Valentine.
Your fears there were needless."

Nothing amiss ! How keenly the falsehood of
those words stung him as he spoke them ; but it
would be the business of his life henceforward to
deceive his mother, in the endeavour to save her
from overwhelming misery. To betray Valentine^s
ghastly secret would be to break her heart.

Nos I suppose there is nothing wrong," answered
Lady Beltield, '' but I was disappointed at
not being able to see him. I wanted to tell him
that which he must be told sooner or later. It
will be harder to hear it from a stranger. Is there
any news of Helen ? "

This last question was asked in a subdued tone,
like an inquiry about one who is dead.

No ; nor likely to be I should think."

She has not sent for her luggage ? "

'^ No."

That is strange."

'•' Don't you think, mother," Adrian began
gravely, " that as this misfortune is without
remedy — a trouble which no act of yours or mine

B 2

can ever modify in the future; for which thought
and counsel can provide no help — it would be far
best that we should never more talk of that
trouble, nor of Helen. She is gone from us. Let
us think of her tenderly and in silence, as of one
whom death has taken from us, under saddest
circumstances."

^' You are right, perhaps, so far as that silence
will be best. It makes one's heart ache to utter
her name, the name she has disgraced, the sweet
girlish name which seemed so suited to her girlish
beauty," answered Lady Bel field, in slow and sad
tones, as the carriage rolled along the road where
she had driven with Helen only the other day, the
same scent of autumn flowers, late-lingering woodbine,
travellers* joy, and wild thyme on the air;
but I am not going to think of her as among the
dead. I look forward to the day when her eyes
will be opened to her sin, when I may take her
back to my heart, crushed and broken, perhaps,
but redeemed from among the lost. I do not
forget the parable of the piece of silver. I hope
to find mv lost one before I die."

Adrian did not answer. He sat looking at the
tangled blackberry hedge, with its luxuriance of
leaf and bramble, clusters of blossoms and fruit, in
all its stages between bud and berry. The sky
shone blue behind the tracery of branch and leaf.
A newly turned field beyond sent up cool odours
from the rich red earth. All things were beautiful
in the stillness of afternoon, a golden afternoon,
steeped in warmth and light ; but in his breast
there was not one gleam of hope.

Everything at the Abbey was ordered as of old.
Lady Belfield's rooms were a haven of repose and
comfort, full of flowers and perfume, and beautiful
objects ; all things in their right places, no confusion,
no overcrowding of ornaments or furniture,
not a discordant note amidst the whole. If
externals could make the sum of happiness. Lady
Belfield and her son had every reason to be
happy.

She sat in the library with Adrian after dinner,
and asked him to play to her. He chose the organ
rather than the piano to-night, and played some
favourite numbers from one of Mozart masses.

Those solemn and pathetic strains had a soothing
influence upon them both, and seemed to lift them
above the region of their own troubles.

He was still playing when Lady Belfield started
up at another sound from without the sound of
wheels in the avenue.

It must be Valentine," she said, as Adrian left
the organ and went towards the door.

'^Don^t be too sure of that, mother. It maybe
Colonel Several), or somebody from him."

They went to the hall together, and the bell
rang just as Adrian opened the door. The carriage
was a fly from the station, and the arrival
was Valentine.

He kissed his mother, and shook hands with
Adrian, as easily as if all things were going well
with him.

Here I am at last," he said, " and very
tired."

Where have you come from, Val ? " asked his
mother, looking at him anxiously in the lamplight.


He was smiling at her, evidently ignorant of the

trouble that had fallen upon him ; yet there was a
change in him,, his mother thought a change
which she could not define. Every feature seemed
to have hardened and sharpened in outline. He
had grown thinner, perhaps, and was worn with
travelling and excitement of some kind.

^' I have come from Paris. I went over thereafter
the York summer. I was in a furious temper,
and I felt that nothing less than a week's rest on
the other side of the Channel would quiet my
nerves

Things have gone wrong with you at York
then ? '' said his mother.

Damnably wrong. The horse I had backed
proved a suffer. Where's my wife ? ''

His mother laid her hand upon his shoulder
caressingly, and answered in a voice broken by
tears :

Come to my room with me, Valentine. I have
something very sad to tell you."

Put it into as few words as you cause'' he said.
'' Perhaps I can guess it. She has run away from
me, I supposes'

'' Yes, Valentine. She has left you. How came
you to guess ''

Oh, only because the kind of thing is fashionable
— and she liked to be in the fashion. Don't
look at me like that, mother, for God's sake.
Whatever I may have to bear, I can bear it best
by myself. Nobody can lighten my burden forme.
Come now, 1^11 make a compact with you.
Don't you ever speak to me about Helen, and I'll
never plague you by any complaints. If you — and
Adrian — like to have me here, I'll come and go as
I used when I was a bachelor, and let the past
three years be wiped off the slate. Forget that I
have ever been anything but what I used to be
before Colonel Deverill took Morcomb."

Of course we shall like to have you here,
Valentine. This is your natural home, and here
you arc always welcomes

"Thank you, mother. T shall sell the furniture,
and get rid of my Kensington flat as soon as I
can."

He had taken the matter so coolly, had dismissed
the subject so briefly, that his mother

wondered at the ease with which the bad news had
been broken, and when she went back to the
library with her two sons she felt as if the burden
of grief had been lightened. No doubt it was
wisest to try to forget ; to forbid the utterance of
a fatal name. Let life slip back into former
grooves, if possible. Valentine would have his old
occupations, his old amusements, horses, dogs,
guns, country race meetings, occasional holidays
in London with college chums. His life need not
be empty or purposeless, even after this great
sorrow. She did not contemplate the legal consequences
of a wife's infidelity ; the possibilities of
a release for the injured husband. Her tender
nature took only the woman's view of the circumstances,
and to her such a loss and such a sorrow
were enough to darken a lifetime. Her younger
son, therefore, had a new claim upon her love.

She gave him Helen's unfinished letter, when
they parted that night, without a word, and he was
equally silent about it next day.

He never re-entered the rooms he had occupied
with his wife, but resumed possession of his old

quarters over the billiard-room — the rooms that
had been his from the time he left the nursery,
a bed-room and dressing-room adjoining, with
windows looking into the stable yard, windows
from which he could watch his horses being
washed of a morning or taken out for exercise,
and from which he could give his orders to the
grooms. These rooms were remote from the
library wing, had another aspect, and belonged to
a different period of architecture.

In a week, Valentine had settled down to his
old life, and was going out cub-hunting every
other morning. He was dull and silent of an
evening, tired after his early morning with the
hounds, and he seemed to have lost a good deal of
the elasticity of youth ; but, upon the whole, his
mother felt very well content that things were no
worse with him. It was an unspeakable comfort
to her to have him under her roof, to see him
resume the old life. She did not know of the
sleepless nights — the awful hours when the house
was wrapped in darkness, and the sinner paced his
room, alone with the memory of his sin.

Between Valentine and his brother there had
not been one word about that fatal night. Adrian
had felt that silence — complete silence — was alone
possible. To live together in peace they inst both
studiously avoid every reference to that hidden
crime; they must both appear to forget, albeit
]both knew that forgetfulness on either side was
hopeless.

CHAPTER II.

WHAT HER FATHER THOUGHT

Nearly six weeks had passed before there was any
sign from Colonel Deverill. He had left Scotland
before the telegram reached Glasgow. He had
been yachting in the Mediterranean, and the
message had been delivered to him finally, after
many vicissitudes, at Ajaccio. After that he had
lost no time in crossing to Nice, and making ibis
way to England and Belfield Abbey.

There was not much that he had to say when he
arrived, and very little that could be said to him.
Valentine was gloomy and reticent.

Talk cannot do either you or me any good''
he said, when the Colonel grasped his hand, and
threatened to become effusive. " I am very sorry
for you, and I have no doubt you are sorry forme.
That is about all that can be said."

"But — but— I should like to know all that

there is to be known about this infernal business.
Poor deluded girl ! Surely you must have seen
her danger, you must have had some cause for
suspicion'

'^ I had none, or I should have looked after her
better. I trusted her implicitly, and thought she
was safe with her elder sister."

Leo is a noble creatures' said the Colonel, " but
she is frivolous. She has been spoilt, Mr. Belfield.
All beautiful women are spoilt, nowadays. There
is an open homage paid to beauty which must
deteriorate character. I don't think you quite
realized what a lovely woman you had married,
and how inevitable it was she should have
admirers''

I thought my honour was safe in her keeping,
Colonel Deverill. That was my only mistake."

Have you heard of her since she left here ? "

Not a word."

^' I telegraphed Leo to meet me at Waterloo
this morning, and we had half-an-hour's talk before
my train started. She thinks St. Austell is the
man's

I don't suppose anybody has any doubt about
that'

'you will apply for a divorce, I suppose? "

I suppose so, eventually'

He answered with a gloomy indifference which
raised him in his father-in-law's estimation. He
was evidently in no eager haste to shake off that
dishonoured tie, to free himself for second nuptials.
He was not a pleasant young man, but in this
matter he acted generously.

He showed Colonel Several Helen's unfinished
letter, telling him how the housemaid had found it
on the morning of her disappearance.

"Wretched girl, it was like her to leave an
unfinished letter," said the Colonel, " and half an
explanation. God help her with such a protector.
If I had been more among beaten tracks on the
Continent, I might have met them — or heard of
them ; but I was not often upon terra-firma after
I left Marseilles."

Lady Belfield begged the Colonel to remain at
the Abbey as long as he liked ; and he accepted
her hospitality for three days ; during which time

he tried to discover further particulars of his
daughter's flight, but could hear very little,
although he had several conversations with Mrs.
Marrable, and more than one chat with the woman
at the Lodge, whose husband was employed in the
garden.

No one had heard her leave the house — of that
Mrs. Marrable was certain.

No one at the Lodge had seen her go out of the
gate ; but there was a gate in the fence about half
a mile from the Lodge, a gate which was sometimes
locked and sometimes not, and she might
have gone out that way. No such thing as a
carriage had been seen waiting about upon the
road near the park gate, either late in the evening
of the 19th or in the early morning of the 20th.

This fact did not surprise the Colonel, as he had
been shown the telegram purporting to be sent by
Mr. Belfield, and no doubt despatched by some
agent of St. AustelFs. If Helen had known that
such a summons was to arrive in order to facilitate
her flight, she had lost her head at the crisis, and
had anticipated the intended hour of departure.

She must have walked all the way to the station
in the early morning, before any one was about to
notice her. Colonel Deverill was tempted to make
further inquiries at the station, where a young
and beautiful woman starting alone by an early
train would most likely have attracted somebody's
notice, even if she were not recognized as Mrs.
Belfield of the Abbey; but he shrank from an
investigation which would lay stress upon his
daughter's infamy. What good would it be to
him to learn the details of her flight ? The evil
was done ; she was a disgraced and ruined woman ;
she had eloped with a notorious profligate, and a
married man into the bargain, a man who would
not be free to make her reparation were her own
bonds broken tomorrow.

The Colonel shrugged his shoulders and gave up
his daughter to perdition. He would have helped
her if he could ; he would have taken her back to
his heart as tenderly as the Vicar of Wakefield
received his deluded daughter, could he have
found her in remorse and abandonment. He had
been very fond of his children, after his own kind

of fondness — as beautiful creatures flitting about
his bouse and brightening it — but he could not
move mountains. If his daughter had gone
wrongs it was not within his power to bring her
right again. He shed a few fatherly tears over
her fall ; but he was inclined to resent the perversity
of Providence which had turned all things
to evil in his younger child's destiny.

She might have been mistress of this fine old
places he told himself, as he smoked his after-breakfast
cigar in the cypress walk "but she
must needs throw herself at the head of the
younger brother; and then she cannot keep her
silly little head in the vortex of a London season,
and elopes with the very worst man she could
have chosen. She might have gone off with a
Duke, by Jove, if she had liked — a Duke who
could have made her a Duchess in good time — but
she chooses St. Austell — St. Austell, whose property
is mortgaged up to the hilt and who has a
wife he can't get rid of."

The case was hard, and the Colonel's spirits
sank as he dwelt upon his daughter's fate. He

VOL. III. C

was not a man to add to his affliction by taking
to himself blame in the matter. He felt that
Providence had dealt hardly with his daughter,
that was all.

The Abbey was beautiful in itself and its surroundings,
and life went as smoothly as upon
velvet, administered by an admirable cook and
irreproachable servants in every department, presided
over by a woman who was still handsome
and whom he had once adored, whom he might
still adore had he been in his usual spirits. But
the Colonel was weighed down by gloomy
thoughts, and those picturesque gardens had a
funereal air, and the cypress walk suggested a
place of tombs. Even the babble of the river had
lost its soothing power. The Colonel flung his
half-smoked cigar into the stream with a groan,
and stood idly watching the movements of a heron
on the opposite bank, until it spread its wide grey
wings, stretched its long neck, and skimmed away
seaward. He was not interested in the bird, but
watched its movements in a dull lassitude of mind
and body.

He made up his mind to start for London next
day, but before he went a morbid curiosity-prompted
him to ask Lady Belfield's permission to
see his daughter's rooms — the rooms from which
she had stolen away unseen by any one, like a thief
in the night.

'' I suppose they have not been much altered
since she left' he said.

^^ No, there has been nothing changed. No
one has occupied the south wing since that sad
day. ni show you her room myself, if you like'
replied Lady Belfield, feeling for him deeply in his
affliction.

Mrs. Marrable brought the key of the outer
door, which had been kept locked, and Lady
Belfield and the Colonel went into the room
together. There had been no changes mode, ^y
except the usual covering of furniture and
pinning up of draperies which mark the careful
housekeeper. Ou one side of the room
stood two large basket trunks, covered with
black leather, on which Helen's initials were
painted in large white letters ; a smaller box

c 2

for bonnets, a travelling-desk, and a travelling-bag.


Strange that she should not have taken some
means to get these things sent after her," said the
Colonel, contemplating the luggage.

^' She has been afraid to ask for them,
perhaps."

Yes ; that is it, no doubt. But it was rather a
feeble proceeding to pack everything so carefully,
and then to make no effort to get the things away.
Poor Helen ! It is so like her."

He took up the travelling-bag, which was large
and heavy, made of crocodile leather, clamped with
brass, and provided with all the latest improvements.
He had reason to know the bag, for it
was his own, and only, wedding gift to his daughter,
and it was not yet paid for; he received dunning
letters about it every three months, and he felt
that there must eventually be a settlement
somehow. And to think that she had left it
behind her, not valuing it any more for all the
trouble it had cost and was likely to cost him.
He felt more injured at the thought of this ingratitude

than if he had paid for the object with solid
sovereigns.

He opened the bag, and looked dreamily at the
silver-gilt stoppers, the ivory brushes and glove
stretchers, and shining cutlery. All her little
luxuries of the toilet had been packed in this receptacle.
White rose and eau-de-cologne, lavender
ambree, attar of roses. A cloud of perfume came
out of the bag as he opened it.

There may be letters or papers of some kind
that may help us to find out a little more about
her plans he said.

'''Don't/' pleaded Lady Belfield, stretching out
her hand entreatingly, as if to stay the violation of
a secret ; " what good can it do to know any
details ? She is gone — we cannot hope to get her
back yet awhile."

My dear .friend, it is my duty to know all
I can' replied the Colonel sternly, and thereupon
he proceeded to ransack the bag.

He turned out all the treasures, the bottles, and
brushes, and thimble-cases, and brooches and bracelets
in their morocco boxes, treasures of ivory,

of crystal and gold of agate and silver. These
he flung ruthlessly upon the dressing-table, and
then with cruel hand he searched the silken
pockets, until he found what he wanted, a letter,
the last that St. Austell had written to her.

It had been written after their long talk by the
river. It recapitulated his instructions as to her
flight, explained the trick of the telegram which
was to summon her to London in her husband's
name, told her how he should be waiting for heron
the up-platform — South-Western — at Exeter,
advised her to take her luggage with her, and then
after being strictly practical, the man of business
vanished, and the passionate lover repeated his
assurances of an undying love, a devotion which
should know no change — urged her for his sake
to be bold and firm, to fear nothing, think of no
danger, remembering that in a few hours she would
be safe in his arms.

For God's sake, do not falter," he wrote. '' I
think I have proved myself worthy of your trusting
love, by a devotion which has stood firm against
every discouragement. You have given me your

promise, my darling, the sacred pledge of responsive
love. It would be as dishonourable as it
would be cruel to break that promise, and to break
my heart at the same time. I cannot live without
you."

I may as well keep that letters said Colonel
Deverill, when he had read it and given it to
Lady Belfield to read after him. " There would
be no good in showing it to Valentine."

No, there would be no good. Pray keep it
from him. There is nothing I dread so much as a
meeting between him and Lord St. Austell."

Oh, the days of duelling are past. There is
nothing to be feared nowadays, except the Divorce
Court and the newspapers. Publicity is the fiery
dragon that lies in wait for the sinner."

^' With a man of my sons temperament, there
is always reason for fear," said Lady Belfield
gravely. '^ He has taken his trouble very
quietly — too quietly, perhaps. I should fear the
worst consequences if he were to meet Lord Si.
Austell."

The Colonel shrugged his shoulders.

'^I fancy you measure your son's feelings by an
old-fashioned standard' he said. ^*^The young
men of the present day take all things lightly. A
man gets rid of one wife and marries another
within two or three seasons. The change is made
so easily that one-half of society knows nothing
about it, and the other half takes no notice. If
your son meant mischief he wouldn't be here
hunting and shooting. He would be half-way to
Ceylon in pursuit of his wife and her seducer.
He would be hunting them, Lady Belfield, instead
of Devonshire foxes."

Colonel Deverill left the Abbey in a very despondent
state of mind.

^^ I am a broken man, my dear friend' he said.
I have been tottering for a good many years ; low
in health, in spirits, and in purse ; but this last
blow has annihilated me. Leonora is a splendid
creature, but she is the essence of selfishness.
She lives her own life, and cares about as much
for her old father as she does for the gatekeeper
in the Park. Helen was always fond of me. Her
disgrace will bring my grey hairs with sorrow to

the grave. I don't feel as if I could ever hold my
head up again among my old chums. I have
boasted of that girl — I have been so proud of her.
I shall go and hide myself at Kilrush. The
cottagers and squireens will point the finger of
scorn at me — but that won count."

You might almost as well stay in Devonshire
as bury yourself at Kilrush," said Lady Belfield,
pitying him in his desolation, feeling that she
would like to comfort him if it were possible.

Oh, but I have ties in Kilrush — ties of some
kind. I have a stake in the country. The soil is
mine, and though it pays me no rent it belongs tome.
There is something in the sense of possession.
Otherwise, for choice, I should infinitely prefer
Chadford. There is a furnished cottage near the
river which would suit me admirably."

'you mean the white cottage with a thatched
roof and a verandah all round ? "

Yes, that is the place. Has it been long tolet?"


Only since June. It belongs to two maiden
sisters. One of them was ordered to Germany

for a rheumatic affection, and she and her sister
went off last Midsummer, leaving their cottage
in the hands of our local agent, who never has
been known to find a tenant for anybody. The
house is to be let for a twelvemonth, and for very
little money. You had better take it, Colonel
DeveriU.^^

My dear Lady Belfield, there is nothing I
should like so much as to be near you, but you
must consider that this neighbourhood would be
full of painful associations for me, and that my
presence would be full of painful associations for
your son Valentine. Therefore, my best course is
to bid you good-bye, and take my poor old bones
off to Ireland'

CHAPTER III.

CAPABLE OF STRANGE THINGS

Colonel Deverill's brief visit being ended, life at
the Abbey resumed its old course, each of the
brothers following his own particular bent ; the
elder secluded with his books, his organ and piano ;
the younger devoted to sport, and living for the
most part out of doors. It seemed sometimes to
Lady Belfield as if Valentine^s married life had
been an evil dream, which had vanished with the
morning light : as if all things were again as they
had been before the Deverills. came to Morcomb.
Yet this was but a momentary feeling, for although
all the details of her daily life with her two sons
were almost exactly as they had been, there was a
change in the spirit of her life, a change which
involved all the difference between happiness and
unhappiness. The brothers were not the same as
they had been in their mutual relations. There

was something wanting, as if some subtle mystic
link had snapped and left them wide asunder.
They never quarrelled. There was no sign of
angry feeling between them ; yet to Lady Belfield
it seemed that brotherly love was dead. Adrian
was especially forbearing to Valentine ; never did
anything to provoke him, or resented any rudeness
of his brothers ; but there were no signs of that
affectionate sympathy which had once been so
sweet to the mother's eyes. She never saw her
sons linked arm in arm, strolling up and down the
lawn in front of her windows. She never saw
Valentine lolling in at the library window to talk
to Adrian, trying to tempt him away from his
books, as she had been used to see him almost
daily in the time that was past. There was a
change in the spirit of both brothers, as if both
were haunted by the memory of an unspeakable
misery. A woman had come into their lives and
poisoned all things for them. A woman's fickle
love had blighted them both.

Never since that first evening of his return had
Valentine spoken of his wife. For the first few

weeks he had put on a spurious gaiety, had tried
to convince everybody that he was in excellent
spirits, and unaffected by his loss. The men who
met him out hunting — men who had known him
from his boyhood — found these forced spirits
painfully oppressive. Then there came a gradual
change, the forced hilarity died away, and was
followed by a settled gloom. He hunted three
times a week, and shot over the Abbey preserves ;
but he went nowhere, and refused all invitations
from old friends and acquaintances in the county.
He refused an invitation to spend a week at Wilmington,
where pheasants were more abundant
than anywhere else within a hundred miles.

The Miss Toffstaffs were indignant at such folly.

^^ Why doesn't he divorce his runaway wife and
have done with it ? '^ exclaimed Dorothy. '' It is
absurd that he should make so much more fuss
than other men. And his brother is just as bad.
Mother has asked him to dine and sleep three
times since last August, and he has made an y/
excuse for refusing each time. They arc a couple
of savages'

Sir Adrian has been nowhere since his 
escapade," said her sister. " I suppose he
never got over his attachment to her, though she
jilted him so shamefully."

Everybody in the neighbourhood was outraged
at Sir Adrian's secluded life. Since that awful
night he had isolated himself so far as it was
possible from his fellow-men. He would hold no
converse with men whose consciences were clear.
It seemed to him that his knowledge of crime —
his guilty reticence — made him a creature apart.
He would not mix in society under false pretences.
He would not give his friends the power to say
by-and-by, should this dark secret be brought to
light, " He had no right to] come among us — to
touch our hands and sit beside our hearths —
knowing what he knew."

Again, he would not make the distinction between
his brother and himself more marked than
it need be. Valentine held himself aloof from everyone,
and darkened no man's threshold. Valentine's
brother accepted the same isolation ; with a single
exception, and that was in favour of Mr. Rockstone.

The Vicar was his chosen friend. He never
shrank from crossing the Vicar^s threshold, knowing
that in that house, had he dared to unbosom
himself, he would have found sympathy and
promise of pardon. He had often longed to unburden
himself of that dreadful secret, to confess
all, knowing that his secret would be safe in
priestly keeping; but although there would have
been infinite comfort in such confidence, he felt
that his duty towards Valentine constrained him
to silence. It was not of himself, or of his own
feelings that he had to think, but of the criminal
who had put himself in peril of the lawes
last penalty.

Seeing her two sons bent on isolation, Lady
Belfield withdrew from society as much as she
could without giving offence to her neighbours.

She still kept up her old intimacy with Mrs.
Freemantle, and worked with her among the poor
of Chadford Parish, which was a large one. She
received all callers with her accustomed cordiality,
and afternoon tea in the Abbey drawing-room orin
the Abbey grounds was as pleasant as of old.

But there were no more dinner parties, and Lady
Belfield declined all invitations.

I am getting an old woman' she told her
friends in confidence. "This sad trouble of my
son's has aged me by ten years, and I feel that
the fireside is the best place for me now'

At which a chorus of matrons and maidens protested.
" Dear Lady Belfield^ how can you say
such a thing ? "

It was the season of snipe and waterfowl once
again, a wintry season, a time of grey, rainy days,
varied by light frosts, and Valentine Belfield was
spending a good many hours of his life upon the
river or on the marshes, with his gun and a couple
of spaniels. The low level marshland and the grey
autumnal mist suited his humour better than a
fairer landscape or a summer sky. He pushed his
boat along the stream, or waded across the marsh,
in a dull vacuity of mind, thinking of nothing,
caring for nothing, except just to keep moving
about in the open air. All keen delight in sport
had departed from him. He only pursued it
because it was necessary to him to be up and

doing. He was sorry that lie was not a soldier,
obliged to obey orders, to make forced marches
under a tropical sky. Sometimes he even thought
of running away and enlisting in a regiment that
was under orders for active service. Sometimes
he thought of going out to Australia and digging
for gold, or to the Cape to dig for diamonds.
There would be excitement in such a life as that,
he thought ; excitement which would help a man
to forget.

He would have carried out one of these plans,
perhaps, since he loathed the dull quiet of his present
existence, but for one restraining influence.
He dared not go far from the spot where his secret
lay hidden. He dared not leave the neighbourhood
of that silent pool under the rushes, where
his murdered wife was lying. He had an idea
that were he to leave the Abbey the body would
be discovered the next day. During the brief
interval after the murder, in which he had been
absent from the Abbey, he had suffered an agony
of apprehension . To leave the spot again would
be madness.

VOL. in. D

He had passed the basket-maker's cottage a
dozen times, sometimes drifting slowly by in his
boat, sometimes passing it on foot by the causeway.
The place looked just the same as of old, except
that no woman's figure appeared at the door.
There was no smoke from the chimney, no sign of
life. Old John-was trudging about with his
baskets, no doubt.

Having passed so often and seen no change in
the aspect of the place, Valentine got out of the
way of looking at it as he rowed by, and forgot his
old interest in the poor, tumble-down cottage ; but
one November afternoon, while he was rowing
slowly by, one of the spaniels gave a short, sharp
bark, and an instant after he heard the shutting
of a door.

'^ There's some one there," he thought ; " old
John, most likely. I may hear something of that
Jezebel."

He moved his boat to the causeway, sprang on
shore, and went to the cottage. He opened the
door, and found himself face to face with Jezebel
herself.

Altered since she left Belfield Abbey : altered
for the worse or the better? He could scarce
decide which, as he looked at her with rapid
scrutiny.

She looked considerably older than when he
had seen her last, in her housemaid's livery, the
coquettish mob-cap, red gown, and muslin apron.
She wore a cap to-day, but a cap of a peculiar
pattern, pinched and plain, made of lawn,
Quakerish, Puritanical. She wore a black gown,
with a long straight skirt.

So you have come back, Mistress Madge," he
said. " Are you living here ? "

"^ No, Mr. Belfield. I am only here for two or
three days to look after my old grandfather."

You are a very nice person. I am indebted to
you for some of the happiness — and most of the
misery of my life," said Valentine, flinging himself
upon the bench beside the door, the bench upon
which he had sat years ago, when he was in love
with this girl. '^ Your anonymous letter brought
things to a crisis."

I am not sorry I wrote it," said Madge, with

D 2

a proud carelessness. '^ I was tired of seeing your
underhand conduct. I wanted Sir Adrian to know
what his sweetheart and his brother were worth."

You mean that you were consumed by jealousy,
and you wanted to do all the harm you could'
retorted Valentine.

'^ You may say that of me, if you like. I shall
not try to convince you differently''

Oh, you are monstrous proud and prim. You
have turned hypocrite, and are full of pious cant,
I have no doubt. You belong to some sisterhood,
I supposes''

More than that, I have founded a sisterhood."

Indeed."

Yes. I and a handful of women like myself —
there are just twenty two of us now — have
established ourselves as nursing sisters among
the fallen and the unhappy — among broken-hearted
women. We seek out those cases of abject misery
which seem to lie outside the limit of ordinary
help''

'* What do you call yourselves ? "

Sisters of the Forlorn Hope. We have a

house in a poor neighbourhood which is called the
Forlorn Hope, and which we use as a refuge for
unhappy creatures who have no other shelter. It
is small, but we hope to make it larger."

Of course, and you spend your lives in begging
for funds, I supposes

We are not ashamed to beg ; and we find that
people are very kind to us. Half our funds have
been gathered among working people who can ill
afford the pence they give us, but the good has
been done all the same''

And your fallen women ? ■'■' asked Valentine,
with his cynical air. ^^ Are they pleasant
patients ? "

"Not always; but they are rarely ungratefully


And when they are well — they go out into the
world and forget all you have done for them, I
suppose ? "

Not always. There are some who remember
us, and who help us, with their small means and
large heart's

And you really believe you have made conversions

— that some of your fallen women have
walked straight after your administrations ? ^'

Yes we know of some who have tried to lead
better lives ; but most of those for whom we have
cared were marked for death before we found them.
We have been able to smooth their last hours.
That is at least something

May I ask what it was that inspired you with
the idea of this mission ? '' asked Valentine, looking
at her wonderingly.

She was completely in earnest; she had that
grandly resolute air which he remembered of old —
an air that made him feel a shallow trifler in her
presence.

I was with my mother all through her last
long illness and till her deaths she said. " When
she was gone, I made up my mind to devote myself
to — such death-beds, for love of her."

'^ She had not been such a very good mother
that you should devote your life to her memory'
sneered Valentine.

*' She loved me very dearly — at the last," replied
Madge sorrowfully.

She stood leaning against the doorpost, in
her straight black gown and Puritan cap, while
he sat on the bench and lighted his cigar, just
as in the old days when he was her lover. But
there was no talk of love between them now. A
shadow of seriousness rested upon both. In her
it was thoughtfulness ; in him it was impenetrable
gloom.

The Forlorn Hope,'^ he said. " A queer name
for a house. I rather like it though, because it is
queer. Was the name your fancy ? "

'' Yes."

'^ And you take in fallen women, and nurse them
in their last illnesses, and make believe that they
are not altogether worthless ? '^

They are not worthless — they are those over
whom the angels rejoice — they are those who have
been lost and are found."

Ah ! " he said listlessly, " you believe in all
that. You believe in repentance and the washing
of sins. * Though your sins be as scarlet they
shall be white as snows I remember hearing that
sentence read in church when I was a child. I

think the idea of vivid colour in it must have
caught my fancy — though they are as scarlet —
scarlet — the colour of blood — and of sin — they shall
be white — white — white — "

The words dropped slowly from his lips, with a
pause after each, dying into silence, as he sat with
his head bent, and his eyes upon the ground.

"The Forlorn Hopes he repeated by-and-by,
still looking at the ground. '^ I like the name.
Where is your house ? ''

In Lisson Grove. I don't suppose you know
anything of the neighbourhoods'

Not much ; but I have a vague idea of its
whereabouts. The Forlorn Hope. Would you
take a fallen man if he came to you marked for
death ? Or do you care only for your own sex ? "

It is for our own sex we have pledged ourselves
to work," answered Madge.

But you would not shut your door against a
penitent sinner ? '^

I think not — if he were utterly helpless except
for us, and we had any power to help him."

And your mission is to smooth the pillow of

death, and to make the end easy for those who have
lived hard and have rioted in sin. Well, I dare sait
is a good mission. You are a strange girl, and
seem capable of strange things."

He looked at her thoughtfully, admiringly even,
but with a grave and respectful admiration which
was very different from the young manes sensuous
worship of beauty. It was not a lovers gaze which
rested on the pale face to-day.

She had aged and altered from the glowing
gipsy-like beauty which he had admired in his
bachelor days ; but she was handsome still, and,
while her face had lost in richness of colouring, it
had gained in distinction. The lines of the
features were more delicate, the ivory tints of
the complexion had a more spiritual beauty than
the warm carnations of girlhood. She was thinner
than she had been then, and looked taller. The
straight, tall figure in the straight black gown, the
noble head in the Quaker cap, had a grand
simplicity which Valentine admired with almost
reverent admiration, he in whom reverence for
anything was so rare a feeling.

He sat silent, his cigar extinguished, his eyes
brooding on the ground again as he recalled a past
which seemed ages away, and the day when he
had fancied himself desperately in love with this
woman.

He had wooed her passionately, and had tried to
win her, yet had wondered at her folly with a contemptuous
wonder, when she told him she must be
his wife or nothing. He had laughed within himself
at the idea that he could be thought capable of
marrying a basket-makers granddaughter, a half-bred
gipsy.

He had chosen a mate of his own rank,
thoroughbred like himself, penniless as the basket-maker's
granddaughter, but a lady by birth and
want of education. The girl taught in the National
School could have beaten the ColoneFs daughter
upon any subject on which they could have been
examined, from the multiplication table to Early
English literature.

And now he asked himself what his life might
have been like had he flung conventionality to the
winds, made light of caste and married Mrs.

Mandeville daughter? Would things have gone
as badly with him ! Would he have been as careless
of her as he had been of Helen, and would
some other man have found out that she was fair,
and tempted her away from him ? Would any
man have dared to tempt this woman ? Would
any fashionable sybarite have ventured to approach
this Egyptian sphinx, in silken dalliance, with the
light airy courtesies which smooth the brimstone
path of seduction? Looking at that grand face,
those dark, deep eyes, with their steady outlook, it
seemed to him that this woman, once having taken
upon herself the vows of a wife, would have kept
them until death. It seemed to him, also, that no
man who was her husband would have dared to
trifle with her happiness.

CHAPTER IV.

WOULD SHE HAVE TOUCHED MY HAND ? "

Valentine Belfield went back to the raarsh next
day with his gun and his dogs, shot a brace of
birds, and then made his way to the basket-makers
cottage. He was drawn there irresistibly. He
wanted to see that earnest face again, to hear those
low and steady accents, which fell upon his ear and
brain with a soothing influence, like organ music
stealing along a vaulted roof to the homeless wanderer
lingering by a cathedral door.

There had been more comfort to him in yesterday's
conversation with Madge than in anything
that had happened to him since the doing of that
deed which separated him for ever from his fellowmen.
He found himself wondering what would
happen if he were to tell her of his crime — if he
were to unburden his overloaded breast to this
woman whom he had once loved with a selfish

sensual love, but whom he now reverenced as a
creature of superior mould. He knew not how
the change had come about. It might be the consciousness
of his own guilt, which intensified his
sense of her superiority. Three years ago he had
laughed at her pretension to equality as woman
against man : and now he longed to hide his weary
head in her lap, and to pour out the dark story of
his crime. He wanted her compassion, her help
against the evil spirit that was rending him.

If it is her mission to rescue the fallen, she
ought to care for me," he thought. ^^ None ever
fell lower — none was ever deeper dyed with the
stains of sin ! "

The door of old Dawley^s cottage was shut, and
it was the basket-maker himself who appeared at
Valentine^s knock.

'' How d'ye do, Dawley ? '' said Valentine. " I
have been shooting about here, and I thought Fd
look in upon you. The rheumatism is better, I
hope."

Well, no, sir ; that complaint ain't like good
"wine. It don't improve with age," answered the

old man, not altogether ud suspicious. ^^ Did her
ladyship send any message for me or my daughter?"

No ; my mother did not know that I was
coming this way. I was surprised to see your
daughter here yesterday. She left the Abbey very
abruptly three years ago, and I don't think any of
our people had heard of her since''

I beg your pardon, sir, I think Mrs. Marrable
had. I believe my girl wrote to her — after her
mother's death," answered Dawley, placing a chair
for his visitor, and resuming his own seat beside
the fire. ^' I know she must have seemed ungrateful
for cutting off from such a good place, and
a place in which she had been so kindly treated,
without giving proper warning. But she's a strange
girl, Mr. Belfield, is my granddaughter, and she
thought she had a mission in life, and that that
mission was to look after her poor sinful mother ;
and look after her mother she did, and brought her
out of a burning fiery furnace, and cared for her,
and worked for her, and nursed her to the end, and
buried her — all with the price of her own labour.
She worked like a galley-slave, did that girl of

mine. And she did what she wanted to do, and
what she thought her duty : which is a good deal
more than most of us do."

Has your daughter been dead long ? "

Nearly two years. She was in a decline when
Madge found her. She'd lived like a lady, and
drove her own carriage," said the old man, with a
touch of pride " though she'd had her ups and
downs."

I saw her in London four or five years ago'
said Valentine, '^ the remains of a splendid woman."

She'd spent more money in her time than many
a lady born and bred," pursued Dawley, waxing
prouder, '^ and she died a penitent woman, and has
gone to glory' he concluded, with pious unction.

Is this the first time your granddaughter has
been to see you since she left the Abbey ? "

No, she came once before. She came to tell
me of her mother's death. I wanted her to stop
with me altogether then— or to go back to the Abbey,
if her ladyship would forgive her and take her back
but she had set her heart upon what she calls her
mission, and off she goes again. She's a good girl

to me, all the same. She writes to me once a
month, and she sends me a little money now and
again. She's gone to see mr. Rockstone this
afternoon, and she's going back to London tomorrow."


How does she get money to carry on her work
in London ? "

'* All manner of ways. Sometimes by begging,
sometimes by the sweat of her brow. She goes
out nursing now and again, among people who can
afford to pay her handsomely for her services. She
learnt how to nurse consumptive patients in attending
upon her mother. She had a long lingering
illness, had my girl — died by inches, as the saying
is — and Madge nursed her through it all. There
was a famous doctor that had known something of
my girl when she was in her prime, and the tip-top
of fashion — and he attended her in her illness, and
was kind and generous to her, so that she never
wanted for anything. And he took to jNIadge. and
told her she had a genius for nursing — and it was
he who recommended her afterwards to his rich
patients, and set her going as a sick nurse."

And in her leisure hours she has founded a
sisterhood," interrogated Valentine.

Yes — and the other sisters are all ladies —
ladies, born and bred. There's been some kind of
blight upon 'em, one and all — disappointments in
their love affairs — or the loss of a relation — or a
bad husband. They've all of em had their own
sorrows before they began to think of other people's
troubles. Some of 'em have a little bit of money
some haven't a sixpence — but they all work alike,
and most of their money goes to help the poor
wretched creatures they take, sick or dying, off
the cruel streets of London. It's a good bit of
work, Mr. Belfield, for a young woman like
my Madge to have done in less than two
years''

"Yes, it is a good work — and your granddaughter
is a wonderful woman'' said Valentine
musingly.

He remembered how lightly he had thought of
this girl three years ago, and with what an insolent
sense of his own superiority he had approached
her, deeming her his predestined prey. And now

VOL. Il E

he knew that she was, and had always been, infinitely
his superior.

He propitiated old Dawley with a gift of money
for future tobacco, and a small supply of his own
tobacco for immediate use ; and then he took up
his hat and prepared to go back to his boat and
his dogs.

Will you ask Madge to go and see my mother ?''
he said. "I think Lady Belfield would like to
hear about her work in Lisson Grove. Ask her
to go to tea at the Abbey tomorrow. 1*11 tell my
mother to expect her.^^

'^ You are very good, sir ; but I believe my gal
has made up her mind to go back to London by an
early train to-morrow'

But a day won't make much difference. Ask
her to put oiF her journey for a day or two. I
know my mother would like to see her."

It was his own idea, and he had hardly thought
of his mother's mind in the matter. He was feverishly
eager that Madge should be encouraged and
helped in her work.

He rowed slowly homeward along the broad

river, keeping close in to the shore. About half a
mile from Dawley's cottage he saw the woman
whose image filled his mind — a tall figure in a
straight black gown moving with steady pace along
the dusty tow-path. He pulled into the bank,
grounded his boat, and stepped on shore.

I have just left your grandfather, Madge,^^ he
said. ^' He has told me all about you.^^ And then
he urged her to go to his mother on the following
afternoon.

'' She will be interested in your work, and she
will give you some money," he said ; and then he
turned out one of his pockets and gave her a little
heap of gold and silver, amounting to between six
and seven pounds.

It is not much," he said, " but it is all I have
left of this year's income. No ; don't refuse it," as
she made a gesture of repudiation ; " I have no need
for money in this place. Don't refuse it unless
you want to wound me."

Why should I want to wound you ? "

Ah, why, indeed ! I once behaved like a cad to
you ; but I am not the same man as I was then. I

E 2

may be a worse man, perhaps — but anyhow, I am
different. I shall never insult you again, Madge."

I am sure you will not,'^ she said, looking at
him with a compassionate gaze.

She had heard the Chadford people talk of his
wife's elopement, and she had been told that Valentine
Belfield was a broken man, so altered that his
closest friends of the past felt as if he were a
stranger among them. She was sorry for him,
and felt herself in some measure responsible for
his misery, since it was her anonymous warning
which had precipitated his marriage with Helen
Deverill.

She took his gift for the Forlorn Hope, and promised
to go to the Abbey next day.

I have been with Mr. Rockstone this afternoon,"
she said ; " he has given me seventeen pounds. Ten
pounds are his own gift, and the rest he has collected
among his friends. I must hurry back to
grandfather now, sir," she concluded. " I have so
little time to spend with him. Good-bye."

Good-bye, Madge."

He held out his hand, and she took it in frank

friendliness. His clasp was strong and fervent and
he sighed as he released her hand , and then walked
on in silence.

Would she have touched my hand if she knew
all ? ^^ he asked himself, as he went back to his
boat.

CHAPTER V.

COLONEL DEVERILL HAS HOPES

Colonel Deverill loitered in London for a week or
so after he left the Abbey. He put up at a sporting:
club in Piccadilly, where there were rooms for birds
of passage, and he spent his life in a variety of
smoking-rooms and billiard-rooms, card-rooms and
reading-rooms. He was a member of seven West-end
clubs, and had a choice of places in which to
smoke and saunter : but the clubs were nearly
empty at this time of the year, and the few men
whom he knew were coming and going — full of
their autumnal engagements, unsettled and distracted
: not in a frame of mind to be good company
for a solitary wanderer like the Colonel, who
had made no plans for autumn or winter, and who
was beginning to feel old and desolate.

The men he knew were civil, and some of them
had a sympathetic air, which implied compassion

for him in his afl3ictioii as a father ; but he felt a
sting even in sympathy, and dreaded lest some
officious friend should offer to condole with him.
He wondered whether his daughter's flight had
become town-talk. There had been no stir made —
no row, or open scandal, and it was possible that her
disgrace was only guessed at by the few who were
behind the scenes of society. There was one man,
however. Sir Sandal Griswold, of the County Clare
Rangers, with whom Colonel Deverill was on terms
of almost brotherly confidence and from him he
withheld nothing

Have you heard anything about that scoundrel,
St. Austell/'' he asked. " Do people know that he
has gone off with my daughter?"

Upon my word, Deverill, I don't think anybody
knows as much as that, but I believe there's a
general idea that Mrs. Belfield has gone wrong
somehow. One never can tell how these things
get known. They seem to be in the air. St.
Austell was always about with her, you see.
There was no mistaking the nature of his attentions.
The fellow is all the more dangerous,

because there is a vein of sincerity in him ; he is
desperately in earnest for the time being. People
saw that he was over head and ears in love with
your daughter ; and when he sold his share in the
racing stable and announced his intention of going
to Ceylon, every one knew what it meant. He
was going off with Mrs. Belfield."

^' Do you know if — if any one has seen them
together ? ^^ faltered the Colonel.

He was seen in Paris — with a lady ; he was
heard of at Genoa — with a lady ; and he was
heard of again at Venice — with a lady — only a
week ago.^'

I have a good mind to go after them and
try to bring her back with me/^ said Colonel
Deverill.

'' Don't attempt it, my dear fellow. A father's
influence and a father's authority go for nothing
against an infatuation of that kind. A little
later perhaps, when they are both tired of each
other, you may do something, but not now. Besides,
they would be on board a P. and O. before
you could get to Venice, or they would be hiding

somewhere in the Apennines or the Austrian
Tyrol

The Colonel felt the wisdom of this advice.
He was not the kind of man to wander all over
Europe in search of an erring daughter; though
he was assuredly the kind of man to shoot his
daughter's seducer, could they two be brought face
to face without too much trouble on the Colonel's
part. Laissez faire had been the rule of his
existence. It had left him in very low water in
this latter stage of life ; but he did not murmur
against fate. This last blow hit him harder than
any loss of fortune. He went to Wilkie Mansions
in search of sympathy from his elder daughter ; but
Mrs. Baddeley was at Ostend with some friends
who had a big yacht — a certain Mr. and Mrs.
Digby Smithers, Stock Exchange people, newly
rich, and very glad to cultivate the friendship of
a lady who went everywhere, or nearly everywhere,
and who knew nearly everybody. That there were
some people whom Mrs. Baddeley had never succeeded
in knowing gave her just that touch of poor
humanity which brought her in sympathy with

Mrs. Digby Smithers, who found it hard work to
force her way in society, even by the aid of Gunter
and Dan Godfrey. Under these circumstances,
Mrs. Digby Smithers' houses in Eaton Place and
at Marlow, and Mr. Digby Smithers" yacht, the
Clotho, were very much at Mrs. Baddeley's service,
and still more at the service of Mrs. Baddeley's
fashionable friends.

Ask as many nice fellows as you like," said
Smithers. " There are eight good cabins in the
Clotho, and she's pretty well found, as I think you
know."

'' The Clotho is fairyland," cried Leo gaily.
The Clotho ought to be called Fortunatus or the
Wishing Cap. One has only to ask and to have.
When I had one of my bad headaches the other
day, and Mrs. Digby Smithers wrung from me that
there was only one brand of champagne that ever
did my headaches the least good, there was a bottle
of that very brand open beside my berth in two
minutes. The Clotho is a yacht of miracles. If
it were only big enough to carry a roc's e^^, I
should not scruple to ask for one. I know it would

be there. Perhaps you have some patent compressible
rocs eggs in the hold at this very
moment''

Digby Smithers laughed. He liked Mrs. Bad-delay
to chaff him about his yacht, though he did
not always follow her meaning. He was not a
man of profound reading. He had, in fact, never
read anything except the newspapers, and there
his studies were confined to such information as
affected his own interests. For thirty years of his
life — from seventeen to forty-seven — he had given
himself up to the business of money-making : and
now at forty seven he had at last brought himself
to believe that he had made enough money and
could afford to spend some. Hitherto his wife and
he had been content to live their jogtrot lives in
Bloomsbury, at an expenditure of seven hundred
a year, taking their chief pleasure from the
knowledge that they were putting a good many
thousands behind them as they jogged along ; but
at last the time had come when Mrs. Smithers,
childless, and seeing her charms on the wane, told
herself, and told her husband, that it was now or

never. If they were ever to see life and enjoy
the fruits of prosperity, there was not an hour to
lose.

Urged by his wife, therefore, Mr. Smithers
assumed the penmen Digby, bestowed on him
in baptism by an impecunious half-pay captain,
with whom Smithers the elder had claimed
cousinship. With an almost feverish haste he
exchanged Bloomsbury for Eaton Place, and
the philistine upholstery of Finsbury for the
artistic cabinet work and high art fabrics of
Bruce. He bought a river-side villa at Marlow,
and a steam-launch, which speedily became
a horror to rowing men ; but Mrs. Smithers,
who hankered for a life of excitement, found
the steam-launch dull, and insisted upon a
two-hundredth yacht.

Mrs. Baddeley had made this worthy couple's
acquaintance at Marlow, where their villa was used
as a water-side hotel by a somewhat rowdy social
circle, and where the luncheon table was openly
talked of as the table d'hote. Leo and her chosen
friends used the table d'hote freely, made undisguised

fun of the Smothered. and found fault with
their cook ; but anything had been forgiven in a
lady who had two or three tame noblemen in her
train, first among all, Lord St. Austell, whose
reputation as a man of fashion seemed all the
better because of its savour of iniquity. No
virtuous nobleman had ever achieved such worldwide
renown as the erring St. Austell.

Colonel Deverill went over to Ostend, to confer
with his elder daughter, and was received on board
the Clotho with oppressive cordiality.

You will stay, of course, Colonel" said Digby
Smithers, who was a short stout man, pink of
complexion and sandy of hair ; ^' you shall have
one of our best cabins — the one we saved for St.
Austell. He promised us a week in September,
but those troublesome doctors have sent him off
to the East''

The Colonel spent a couple of nights on board,
in the cabin that was to have been St. Austell's.
He only stayed those two nights in order to have a
quiet talk with his daughter.

Mrs. Baddeley was looking ill, and was obviously

out of spirits, though she put on an air of forced
gaiety now and then out of compliment to her
hostess. Even Tory's blandishments seemed to
have lost their charm, and she allowed that
sagacious animal's somewhat fickle fancy to be
won by Mrs. Digby Smithers, who had conceived
an ardent affection for him, and who ministered
to his appetite with a reckless disregard of consequences.


'' You look dreadfully cut up, Leo' said her
father, when they were sitting together under an
awning, at a comfortable distance from Mrs. Digby
Smithers and a brace of frisky matrons, all absorbed
by the fascinations of Tory, and all diversifying
the inanity of their conversation by still more
inane giggling.

I am dreadfully cut up'' she answered
curtly.

Well, I don't wonder at it. The girl was in
your charge, and you must have felt responsible
for her in some measure. I suppose there's no
doubt she went off with St. Austell — and not with
any other man ? "

Doubt ? I£ you had seen them together, you
would not ask such a question. '^

But if you saw how things were tending, why
didn't you stop her — you are ever so much older —
and a woman of experience ? "

Stop her ! Could you stop the Ganges ? She
went headlong to destruction from the hour he
began to care for her. You don't know what he
is when he pretends to be in love with a woman !
God knows what he is when he is really in love :
and I suppose he was really in love with Helen''

The Colonel listened with a thoughtful brow.

It's a bad business' he said, " and I don't see
any remedy for it. If he were only free — but I
suppose there is no hope that his wife will take it
into her head to divorce him "

She can't do it, if she would. Her own position
won't bear scrutiny. He might have divorced
her five years ago if he had chosen : but he didn't
choose. There were money interests at stake ;
and I think he preferred his own position, as a
married man without the incumbrance of a wife,
to absolute freedom. He might trifle with any

woman's affections and not fear to be called to
account, don't you know. And to an unprincipled
man the position has its advantages''

I wish he had been free to make your sister
an honest woman' said the Colonel gloomily.

You mean free to make her Lady St. Austell."
sneered Leo. '^ If she had run away with a Jones
or a Smithy you would not care half so much about
her honesty. I know your Irish pride."

Can I help having kings for my ancestors ? A
feeling of that kind is in a man's blood. Do you
know where Lady St. Austell is and what she is
doing ? "

She is at Naples, I believe — she has a villa
somewhere in the suburbs, and lives in a certain
style. She has a rich Italian Marquis for her
banker, and is said to spend money rather recklessly.
I am told she takes chloral ; so there
might be a chance for Helen, if St. Austell doesn't
get tired of her too sooner'

"How heartlessly you talk of your sister."
She has ceased to be my sister. I have done
with her for ever."

^' Odc would think you had been in love
with St. Austell, or you would hardly be so
bitter."

Suppose I was in love with him ! At any rate,
I did not compromise myself on his account. Why
could not Helen take care of herself as I have
done ? Could she not like a man — without throwing
herself into his arms ? "

She was less a woman of the world than you,
Leonora. It is not every woman who can take
care of herself as you have done, and yet amuse
herself as you do."

A month later, Colonel Deverill opened his
Times, on board his Scotch friends' yacht in the
Orkneys, and started at seeing a line in large
type, among the telegraphic news : " Cholera at
Naples. Seventeen deaths."

By Jove ! " muttered the Colonel with a thrill
of guilty hope, " Lady St. Austell will have to
cut and run from her Neapolitan villa."

Would she cut and run ? Hardly, unless she
were a very foolish woman. Dire diseases which

VOL. IJl. F

ravage the slums and cellars of a city, the lanes
and alleys and crowded quarters where the poor
congregate, are rarely known to visit suburban
villas perched high on the crest of a flower-scented
hill, with their backs to the orange groves and
their faces to the sea. No cholera poison would
pollute the air that blew in at Lady St. AustelFs
windows. She would be safe enough.

Notwithstanding this opinion that no harm
could possibly come to Lady St. Austell, Colonel
Deverill read the cholera column with a keener
interest than other parts of the paper, and had a
particularly sharp eye for news from Naples.
Cholera was reported all through Southern Italy,
as well as at Toulon and Marseilles ; and every day
showed a new list of victims. All the English
visitors were leaving Naples and its vicinity.

At last appeared the name for which Colonel
Deverill was on the watch.

'' Lady St. Austell has left her villa at Posilipo
for the island of Capri, where she will be the
guest of the Marchese of Lugarno di ]Medina, whose
picturesque chateau and orange groves are known

to Italian tourists. No case of cholera has been
heard of on the islands

So she has cut and run after all' said the
Colonel. *' What nervous fools some women are !
And yet they are of the same clay as Florence
Nightingale and her sisterhood.^^

After this the Colonel glanced at the cholera
news with a careless eye. The one woman, whose
death might have seemed a special favour of providence,
was out of reach of infection — safe on
her sea-girt isle.

Colonel Deverill unfolded his Galignani one
wintry morning in Paris, some weeks after he
had forgotten all about Naples and the cholera,
and this time he was startled much more seriously
than by the Neapolitan news of September.

We regret to announce the death of Lady St.
Austell, who expired at Les Grangers, Capri, after
a long illness. Her ladyship was among the
English residents who fled from Naples at the
first outbreak of cholera; and, from the time of
her flight, she had been suffering from a nervous
fever, which ended fatally on Saturday morning.

F 2

Lady St. Austell was the seventh daughter of the
Earl of Swaddling'

Gone ! " cried the Colonel. '' Then there will
be a chance for my girl, after all."

To raise his daughter from disgrace and seclusion
to a better place in the world than that which
she had occupied before her fall was the strongest
desire of Colonel DeverilPs mind. He hardly
stopped to ask himself whether society would
accept such a marriage as a rehabilitation ; whether
the world would ever consent to condone the past ;
whether the divorced Mrs. Belfield would be forgotten
in the second Lady St. Austell. The one
point in his mind was that reparation could now be
made to his daughter, and that it was his business
to bring her seducer to book.

The first thing to be managed, however, would
be the divorce ; and that must needs be a work of
time and of unpleasantness. It must be brought
about with the least possible publicity, and it
would be the ColoneFs duty to use all the influence
he could command, in order to shorten those loathsome
reports which are sport to the newspaper
reader, and death to those whose names figure

therein. Colonel Deverill had been daily expecting
to hear that his son-in-law had petitioned fora
divorce ; but he had as yet received no notice to
that effect. The young man was evidently in no
haste to free himself; but now he would have to
be gently stimulated to the effort. With a man
of St. AustelFs temperament there was no time
to be lost. He must not be allowed to tire of his
latest victim before he was free to espouse her.

He felt that the matter was one in which he
could not afford to be precipitate. He must
approach the question delicately, in the character
of a disinterested friend and broken-hearted
father. With this view, he wrote to Lady Belfield,
asking her to hire the furnished cottage on the
bank of the Chad for him, if it were still in the
market.

I am tired of Paris, and I don't care for
another winter on the Riviera,^' he wrote. " I spent
two seasons at Nice with my girls;, when life was
brighter with me than it is now. Those scenes
would only awaken painful associations. Your
Devonshire climate is mild enough for a tough old
soldier like me — so if you can get the cottage forme

son reasonable terms I will engage it for six
months, and telegraph to my butler and his wife to
take possessions

Lady Belfield replied by telegram. " Cottage
taken. Feel sure you will approve terms'

Admirable woman' replied the Colonel ; " as
business-like as she is charming. If my poor girl
had married the right brother instead of the wrong
one, how happy we might have been''

He made all his arrangements, and was established
in Myrtle Cottage within ten days of that
announcement in Galignani. The slovenly old
Irish butler and the slammerkin Irish housekeeper
had the art of making their master comfortable.
A red-elbowed drudge, hired in the neighbourhood,
and a boy to clean boots, run errands, and work
in the garden, completed the household, and the
Colonel was more carefully ministered to than
many a man with thirty or forty servants.

The cottage was picturesque without being
damp — an admirable quality in cottages. It stood
well above the river, with about an acre of garden
sprawling in an irregular figure on the hillside

— good old garden ground teeming with old-fashioned
perennials, and rich in old-fashioned
shrubs, guelder roses, golden broom, arbutus, lilac,
and laburnum. The rooms were small, cosy —
furnished with substantial furniture of the Reform
Bill era — clumsy, ponderous, comfortable. Lady
Belfield had taken a basket of hot-house flowers
to fill all the bowls and vases, had seen cheery
wood fires lighted in all the rooms, and had spread
new magazines and periodicals on a table in the
drawing-room, so that the Colon eFs first exclamation
on entering the room was : *' This looks like
homes

There was a note from Lady Belfield on the
chimney-piece, asking him to dinner that evening,
which he hastened to accept by means of a hurried
scrawl and the handy boy. There was no one at
the Abbey but the family, and the dinner was not
lively, although Constance Belfield did all in her
power to maintain the interest of the conversation.
There was a dogged gloom in Valentine's manner
which repelled confidence, and there was a subdued
melancholy upon Adrian's countenance,

which was only brightened when he addressed his
mother.

Val has had one of his long days with the foxhounds'
said Lady Belfield apologetically, " so
you must not take any notice of him if he is dull'

Colonel Deverill was bent upon conciliating his
son-in-law, and was careful to talk of the things
Valentine loved. They played a couple of games
at billiards after dinner, and talked of the hunting.
Valentine was gloomy, but not ill-natured.

If you care about hunting, we can mount you
for two days a week all through the season," he
said. ^'^ There are plenty of good hunters. My
mother has been very generous to me lately, and
we have increased the stud. It is the only thing a
man can do in this gloomy hole."

You find Chadford gloomy."

I always did. I have tolerated the place because
it is my home — it has been needs must,
don't you know — but I believe I have always hated
it. I'm very sure I hate it now."

This seemed natural in a man who had been
badly treated. The Colonel paused upon his stroke

to sigh, and then made his cannon neatly, with a
subdued air.

You have had reason to dislike the place —
lately' he said despondently, and then he
dawdled for a little, as he chalked his cue , trying
to find the best words in which to approach
a risky subject. " You — you have not petitioned
for your divorce yet, I supposes'

He said your divorce, making the matter, as it
were, a foregone conclusion, and in his son-in-law ^s
especial interest.

I am not going to petitions answered
Valentine.

The Colonel tried an impossible cannon off
the red in sheer confusion of mind.

Not going to petition ! ^^ he faltered.

No. Why should I ? I don't want to marry
again — I never should marry again — whatever
might occur. I have made one mistake, and I
had rather abide by it."

"My dear Valentine, that is one way of looking
at the matter. Forgive me if I say it's not the
right way."

Where's the wrong ? "

*^ To yourself first — to my wretched daughter in
the second place. You don't want to marry again
you say — of course you don't — not now. Your
wound is too raw yet; every touch is agony.
Wait till your wound is healed, my dear boy — and
fancy yourself then thrown into the society of a
pretty and sympathetic woman — who pities you,
and is quite ready to give you a happier experience
of married life. Get your divorce, and you
may let the coming years do what they like for
you — find you a wife or not, as Heaven may order.
But keep yourself bound to a woman who has
been false to you, and you shut yourself out from
all hope of future consolation."

I am not the kind of man to be consoled — in
that way'' answered Valentine doggedly, going
on playing as he talked. " I would rather bear
my burden in my own manner, if you please,
Colonel Deverill. I don't complain of anybody,
and I don't ask anybody for consolation — that's
game, 1 think — or for advice. '

So be it. Then we'll leave you out of the

question' said the Colonel, putting his cue in the
rack, with an air of imperturbable good temper.
^^ But now we have to think of my daughter. I
have her interests very much at heart, Mr. Beltield,
although I grant you she has behaved deuced
badly; and her interests demand a divorce without
loss of time'

What ! You really want to see your daughter
in the Divorce Court, to have her name bandied
about in every newspaper in the kingdom ! "

I want to see her righted by the man who has
led her wrong' answered the Colonel. " I want
to see her Lord St. Austell's wife before these
grey hairs go down in sorrow to the grave."

"Lord St. Austell's wife ! '' cried Valentine, with
an hysterical laugh. " Oh, I see your game,
Colonel. Lady St. Austell died a week or two ago,
and St. Austell is free to marry again — and you
would like him to marry your daughter. You area
far seeing man, upon my soul."

He burst out laughing — :laughed long and loud
this time ; but it was the laugh of hysteria and not
of mirth. His face had whitened gradually since

the beginning of this conversation and he now
looked ghastly as he stood leaning against the billiard
table in the glare of the lamps. Presently
the laugh changed to a choking cough, and he put
his handkerchief suddenly to his lips. When he
took it away a minute afterwards, the Colonel
noticed crimson stains upon the white cambric.

'^ Do you spit blood ? '^ he asked.

Occasionally. It is nothing of any consequence."


That is a question for your doctor to decide.
I don't like to hear a powerfully-built young man
hysterical, or to see him spit blood."

There was a silence for some minutes, while each
man lighted a cigarette.

Has my daughter sent for her luggage yet ? "

No."

Strange."

Very strange. Will you come to the drawing-room
and have a chat with my mother ? "

I think not. Its getting late, so I won't di

disturb

her. I'm going to walk home."

They went into the hall together, and A'aleutiue

helped the Colonel on with his overcoat. When
they shook hands, Colonel Deverill noticed that the
young man's hand was cold and damp.

'^ There is something wrong with my son-in-law/^
he said to himself, as he walked across the park, on
his way to a small private gate which opened into
a lane behind his cottage ; " and its deuced awkward
that he should put up his back against a
divorce. I believe it is sheer malevolence towards
my unhappy daughter. There are some men who
done know how to be generous'

Although the Colonel was very fond of a good
run with the hounds, he did not take advantage of
Valentine^s offer of a mount. He went the round
of the stables with Sir Adrian one non-hunting
morning, and examined all the horses, and praised
some of them ; but he would not put himself under
an obligation to his son-in-law.

I don't feel like hunting this winter, for Fve
had some ugly twitches of gout' he said ; " I
shall wait for a little fishing in the spring, or I
may have a shot at the birds on the marshes — with
your permission, Sir Adrian. I think your land

runs down as far as the basket-maker's
cottage."

*' And for nearly a nile beyond," replied Adrian,
Lady Belfield begged Colonel Deverill to drop in
at the Abbey whenever he liked. She felt very
sorry for him in his solitude ; and she felt also that
Valentine owed him some amends for the evil end
that had come to his daughter's married life. It
had not been all Helen's fault. The husband's
neglect had to be counted as well as the wife's
folly.

The Colonel settled himself in his new quarters,
and was content for some weeks to lead a sleepy
kind of life — shooting a little, walking a little,
reading the newspapers, and dozing by his solitary
fireside of an evening after his solitary dinner. He
was heavy at heart in spite of all outward signs of
contentment. He knew that he had not been a
careful father, and that the burden of his daughter's
sin must rest in some part upon his conscience. All
the paternal affection of which he was capable had
been awakened by his daughter in her hour of disgrace.
He had thought of her and cared for her

very little in her early married life, deeming that it
was her husband's business to take care of her ; but
now in his rustic solitude her image haunted him
perpetually, and his soul was sorely troubled for her
sake.

If I could but see her Lady St. Austell before
I die, I might go down to the grave in peace'
he said to himself.

He had dreams about her in his cottage bedchamber,
lulled by the polish-plash of the flowing
tide. His sleep was haunted by those distorted
visions, in which a vague reflection of our waking
anxieties is interwoven with the nonsense-pictures
of sleep. He saw her standing at the altar with
St. Austell by her side ; but there was always some
discordant image, something to stop the ceremony
before the vows were spoken — or St. Austell
changed into some incongruous stranger — or the
church was not a church — or the parson was not a
parson. No such dream ever came to a happy
ending — and he dreamt such dreams by the score,

I shall go off my head if I lead this lonely life
much longer'' he told himself, waking in the dead

of night after one of those troubled visions. " I
must get Leonora to stay with me."

He telegraphed to Mrs. Baddcley next morning—


Dull, despondent, and ill. For Gods sake
come and take care of me."

Mrs. Baddeley was far from being perfect ; but
she was not a General, and she arrived by the
express next day, with her Russian poodle.

CHAPTER VI.

WHAT IS IT THAT YOU FEAR ? '*

Tory was in high health and spirits, his thoroughbred
back shorn with modish severity, and his tufts
arranged after the latest fashion. His Indian
bangles jingled as he walked at his mistress's side,
and his neck ribbon was of the new colour. There
is always a new colour, known only to the elite. No
sooner does it become known to the external world
than it ceases to be the mode.

Tory's mistress was not looking her best. She
bad lost her brilliant carnation, and the splendour
of her Irish^'eyes was dim. She looked five years
older than when her father had seen her at the
beginning of the last London season.

'' My dear Leo, you look ill and worried'' said
the Colonel, as they drove away from the station,
Tory sitting on the seat opposite them, shivering
in his little cloth overcoat, trimmed with Astrachan,

VOL. III. G

and looking about him with his topaz eyes as if he
did not admire the country.

*^ How can I help it ? Of course I have been
worried answered Leo discontentedly. '' Do you
suppose I have not felt the disgrace of Helen's
conduct ? "

Is it generally known, do you think ? "
People know there is something wrong. Valentine
ordered everything to be sold off about a
month ago — all those pretty Japanese things, which
I took an infinitude of trouble to get for them.
They went for a mere song. I made Beeching buy
a good many lots for me — screens and vases, and
porters — anything I, could find room for. Of
course people have talked — and I have been
pumped perpetually about her. But it is au odd
thing that I have never met with anybody who
positively knows that she is with St. Austell. It is
strange that no one should have met them abroad'
*^ I suppose they have been very careful."
Yes ; they certainly must have avoided the
beaten tracks. I have watched for paragraphs in
Galignani or the society papers, and I have cut out

half a dozen little allusions to St. Austell, but not
one hint about her."

'^ She must be with him," said the Colonel. " I
showed you his letter — the letter I found in her
dressing-bag — when wee were on board the Clotho.
That seems decisive."

'^ Yes, she must be with him," replied Leo, but
not with conviction.

She remembered St. AustelFs preternatural sangfroid
when she accused him of running away with
her sister. She remembered how he had left
Charing Cross.

'^ I will show you the paragraphs when I can
get at my despatch-box," she said. ^' And now tell
me all about yourself. Why did you return to
this dull neighbourhood, with its wretched associations
? "

Because I had a good deal to say to my son-in-law.
Now that St. Austell is a free man, there
ought to be no time lost in getting a divorce, don't
you know ? "

In order that he may marry Helen," cried Leo
as if she had been stung.

G 2

Of course. It is the only tiling that can set
her right'

And do you think he would marry her if she
were free tomorrow ? " Leo asked contemptuously.
Do 3'ou know Lord St. Austell so little as to
suppose that he would burden himself with a wife
when he has secured a mistress — a mistress whose
attractions must have grown stale by this time — a
mistress who no doubt, has made the one grand
mistake that all women make under such circumstances,
and has bored him with tears and contrition.
A divorce will only advertise her disgrace.
It will not bring her any nearer marriage with
St. Austell.'^

'' Let me once see her free to marry, and
St. Austell shall make her his wife, or account
to me for her dishonour," said the Colonel
fiercely.

He won't refuse to meet you. He is a crack
shot like yourself — perhaps in much better practice.
He will give you satisfaction, I dare say — but he
won't marry my sister."

You are diabolically bitter against that poor

girl Leonora and I must say I think it very unwomanly
on your parts

'^ Ah , but you see women look at these things
from a different standpoint. With you men a
woman has only to go wrong in order to become
interesting. You open your arms to her, are
ready to shelter her and fight for her. For a
woman to be very pretty, and to go astray in the
first bloom of her prettiness, is to command your
chivalrous service. Women had need be cruel to
each other, or vice would be at too high a
premium. ^^

The Colonel was distressed at his daughter's
tone, but he was very glad to have her society
all the same. Her presence brightened the cottage,
and put flight for the time being to those
morbid fancies which were beginning to weigh
heavily on the Colonel — the fancy that his daughter
was ill and dying in a far-off land, that St. Austell
might ill-treat or desert her. Even Tory was an
acquisition, and the sight of that intellectual animal,
sitting bolt upright on the hearth rug, with his
mouth open, and his yellow eye-balls glaring at

the fire, LeljDecl to raise Colonel Devcrill's drooping
spirits. The Gladstone performance with a lump
of sugar might pall, if repeated more than twenty
times a day — nor was it all rapture to hear Tory
play " God Save the Queen "' upon a damp cottage
piano — but there Alas usefulness in a dog that
rushed at every open doors and shut it with a
cheerful bang. Even Tory's dinner made a little
diversion in the long winter evening, and afforded
a topic for conversation.

Mrs. Baddeley did her best to cheer her father,
but she was evidently out of spirits, and the effort
to appear lively was almost beyond her strength.
Her own affairs were not free from entanglement;
for in spite of the devoted Teachings aid — given
on many occasions, as in the dressmaker difficulty
she was considerably in debt. She had not
forgotten that she had a husband in India ; and
while he remained there he had been eminently
useful to her as a shield against the shafts of
slander, and an invisible court of appeal. Ashen
asked by her admirers to join in any risky adventure
— a little dinner that verged on the disreputable

— a water picnic in doubtful society — she
had always been able to decline gracefully on the
plea that she had a husband in India.

I think you know I am not a prudes she
would say ; " and I admire that lovely Mrs.
Rochejaquelin Green beyond measure ; but I don't
think Frank would quite like me to meet her
en petit comte. One cannot avoid being friendly
afterwards, you see. I should be pestered with
cards for her parties, and Frank might be
angry;'

But now Frank's regiment was to return to
England in the following March, and Frank would
be no longer a dear fellow in India, useful to be
referred to on all occasions, but by no means
troublesome or inquisitive. He would come home ;
and his arrival would be the signal for clamorous
tradespeople to push their demands. His welcome
to the nest in South Kensington would be a shower
of bills, lawyers' letters, and county court summonses.


I'm afraid poor Frank will have to go through
the Bankruptcy Court," mused INIrs. Baddeley,

-with a compassionate sigh. " I hope he won't
much mind. A good many people do it nowadays
— quite nice people ; and society seems to
think very little the worse of them. Short of
being inordinately rich, money doesn't count in
society."

Reasoning thus the fair Leonora told herself
she had no cause for being down-hearted ; yet in
the picturesque seclusion of Myrtle Cottage her
spirits sank, and the prospect of future difficulties
grew daily darker. She had hitherto lived the kind
of life in which there is no leisure for thought ;
and now all at once she found herself with nothing
to do but read novels and think of her own affairs.
The novels were for the most part less interesting
than her own embarrassments,, and they failed to
distract her. The quiet beauty of her surroundings,
the broad river, the wooded hills in the
foreground and the dark ridge of the moor beyond,
had no charm for her.

It is a cut-throat place ! '' she exclaimed, with
a shiver.

The Colonel and his daughter dined at the

Abbey on Christmas Day. It was a green
Christmas, mild , misty, depressing. Leo wore
one of her loveliest gowns — an arrangement of
dark red velvet with glittering ruby beads, which
made a glowing atmosphere about her, and suggested
cheerfulness ; but nobody was honestly and
unaffectedly cheerful at that small Christmas
dinner. Mr. Rockstone made the bravest effort
at mirthfulness, and filled up every gap in the
conversation ; but there was a gloom upon
Valentine's face which would have spread a
dulness in the most convivial circle, and Colonel
Deverill was obviously depressed. His dreams
had been troubled on the previous night. Shapeless
visions had disturbed his slumbers, and filled
his mind with gloom. He was weighed down by
formless apprehensions. He could not define to
himself what it was that he dreaded. He only
knew that his mind was full of fear.

'^ I think I must give up going to the
Abbey," he told his daughter as they drove home.
Lady Belfield is charming, and Sir Adrian
is as good as gold ; but I cannot get ou with

Valentine. I'm afraid l"m ]beginning to bate
him/^

That is rather hard upon him," answered Leo,
for he certainly is more sinned against than
sinning.'^

He "was a neglectful husband."

True ; but he was very good-natured. Helen
could go where she liked, and enjoy herself as
much as she chose. If she had had only common
prudence she could have got on very well
indeed."

In his retirement at Myrtle Cottage, Colonel
Deverill waited for the post which brought him
his letters and his newspapers with a keener
impatience than he had ever felt before for those
luxuries of modern life. On board a friend's
yacht, or at any sleepy little Swiss or German
water-cure settlement, he had been content to let
his days slip by, and to know no more of the
outer world than was revealed to him by an
occasional Morning Heirs or GaUf/nani ; content
to forget the days of the week, and to be surprised
by church bells on a Sunday morning ; content

almost to forget which party was in and which
was out, whether his country was drifting to ruin
under a Radical Cabinet, or being guided to glory
by Conservatives. Letters, he had told himself,
were always more likely to bring him worry than
pleasure, and, unless he was expecting a cheque
from his Irish agent, he was apt to be indifferent
to the going and coming of the post.

But now he was intently expectant of every
mail, and had a blank and dispirited feeling when
the hour was over. He was expecting some kind
of communication from his runaway daughter — a
letter of penitence — of intercession — a letter of
filial love, telling him that he was not forgotten,
that even in her sinful life she was still his
daughter. He had been expecting such a letter
for months, and his heart sickened as the new
year began without bringing him one line of
greeting from the lost one.

I suppose she is afraid to address me," he
thought. " And yet she ought not to be afraid.
I was never severe to my children."

He had a permanent address in Loudon, under

cover to a solicitor's firm in the City, whiche all
letters were re-addressed to him, and this address
was known to Helen. She would have had no
difficulty in writing to him had she been disposed
to write.

The new year began sadly under these circumstances,
and even Tories blandishments could not
maintain cheerfulness. Mrs. Baddeley yawned
over her novel beside the wood fire, which was
the only cheerful thing in the house.

Early in the year there came a budget from
Frank Baddeley, which his wife read with good-humoured
indifference — till she came to a passage
at which her cheek suddenly paled, and her whole
aspect changed.

'' What is that ? " asked the Colonel excitedly,
anything about her / '*

No ; but it is something about him."

'• Head it — read it, please," gasped her father,
stretching his hand across the breakfast tabic, as
if to clutch the flimsy sheet.

Yes. Don't agitate yourself, father. There
is not much in it. Frank says, " St. Austell is in

Ceylon. He has been there more than a month,
living very quietly, and alone. I have that fact
from the best authority, so you must be wrong in
your idea that Helen went to Ceylon with him.
They may have been together in Italy, as you say,
but he arrived at Colombo alone. Tom MacDonald,
of the Punjab Regiment, was there when he
came. Perhaps your sister went off with someone
else after all, and you are on a false
scent."

"Great God!" cried Colonel Deverill, starting
up from the breakfast-table, and walking about the
room with a distracted air. " What does it all
mean ? If she is not in Ceylon, where is she ?
We know that she ran away with St. Austell.
There is his letter to prove it."

She may have changed her mind at the last,"
said Leo, looking straight before her with a
troubled brow, for even to her careless temperament
the matter began to assume a mysterious
aspect. " Her conscience may have been
awakened, and she may have run away from him,
and not with him. She may have gone into a

convent — or joined some Anglican sisterhood.
Who can tell ? "

'^ What am I to do ? " groaned the Colonel.

"You might advertise — put an advertisement in
the Times, so worded that she alone would understand
it. Let it be repeated twenty times, at certain
intervals, so that if she is in any place where
the Times circulates, she must eventually see your
advertisement."

^' How can I advertise so that she will be the
only one to understand ? "

'' Oh, we must invent a code. Wc must recall
something in the past — known to us only — some
pet name. Don't you remember, you once used to
call her Pansy. She would know that Pansy was
meant for her."

Leo took out her pencil, and wrote upon INL^jor
Baddeley's envelope. " Pansy's sorrowful father
entreats her to write to him. A father's heart can
forgive everything. She has a home still with
him. Kilrush." She read this rough draft to her
father.

She could not fail to understand that," she

said. ^^ Those two names, Pansy and Kilrush,
would be unmistakable."

'' Yes, I think she would understand," replied
the Colonel. " There are not many people who
could write from Kilrush. You are right, Leo.
V\\ send the advertisement to the Times by the
next post — with a cheque. 1 suppose that is a
kind of thing one must pay for in advance."

The advertisement appeared at the head of the
second column three days later, and the Colonel
contemplated it with tears in his eyes. He could
fancy his daughter reading it in her seclusion or
desolation. Since he had discovered that she was
not with St. Austell, he knew not how to picture
her to himself : whether deserted and penitent ; or
whether as a woman who had drawn back upon
the brink of the precipice, and had fled from her
tempter. All his hopes for her had been dashed
by that letter from Major Baddeley. As a father,
he had wept over her folly and her sin ; but as a
man of the world it had seemed to him a good
thing that she should become Lady St. Austell.
He felt that from a society point of view her reputation

was gone for ever, and that her only chance
was to dare society in a new character. As a
peeress, and a beauty, she might yet become the
centre of a brilliant circle — on the Continent.

The advertisement appeared time after time,
week after week, until the twentieth insertion had
run out, and the ColoneFs cheque was exhausted.
There had been no reply. The year was two
months old, and the spring flowers were blooming
in the shrubbery borders at Myrtle Cottage,
and the little lawn was gay with golden crocus-cups,
and there had been no sign or token from
Helen.

Mrs. Baddeley stayed on with her father, though
the London season was beginning. It was not
that she loved Devonshire more, but that she
feared South Kensington most. The tradespeople
were pushing for their accounts, and lawyers' letters
were growing frequent. It was easier to face
these things at a distance than on the spot, where
every vibration of the electric bell jarred her
nerves, and set her heart beating vehemently, in
apprehension of immediate evil. Here at least,

though she received the letters, she did not hear
the bell ; and she Twas out of reach of any importunate
creditor, who might be so audacious as to
demand an interview. So she put her arms round
the Colonel's neck one morning at breakfast, and
told him she would not desert him. She would
stay till Frank's return.

God bless you, my love'' faltered her father,
I thought you would stand by me in my loneliness.
Indeed, Leo, I am half broken-hearted about
your sister. Her present existence is a mystery
to me, and I can scarcely bear my life under
the burden of that mystery. If she was anywhere
within the reach of this paper," striking his fist
upon the Times which lay open on the table, *' she
must have understood my appeal. Where in heaven's
name is she hiding ? Some one must know."

'' Yes, some one must know," answered Leonora.
I will tell you of one thing that you can do,
father. You cannot go to Ceylon. The journey
is too long, and you are too old. But you can
telegraph a question to St. Austell. Ask him if
he knows where Helen is to be found. Ask him to

VOL. III. H

answer you on his honour. He cannot refuse to
answer such an appeal."

1^11 telegraph to him. You are right, Leo.
I must find out where my poor girl is. I must
leave no stone unturned."

He did not like to send his ocean-message from
Chadford Post-office, where it would inevitably give
occasion for gossip ; so he went to Exeter next
day, intending to send the message from there;
but, after he had alighted at the Exeter Station, it
suddenly occurred to him that he was just in time
for the London express, and, on the spur of the
moment, he decided on going to London. He
telegraphed to Mrs. Baddeley, promising to return
next day, and he took his ticket for Waterloo.

It was six o'clock when he arrived, and dark, so
he put himself in a hansom, drove straight to the
Badminton, and went into the coffee-room to order
his dinner. When he had given the order for half-past
seven, he went to the reading-room, and seated
himself at the table near the fire, to compose his
message.

There were telegraph forms on the table, but he
began a rough draft on a sheet of paper.

'' To Lord St. Austell, Ceylon.

'• I entreat you inform me of ray daughter's
present whereabouts. Answer frankly on your
honour, to a heart-broken father. Deverill."

He read the words three times over ; wondering
if they were strong enough. He paused after the
third reading, wiped his forehead with a weary air,
and, looking up absently, with his pen in his handsaw
St. Austell standing in front of the fire-place
opposite him.

My God ! " he cried, starting to his feet.
'^ This is the most extraordinary thing. I thought
you were in Ceylon."

I was until a few weeks ago. I came home
the week before last — too soon, my doctor tells me,
but I was heartily sick of the place. You don't
look over well, Deverill."

The Colonel was ghastly. He had dropped back
into his seat, and was arranging the papers before
him with tremulous fingers.

He handed St. Austell the rough draft of the
message, without a word.

What does it mean ? " St. Austell asked, after
he had read the blurred words in the Colonel's big
penmanship.

'' The question is plain enough, I think. Until
very lately I thought my daughter was with you
in Ceylon. I hear she was not there ; but all the
same you are likely to know her present address.
For pity's sake tell me where she is — at once. I
am longing to find her — to protect and cherish her.
I am ready to forgive all — to forgive her and you."

The room was empty, but the Colonel spoke in
suppressed tones, with the consciousness that he
was in a public place.

My dear Colonel, I wish I could help you — but
I can't. As for forgiveness, you have nothing to
pardon in me except the fact that T was madly in
love with your daughter — and tried to Min her —
and failed. If my sin in so trying was great, my
punishment was greater. I never loved any
woman as I loved Helen Belfield, and she threw
me over at the last moment."

But I have your letter of instructions about
her journey — everything must have been planned
between you."

"It was , so far as I could plan ; but I tell you
she threw me over. She was to have met me at

Exeter but she didn't. I waited for three trains,



and then went on to London in a rage — mad,
despairing. I had been most completely fooled."
"^ But she meant to run away with you ? ^'
'^ So I thought on the previous afternoon."
She made her plans deliberately ; her trunks
were all packed."

Indeed. That looks business-like. And yet
she threw me over, you see, and carried her trunks
somewhere else."

No. Her luggage was all left in her own
rooms at the Abbey. Wherever she went, she must
have fled from the house in such a state of mind
that she took no trouble to secure her own property
; nor even her comforts for the journey. Her
travelling-bag — my own wedding gift — was left.
It was in an inner pocket of that bag that I
found your letter."

And she has not claimed her belongings since
then ? " asked St. Austell^ with a troubled brow.

No;'

'rand you have heard nothing of her since
that time — absolutely nothing?"

*' Not one word. I thought she was with you.
You were heard of in Paris — with a lady."

''A passing acquaintance — and a Parisienne."

You were heard of in Venice — again with a
lady."

'' An old friend — a Florentine Countess, who was
good enough to go about with me a little in my
solitude — we dined together, and lunched together
al fresco, half a dozen times. That was all. And
you have heard nothing about your daughter — in
all these months — from August to-march — you
have had no letter from her — no information?
directly or indirectly?"

Not one word."

"Then, Colonel Dcverill, I can only say the
business looks very alarming," said St. Austell,
turning his face to the mantel-piece, and resting
his head upon his arm.

The Colonel saw that he was deeply moved.
There was a silence of some moments, and then
the older man asked in a faltering voice :

' What is it that yon fear ? ' '

''I don't know. I — I — can't tell you. My
fears are vague and shapeless ; but it is a shock
to me to find you are so completely in the
dark about her. I loved her devotedly, Colonel
Deverill. If she had trusted herself to me as
she promised, I would have made her my wife,
now that I am a free man. I would have done
all that a man can do to recompense her for her
sacrifice."

^' I believe she must be in hiding somewhere ;
in some Anglican sisterhood, some semi-monastic
retreat, where she is not allowed to see the newspapers,
or to hold any communication with the
outer world' said the Colonel, after a pause.

'eyes, it may be so," answered St. Austell,
moving away from the mantel-piece, and seating
himself opposite Colonel Deverill at the writing-table.
" It may be so. It would be like her to
go and bury herself alive in a fit of religious

enthusiasm. She was a creature of rapid changes
of mood. When I thought I was most secure of
her, knowing very well that she loved me, she
spread her wings as suddenly as a butterfly, and
was gone. I was hardly surprised when she
cheated me ; but I w as very angry. My pride
was wounded. I had grovelled before her, and I
told myself I would grovel no more. So I went
off to the Continent in sullen despair, and I
went to Ceylon in the same temper, and my
life was loathsome to me all the time I stayed
there."

^' Upon my soul I am sorry for you," said the
Colonel, " though I suppose I ought to be the last
man in the world to say so. It is a most unhappy
business, unhappy from first to last. She might
have married an excellent young man, who could
have given her a fine position. She chose to jilt
him for the sake of his worthless brother, who
neglected her. Her whole life has been a mistake."


Which she is trying to atone for, perhaps, in
the dull round of conventual work, nursing the
sick, feeding the hungry, praying, fasting, wearing

out her young life within four walls. It is maddening
to contemplate' said St. Austell.

And yet it was not so bad as the fear which had
shaken him just now, when he had disguised his
thought from the Colonel not daring to breathe
that apprehension in a father's ear.

He had feared that Helen might have made
away with herself. That she had felt herself too
weak to withstand temptation, and had preferred
death to dishonour. There might be a woman left,
perhaps even in this waning nineteenth century,
capable of such a choice.

'^ "Will you let me help you to search for her,"
he asked, ^' not directly, but indirectly ? "

How can you help me? ''

St. Austell took out his card-case, and wrote a
name and address on the back of a card.

That man can help you to solve any mystery,"
he said. " He is a gentleman in education and
manners. You may trust him, and thoroughly.
When it comes to the matter of recompense, refer
him to me."

Colonel Deverill did not go back to Devonshire

next (lay as he had promised. He was absent from
Myrtle Cottage for nearly a week, and when he
returned he was accompanied by a gentleman whom
he introduced to Mrs. Baddeley as his old friend
Melnotte, the famous African traveller.

Leonora was not learned upon the subject of
Africa or the Royal Geographical Society. She
had heard such names as Cameron and Stanley,
which she associated vaguely with sand, camels,
black men, and yellow fever. She had no love for
the Dark Continent. It gave her neither silk
gowns nor high-art furniture ; and she was proud
to remember that her diamonds were Brazilians.
She yawned when her father expatiated upon the
interesting experiences of his guest, and put him
forward as a man whom it was an honour to
know.

He seems an inoffensive little person," said
Leo, "and Tory evidently likes him. But I cannot
imagine him getting the better of a lion, or
discovering the source of a river. And then he is
so dreadfully lame! How did he ever get about
Africa with that lame leg ?''

He was not always lame. His gun burst one
day when he was shooting antelopes, and wounded
him in the hips

'^ Well, he is a rather nice little soul, and I
hope he will put you in better spirits' answered
Leo lightly.

Her father told her nothing about his interview
with St. Austell. He was unusually grave and
silent after his return from London, but on the
arrival of an invitation to dinner from Lady Bel-field,
he hastened to accept it.

*' My friend, Melnotte, the African traveller, is
staying with me," he wrote, " and I should
much like to be allowed to include him in our
party."

The messenger who carried Colonel Deveriirs
note brought back Lady Belfield's reply.

** I shall be charmed to make Mr. Melnotte's
acquaintance," she wrote, " though I confess to a
lamentable ignorance about Africa. I am prepared
to be interested, but not intelligent."

Leonora Baddcley had described Mr. Melnotte
accurately when she spoke of him as an iuofl'eu-

sive little person. He was small, with a small
round head close cropped hair, and rather insignificant
features. But his eyes were remarkable —
luminous, keen, quick, and yet steadfast. Those
rather prominent blue-grey eyes had a kindly look
too, keen as they were. Mr. Melnotte was not
handsome ; but he was a pleasant-looking little
man, and seemed thoroughly at his ease in a dress
coat, in spite of Africa.

I almost expected to see you with a circle of
ostrich feathers standing straight up from your
heads' said Leonora, laughing, as she stood ready
for her fur cloak, gorgeous in black and gold, one
of those gowns which defy description and leave
only a vague impression of Brussels lace, brocaded
velvet, and bullion.

'- I left my feathers in Basuto Laud," answered
Melnotte, '^ but I sometimes regret a continent
upon which I was not obliged to dress for dinner."

He seemed to enjoy himself at the Abbey, whatever
his prejudice against civilization. He was
graciously received by Lady Belfield ; and Sir
Adrian talked to him for a great part of the

evening, and questioned him closely about his
African experiences.

I have read most of the books upon Africa'
said Adrian, '^ but I blush to say I have not read
yours''

'^ I have not written a book. I have been
content to jog along in a very quiet way. I am
pretty well-known in a certain part of Africa, but
I doubt if anybody has ever heard of me or my
adventures. I am not a Fellow of the Geographical''


Sir Adrian knew this beforehand, as he had
looked up the list of Fellows and had been
surprised at not discovering Melnotte's name.

The traveller's conversation was not the less
agreeable because his fame had been somewhat
exaggerated by Colonel Deverill. He told a good
many interesting anecdotes, some of which were
rather familiar to Sir Adrian's ear ; but then there
must needs be a resemblance between all adventures
in a primitive world, where the changes
have to be rung upon blacks, buffaloes, lions, alligators,
and fever.

Mr. Rockstone, Mr. and Mrs. Freemantle, and
their daughter Lucy were of the party, and everyone
at the table, except Valentine, seemed interested
in the lion and buffalo stories, the serious
aspect of desert life being relieved by recollections
of a comic American, who had been Mr. Melnotte's
fellow-traveller at one period. Mr. Belfield heard
these anecdotes with a gloomy brow, and was not
particularly civil to the narrator.

It was the first time that Valentine had seen his
father-in-law since the Colonel's journey to London;
and when they were in the billiard-room after dinner,
Colonel Deverill took occasion to mention St. Russell's
return. Mr. Freemantle and Mr. Melnotte
were playing billiards, while Valentine and the
Colonel sat on a raised settee at the end of the
room, in a panelled recess decorated with breech-leaders
of the latest fashion, and rapiers that had
been carried by bucks and bloods in the days of
Addison and Chesterfield.

Mr. Melnotte played a neat game, but he was a
very slow player — aggravating slow, Mr. Free-mantle
thought, when he had to wait through a

longish break, his opponent deliberating before
every shot, and looking down bis cue meditatively
before be took his aim.

A man who can play as well as he does needn't
be so confoundedly slow' thought Mr. Free-mantle.


Colonel Deverill smoked half his cigar in silence,
while Valentine sat by his side, apparently engrossed
by watching the game.

'^ Have you known your African friend long ? '^
he asked presently.

'^ A longish time.''"'

He was never at Morcomb, was he ? '^

"No; he was in Basuto Land when I had
Morcomb/"

Ah, to be sure. He is not very yellow, considering
he has been so long under an African
sun''

'^ Oh, he has been back over a twelvemonth,
knocking about in Ireland' answered the Colonel.
But never mind him. I've got something
more important to talk about. I have seen St.
Austell."

Valentine's brow darkened, and his colour slowly
faded, till even his lips were white.

When — where ? " was all he asked.

The Colonel described the meeting at the Badminton.


There has been a mistake," he said, in conclusion.
" I no longer ask you to divorce your wife.
I ask you now to find her. It is your duty to do
that, and without an hour's loss of time."

That is all mighty fine," exclaimed Valentine
savagely. ^' My wife chooses to run away and hide
herself, after penning a deliberate avowal of her love
for another man — and you tell me it is my duty to
find her. I tell you that from the hour she wrote
that letter, she was dead to me. It was our final,
irrevocable parting. Living or dead she was my
wife no longer. You are her father ; she has not
outraged you — she has not cast you ofi" with scornful
words, as she did me. It is for you to look after
her."

You may be sure, Mr. Beheld, that I shall not
fail to do a father's duty," answered the Colonel,
throwing down the end of his cigar, and grinding

it under his heel, to the detriment of the polished
parquet.

He felt that Valentine had some justification
for repudiating all obligation towards a wife who
had written such a letter as that in which Helen
had declared her intended flight. That her
courage had failed, or that her conscience had
been awakened at the last moment would hardly
make atonement to an insulted husband.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VII.

A DECIDED CASE OF DRY-ROT

After that brief conversation Tvith Colonel Deve-
rill in the billiard-room, Valentine Belfield withdrew
himself still more from the society of his
fellow-men. Even his appearances in the hunting-field
became spasmodic. He was rarely seen at the
meet, but would contrive to fall in with the hounds
about the middle of the day, and would ride till
the finish like a modern Daniel, or any other
demoniac character, with a reckless disregard of
his own bones which was only a little less offensive
than his carelessness about other people.

I believe Belfield must offer a premium for
kicking horses, or he could never get such brutes
as he rides," said Mr. Freemantle, who rode a sober
well-mannered weight carrier, in a sober and
gentleman-like way.

There was a general feeling that Mr. Belfield

had gone altogether to the bad since his wife's
disappearance. People pitied him but wanted to
see as little of him as possible. He had never
been a favourite in the neighbourhood,, and of late
his sullen manner had been calculated to alienate
even friendship.

And now it had become known that St. Austell
was in London, and people — especially the feminine
portion of the community — began to be exercised
in mind as to what could have become of Mrs.
Belfield. Had she eloped with St. Austell, and
had they quarrelled and parted after brief union?
Or had she never gone off with him ? That was
the question debated with hushed breath over many
an afternoon tea-table.

Has she any old aunt in Ireland with whom
she would be likely to be living ? " asked one of
the Miss Treduceys. " Most girls have an old aunt
that they can go to on an emergency"'

I don't believe Mrs. Belfield has anything so
respectable as an old aunt belonging to her," replied
Dorothy Toffstaff, who was soured by three unsuccessful
seasons in London, during which all the

i2

attentions she had received had been too obviously-inspired
by her father s wealth rather than by her
own charms. ^^ My idea is that she went off with
St. Austell, as everybody thought at the time of
her disappearance, and that he has grown sick of
an empty-headed beauty, and has left her in India.
She would be sure to get picked up by somebody, "
added Miss Toffstaff, placidly consigning Mrs. Bel-field
to the Oriental gutter.

Thus lightly did society at Chadford discuss the
problem of a fallen sister's fate ; but it was not so
lightly that Lady Belfield considered the mystery
of her daughter-in-law's disappearance. In a conversation
with Colonel Deverill, she drew from him
much that had passed between him and St. Austell,
and the idea that Helen had changed her mind at
the last, after writing that terrible letter, filled her
with a new hope.

What more likely than that the erring girl had
turned to some conventual sanctuary as the possible
shelter from temptation, as Louise de la
Villiers in the dawn of love fled from her royal
lover to the convent. There only could she find a

safeguard against her own passionate heart, an aid
for her own weak will. Such a course would
account for the unclaimed trunks in the bedchamber.
For the handmaid of heaven, vowed to
holy poverty, fine clothes and feminine luxuries
were a dead letter.

Impressed with this idea, Lady Belfield resolved
to travel quietly through the West of England, visiting
all those institutions, Anglican or Woman,
to which Helen might possibly have attached
herself. She had taken Mr. Rockstone into her
confidence, and with his aid she had obtained
all the information necessary to guide her
search.

She told Adrian nothing of her purpose until
her plan was made, and she was on the eve of
setting out with her old servant for her companion.
The journey would not be a long one. The
furthest point was to be the Convent in Lantern
Valley, on the north coast of Cornwall.

To her disappointment, Adrian strongly opposed
her scheme.

Dear mother, no good would result from all

that fatigue and anxiety on your parts lie said
gently. ^' I am sure that Helen is not in any such
retreat'

'^'But how can you be sure''

"Mother, I have reason to know. You must
ask me no more. You must have some pity upon
me." said Adrian, deadly pale.

You know that lost girl's fate, and yet hide
the truth from me."

There are secrets that must be kept, that are
sacred. Mother, you know how fondly I love you.
In my own life there has never been a secret ; butin
this case I cannot tell you all I know without
betraying another person. You would not have
me guilty of dishonour."

No, no ; you know I would not. But let me
understand — give me some kind of comfort. You
know where she is, then — you have known all
along?"

Adrian bent his head in assent.

And yet you have allowed me to torture
myself about her?"

I was tongue-tied."

I see. She confided in you. It was to lier
you bound yourself to silence ? '^

^' I can answer no questions."

"But you can tell me that she is safe — happy?"

She is safe. She did not elope with St.
Austell. Her last sin against her husband was
the writing of that fatal letter."

Thank God ! But why may I not know her
retreat ? Why may I not see her again ? You
know that I loved her as a daughter. Even if
she can never be reunited to her husband, she
may at least be restored in some measure to me.
And there is her poor father, too. Why should
he be tortured by uncertainty, or allowed to think
that his daughter is leading a wicked life ? It is
your duty to reveal the truth, Adrian."

It is my duty to keep my oath. Mother, if
you say one word more, I shall regret having
trusted you. I beseech you to keep faith with me.
Not one syllable to any one, least of all to
Valentine."

Poor Valentine. Can you sec liii so miserable,
and yet not tell him?"

"Nothing I could tell would help him. Mother,
the best thing you can do for your own peace of
mind — and for us all — is to forget the past so far
as it can be forgotten. There is nothing that can
be done ; nothing. I think you know that I am
not without conscience — that I have some sense of
duty. If there were anything that could be done
I would do it; but there is nothing. As I hope
for the life eternal, there is no act of yours or
mine that can be of any service to her whose loss
we both deplore.''^

His words and looks were so deeply earnest
that his mother could not disbelieve. Adrian had
been her strong rock in the last few years ;
her friend and companion, the one being whose
presence always brought brightness and comfort,
upon whose sound sense and unselfish affection she
could rely. She was mystified, but she was
submissive ; and the journey to Lantern was
given up.

She told Mr. Rockstone only that she had
changed her mind.

*' I think you have done right in abandoning

your ideas he said. " Be sure that if Mrs. Belfield
is in any retreat of that kind, she will communicate
with you before long. Her heart will yearn for
you as time goes by, and the longing to see you or
to hear from you will be too strong to be repressed
by any ascetic rule, however severest

After that conversation with his mother Adrian
had an uneasy feeling that he had said too much,
that he had gone too near the betrayal of his
brothers dreadful secret. Yet to have allowed his
mother to follow a phantom, to wear out her heart
in false hopes and disappointing researches, was
more than his duty as a son would allow. His
first thought had been of his mother ; it was for
her sake that he had kept Valentine^s secret and
it was for her sake that he had lifted a corner of
the veil. It was for her sake that he tried to
seem happy when his heart was gnawed by care,
and his life darkened by the shadow of fear.

Let us forget' he had said to her ; and often
in the long slow days, he had said to himself, *^ Oh
God, if I could but forget ! ''

His daily walk was by the river. He seemed
drawn there by an irresistible attraction. Scarcely
a day passed on which he did not stand beside
that silent pool, beneath whose dark water lay the
murdered wife. He went there oftener in the
twilight, when all things had a vague and ghostly
aspect, or when the eye created its own spectres
out of the commonest forms. He wondered sometimes
that her spirit had never appeared to him,
when his thoughts were so full of her. He gazed
with melancholy eyes among the shadows of the
willow trunks, half expecting to see a spectral
form waving tremulously above the bank, like a
ghostly Undine. But there was nothing. The
dead made no sign.

One evening he saw a red spark shining
brightly amidst the grey. It came nearer ashe
advanced along the path, and presently he
found himself face to face with ^Mr. Melnotte,
who was strolling quietly along, smoking a big
cigar.

Good evening, Sir Adrian. A mild night, and
a picturesque spot."

Very. But I should think it must seem
uncommonly tame to you after the Zambesi
Falls

Oh, but I am catholic in my tastes. I can
admire an English landscape as heartily as if I
had never seen Africa. A favourite walk of yours,
Sir Adrian/^

^' Yes ; it is one of my favourite walks.^-*

^' I thought so. I have seen you here nearly
every evening for the last ten days. I generally
take my afternoon stroll in this direction, but on
the opposite bank. Lady Belfield was so good as
to say I might make free with the park and
meadows'

Naturally. Any friend of Colonel DeverilFs
would be welcome. Is this your first experience
of Devonshire ? ^'

^' Of this side of the county, yes. I know the
south coast pretty well. A delightful country's

You are not a Devonshire man ? ''

I have not that privilege."

There was a silence. Mr. Melmotte did not
volunteer auy information as to his birth or

parentage. He was a curious little man in this
wise, and, except for his African experiences,
seemed to be a man without a history. Sir
Adrian wondered how his friendship with Colonel
Deverill could have come about. The two men
seemed to have so little in common. From a
good-natured impulse, rather than for any particular
reason, he asked Mr. Melnotte to dinner, an
invitation which was promptly accepted.

It is always a pleasure to visit such a house as
yours. Sir Adrian," he said. '' A house with a
history. No doubt the Abbey has its history.^^

Yes. It has a good many histories, or traditions


"Any ghosts? Any story of a dark crime in
the remote past ? '^

I have heard of neither ghost nor crimes

Well, it is a noble old house, even without
those embellishments' said Melnotte cheerfully,
and the park and gardens are perfect. This is a
tributary of the Chad, I suppose, this river in your
grounds."

Yes, it unites with the Chad lower down."

'^ A swift, deepisli river, eh ? ^'

Swift and deep."

It makes a very pretty feature in your
grounds. Nothing like water for giving beauty
and variety to a landscape. To-morrow evening
at eight, I think you said, Sir Adrian ? Goodnight."


Mr. Melnotte crossed a rustic bridge and disappeared
in the twilight on the further bank,
while Adrian strolled slowly along the cypress
walk.

He was met by Lucy Freemantle, who unconsciously
suggested a reminiscence of Shakespeare
Beatrice.

I have been sent to ask you to come to tea,"
she said, blushing a little, her complexion of lilies
and roses looking brighter than ever in the grey
winter atmosphere.

You were very good to take so much trouble
about me," answered Adrian, as they shook hands.

'^ Oh, it was no trouble. I am always glad of a
run. Mother and I came to call upon Lady Bel-field,
and Lady Belfield was getting fidgety about

you, SO mother told me to run and look for you,
and I guessed I should find you this way."

'^ How clever of you."

They were on very friendly terms, Lucy having
known the Abbey and the Abbey people all her life.
A few years ago when she had been in the nursery
she had looked up to Sir Adrian as a very grand
personage, standing as it were apart from all other
young men upon the strength of a superior position
and superior attainments, but of late she had felt
herself more upon a level with him, and more at
her ease in his society. He called her Lucy, as a
matter of course, having known her in pinafores,
but she called him Sir Adrian.

'^ Is my brother at home ? " he asked, as they
walked towards the Abbey.

"No, there is no one but Lady Belfield and
mother. They are talking parish talk — about the
poor old people and their ailments — such dreadful
complications. How hard it seems that the poor
should suffer in all ways. People who know nothing
about them think they are healthy and hardy because
of their scanty fare and open air life : but

when one comes to know them, one finds that
theory a hollow mockery. The open air may be
very good for us, but the poor get too much of it."

She spoke warmly, having just come from a
scene of suffering in one of the cottages. She was
a frank, warm-hearted, energetic girl, tall and
strong, in the full bloom of youth and beauty, a
girl for whom life meant action and duty, not dress
and pleasure. Yet at a county ball she danced as
gaily as the most feather-headed of her sisters,
and never complained, as they did, of an evening
being " slow.^^

Lady Belfield and Mrs. Freemantle were sitting
by the fire in the inner drawing-room, the cosy tea-table
and hissing kettle between them. They had
been joined by Mr. Eockstone, who sat in one of the
most luxurious of the large arm-chairs, with his
legs stretched out in front of the hearth, basking
in the glow of a friendly fireside, after a long
day among his poorest parishioners.

They were talking of Valentine.

He ought to make an effort, my dear Lady
Belfield,^' said the Vicar. ^^ The blow that has

fallen upon him is a heavy one, but it is almost
unmanly to succumb as he has done. His whole
being is undergoing deterioration. He has brooded
upon the one great wrong until his soul has become
steeped in gall. He is a misanthrope at an age
when men generally love their fellow creatures.
Something must be done to save him from himself."


'* Yes, something must be donee echoed Mrs.
Freemantle. ^' It is terrible to see a fine young
man like Valentine lapsing into physical and moral
decay. My husband tells me that he shuns all his
old friends — does not even show at the meet, and
rides in a way that proves he cares no more for
other people's lives than he does for his own. He
ought to go to Australians

That is the remedy, ]airs. Freemantle/' said
the Vicar, ^' a new country — Australia, or the Red
River district — a new and not too civilized country
unfamiliar surroundings. That kind of thing
is the only remedy for a mind diseased. I know
it would grieve you to part with him, my dear
Lady Belfield, but you would have him back in

two or three years a new man. Whereas, if you
let him stay here, decay is inevitable. You remember
what Dickens says about the dry-rot in a man.
Tm afraid poor Valentine's is a case of dry-rot."

I would do anything for his welfare — sacrifice
anything' replied Lady Belfield.

Then you and Adrian must put your heads
together and persuade him to travel — California,
Texas, Need River, or even Africa, if he fancies
shooting antelopes or dealing in buffaloes. You
can take advantage of this Mr. Melnotte, who, I
am told, is a mighty traveller. The grand thing is
to rouse Valentine from his present apathy, and
set him going in some way."

^' I am entirely of your opinion, Vicar," said
Adrian. " My brother wants new surroundings.
A young man without aims or interests, moping
in a country place, is a sorry spectacle. I will
take him in hand to-night."

Do, my dear Adrian," exclaimed Mrs. Free-mantle.
" I have known you and your brother
too long to be able to see either of you going
wrong without speaking my mind."

VOL. III. K

They sat round the fire for some time after this,
talking of many things, enjoying the blaze of the
great pine logs and the aroma of Lady Belfield's
Indian tea; but two among them were heavy at
heart, cheerful as the general tone of the conversation
might be. For Adrian there had been no
such thing as peace of mind since that fatal night.
His life had been one long pretence.

It was a hunting day, and on such days Valentine
always stayed out among the latest, rarely
appearing until after dinner. He would come
into the house on the stroke of eight, perhaps, and
would be changing his clothes "while the others
were dining. He would dine alone between nine
and ten, at a little table in front of the billiard-room
fire. He had never been a gourmand, but
he ate now "with the air of a man who hardly
knows what he is eating — taking anything the
servants set before him, and drinking more than
was good for him.

He ain't got no appreciation of a nice little
dinner," said Andrew despondently. '' It don't
pay to take pains about it, Mrs. Marrable, as I

tells cook. Give Lin a bottle of burgundy and
the liqueur stand after dinner, and he asks no
questions

There were no more of those cheery tea-drinking
with the mother after the day's sport; no
more recitals of the day's adventures. The young
man went out alone in the morning, moody and
silent; he came home in the same temper. His
mother had watched him in quiet grief, hoping that
as the months went by the bruised spirit would
recover ; but time seemed only to deepen that
abiding gloom, and of late she had grown hopeless.
Thus it was that she was ready to receive any
plausible suggestion for his welfare.

He was late on this particular evening; and it
was not until half-past nine that he was ready for
his dinner.

^^ I'll go and talk to him after he has dined'
said Adrian, who had been lingering over dessert
with his mother, trying to cheer her with the promise
of brighter days.

Do, dear. For pity's sake, influence him for
good. I am helpless. His mind is a sealed book

K 2

to me. lie has never confided in me from the
time of iiis boyhood. He has taken his own way
always, for good or for evil'"

Valentine was sitting in a Glastonbury chair in
front of the wide fire-place, the burgundy decanter
before him, almost empty. The lamps over the
billiard-table-were unlighted, and the spacious
room was half in shadow. The firelight flickered
on guns and swords in the recess at the further
end, and there was a circle of soft light round the
spot where Valentine sat, from the shaded colza
lamp on the small round table.

^' A good run, Val ? " asked Adrian, seated himself
opposite his brother.

Pretty good."

You must have killed uncommonly late."

We killed at sunset, on Plighted Ridge."

But that means five o'clock, and a three-quarters
of an hour's ride home. AVhcre have you
been since ? ''

"I don't know."

"Valentine ! "

Don't stare at me, man ! I tell you I don't
know. I Lave been riding about somewhere — ■
losing myself on the moor, if you like. Great God,
if I could only lose myself altogether — ride away
into some enchanted valley, and fall asleep therefor
ever. "

It was almost the first time he had spoken
openly of his despair. From the hour of the crime
until now there had been no confidence between
the brothers. They had lived together, had talked
of the daily business of life ; but there had been an
impassable gulf betwixt the past and the present.
By mutual consent they had been dumb.

But to-night Valentine was utterly worn out in
mind and body, fagged, helpless, nervous. That
powerful frame and strong self-reliant temper had
been broken by the slow agonies of remorse.
Brutal as the man's nature might be, conscience
was not dead in him. It had awakened in the
hour when he found himself alone after his crime
face to face with the memory of a murder.

It had never slept since.

'^ Valentine," began Adrian earnestly, ^^ you are

leading a miserable life. Things cannot go on
like this."

'^ You mean that I had better do as your criminal
of the lower classes sometimes does under
such circumstances — give myself up — walk into
Freemantle's study tomorrow morning and tell
him that I killed my wife. Is that what you
mean ? "

''No. It is too late for that course. What I
mean is that you must leave the scene of your —
misadventure. You have lingered here too long.
You must go away — to another continent — Africa,
Australia, wherever you can find the resources
which will give you most relief of mind. The past
is past Val. There is no help for that. Let it be
past. You have suffered for your sin of a moment
in all the long months that have gone by since that
fatal night. You will suffer more or less to the
end."

More or less, no doubt. I have the privilege
of an excellent memory," answered Valentine,
staring gloomily at the fire.

*' Your self-torture can do no good to you or to

any one else. Far away, in the wild free life which
suits your temperament, you will at least suffer
less. Anything would be better than the stagnation
of your existence here."

You are right. Anything would be better —
but I think the best would be death."

Don't say that, Val. Men have outlived worse
sorrows than yours."

Men are made of very hard wood, and I flattered
myself — till last summer — that I was teak
or iron-wood : but the dry-rot of remorse has got
into me, all the same. I am worm-eaten to the core.
Yes, I think you are right, Adrian. I must get
away from this place if I don't want to become a
howling lunatic. I have stayed here in a kind of
gloomy despair, thinking that I could hardly be
more miserable here than anywhere else — but you
are right. I have stayed too long. I will stay no
longer. Here I am a cause of misery to others as
well as to myself. In the desert — or the bush — I
shall be my own man again. There will be no
need for hypocrisy."

Your mind will clear and lighten face to face

with unsophisticated nature, Yal," said Adrian affectionately.
'you will begin a new life. Even the
memory of your sorrow will be softened in that
far off atmosphere. You will look back upon your
old self gently, as we remember the dead. You
will have opportunities of helping others — of doing
brave and generous deeds. You will be born
again, a better and a wiser man. My brother — my
beloved brother, the second half of myself, I have
infinite faith in you yet." He laid his hand caressingly
upon his brother's shoulder. He felt as if a
great burden was lifted off his heart by this conversation
of to-night. For the first time since the
catastrophe that had wrecked both their lives the
brothers had spoken together freely. It was like a
renewal of brotherly love.

'' My dear Adrian, you are a great deal too good
to me,^^ said Valentine, and this from him was
much.

'^ You must go away, Val ; but you must do
nothing hurriedly. Mrs. Freemantle was talking
about you to my mother this afternoon, saying
that you looked ill and mopish, and needed change.

My mother admitted the fact, and it was agreed
that you should be persuaded to travel. Your
departure will therefore seem perfectly natural to
all this little world of Chadford. There will be no
appearance of flight. All you have to think of,
therefore, is the place to which you would like to
go — all you have to do is to follow the bent of
your own inclination."

I will go to Africa. There is better sport there
than in Australia — and a freer life."

*' If you decide upon Africa, Melnotte may be
of use to you."

I don't like Melnotte, and I don't believe in
his African experiences. I strongly suspect that
the man is an impostor. He is too glib."

But his stories of adventure have a vivid air,
as if he had lived among the scenes and people
he describes."

'the fellow is a good actor, that is all. Some
rowdy adventurer whom the Colonel has picked up
in a gambling den. Melnotte may have been to
the Cape, perhaps. His experiences in the interior
I rank as fiction."

This idea agreed curiously with Adrian's own
suspicions as to Mr. Melnotte's truthfulness.
Those African stories of his were rather too good
and too picturesque to have happened to one
traveller. The average man's experiences are dull
enough. They ring the changes upon famine, fever,
and sport. But Melnotte seemed to have passed
from hairbreadth escape to romantic situation, from
dramatic encounter to picturesque rescue, with
an electrical brilliancy. He had slain his lions
by the horde, and shot his gemsbocks in hecatombs.
There was exaggeration, no doubt ; but whether
the man were an actual impostor remained to be
proved.

'^I don't want anybody's advice?" said Valentine
decisively. *'If I can once brace myself up to
leave this place, I shall go to London, get the kind
of outfit I think necessary, and then sail for the
Cape. Once there I can pick up all the information
I want about the interior, and I shall plan my
route from there.

'when will you start? "

"I shall go to London by an early train tomorrow

and to the Cape by the first good steamer
that can carry me there."

''^ To-morrow ? That's soon."

'^ Why should I delay ? I have been staying
here face to face with a spectre — like a man
oppressed by nightmare,, who faces some great
horror and cannot move hand or foot. The sooner
I go the better."

Let me go to London with you, Val. I should
like to see you off."

'* No, no. I am not fit company for my fellowmen
yet awhile. Perhaps after ten years in Africa
I may be better. Let me suffer my purgation,
Adrian. Let me wrestle with the memory of sin,
as Jacob wrestled with the angel — and then perhaps
some day " — with a stifled sob — ^^ I shall be better
worthy of your unselfish love — and of my mother."

God help you to forgetfulness, Val. But let
me go to London with you/^

^' No, I want to be alone there. I have something
to do. I Avill wire to you before I sail ; and
then, if there were time, and you would like to
come and shake hands at parting "

'^ Be sure I will go to you, if you give me the
chance. It will comfort the mother to hear of you
at the last moment of leaving. She would like to
be there herself, dear soul, if you would let her."

'' Dear soul, poor soul," murmured Valentine,
with a remorseful tenderness which was strange to
his rough nature. " She has given me honey, and
I have given her gall. I have been a fountain of
bitterness to you both. But it is past. Goodnight,
and good-bye, till I sail. I shall be off early
tomorrow morning."

But you will bid your mother good-bye."

Must I ? That will be hard. I should like
to slip away without any leave-taking. I would
write to her from London."

She would be heart-broken if you left her
like that."

'perhaps you are right. It is the weakness of
her character to be fond of me. I'll see her in
the morning before I start. She will be happier
when I am gone — safe and happy — with you.
You ought to marry, Adrian. You owe as much
to my mother as well as to yourself. There ij»

Lucy Freemantle, who has been in love with you
for the last five years /^

'' Valentine ! ''

"^ Its a true bill. Tve seen the growing passion
from the time she left off short frocks and long
hair. You have been her idol from the day she
left the nursery — perhaps before. I dare say she
was often thinking of you over Pinnace or Lingered.
Marry her, Adrian. She has not one of the attributes
of the typical girl, and will make you a true
and honest wife's''

I will wait till my time comes, Val/^ answered
Adrian, with a sad smile. "It has not come yet'

Lady Beltield was always an early riser. She
was in her garden next morning, looking at the
first daffodils, when Valentine joined her, clad
for a journey, in fur-lined overcoat and deerstalker
cap.

Mothers' he began abruptly, " Adrian and I
had a long brotherly talk last night, and he
advised me to try change of scene as a cure for
bitter memories. I am going abroad for a spell."

Yes, dear. Yes, it will be a good thing, I am
sure," answered his mother, paling suddenly at
the mere thought of a possible parting ; '' but you
will not be going just yet. You will take time
to think about it."

I am going at once. You know I was never
given to irresolution. 1 have done most things,
for good or evil, on the spur of the moment. I
am off by the 8.35. My portmanteaux have gone
down to the stable yard. I shall stay a day or two
in town, and then sail for the Capes

'' For the Cape ! That is so far, Yal. Why not
go to Italy or Spain."

Tame, hackneyed, intolerable. The holiday
ground of self-opinionated Yankees and personally
conducted Cockneys. No, if change of scene is todo
me any good, if I am to get out of myself, I
must get face to face with Nature. Africa is the
place for me. Don't be afraid, dear mother. The
Dark Continent is as safe a solitude as Heme Bay''

And yost are going — this morning ? "

At once. The dog-cart is waiting for me.
Good-bye."

He clasped his mother in his arms , kissed her
as he had not kissed her for years — hardly since he
was a schoolboy. His own eyes were not innocent
of tears as he rushed away leaving her to sob out
her sorrow in the secluded shrubbery walk which
her footsteps had so often trodden. Never had
she felt more desolate than in this parting with
her wayward son, and yet she told herself that it
was well he were gone. Anything must be better
than to see him as he had been since last August.

The South Western Railway conveyed Mr. Bel-field
to Exeter, but at the junction there he had a
choice of lines, and the Great Western suited him
best on this occasion. He crossed from one platform
to the other, took his ticket for Paddington,
and came out upon the departure platform of the
Great Western, under the big clock.

The platform was not so crowded as usual, and
the train was not due for five minutes. As lie
walked slowly towards the end of the station,
Valentine passed a man whose face flashed upon
him like the sight of a ghost in high noon.

The wintry sun shone upon those pale and
high-bred features. He saw the face looking at
him, half in hatred, half in scorn, and he could
not give back scorn for scorn, hate for hate. He
who had never feared his fellow-men sickened at
the sight of this man, and passed on with quickened
step, and eyes looking steadily forward, pretending
not to see that familiar face, the face of the man
who had stolen his wife's heart.

St. Austell stopped and looked back at him.

As I am alive, that was the face of a felon'
he said to himself; " and the mystery of Helen's
fate is darker that any of us imagine. That man
dared not meet my eye, although it was his place
to hector and mine to quail. There was guilt in
that look''

He was on his way westward. Since that
meeting at the Badminton he had been much
disturbed in his mind about his lost love. Fickle
as the previous experience of his life had proved
him, he had not yet forgotten Helen. The year
which Mrs. Baddeley had allowed for the duration
of his passion was not yet ended, and it may be

that the disappointment and mischance which had
attended this particular intrigue had intensified his
feelings. He would have forfeited ten years of his
life to have found Helen and won her for his own :
but there was that in her husband's countenance
which chilled his soul. He had half a mind to
follow Valentine Belfield, and tax him then and
there with foul play. He had no evidence except
the mystery of the wife's disappearance and that
guilty look in the husband's face but the two
together brought conviction to St. Austell's
mind.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FORLORN HOPE

Valentine Belfield walked to the furthest end of
the platform and stood there, cold and sick, like a
man in an ague fit, till his train came in from
Plymouth, and then he had to run after the train
as it steamed into the station, and scramble into a
first-class compartment, panting and breathless, and
white to the lips.

You oughtn't to run things so close as that,
sir. You don't look the kind of man who can
stand it,^^ said an elderly parson, one of those
amiable busybodies who are always interested in
other peoples affairs.

Valentine scowled at him by way of answer,
as he threw his deer stalker into the rack, and
mopped his forehead and hair, damp with icy
sweat.

A churlish personage," thought the parson ;

something wrong with the heart, and a very
irritable temper ; " and the good man tried to
interest himself in his newspaper, glancing over
the top of it every now and then to see if there
were any hope of conversation.

Valentine put on his cap again, pulled it over
his forehead, and coiled himself in the corner of
the carriage in an attitude that meant total isolation.
He was trying to recover his nerve after
that sudden apparition of St. Austell.

By , I was afraid of the man,^^ he said

to himself. " For the first time in my life I have
known what it is to fear the face of a man. If a
brace of constables came to arrest me, warrant and
handcuffs complete, I would flinch ; but his face
unnerved me. He loved her. He would ask me,
*What have you done with your wife? What
have you done with that frail, false girl, whose
heart was mine ? ' Yes, his, his — not mine. It
was his love I murdered. It is to him I am
answerable. It was his life I spoiled. She had
ceased to belong to me — she was openly, avowedly
his. And I quailed before him, turned sick

L 2

with fear at sight of the villain who wronged
me."

For an hour and more he sat in his corner, living
over that brief meeting on the platform, seeing that
passing vision of a malignant face, telling himself
again and again, in bitterest mockery, that it was
St. Austell who had lost by that fatal blow. At
last, and with a tremendous effort, he dismissed
this dark train of thoughts, and his mind recurred
to one of the objects of his journey to
London.

Ever since his last meeting with Madge Harley,
the girl and her mission had been present to his
mind. Passion was dead in him, buried under the
crushing weight of a great remorse, numbed and
frozen as the senses are in a nightmare. There
was no rekindling of an old flame; but in the
ashes of his dead love for that strange girl there
was a faint glow, a little spot of warmth, where all
else had grown cold. He yearned for her presence,
for the sound of her voice, for the touch of her
hand. He felt that if there could be comfort or
hope for him anywhere upon this earth it would

be with her. He felt that if there were any one
to whom he could confess his crime, it was Madge
Darley, and not a priest.

The Forlorn Hope' he repeated to himself ashe
sat in his corner, looking out at the landscape :
every field, and copse, and hill, and curving stream
familiar to him from his boyhood; beheld again
and again at all seasons, sometimes in listless
vacuity, sometimes in feverish impatience.

At last the train steamed into Paddington
Station on the edge of dusk. The sunset glowed
red athwart the London fog as the train passed
Harrow and Maxwell. The great vaulted roof of
the terminus looked sepulchral in the chilly light
of electric lamps.

Valentine told a porter to take his portmanteaux
to the Great Western Hotel, and then
left the station on foot. He was going to Lisson
Grove to look for the refuge founded by Madge
Darley.

The long thoroughfare of the Grove was light
with gas-lit shops, and full of traffic. Valentine
inquired in one of the shops, and was directed to a

side street — a dismal looking street of shabby,
dilapidated houses, which might have had pretensions
to respectability half a century ago, but
which had fallen to about the lowest stage in the
history of bricks and mortar. They were twelve-doomed
houses, however, and afforded accommodation
to a considerable population, as appeared by
the various lighted windows, suggestive of several
domiciles under one roof.

Across the front of one of these houses, of a
somewhat better aspect than its neighbours, appeared
a long black board on which the words,
"The Forlorn Hope," were painted in large white
letters. In front of the fanlight there was a lamp
with the words " Refuge for Homeless Women and
Girls," in black letters, on the glass. There was
no possible mistake as to the motive and character
of this institution.

The door swung open at Valentine's touch, and
as he crossed the threshold a woman in a black
gown and white cap came out of the parlour next
the street, and met him in the passage.

It was Madge Darley. The shepherdess was

always ready to receive the lost sheep. The fold
was humble and unattractive, but it meant what it
offered — shelter.

She started at sight of a tall man in a fur-bordered
coat — started again on recognizing
Valentine.

'* Mr. Belfield ! ^^ she exclaimed.

"Yes. I told you I should come to you some
day, Madge, and you promised not to shut your
door in my faces"*

'' I am not likely to do that ; but I don't think
you will want to stay very long in this houses

She led the way into the parlour, a plainly furnished
room, lighted by a cheap paraffin lamp, under
a green shade.

A tall press, made of pitch pine, occupied either
side of the fire-place. The table was of varnished
deal, the walls were whitewashed, the floor was
uncarpeted, and half a dozen rush-bottomed chairs
completed the furniture of the room ; but all was
scrupulously neat and clean. A fire burned
cheerily in the shining grate, and an open-work
brass fender made one point of brightness in the

picture. A large iron kettle was singing on the
old-fashioned hob.

Pray sit downs said Madge, pointing to a chair
opposite her own. " You have an idle hour to
spare, I suppose, and you have come to see our
Refuge — to find out for yourself whether we are
doing good work — in order that you may help
us.^^

She spoke gravely, faltering a little, more deeply
moved by his presence in that place than she would
have cared to own to herself. The lesson of her
life for nearly four years had been the lesson of
forgetfulness ; but it was not yet learned. His
presence had still the power to awaken an unreasoning
gladness, to give life a new colour.

No, Madge ; I am no philanthropic philander.
I confess to caring very little whether your work of
mercy thrive or fail. I am here from pure selfishness.
I am eaten up by my own cares ; my own
burden is too heavy for me ; and of late, night
and day, I am devoured by one thought, one
hope "

He stopped suddenly, looking at her with eyes

that shone feverishly bright in his haggard face,
with one strong hand clenched upon the table
between them.

The Forlorn Hope, Badges' he said in a low
voice, after a few moments silence, ^^ the hope that
you will pity me when no one else in this world,
except my brother, can pity me, knowing all. Yes,
that you, knowing my sin, might still pity me —
might still love me'

He flung himself on his knees at her feet. He
seized her hand and covered it with kisses, despairing
kisses, which moved her more than his passion
of days gone by had ever moved her, fondly as she
had loved the tempter.

She snatched her hand from him indignantly,
looking at him in angry surprise.

"I thought you knew me better than to talk tome
in the old strain'' she said. " I thought I had
shown you that I am not the kind of woman to be
tempted by a fine gentleman lover — to be tempted
now, after I have given my life to the saving of
weaker women. Do you think that I am likely to
forget that you are another woman's husband — and

that when you were free you refused to many

*' I was a fool, Madge, a self-opinionated idiot.
I did not know that you were the one woman upon
this earth who could have made my life happy —
who might have influenced me for good. I was
bound round by petty prejudices, by bigoted belief
in birth and position. What are birth and
position when weighed against the nobility of
such a nature as yours ? I saw in you only a
beautiful peasant, whom it was my business, asa
gentleman, to seduce. And when I saw that
your resistance was real and earnest, I lost my
temper, and fancied myself in love with another
woman. It was pique that made me Helen
Deverill's lover'

He shuddered as he pronounced his wife's
name.

"That is all past and done with," said Madge
gravely. " I am very sorry that your marriage
ended unhappily; but there is a long life before
you yet, I hope, and there must be something for
you to do in it. And now I must see after my

patients. It is tea-time. Shall I make you a cup
of tea ? "

She went to one of the presses, opened it, and
began to take out cups and saucers, and little
crockery tea-pots, and trays, and plates. Everything
was of the cheapest, but the things had
been chosen for their prettiness, and the little
trays had a neat and dainty look as those active
hands arranged them, each with its spotless linen
doyle.

Yes, please. I should relish a cup of cold
water from your hand. And my mouth is parched
and full of dust after my journey. Think of me as
the worst of your patients. Have you many in the
house ? '^

Every bed is full except one. There is a girl
of nineteen in the next room, dying. If you could
hear her story you would know what misery means."

She was moving to and fro between the press
and the fire-place, filling her little tea-pots from
the big copper kettle as she talked to him.

I need not wait for that. I know the meaning
of misery."

^' Ah, but not of such misery as she has suffered,
a girlhood that has been one long degradation.
Think of what it was for that girl to awaken to
the first consciousness of life in the midst of such
surroundings as decent lips dare not name; to
have been so reared as not to know the meaning of
sin till she was steeped in it, blackened by it,
dying of it. That is her history."

She is what you call an interesting case, I
supposes"*

She is one among many. Old and young
come here every day, pleading for a corner to die
in. That is about all we can give yet awhile"'

You have done a good deal, I think, in
establishing such a refuge."

'people are so kind. The poor have helped
me as much as the rich. Those who have had no
money to give have brought me little presents out
of their household goods, at a sacrifice. This copper
kettle was given by a widow who goes out charing.
It was a legacy from a butchers wife whom she
had served for years. * It is too good for me.
Sister," she saide Any little tin tea kettle will do

to make my cup of tea.' She kissed the lid of
the kettle before she handed it to me, for love of
her dead mistress."

She set one of the tea-trays before him, with a
little plate of bread and butter, such as she had
been cutting for her patients. She rang a bell,
and a woman of about forty came into the room,
dressed in a grey merino gown and a white cap and
apron. She looked like a lady, but she was very
thin and gaunt, with a pale pinched face and a sad
smile. She looked surprised at finding a stranger
seated by the hearth. " Sister Angela, Mr. Bel-fields''
said Madge, by way of introduction. '^ Mr.
Belfield is good enough to be interested in our work,
Sisters Angela bowed, but made no reply. The
two women took half a dozen of the little trays
between them, and went away to attend to their
patients, leaving Valentine to stare into the fire
and brood over his past life.

He thought of those careless days on the river,
with boat and dog and gun : the sheer idleness
of fancy which had led him to Madge Darley's
cottage; the hold her beauty had taken of him,

and his scornful disbelief in her virtue. And he
now came to this woman in his agony, as the one
woman who could give him help and comfort,
whose strong brave soul could inspire him with
courage to begin life anew. And having come into
this house of pain, he felt as if it would be best of
all to stay here for ever, to be her clerk, her helper,
her drudge, only to have the privilege of being near
her. He half forgot his scheme of distant travel ;
he was ready to grovel at her feet and plead to be
allowed to stay with her.

She was absent for more than an hour. He
emptied the tea-pot, and looked at his watch a
dozen times before she came back.

Are you surprised to see me here still ? '" he
asked.

Yes, I thought you would have gone back to
your hotel. This is not a place for you.^^

I suppose not ; yet you told me if I were in
distress I might come to you for shelter. I hoped
to find the name of your house was not altogether
a delusion — The Forlorn Hope. I have no other
hopcj Madge."

That cannot be true. You have your mother,
who adores you/^

My mother cannot help me to bear my burden.
It would blast her declining years, bring her in
anguish to the grave, to know all my misery. I
want some strong bosom to lean upon ; I want some
heroic soul to inspire me with courage. Madge, I
have come to you — to you, .as the only woman who
can shed a ray of light upon this darkened spirit.
I am a viler sinner than any of your lost sheep.
Have pity upon me if you can, Madge, for I am the
kind of sinner whom no one pities. I am a
murderers'

He clasped her hand in both his own, and drew
her nearer to him, looking up at her with despairing
eyes, as she stood looking down upon him,
speechless with horror.

I killed my wife."

^* Oh, God!"

I had the confession of her falsehood in my
hand, her declaration that she had ceased to love
me, and that she was passionately in love with
another man — that she was leaving me to be his

mistress. A pleasant letter for a husband to read,
Madge, The ink was wet upon the paper, and she
stood there looking at me — beautiful — false to the
core. I struck her to the ground. It was only
one blow, but it killed her. Between the reading
of that letter and her death there was but an interval
of half a dozen seconds. The ink was wet
still, and she was lying at my feet looking up at
me — dead."

It was horrible," gasped Madge, " an awful,
irreparable calamity — but not murder. You did
not mean to kill her'

I will not say as much as that. I think I
wanted to kill her — as I would have killed her
seducer had he been there — but I was sorry the
instant she was dead. The agony of remorse
began before that ink was dry''

*' You should have confessed the truth ; you
should have braved all consequences."

I should. I was a coward and a fool ; a
craven, to shrink from the consequences of my
wrath. I had a right to be angry. I forgot how
frail a thing she was. She fell like a lily — a tall

"white lily snapped in a storm. One moment — my
passion had vented itself — and she was dead."

And then he went on to describe that ghastly
burial of the dead, in the silence of the summer
night. He dwelt on every detail showing how
vividly every circumstance of that dismal scene
had painted itself upon his memory. He recalled
these things shudderingly, as a man relates
a bad dream which he has dreamed again and
again.

'' Did no one suspect you ? "

No one has found me out. There is a man I
suspect of being some kind of eavesdropper and
spy — a man who is on a visit to her father, and
who passes for a gentleman."

*' You must not lose an hour in getting away
from England — from Europe — beyond the reach of
pursuit, if that be possible. Suspicion once
aroused, detection might be easy, and then, having
hidden your crime, you might seem a deliberate
murderer instead of the victim of a moment's
passion. You must sail by the first ship that can
carry you. Go to Liverpool to-night by trio mail

VOL. 111. M

if Liverpool is the port — and start tomorrow
morning."

I am in no hurry."

But if your secret were once suspected, to
leave England then would look light flight, and
only confirm suspicion. Go at once, while you are
free to go."

I have half a mind to stay and take my
chance," he answered thoughtfully. " If you
would be kind to me, Madge — if you would let
me spend an hour in this room sometimes, hear
the sound of your voice, watch you coming in and
going out, I would rather stay in London than goto
Africa to look for diamonds and shoot big
game. I am not the man T was before that night,
Madge. When — when I had done that deed, my
first thought was to save ray neck — to hide my
crime and go scot-free. I thought life would bethe
same as it had been — the hunting field — the
race-course — the battue — all the same. I thought
I could forget. But when the seasons came round
again, and the old sports, and the old people — my
God, what a change ! All the zest was gone. I

went about as if I was in a dream, only half conscious
of my own existence or the life round rae.
Wherever I went, the same haunting thoughts
went with me, and a ghost that would not be
laid. Oh, Madge, you are stronger than I —
braver, nobler. Pity me if you can, as the strong
should pity the weak."

I do pity you, poor soul, with all my heart,"
she answered softly.

She bent over him and kissed his burning forehead.
For the first time in their lives her lips
touched him in love, freely given.

'' God bless you, Madge, for that kiss," he faltered.
" It shows me that you can pity me. Oh,
my love, don't banish me. Let me stay near you
always. Let me serve you as a slave serves his
master. Let me wear a suit of fustian and corduroy,
and carry coals and clean windows for you
until you have tried me by years of faithful
service, if you like. God knows I will be patient
in consideration of the wretch I am : and then
when you have found that there is some good in
me, let me be your husband, and let us go away

M 2

together to the other end of the world. If there
is happiness for me upon this earth, it must be
found "with you."

She looked at him in silence, with a slow, sad
smile, for some moments before she answered.

•'That is all a dream, Mr. Belfield, a feverish
dream of your poor sick soul. I have my duty
here, which I shall never leave ; and you have
your duty to yourself, and to your mother and
brother. Think how their lives would be darkened
if you were brought to answer for your crime, and
made to appear that which you were not — a deliberate
murderer. For their sake you ought to get
away while the coast is clear. Begin a new life ina
new country. Find new duties, as I found mine
when my life was most desolate ; and in doing
your duty and saving the souls of sinners, you may
find atonement for your own sin. And then the
shadows will be lifted, the burden will be lessened,
the light will come"'

I cannot live without you, Madge. I have
yearned for you in my misery. That kiss has
sealed me as your own for ever"'

^' If you persist in saying these things, 1 will
never see you again, Mr. Belfield. I have done
with all thoughts of love. I have planned out my
path in life, and mean to keep to it. And now I
must wish you good-night, and ask you to leave
this house. I have a great deal to do before
bedtime."

Cannot other people do it for you ? Cannot
you give one evening in your life to my despair —
you who do so much for others ? *'

'^ I am the head of our little organization, and
have to see that all is done rightly. There are
three-and-twenty sick or ailing girls and women in
the house, and only three sisters besides myself to
see to them. We are a sisterhood of twenty-two.
I am the only permanent resident. The other
twenty-one each give one day and night in every
week to the work. They come at eight one
evening and go away at eight on the following
evening. It is one day taken from the week of
worldly business for a work of mercy. We find
the plan answer better than many resident sisterhoods.
The sisters arc more cheerful, better tempered,

and in better health. Their lives are not
monotonous. There is no weariness no pining for
escape into the outer world. They always bring a
certain amount of freshness to their work ; and it
makes them happy to know that, however worldly
the rest of their lives may be, one day out of
seven is spent in doing good."

The plan is your invention, I suppose ? "

'eyes, it is mine."

Clear brain — strong heart ! Why did I not
know your value four years ago ? Well, Madge,
you have received me kindly, and I won't impose
upon your kindness. Good-night. I shall come
again tomorrow evening. ^^

Think better of it, and go to Liverpool by the
night mails

'^ Good-nights he repeated, ignoring her injunction.


Good-nights'

They clasped hands and parted. Scarcely had
the outer door shut upon him, when she covered
her face with her hands and burst into tears.

Oh, my love, my sin stained love ! '^ she

murmured ; " I care for you more in your abasement
than I ever cared for you yet. I would
give my life to lead you back to happiness, if I
had any hope you could ever be happy. But the
curse of blood is on your soul, and what hope can
there be for you on this side of the grave ? ''

CHAPTER IX.

IT WAS THE BRAND OF CAIN "

Mrs. Baddeley was very tired of the River Chad,
aod of the rustic garden where the crocuses
starred the lawn with their golden cups. It was
all very rural and fresh and innocent, but she had
an aching void where her heart should have been,
and longed for London dissipations as the only
anodyne for care. The good kind fellow, whom
she had talked of so cheerily last season while he
was broiling under an Indian sun, was on his way
home now ; and she could not think without some
uneasiness of the manner in which he would take
things when he should arrive, good-natured ashe
was.

It is not a pleasant thing for a husband to come
home and find a sheaf of bills, and lawyers* letters,
and County Court summonses awaiting him, or to
find his household gods subject to a bill of sale

held by a West-end dressmaker ; and this was
exactly the condition of affairs that awaited Major
Baddeley.

He was to leave Bombay in February, and
now February and the crocuses were waning, and
in all probability the Major had started.

I shall get a telegram from Aden before I
know where I am' said the anxious wife. " I
think I ought to go back to Loudon, Dad."

^' You can at least stay till you get your telegram.
'^

Mrs. Baddeley sighed, yawned, and resumed her
novel. The romances supplied by Muche were her
only resources in this sleepy country life. She,
who in London seldom opened a book, devoured
three volumes in a day.

^' Poor Frank ! How I wish somebody would
leave him a fortune ! " she said, with her eyes on
the page. ^^ He would be such a perfect husband
if he had only three or four thousand a year.
How long is your friend Mr. Melnotte to stay
with us ? "

Does he bore you ? ''

Not at all. He is very inoffensive, and he
plays ecarte with you of an evening ; but I can't
quite understand why you asked him here."

'^ There is more in him than anybody supposes'
replied the Colonel. " I like his conversation, and,
if you are going to desert me, I shall keep him as
long as I can.^-*

Leo yawned assent. The African traveller had
not inspired the faintest interest in her thoroughly
feminine breast. Her only idea of sport was a
prettily shaped horse that went like the wind, and
a perfectly fitting habit. Big game and the hardships
of life in the desert did not engage her
fancy.

After luncheon she went for a long ramble by
the river, not because she loved the river or the
landscape, but because she knew that open-air
exercise was good for her figure and complexion.

Mr. Melnotte was out and about almost all day.
He seemed to be as keenly interested in rustic
explorations and village gossip as in the perilous
adventures of the desert. He made friends everywhere

talked to every one, and had a pleasant,
Lonely way, which put every one at ease with
him. He was out on the day after Valentine's
departure, when Sir Adrian called at Colonel
Deverill's cottage early in the afternoon.

Adrian was shown into the drawing-room.
Mrs. Baddeley was out walking, the butler told
him but the Colonel was at home.

The Colonel was not very prompt to appear,
having lately settled himself in his arm-chair by
the dining-room fire, to sleep off the effects of a
heavy lunch and a pint of dry sherry. Adrian
was left to himself for at least ten minutes, during
which time he walked up and down the drawing-room
restlessly, full of thought.

There was a small writing-table in one of the
windows, and a chair in front of it, which looked
as if it had been occupied that morning. On the
table there was a pile of volumes with the label of
the Royal Geographical Society upon all of them,
and beside the books there was an inkstand and a
blotter.

Sir Adrian had the curiosity to look at these

books. Cameron, Livingstone, Stanley. They
were all books of African travel. He opened one
of the volumes at the places marked with slips of
paper.

At each of the marked places he found an anecdote,
and every one of those anecdotes had been
recited by Mr. Melnotte at the Abbey dinner-table
or in the Abbey billiard-room as personal adventures.


He opened another volume with the same result,
and then another, in which there were more selected
anecdotes which had not yet been related, stock-in-trade
for future evenings.

Valentine was right," he said to himself ;
Melnotte is an impostors

But why was the man there if an impostor ?
Colonel Deverili was not a man to be taken in by
any common swindler. There must be some reason
for the presence of this sham explorer.

Was there some hidden motive in his visit to the
Colonel : some motive which involved danger to
Valentine ?

Adrian had been not a little perplexed 1)y Colonel

Deverill's choice of that river-side cottage as a
winter residence ; and now it seemed to him that
Melnotte was a mysterious ally of the ColoneFs,
who had been brought there to act as a spy upon
the inmates of the Abbey.

To suppose this was to suppose that Helen's
father suspected the dark secret of his daughter's
fate, and such a supposition was full of terror.

Colonel Deverill came into the room while Adrian
was still standing by the table, with Cameron's book
in his hand. He put it down as he went forward to
greet the Colonel.

Your friend Melnotte seems fond of reading
other people's adventures'' he said carelessly.

The Colonel glanced from his visitor to the books
on the table, and at once accepted the situation.

'' Yes, he is never so happy as when he has his
nose in a volume of travels," he answered. " You
are not looking over well, Adrian. AVhat's the
matter ? ''

"Oh, I am well enough."

'^ But a little anxious about your brother," pursued
the Colonel, watching Sir Adrian's face as he

spoke. " I met Mrs. Freemantle in my stroll this
morning, and she told me you were all of you
uneasy about Mr. Belfield, and that you wanted
him to travel."

Yes ; he is out of health and out of spirits."

Everybody has noticed the change in him.
There has been a deeper gloom than husbands
usually fall into under such circumstances. Most
men take their troubles pretty lightly, nowadays."


Adrian was silent.

^' Have you succeeded in persuading your brother
to try change of scene ? "

I hope so. There is nothing decided. Valentine
is not given to allowing other people to
manage his life. He went up to town yesterday
to look about him."

Oh, he has gone to London, has he ? Where
does he put up ? "

I really don't know. At the Great Westernmost
likely, if he took the train for Paddington.
If he travelled by the other line, he may have gone
to the Grand."

You have not heard from him since he left ? "

No ; he is not fond of letter writing. He will
telegraph if he has anything to communicate."

The conversation drifted to indifferent matters,
but was far from lively. Colonel Deverill had a
preoccupied air, and looked out of the window
oftener than was natural to a well-mannered
Irishman.

Adrian was rising to leave when the butler
flung open the door and announced " Lord St.
Austell."

By Jove, this is an unexpected pleasure' said
the Colonel ; and before he could recover from his
surprise, Sir Adrian passed St. Austell with the
coldest possible salutation, nodded good-bye to his
host, and departed.

What brings you into this part of the world ? "
asked Colonel Deverill, when the door had shut
upon Adrian.

'* I want to know the result of Melmotte
investigations, and I was sick of waiting for
letters. He has been very slow."

*' Yes ; he has been uncommonly slow. I can

set nothing out of him. And now Belfield has
given us the slip. If there has been foul play, he
may be on his way to America by this time — safe
out of reach before we can move a step. He went
up to London yesterday."

'^ I know he did' answered St. Austell. ^^ I
met him ia the station at Exeter."

You did ? Strange."

'^ Yes, it was a strange meeting, for it confirmed
my darkest suspicions. We met face to face,
Deverill — met and passed each other ; and if ever
I saw the face of a murderer I saw it then. '

Bosh ! Men don't wear the record of crime on
their faces."

This one wore it yesterday : it was the brand
of Cain. He quailed at the sight of me, at
me — his wife's lover, the man who blighted his
married life. Why, if he had not been the greater
sinner, he would have blazed up — flown at me like
a tiger — tried to strangle me. Alas it natural to
tarn livid and then pass on, pretending not to seeme
? Was that the conduct of the man whom I
had wronged — who had the right to call mc to

account ? Nos Deverill ; it was the manner of a
wretch who knew himself a hundred times more
guilty than I. It was the face of san assassin.
And you and Melnotte have trifled with your
chances, have let this murderer get clear off before
you have discovered his crime."

I do not think Melnotte has been idle ; but I
can get very little out of him. He is uncommonly
closes

Yes, that is a trick of the trade. I believe
this one is really a clever fellow. He began life
as a gentleman,, and started in his present profession
with the advantage of a university education.
He was a man who might have done well in life,
perhaps, if it had not been for an intrigue with a
Belgian countess, which finished in a duel with her
husband. He got a bullet in the hip which lamed
him for life. They think highly of him at Scotland
Yard, and he has been invaluable to me in
two or three rather awkward affairs. But I don't
like his letting things hang fire. He has been
here long enough to arouse Belfield^s suspicions.
When do you expect him ? "

VOL. III. N

Any time between now and eight o'clock. He
always dines with us and if you can stay to
dinner '\

Of course I can stay. I came to Devonshire
to find out what progress you were making. I cannot
rest till I know the worst ; and if there is a
wrong to be avenged I shall never rest till vengeance
has been done. I'll take a stroll and a smoke
by the river, and then go back to the inn and
dress. I shall be with you soon after seven, on the
chance of getting some talk with Melnotte before
dinner."

He left the Colonel free to resume his easy
chair by the dining-room fire, his newspapers,
cigar, and afternoon sleep. Colonel Deverill was
in the lowest spirits, full of vague dread, as one
upon the threshold of a ghastly revelation ; but
there are phases of physical comfort which can
coexist with mental depression, and the Colonel
went back to his fireside and his soft, warm chair,
his brandy and soda and afternoon slumbers, as
naturally as the dog goes to the hearth rug and

coils himself round by the fender, even after he
has been kicked.

St. Austell lighted his cigar and sauntered along
by the river, shadowed now by woods that were
leafless, and hills that were bleak and bare. A
heron came swooping over the tree tops and down
to the waters edge, and stood on one leg in a meditative
attitude, waiting to spear the first unwary
fish that swam near. The sky was grey and dull,
but the air was mild. It was an atmosphere suggestive
of idleness and languid emotions.

St. Austell followed the course of the Chad as
far as the mouth of that tributary stream which
flowed through the grounds of Belfield Abbey, but
at this point he turned, and went along the narrow
woodland path which led to those shrubberies
walks where he had last seen Helen Belfield. It
was summer then, and the foliage was dense and
heavy, shutting out the world beyond that leafy
solitude. Now all was bleak and bare, save where
the conifers showed darkly green against the dull

N 2

grey sky. He remembered every turn of the path
by which they two had walked, he pleading, she
listening, with drooping head and eyelids heavy
with tears.

I know she loved me/^ he told himself. " If
she had lived she would have been mine. Or if
she had made up her mind to throw me over, and
live her life without me, she would not have left mein
uncertainty about her fate, she would not have
trifled with my love and tortured me for no purpose.
She is dead, and that man has murdered
her''

He was close to the spot where they had sat
together under the willow upon that last afternoon.
Yes, there was the cypress walk, and there below it,
upon the edge of the stream, the great grey trunk
of the willow slanting across the bank, and there
the rustic bench upon which they had sat.

Some one was sitting there to-day — a woman ina
fur coat, with just the same graceful, curving
line of throat and shoulders, and small head with
heavy coils of hair. His heart stood still at sight
of that figure. It was she. She had been living

at the Abbey all this time in hiding. She was
there, almost within reach of his arms. In that
one delirious moment he felt that he loved her ashe
had never loved woman yet, with an undying love.

She rose at the sound of his footsteps and came
slowly forward to meet him, a black poodle by her
side, shaking the silver bell on his collar as he ran.
St. Austell's heart sank as she drew nearer, with
the bitterest disappointment he had ever felt in
his life.

Mrs. Baddeley, you have given me a crushing
blow," he said slowly. ^' I took you for your
sisters'

". Poor Helen. You of all people ought least to
expect to find her sitting here."

You still believe that I was concerned in her
disappearance ?"

I have not yet reconciled myself to any other
idea."

Would to God you were right, and that I
knew where to find her. I am tortured by the
belief that she was made away with by her
husband."

And then he told Mrs. Baddeley of that chance
encounter at Exeter, and of the conclusions he had
drawn from Mr. Belfield's countenance.

'^ Is not that rather too strong an interpretation
to put upon a disagreeable face ? ^' said Leo
dubiously. " Short of clairvoyance I cannot
understand your ground for such an idea."

*' Call it clairvoyance, if you like — the clairvoyance
of love. I know that, as I looked the man
in the face, a hideous fancy flashed into my mind.
That man is the murderer of my love. 1 shall
never rest till I have solved the mystery of her
fate. If she is alive, I will find her. If she is
dead, I will find out how she died ; and if there was
foul play her murderer shall not go unpunished."

Leonora Baddeley looked at him in silence for
some moments, half in cynical disbelief, half in
admiration. Had he but loved her with such a
love as that, she would have counted the world
well lost for his sake. He had sued to her and
had been rejected, because she had loved the world's
good word better than she loved him, and, perhaps
still more, because she doubted the reality of his

love. And then afterwards, when she saw his
affections transferred to her sister — saw him ever
so much more earnest in the pursuit of that newer
fancy, she had discovered her own weakness, and
that he was the one man whom she really loved.
Tortured by jealousy, she found out how dear he
had been to her — he whom she had treated so
lightly, holding him at bay with careless speeches
and silvery laughter, and all the polished arts of a
coquette, as she had done with a cloud of meaner
admirers. Only of late had she known what it
was to love and have her love unreturned.

You talk very big,^^ she said, ^' but you have
done nothing to solve the mystery'

Directly, nothing ; but through your father I
hope to accomplish everything.^^

My poor father. He is very unhappy about
Helen'

He will have to be still more unhappy, if her
fate was as dreadful as I think''

Poor father. It would be too hard upon him
in his old age. But I cannot believe in this
morbid fancy of yours. The mystery of my

sisters disappearance has set us all imagining
horrors. She is safe enough, I dare say — hiding
herself somewhere, and not caring one little bit
for our anxiety."

If I could only think as much — if I could only
hope as muche St. Austell answered gloomily.

They walked back towards the cottage together,
talking very little, both of them serious and
depressed. Mrs. Baddeley was far from being
easy in her mind about her sister, although she
affected to make light of St. Austell's fears.

CHAPTER X.

THE SECRET OF THE RIVER

It was ten o'clock, and Mrs. Baddeley was sitting
by the drawing-room fire with Tory and a novel
for her only companions, while Lord St. Austell,
Colonel Deverill, and Mr. Melnotte remained in
the snug little dining-room. St. Austell and the
Colonel sat on each side of the fire, with their
faces in shadow. Melnotte was at the table, in
the bright light of the moderator lamp, with a
note-book in his hand, to which he referred now
and again in the course of his narrative or statement.


You think I have been slow. Lord St. Austell/'
he said, " and that by my dilatory way of going to
work I have lost my man. All I can say is that I
don't think I have lost my man, and that this was
a case in which precipitate action would have been

fatal. I had to be sure of my facts before T took
any step in the open.

'the first thing to be done was to find out how,
and when, and with whom, Mrs. Belfield left the
Abbey on the night on which she was supposed to
have run away ; or whether she ever left the Abbey
at all. A long and careful investigation, involving
the cross-examination of every official at the station
and every fly-driver in Chadford, convinced rae
that she did not leave the Abbey on that night, or
on the following morning, or on any subsequent
occasion. From the hour when she wrote that
letter of which Colonel Deverill informed me she
was never seen by mortal eye; unless it was by
Sir Adrian, or his mother, or Mr. Belfield.

I have a knack of getting friendly with people
upon a very slight pretence, and I contrived to get
on friendly terms with Lady Belfield's housekeeper,
Mrs. Marrable, an admirable old woman, and as
easy to manage as a child; a devoted servant, and
loyal to the backbone ; but an incorrigible prattler.
All she wanted was a pretext for prattling, and I
found one for her. I called one afternoon when

the family were out and asked, as if in sheer
frivolity, to see the old oak panelling, and the
carved banister rails in the gallery over the hall.
If Mrs. Marrable would be kind enough to show
me the upper floor, I should esteem it a favour,
I said ; and as I had given the grey-haired footman
half-a-crown when I dined at the Abbey, heat
once produced Mrs. Marrable.

From Mrs. Marrable I ascertained that Mr.
Belfield was not at the Abbey at the time of his
wife's disappearance and had not been there for
months ; that he did not come there until quite a
week after that event, when he arrived late in the
evening, and told his mother that he had lost
money at York Races and had gone over to Paris
for a few days to revive his spirits. Mrs. Marrable
was certain that he said he had been in Paris. It
was a way with him before he was married to go
off to Paris at an hour's warning, and she wondered
what attraction there could be in such a place fora
young English gentleman.

*' Having ascertained from this good soul that
Mr. Belfield had not been at the Abbey on the

night of August the 19th, my next business was to
ascertain from other people that he had been thereon
that particular night. I had made myself
pretty sure of that fact from the porter who took
his ticket at Chadford Station, before I saw my
good Marrable ; I made myself surer afterwards
when I called at the Station Hotel and heard how
Mr. Belfield had arrived by the midnight train,
and had ordered a fly to take him to the Abbey,
how pleasantly he had chatted in the bar while the
fly was being got ready, and how he had dismissed
the carriage half-way down the avenue, preferring
to walk the rest of the way.

This was point number two in my case. It
was clear that Mr. Belfield had made a secret visit
to the Abbey after midnight, at a time when he
was supposed to be at York or in Paris.

The next thing was to discover how he contrived
to disappear from the neighbourhood without
having been observed at Chadford Station. I
had found a fairly intelligent porter and a worthy
station-master at that station, and from these two
I had satisfied myself that neither Mr. Belfield nor

his wife had left Chadford by train, up or down the
line, after the night of August the 19th.

"To discover Mr. Belfield's manner of getting
away from the neighbourhood cost me some time ;
but eventually I traced him to Bideford, where he
must have gone on foot, a thirty-mile walk, and
where at three o^ clock on the afternoon of August
20th he chartered a sailing boat, in which he went
round the coast to Bude, where he dismissed the
boat. I took the trouble to go to Bude, and heard
of him there, where he was out fishing all day, the
innkeeper told me, and seemed strange in his
manner. He stayed only four days, and then left
in the coach for Launceston. He was not known
at Bude by name, and he had no luggage, except a
new night-shirt, brush and comb, which he had
evidently bought on his arrival. The day on which
he left Bude was the date which Mrs. Marrable
had mentioned for his return from the supposed
visit to Paris. The Bideford boatman described
him as dead beat when he chartered the boat. He
laid himself down at the bottom of the stern, on an
old rug, and slept till sunset, but it was a very

disturbed sleep, and the boatman thought he had
something on his mind. They were coasting for
nearly three days, the wind being against them
part of the time, and the gentleman hardly ate
anything, but finished a bottle of brandy which
had been got for him at Bideford.

"What did this look like except the conduct of
a criminal ? Then comes his arrival at the Abbey,
and the lie about a visit to Paris.

Having got as far as this, I had not the
slightest doubt that there had been a crime
committed at the Abbey that night, or, in plain
words, that Mr. Belfield murdered his wife. He
got wind of her falsehood somehow, came home,
and taxed her with it — there was a row, and
he killed her. But how he killed her, and how
he disposed of the body, are two questions which
I have yet to solve''

Colonel Deverill groaned aloud, as he sat leaning
forward in his chair, but he did not utter a word.

He may have hidden her somewhere in that
great barrack of a house'' said St. Austell, "or
he may have buried her in the garden."

It would not be easy to hide a corpse iu the
largest house; nor easy to dig a grave between
midnight and morning in the summer time, such a
grave as should not be obvious to every eye. The
one safe hiding-place would be the river ; but that
is more than a quarter of a mile from the house, at
the nearest points

Why not drag the river ? " asked St.
Austell.

I mean to get it done ; but your lordship
must remember that it is only within the last few
days I succeeded in finding the Bideford boatman,
and that it was his description of his passenger's
appearance and conduct which confirmed my suspicion
of foul play. There is such a thing as
instinct ; but one must have some better justification
than instinct before taking active steps in a
business of this kinds

"It is the fault of your tribe' said St. Austell.
You are all over cautious. This man bears the
brand of Cain on his forehead."

You are right there. He has the criminal
manner distinctly marked. I saw that when I

spent an evening in his mother's house, and I was
almost as certain then as I am now that he made
away with his wife's

When can we get the river dragged ? '' asked
the Colonel.

To-morrow at daybreak answered Melnotte.
I have engaged a couple of men to do it. They
know ivhat they are to search for. but they will
keep their counsel, tend tell any curious inquirers
that I dropped a valuable watch into the stream
yesterday afternoon when I was rowing. I hired
a boat at the bridge yesterday and rowed up the
Chad and along the Abbey river ; and in this place,
where everything is known that concerns other
people's business, that fact is sure to be known.
The men will begin to drag at a point that I shall
indicate to them nearest to the Abbey, and work
down stream for a quarter of a mile — then go
back to the same point and work up stream. If
the body was thrown into the river, it will be
found within those limits."

^' What if that final evidence be found ? The
murderer will have had time to get out of reach of

justice before a coroners inquest can bring his
crime to lights said St. Austell.

He will not leave the country very easily. All
the principal ports are being watched."

But what of the smaller ports ? He will get
away if he wants to escape."

^' I don't believe he intends flight," said the
Colonel. " Sir Adrian's manner was natural
enough this afternoon when he talked of his
brother having gone up to town, and the possibility
of his travelling sooner or later. He has
held his ground so long that I see no reason why
he should take fright now."

'* Unless he smells a rat and suspects Melnotte,"
said St. Austell.

The late winter dawn found St. Austell awake,
in his old-fashioned four-post bed at the hotel by
Chadford Bridge. He had been tossing about all
night, sleepless, save for brief snatches of half-unconsciousness,
which were rather waking dreams
than sleep. Not for one instant of that weary
night had Helenass image been absent from his

VOL. III. O

thoughts. Again, and again, and again he had
lived over their last meeting — recalling her looks
and tones — her reluctant yielding to his prayers —
and then her final promise, solemnly given, that
she would be his.

He remembered how he had stood by her side
with her hand clasped in his, and had said to her :
This promise makes you mine for ever, love.
There must be no going back from your words today.
To me it is a pledge as solemn as was ever
made before the altar. May the worst evil
happen to me if I ever fall away from my fidelity
to you."

He had spoken in good faith ; and now in
his despair he told himself that this was the
crowning love of his life, and that if she had
lived he would have been true to her to the end.

She was beautiful enough to enslave a man
for a lifetime," he said to himself " She had
spirit enough to make her a difficult conquest ;
she was just clever enough to be a delightful
companion for a clever man. She was the one
perfect woman whom I have known."

He rose at daybreak, work out by sleeplessness,
and tried to refresh himself with an ice-cold bath.
The house was early astir in the hunting season,
and there was a great cry for baths and boots, and
a hurrying to and fro of chambermaids in the
corridor, by the time St. Austell was dressed. His
breakfast was ready in the pretty sitting-room
looking on to the road and the river at eight
o'clock, but he was no better able to eat than he
had been to sleep. He sat staring at the fire,
and sipping a cup of tea, while he pictured to
himself what the men were doing in the Abbey
river.

He had intended to be down there at daybreak
and to watch them at their work from the beginning.
He had thought about it all night; but
when the morning light came, his courage failed
him. It was all too ghastly. How would death
have used her, his beloved, she whose smile was to
have been his Aurora, who was to have looked
upon him in the happy dawn, in the glad beginning
of each new day ? How would she have
fared in that cold couch where they were seeking

o2

her ? For the first time since his boyhood he
prayed with all the strength and fervour of a
believer — forgetting his scepticism, his sociology,
his pessimism — everything, except the mental
agony which wrung that prayer from him. He
prayed that the men with the drags might not find
her. That she might still be living — lost to him,
perhaps, but living and lovely as she had been
when last he looked upon her face.

The men must have been at work for more than
an hour by this time, and it would take him nearly
an hour to walk to the Abbey river; yet still he
sat idly staring at the fire , hesitating, reluctant to
face the result of that loathsome work. At last,
with an effort, he rose from his arm-chair, put on
his coat, and went out.

There were three young men starting for a distant
meet as he left the hotel. They went clattering
over the bridge, lighting their cigars, and
talking and laughing, full of inane jocosity, as it
seemed to St. Austell. He almost hoped that one
of them would be killed before they came back in
the evening. He execrated them for their mirthful

ineptitude, as they went jogging up the stony
hill, slapping their horses' haunches and swaggering
in their saddles. He was glad to get away
from the old English town, and its fringe of
modern villas, to the lonely high road, and then to
the footpath across the park, to that tributary of
the Chad which was called the Abbey river, a
stream in which many a fat and placid lay-brother
had fished with net or line, and placed his eel-baskets,
in the good old monkish days. St. Austell
went down into the deep glen through which the
river ran, parallel with the railroad. He went by
the same narrow path which he had trodden last
August, under the heavy summer foliage. Now
the boughs were bare, and the winter sky looked
coldly blue behind the dark tracery of leafless
twigs. He saw the scene as in a dream, the wind-swept
hillocks and hollows, the great brown
trunks of the oaks, and in the distance the bright
river glancing here and there across an opening in
the woodland. He went down to the path where
he had met Mrs. Baddeley yesterday afternoon.
There was no one in sight, nor could he bear the

sound of the irons scraping along the pebble bed.
If the men were still at work, they were out of earshot.
He walked slowly along, hoping that all
was over, and that nothing had been found ; but a
little further on he met Melnotte, and the first
glance at his face told St. Austell that there had
been a ghastly discovery.

What are you doing here, Lord St. Austell ? ''
said Melnotte hurriedly. " Pray go back. The
worst has happened, and you ought not to be seen
here. It may do you harm by-and-by. Take
my advice and get away from this neighbourhood
as soon as you can."

What have they found ? Where ? " asked St
Austell, ignoring his advice.

'' They have found a body in a deep pool further
down the stream ; it is heres — there are ample
means of recognition. The long brown hair, a
wedding ring and keeper, a Persian rug wound
round with a silk handkerchief. If her murderer
had taken pains to secure her identification, and to
show that she did not throw herself into the river,
but was thrown in by somebody else, he could not

have done more. Yes , it is very sad my lords as
if in answer to the agony in St. Austell's countenance,
" but there is no help. It is all over and
done with. It is only what I expected. What
you have to do is to get away from Chadford
before the inquest and to keep your name out of
the business, i£ you can. You are known to have
been with her on the last day of her life, to have
planned an elopement with her. You may be suspected,
of her murder — who knows ? "

I don't care whether I am or not. Where is
she ? Let me see hers said St. Austell, trying to
pass Melnotte, who contrived to block the path.

For God's sake don't go that way. The men
are carrying their burden to the dead-house. Let
no. one who loved her look upon her — let no one
but the surgeon see all that death and the river
have left of poor humanity. Come back to Chad-ford
with me, Lord St. Austell. I am going to the
Coroners'

'' What of her murderer ? Is he to escape you ?''

'• Not if I can help it. I shall telegraph to
Scotland Yard before I see the Coroner ; and

when I have seen him I shall get a magistrates
warrant for Mr. Belfield's arrest, and I shall take
the first train for London with the warrant in my
pockets

Sir Adrian will have communicated with his
brother in the meantime, perhaps. Does he know
what has happened ? '*

'' Not yet, I think. There was no one down by
the river while the men were at work except a
gamekeeper, and I told him my story of having
dropped my watch into the stream, which he
seemed to swallow easily enough. I don't think
Sir Adrian can have heard anything yet ; but
there will be plenty of talk, I suppose, when the
remains have been taken to the dead-house.'

Lord St. Austell looked back along the river
path. He saw the men in the distance carrying
their burden on a light hand-bier, which they
must have taken with them from the dead-house,
in expectation of this ghastly result. The burden
was covered with a tarpaulin, and they were
walking slowly in the same direction as St. Austell
and Melnotte, only a good way behind.

He made no further attempt to see what lay
beneath yonder gruesome covering ; indeed he felt
that Melnotte was right, and that he would not for
worlds have looked upon those poor relics of all
that he had loved. Let not that horrible image
come between him and his memory of her fresh
young beauty : let him not be reminded through
her of what he himself must be — of humanities
common doom. He walked back to the town
almost in silence, and left the detective to do his
work alone. Melnotte suggested that he should
go to the cottage and break the news to Colonel
Deverill ; but this St. Austell refused.

I can help no man to bear his burden' he said ;
my own is too heavy for me."

It was part of his burden to know that his unholy
love had been the cause of Helen Belfield's
death. If her husband was the murderer it washer
lover who had brought about the crime.

CHAPTER XI.

LET ME BE YOUR SERVANT "

Valentine Belfield did not go to the Great
Western Hotel after he left the house in Lisson
Grove. He was too deeply agitated to go quietly
back to his hotel, and eat a good supper and drink
a bottle of wine and go to bed and rest. He knew
that sleep was impossible, unless he could bring it
about by sheer fatigue, as he had done when he
walked from the Abbey to Bideford and had slept
the sleep of exhaustion in the bottom of the little
sailing boat. His only chance to-night was to walk
down the demon of restlessness that was in him ;
so he turned his face northward and walked to
Hampstead, and then struck off towards Finchley
and Tendon, and roamed about among fields and
lanes all night, and at seven o'clock breakfasted at
a little public-house by the side of a canal, somewhere
between Finchley Road and Child's Hill. It

was a house chiefly affected by bargemen, and
nobody took any particular notice of him, the barmaid
merely remarking that in all probability he
was a swell who had been on the drink last night,
and had been walking about to sober himself. He
was sober enough this morning evidently, and was
proof against all the barmaid's blandishments,
though she took her hair out of papers before she
carried him his breakfast of eggs and bacon and
strong tea.

He had eaten nothing yesterday except the dainty
little plate of bread and butter supplied by Madge,
and he was faint and sick from the unaccustomed
fast.

He fell asleep by the fire in the public-house
parlour, slept through the entrances and exits of
several relays of bargemen, slept amidst the odour
of beer and the jingle of pewter pots, dozed on till
the afternoon, and then paid his score and went
away. He walked across the fields to the Edward
Road, and thence to Lisson Grove, where he went
into a bookseller's shop and bought a suit of such
clothes as arc worn by the lower order of workingmen

— an Oxford shirt, corduroy trousers, fustian
jacket, and hob-nailed boots. He changed his
clothes on the premises, and reappeared in Lisson
Grove in corduroy and fustian, leaving his own
things to be kept till called for. The showman
wondered not a little at this transformation.

*^ It's a lark, sir, T suppose ? " he said.

Yes, it's a lark' answered Mr. Belfield, as he
walked out of the shop.

Well, I must say that I never laid eyes on
a less larky-looking gent to be up to such a
move as that'' said the young Israelite to his
fellow-showman, as he put Mr. Belfield's clothes
away.

"There's a lady at the bottom of it, I make
no doubt, Benjamin' replied the other, dismissing
the subject, which remark was more accurate
than speculative observations arc wont
to be.

It was dusk when Mr. Belfield rang the bell at
the Forlorn Hope. Madge opened the door and
did not recognize him, as he stood facing her
silently, with his back to the light.

*' What do you want, mv brood man ? ^'

"1 want to be your servant as I told you last
night'

Mr. Belfield, why are you still hanging about
here ? ^' cried Madge, in an agonized tone. " This
is sheer madness."

I believe it is next door to madness," answered
Valentine, following her into the parlour, " but it
is madness that only you can cure. There's no use
in my going abroad, Madge, without you. I should
only carry my guilty conscience and my misery
with me ; go where I might — Africa, Asia, the
North Pole — it would be all the same to me. There
is no place so strange, no life so full of danger,
excitement, occupation, that would make me forget.
You have the power to comfort me. You have
the power to lay the ghost that haunts me. You
alone can tell me that I have repented and have
expiated my sin. You have the faith that moves
mountains, and by your faith I may be saved.
Leave me to myself and I shall perish inevitably.
There is no help, no cure, but through you."

^* You are mad," she said. " Yes, it is all madness.
I have a good work to do here, and I cannot
leave it."

Let me stay here then, and work for you. That
is what I have come for : to be your drudge, your
slave ; to be what Caliban was to Prospero. I am
dressed for the part, you see. You will find how
handy I can make myself, cleaning windows and
scrubbing flag-stones, doing work that you and the
sisters cannot do, with all your willingness to toil.
And in bad cases, when a patient wants watching
at night, I can do my part as a watch-dog. You
don't know what I can be under your transforming
power. Madge, 1 have no friend in the world but
you."

Y'ou have your mother, a nearer and dearer
friend*'

No. To my mother my life has been a lie.
She only is my friend who knows my sin and my
repentance. Let me stay here, Madge, and when
I leave the country, go with me as my guardian
angel and my wife. Test the truth of my repentance,
if you will, before you trust me. See how
changed a creature I have become : how all that
is vilest in my nature has been burnt out of it in
the furnace of remorse. Test me to the uttermost

as your servant, before you accept me as your
husband."

Madge began to waver. He who was pleading
to her knew not how urgently her own heart was
pleading for him, how fondly she loved him, even in
his degradation, stained with the shedding of blood.

I believe it would be for your own safety to
leave England instantly," she said. 'there is no
knowing what danger may arise. But if you are
bent upon staying in this house and helping us in
our work, I will talk to the sisters and see what
can be done. Our fortnightly committee meeting
will be held tomorrow afternoon, and most of the
sisters will be here. If they consent to your being
employed here — as a servant — I have no objection.
There is a little room on this floor at the end of
the passage, which you might have as a bed room.
It is small and rather dark, but it is dry and well
ventilated."

Give me any dog-hole," said Valentine. " Do
you think I care how I am lodged? I want to be
near you, Madge. I want to feel the support of
your presence. That is all I ask."

You must not call mc Madge here. I am
Sister Margaret.

You shall be Sister Margaret, until you are
wife Margaret. And now order me about, let
me begin ray slavery. Give me any work there is
to be done."

I don't think there is anything you can do tonight,
but you shall clean all the windows tomorrow,
if you like. Our windows have always been an
affliction to me. We have done our best, but
women are not good as window-cleaners. To-night
you can take a holiday, but on future evenings we
can give you some penmanship to do for us, letters
to charitable people who help us. What must we
call you, by-the-by ? You have a second Christian
name, I think !"

Yes. I was christened John Valentine, but I
was always called by the second name, because my
mother preferred it.^'

Then here we will call you John."

She began to prepare the tea, as she had done
on the previous evening, and two of the sisters
came in to fetch the trays for their patients. One

was an elderly woman the other a girl of two-and-twenty,
a pale gentle-looking creatures with a
wistful expression in her large blue eyes.

Madge introduced Valentine to them as Mr.
John, a person who in the outside world had been
a gentleman, but who offered himself to them as a
servant.

If all the sisters approve, I think we may keep
him here and find him very useful' she said. '■' At
any rate he will stay here for to-night , and he can
help you both in carrying round the coal scuttles
after tea."

Sister Agnes, the fair girl, sat down to tea with
Madge and Valentine. She had a nervous manner,
and spoke rarely, but Valentine was interested in
her appearance, and inquired her history by-and-by,
when she had gone back to her duties on the
upper floor.

Her's is a sad story. She belongs to wealthy
people, and three years ago her life was a round of
gaiety. She fell in love with an army doctor, and
her family were all opposed to the match, and made
her break off her engagement He went to Egypt

VOL. in. p

and was killed in the Soudan. She heard of his
death unexpectedly from her partner at a dance,
and for six months afterwards she was out of her
mind. When she recovered, nothing would induce
her to resume her old life of fine clothes and
parties, nothing would induce her to hear of another
lover. She devotes her life to charitable work, and
all the money her father gives her is given to the
poor. He is very liberal to her, although he disapproves
of her way of life. She spends only one
day of every week in this house, but she works for
us out of doors, going about the streets at night,
and talking to wretched women whom few girls of
her age would have the courage to approach. That
fragile looking girl has penetrated the darkest
alleys about Clare Market, the most dangerous
streets in Ratcliff Highway, where even the police
go at the risk of their lives. She has never suffered
any harm, has hardly ever been insulted by
a coarse word. She has done more good than any
other member of our sisterhood, although all have
worked wells

She can take your place when you have gone
to the other side of the world, Madge."

Madge shook her head, with a sad, serious look,
full of pity.

I shall never leave my work, Mr. Belfield. I
have given myself to it as much as if I had taken
a vow. I am very sorry for you, I would do much
to befriend you or to be of use to you, but I have
put my hand to the plough, and I shall never take
it away.^^

Valentine got up and began to pace the room,
fuming.

It is madness," he exclaimed ; " a woman's
craze. Only a woman would ever think of such a
thing. Are there not hospitals for sick women ? "

There are hospitals for disease, but there are
no hospitals for the weak and ailing, there are very
few refuges for fainting sinners. There are plenty
of orphanages for the spotless children, but there
are few havens for the girls lost in the dawn of
girlhood. Christ loved the innocent children and
called them to his knees ; but he had inexhaustible
pity for the fallen women."

"■ So be it. You have set the ball rolling. You
have begun the work. Others can carry it on.'

p2

*' I will not leave it to others

You can continue your good work in the Antipodes.
You will find sin in the New World as well
as in the Old. There is no colony so recently
founded that Satan has not helped to people it.
Come, Madge, be reasonable. Three years ago you
spurned me because I dared to approach you as a
seducer. You did well, and I deserved your contempt.
Now I come to you in all honour ; I offer
you all I have to give — my name, my life, my fortune,
such as it is, I am to inherit all my mother's
property, and I shall not be a poor man. I come
to you with a blemished life, stained with one hour
of darkest sin. But I am not altogether vile, I have
repented that fatal hour in the long agony of months.
I shall repent it all my life. Only you can make
that life tolerable; only you can heal my wounds.
Be my wife, Madge ; take me with all my sins."

She held out her hand to him as he stopped in
his pacing to and fro, and they remained for some
moments silent, with clasped hands, he looking
down at her, his eyes kindling as he looked; she
very pale and her lips slightly tremulous.

You love me, Badges' he said breathlessly ;
'* you cau forget all for my sake'

I am very sorry for you' she answered softly,
but I have done with individual love. I have
given my heart and life to my sorrowing sisters."

It is a craze, Madge ; I say again it is a
craze."

You have not seen the good done — you have
not seen the altered faces. There are women now
in happy honest homes whom we have picked up
out of the gutter. If you were to see one young
wife I know of, with her husband and her baby,
you would not believe there had ever been a stain
on her life. He took her, knowing what her past
had been, and he has cherished her as a pearl of
price. These are rare cases ; but they are bright
spots which cheer us and help us through many
difficulties."

Well, you are resolute, I suppose. You will
go on helping strangers, and you will abandon me
to my fate."

I do not abandon you. I will do anything in
my power to befriend you, short of sacrificing duty

for your sake. I think you are very unwise to
loiter here when you ought to be getting far away
from England, losing your identity in a strange
world. Your wife's relations will not be satisfied
for ever without certain knowledge of her fate.
An investigation may be set on foot at any
moment and the truth may be brought to light.
You should be out of the way before that can
happens

'^ I tell you I do not value my life unless you
will share it. I would rather stay here and clean
windows than riot in luxury at the Antipodes'

Madge answered nothing. She felt the hopelessness
of the situation. He had chosen to come
there, and she had not denied him shelter. She
had taken upon herself in some wise the responsibility
of his existence, since she had spoken of
him to the Sisters ; and now she felt that his
presence there would be a constant source of
anxiety and mental disturbance. She would have
to be perpetually on her guard, for ever denying
a love which was the strongest passion of her life.
It had been in her despair at resigning him, that

she had gone in quest of her erring mother. All
that she had done for others had been the oft-shoot
of her despairing love for him. And now
he offered himself to her in his desolation, and she
refused him.

**If I give way to his fancy he will forget all
the past, and his repentance will become a
mockery she said to herself. '' I cannot stand
in the place of his dead wife. I must not be a
gainer by his crime. How could I ever be at
peace, remembering that it was murder that set
him free to be my husband ? "

CHAPTER XII.

IS THERE NO BALM IN GILEAD ? "

The Coroner was a portly gentleman of sixty-five,
who had fulfilled all the duties of a general
practitioner in Chadford and the surrounding
villages for upwards of thirty years, and who had
retired on a comfortable fortune, made partly by
his profession, and partly by fortunate investments
in modest little branches and loops of the great
railway system, which time and traffic had developed
into important lines. He had bought for
himself an estate of forty odd acres of excellent
pasture land between the Chad and the shoulder of
the moor, and he had built for himself one of those
essentially Philistine houses, of the streaky-bacon
order, which are the delight of men who make
their fortunes in country towns. Altogether, ^Slr.
Maples was a very worthy person ; and when

the office of Coroner became vacant his name
appeared at the head of the poll.

Mr. Mapleson^s study was a small square apartments
furnished with handsomely bound books of
reference a whip rack, and a formidable row of
boots, which imparted an odour of Day and Martin
to the atmosphere. Into this somewhat prosaic
chamber, Melnotte, otherwise Markham, the detective,
was ushered by the man-of-all-work on the
morning of the discovery in the Abbey river ; and
in the briefest language he told what had happened,
and his own conclusions therefrom.

You think it is a case of murder" said Mr.
Maples, biting the end of his pen.

It can be nothing else. There is a carpet
rolled round the body, and fastened with a silk
handkerchief. Nothing has been touched since
the remains were lifted out of the water ; the
colours in the carpet are distinguishable, and the
string of silk round it is evidently a large neck-kerchief'.
There can be very little doubt that
the body was thrown into the water after
death''

'^ The remains are not in a condition to be
identified, I conclude'

'' No. Time and the river have done their work
of destruction only too well. There are other
means of identification ; wedding-ring and keeper
for instance. The remains have not been touched
more than was absolutely necessary in carrying
them from the river to the dead-house, where
they are waiting for the medical examinations'

'' And you are in a position to affirm that this
is the body of Mrs. Belfield ? ''

'^ I am in a position to affirm as much, and I
hope to be able to prove by circumstantial
evidence that her husband murdered her, and
threw her dead body into the river in the early
morning of the 20th of August. But I will not
trouble you with any further details. The inquest,
which you are to hold tomorrow, will, I hope, be
adjourned so as to give time for investigation.
All I have done hitherto has been done in the
dark. Many more details will doubtless come to
light when the fact of the murder has been made
public'

Poor Lady Belfield ! ^' sighed the Coroner.
Do you know that I had the honour of attending
the family at the Abbey for thirty years. I
remember the present Lady Belfield when her
husband brought her home as a bride. She was
a lovely woman then. She is a lovely woman
noW; lovely in mind as well as in person. This
business will break her heart."

I fear it will go hard with hers

'^ She adores her younger son. I have seen her
agony when he has been laid up with some
childish ailment. All her world was in that sickbed.
And to see him accused of murder ! Mr.
Markham, if you are deluded, if you have not
ample justification for the course you are taking,
you will be much to blame."

My justification will be shown at the inquest.
There must be an inquest."

*' Yes, that is inevitable. I wish, with all my
heart, Mr. Markham, you had never had that river
dragged."

Then you would have had an undetected
murderer in your midst."

'' Better that perhaps, than that a good woman's
heart should be broken."

It was a quality of Lady Belfield"s character to
evoke strong sympathy from all who were brought
in familiar contact with her.

Melnotte had a fly waiting for him at the
Coroner's door, and drove straight to the nearest
Magistrate, from whom, after an interview of some
length, he obtained a warrant for the arrest of
Valentine Belfield on a suspicion of murder. ^Yith
the County Magistrate, as with the Coroner, Melnotte
found that sympathy with Lady Belfield was
stronger than the abstract love of justice. He
only just succeeded in getting the warrant signed
in time for lira to catch the next train for Exeter.

He was at Paddington at dusk, and went at once
to the Great Western Hotel, where he inquired for
Mr. Belfield.

Nothing had been seen of that gentleman except
his luggage. That had been brought by a Great
Western porter two evenings before With an intimation
that Mr. Belfield was coming on to the hotel
soon after ; but nothing more had been heard of

him. Three large portmanteaux, a gun case, a roll
of rugs and coats, and a hat-box, all marked V.B.,
were stacked in the hall, pending the arrival of the
owner.

'does Mr. Belfield usually stay here when he
comes to town ? " asked the detective.

Yes, for a night or two at a time. He is one
of our old customers,^^ replied the manager.

Melnotte was at fault. That Valentine Belfield
should have brought all that luggage to London,
and then left England without it, seemed unlikely.
No purpose could have been served by bringing the
luggage unless for his use. To bring it to Loudon
and abandon it at an hotel could in no manner assist
him in his flight, or tend to the mystification of his
pursuers. The only explanation seemed that he
had left his property at the hotel while he remained
in a state of uncertainty as to his future course.
He might be knocking about London, hesitating
as to whither he should bend his steps.

That he was in hiding anywhere was unlikely,
since he could as yet have no more cause for fear '
than at any time sir.ce the commission of his crime.

Arguing with himself thus, Melnotte supposed that
he would have very little difficulty in putting his
hand upon the missing man. He went straight
from the Great Western to Scotland Yard, secured
an assistant official, engaged a hansom by the hour,
and started upon his quest.

London is a big place, Redway/^ he said, " but
the big London is only an aggregate of little London.
Each man has his own peculiar metropolis,
which is generally no bigger than a moderate-sized
country town. Now I take it that Mr. Belfield's
London is bounded on the West by TattcrsalFs,
and on the East by the Criterion, on the South by
Pall Mall, and by Oxford Street on the North. If
we don't find him within those limits we must look
for him at Liverpool, Southampton, or Plymouth'

This was on the way to the Badminton, where
Melnotte alighted and interviewed the porter.
Mr. Belfield had not been seen there for six
months.

Not since Lord St. Austell's 'loss Postcard lost
the Great Ebor," said the porter, who dated most
events by the Racing Calendar.

From the Badminton, Melnotte drove to the
Argus.

Here again Mr. Belfield had not been seen for
months.

Melnotte drove westward, and contrived to see
one of the men at Tattersall's, though the yard was
shut.

No tidings of Mr. Belfield.

"Thatch do for to-night, Medway," said Melnotte,
considerably disconcerted. " Fll drive you
back to the Yard, and then 1^11 go and dine and
turn in for the night. If Mr. Belfield had been
knocking about town in an open, easy-going
manner, I believe I should have heard of him atone
of those places. So I am disposed to think he
has taken the alarm and is trying to get out of the
country. I hardly think he can have got clear off
yet ; but I shall set the wires at work again before
I eat my chops

Mr. Melnotte set the wires at work to a considerable
extent just before the closing of the
chief telegraph office. He telegraphed to all the
ports from which a man seeking to escape from

justice was likely to attempt a start, and took
measures to secure attention for the fugitive.

He was up and about betimes next morning,
saw Mr. Belfield's tailor, took a stroll and an early-cigar
in the neighbourhood of Hyde Park Corner,
hung about Tattersall's for an hour, looked in at a
famous spurrier's in Piccadilly and a fashionable
maker of hunting boots in Bond Street, and before
eleven o'clock had satisfied himself that Mr. Belfield
had not been seen at the West End of London
since the previous summer.

The question to be solved was what had become
of Mr. Belfield after he arrived at Haddington ?

In such a town as Chad ford the finding of a
body in the Abbey river, and the notice of an
impending inquest at the Ring of Bells Tavern in
Little George Street, were not likely to remain
unknown to the inhabitants. Before Melmotte had
gone far upon his journey to London everybody in
Chadford knew that a body was lying in the dead-house,
and that an inquest was to be held upon the
following afternoon.

Melnotte had imposed silence upon the men who
dragged the river, and yet it was known somehow
that there were appearances about the body that
pointed to foul play rather than accidental drowning,
while there were those who declared that the
murdered corpse was that of the missing Mrs.
Belfield.

Mr. Rockstone was one of the first to hear of
the event which everybody in Chadford was talking
about. He came out of the house of a sick
parishioner where all was quiet and shadow,, into
the bright winter sunlight, to find a group of
townspeople standing in front of the saddler's shop
in earnest conversation. From them he heard
what had been found in the Abbey river.

His heart turned to lead as he listened. His
mind had not been free from anxiety about Valentine's
wife. He had carefully avoided questioning
Lady Belfield or her sons, but he had wondered at
the prevailing ignorance about the runaway wife's
fate. When a woman elopes with a lover, there
are generally those who know where she has gone,
and who report and criticize her movements ; but

VOL. J 1 1. Q

in this case no one had heard of the fugitive, no
one knew where she was hiding her dishonoured
existence. And now this finding of the corpse in
the river pointed at fearful issues — at the best,
suicide ; at the worst, murder. He thought of
Lady Belfield's agony when the talk of the town
should reach her ; and it must reach her very soon.
In twenty-four hours every fact connected with the
disfigured remains yonder must be brought to light,
published to the world, discussed and commented
upon in a tavern parlour. Friendship and love
would be powerless to keep that horror from her,
.powerless even to blunt the edge of that
anguish.

There was a fly crawling along the High Street
on its return from the station. The Vicar jumped
into it, and told the man to drive to the Abbey at
his sharpest pace. He wanted to find Sir Adrian
before anything was known there. Andrew ushered
him into the library, where Adrian was sitting at
his desk, surrounded with books and papers. He
looked ill and careworn, the ^'icar thought, but had
too calm an air to have heard the evil news.

My dear Eockstone^ this is good of you,"
exclaimed Adrian, starting up and wheeling an
arm-chair towards the hearth for his friend, and
then seating himself opposite him. '^ It is an age
since you have dropped in upon me so early. Tell
me all your parish news, and your parish wants, if
you have any."

I cannot talk about the parish to-day. I have
come to tell you of something terrible which has
come to pass, and which may concern you and
yours very nearly."

Adrian's face blanched to a ghastly pallor, and
the hand grasping the arm of his chair trembled
perceptibly.

'' My God ! " he gasped ; '' what is it ? "

A body has been found in the Abbey river an
hour ago."

'^ How found — who found it ? "

The river was dragged this morning, I believe,
at the instigation of Colonel Devcrill's friend, Mr.
Melnotte, who dropped his watch out of a boat a
day or two ago, and wanted to have it found. A
body has been found in the deep pool, near the

Q 2

chestnut copse, and there is to be an inquest tomorrow."


It was some moments before Adrian spoke, and
then he asked quietly :

'^ Has the body been identified ? "

No, it is past all recognition, except by circumstantial
evidence ; but there is a rumour in
Chadford, how arising I know not, that it is the
body of your sister-in-law."

Again Adrian was silent. He would have given
worlds to be able to speak freely, to confess all the
hideous truth to this one staunch friend, but loyalty
to his brother restrained him.

My sister-in-law's fate is wrapped in darkness,"
he said, after a long pause ; " I do not understand
why any one should connect her with this drowned
corpse."

The reasons for such a suspicion will come to
light at the inquest, I suppose. It is of your
mother I have been thinking, Adrian, since I
heard of this discovery. How will it affect her ? "

How can it affect her ? 1 cannot see "

Adrian began helplessly.

If it be found that there has been foul play."

Why foul play ? Should this body be identified
as that of Mrs. Belfield, the inference will be that
she drowned herself."

The people in Chadford are talking of something
more terrible than that. There is a rumour
that circumstances point to murder. Adrian I
must speak plainly said the Vicar, with undisguised
grief. " Suspicion points to your brother
as the murderer. It is of your mother I think.
What can you or I do to help her to bear the
blows'

'nothing, I fear. She adores Valentine. If
any evil befall him it will kill her."

'^ You will do all you can to keep idle rumours
from her, and yet to prepare her for anything
that may happen tomorrow. Where is your
brother?"

In London, I believe."

*' You do not even know his whereabouts ? "

No. He left here with the idea of going
abroad — perhaps to Africa or South America. It
was not his own fancy. My mother and I were

anxious about his health and spirits, and urged him
to travel. He has not written to me since he
left'

That is unlucky. He ought to be here to
face any difficulty that may arise tomorrow."

Adrian was silent. To him, who knew all, the
one hope was that his brother might have left the
country for ever.

Well, my dear Adrian' said the Vicar quietly,
we must wait and see what tomorrow will bring
forth. I think you know that you may count
upon me to do anything that lies within the
compass of my will or my strength. Would to
God I could see my way to being useful to you
and your dear mother. I shrink from asking you
questions, because I feel I am on delicate ground :
but if — if you know anything that could assure me
of the falsehood of these rumours — if, for instance,
you had heard of your sister-in-law since her supposed
elopement "

I have heard nothing of her. It is better
that I should answer no questions till tomorrow.
I suppose I shall be called at the inquest ? "

I conclude so, if there is sufficient ground for
identifying the body with your sister-in-law/^

Then I will keep my own counsel till I am
before the Coroner."

Mr. Rockstone left Sir Adrian soon after this
somewhat mystified by his calmness.

ON THE RACK

The inquest has been called for two o'clock in the
afternoon, which hour gave the detective time to
get back from London shortly after the opening of
the inquiry.

The Coroner held his court in an upstairs room
of the Ring of Bells. It was a wainscoted apartment,
which at ordinary times was divided into two
rooms, but which in its double length was used
for vestry dinners, auctions, and public meetings
of all kinds.

Colonel Deverill and Lord St. Austell sat near
the Coroner, with their faces shadowed, and their
figures partly hidden from the crowd at the lower
end of the room by an old-fashioned four-fold
screen. To the right of the Coroner sat a middle-aged,
sandy-whiskered gentleman, with a bald head,
and a legal air, who took careful notes of the

proceedings. It was known to some of the
audience that this gentleman was a solicitor from
the Treasury, and that he was present in the
capacity of Public Prosecutor ; but it was not
known to anybody that his arrival on the scene
was brought about by Lord St. AustelFs urgent
application to the authorities at the Home
Office.

Lady Belfield and Sir Adrian sat together on
the other side of the room, and Lady Belfield's old
and trusted lawyer, Mr. Gresham, of the old-established
firm of Gresham, Gresham, and Thoro-good,
Lincoln's Inn, sat a little way in front of his
client. Adrian had entreated his mother not to be
present at this inquiry ; but she had insisted, and
he could but submit to her will. She was pale as
marble, and her plain black gown and bonnet made
her pallor more conspicuous. Her old friend the
Vicar sat just behind her, and bent forward now
and then to speak to her. On the table in front
of the Coroner and Jury lay the stained and
ragged remains of a Persian prayer-rug, a silk
suffer, and four rings.

Felix Loseby, a medical practitioner of Chadford,
was the first witness.

He deposed to having examined the body, which
he pronounced to be that of a young woman with
long brown hair. He had discovered an injury
upon the left temple, where the bone was fractured
as if by a heavy blow from some blunt instrument.
Such a blow, he said, in answer to the Coroner's
question, would be sufficient to cause death. There
was no other mark of violence.

The Coroner asked if death could have been
caused by drowning.

No. The state of the lungs indicated that the
deceased had died before she was thrown into the
water.

The rings on the table had been found on the
fingers of the left hand, which was so confined by
the carpet and the long hair, that it was impossible
for the rings to have been washed ofl' by the action
of the water.

He was of opinion that the body had been in
the river for some months ; probably, in reply to a
juryman, six months.

Mr. Loseby further described bow the rug had
been tied round the body by the long silk muffler
now lying on the table.

The two men who had dragged the river deposed
to having found the body in a deep pool, which
formed a little inlet, under a group of willows.

Colonel Deverill was next examined. He had
seen the remains and believed them to be those of
his daughter, on account of the colour and texture
of the hair. His daughter had been remarkable
for the beauty and profusion of her hair, which was
of a peculiar shade of brown, with a natural ripple
in it. He could swear to the cat's eye and diamond
ring upon the table as his daughter's engagement
ring, given to her by Mr. Belfield. He could swear
to the ring with a brilliant cross set in black enamel.
It was a mourning ring, and his own gift to his
younger daughter. It contained her mother's hair.

The Colonel was deeply affected while giving his
evidence, and Lady Belfield seemed equally overcome.
There was a dead silence at the end of the
room where the crowd was congregated — a silence
of mournful sympathy.

Mr. Belfield was next called ; whereupon Mr.
Gresham rose and informed the Coroner that Mr.
Belfield had gone to London three days before,
A message had been telegraphed to him at the
Great Western Hotel, where he usually put up,
and to the two clubs which he was in the habit of
using, but no reply had yet been received.

It was at this juncture that Melnotte quietly
entered the room, and made his way to a seat at
the back of the Coroner.

Sir Adrian Belfield was next called.

He was asked to state the circumstances of Mrs.
Belfield's disappearance from the Abbey.

I can only tell you that we rose one morning —
on the morning of August the 20th — to find her
gone."

Did she leave no trace of the manner by which
she had gone?"

No. She left a letter stating her intention to
leave her husband, which letter was found by a
servant after my sister-in-law's disappearance''

'' Can you produce that letter?"

"I cannot. It is in my brother's possession."

You and Lady Belfield were both at the Abbey
at the time of Mrs. Belfield's disappearance, I
understand."

We were."

Do you know nothing as to the hour at which
she went, or her mode of leaving the house?"

'nothing."

He answered unfalteringly. He knew that in
so answering he was guilty of perjury ; but he
knew also that the only chance of saving his
brother was to lie unblushingly. He who loved
truth and honour better than his own life was
willing so to perjure himself for the love of his
brother, and of the heart-broken mother yonder,
whose sad eyes were watching him.

Was Mr. Belfield at the Abbey on that night?"

He was not."

Y'ou are sure of that fact ? Y'ou had better
reflect seriously. Sir Adrian, before you answer my
question."

He suspected an attempt to trap him into a
fatal admission, and answered deliberately :

I am sure."

"That will do, Sir Adrian, You can sit down."
Melnotte whispered something to the Coroner,
and the next witness was called. John Grange,
coachman at the Station Hotel, Chadford Road.

Do yon remember anything particular happening
upon the 19th of August last year ?"

Yes, sir. I remember being called up to take
out a fly after eleven o'clock. There's a train
comes into Chadford Road Station at 11.43^ but we
don't often get a fare by that train as it's a slow
'un. I was to get my landau ready and look sharp
about it for Mr. Belfield."

"Where did you drive Mr. Belfield?"
I took him as far as the avenoo leading to the
Abbey In the middle of the avenoo he puts out
his 'ed and calls me to stop, and gets out of the
trap almost before I could stop. He gives me a
shilling, and tells me to go home, and then he
starts off almost at a run towards the Abbey."
"Are you quite sure as to the date?"
Can't be no mistake about that. The fly was
booked that night. There it is in the master's
day-book. 'August 19th. Fly to Belfield Abbey'"

"You are sure the gentleman you drove was
Mr. Belfield?^^

*' Quite sure."

Would you know Mr. Belfield from his brother
Sir Adrian's'' asked Mr. Gresham the Coroner
having no further questions to ask this witness.

'^ Yes, sir. Mr. Belfield's a bigger-made man.
I've known the two gentlemen by sight since they
was boys, and I could swear to either of them
anywheres. ^^

So much for John Grange, of the Station Hotel.

Lady Belfield was the next witness called.

She was asked to state any facts she could recall
connected with Mrs. Belfield's disappearance.

'' There is very little for me to remember' she
said. '^ My first knowledge of my daughter-in-law's
disappearance was from my housekeeper, at
nine o'clock in the morning. A housemaid had
found Mrs. Belfield's room empty."

"A housemaid found her room empty in the
morning of August 20th. Had the bed been slept
in ? "

It had not."

Then the inference would be that she left the
house at night's

'' I do not know that. She may have remained
up all nights and may have left early in the morning
before the servants were up.

She left a letter, I understand ? ''

'' Yes, the housemaid found a letter."

'* Addressed to your son ? '^

'^ It was written to my son."

Was it a sealed letter ? '*

''No, it was open and unfinished."

An unfinished letter, left open ; lying on a
table, I presume ? "

*' I did not ask where the letter was found."

Did you see your daughter-in-law^s room that
morning ? "

No, I went to London by the morning train.
A telegram was delivered just after I heard of my
daughter-in-law^s disappearance — a telegram purporting
to come from my younger son in London,
and which caused me considerable alarm. I started
for the station as soon as my carriage could be got
ready."

Was the telegram actually from your son ? "

'* It was not. I have reason to believe that it
was part of a plot to decoy my daughter from her
home."

Did you find your son in London ? "

I did not."

'' Had you any reason to suppose that he was in
London ? "

Either there or at York. I had heard of him
last at York."

^' You did not know that he came to the Abbey
on the night of the 19th?"

*' I cannot believe that he vas there."

Yet you have heard the evidence of the man
who drove him into your park ? "

I have heard that."

What time did you and your family retire to
rest on the 19th of August ? "

*• Mrs Belfield left the drawing-room soon after
nine o'clock. She complained of a headache.
I went to my bedroom at half-past ten, and
Sir Adrian went to the library at the same
time."

VOL. Ill, Ji

Did you hear anything unusual during the
night ? ''

"Nothing."

'' How far is your bed-room from that occupied
by Mrs. Belfield ? ''

'^ It is at the other end of the house'

You say Sir Adrian retired to the library at
half-past ten upon that particular evening. Do
you know at what hour he went to his bed-room ? "

It must have been very late. He is in the
habit of reading late at night ; and on this night
he told me that he read later than usual and fell
asleep in his chair in the library."

'^ Do you mean that he did not go to bed at all?"

He did not tell me that, only that he had
fallen asleep in his chair."

The next witness was Jane Pook^ the housemaid.


On being asked if she remembered anything
particular upon the morning of August the
20th, she described her entrance into sirs. Bel-field's
bed-room with the early cup of tea which
that lady was in the habit of taking while her

bath was being prepared for ber ; and bow sbe bad
found the room empty, and the bed undisturbed ;
and how on looking about the room she bad discovered
an open letter lying on the floor.

Did you read that letter ? ''

Yes, I was so taken aback that I read the
letter almost before I knew what I was doing. If
I'd had time to give it a thought I should have
been above doing such a things'

Did anything peculiar strike you in the
letter ? '^

It was a dreadful letter telling her husband
that she did not love him, and that she loved
somebody else, and was going off with him. The
letter wasn't finished. It left off in the middle of
a sentence.''^

'-' As if she had been interrupted while writing
it?"

Yes, sir.^^

Did you observe anything else unusual on
that particular morning ? " inquired the sandy-whiskered
gentleman, upon the Coroner's interrogatory
being finished.

r2

^^ No, sir — nothing else, leastways ''

Jane Poor faltered, reddened, and looked nervously
towards Sir Adrian.

"There incas something else,^^ said the sandy-whiskered
gentleman. " What was it ? '^

"^ Sir Adrian's bed had not been slept in."

Where had Sir Adrian spent the night ? "

He must have been all night in the library.
The oil was burnt out in the two lamps, and the
candles on his desk were burnt lower than usual.
Sir Adrian often sits up late at night, studying*'

But does he often refrain from going to bed
at all ? '' inquired the sandy whiskered gentleman.

'^ No, sir.'-'

Did you ever know such a thing to occur
before ? ''

I can't call to mind, sir."

You mean that it never did occur before ? "

I think not, sir."

Have you lived long at Belfield Abbey ? "

Five years."

Mrs. Marrable, the housekeeper, was next called.
She was very page, and her eyelids were swollen

with weeping. She gave a vindictive look at Mr.
Melmotte as she took the sacred volume in her
hand, which argued ill for the Christian temper of
her mind at that moment.

'' Do you recognize anything upon that table ? ^'
asked the Coroner.

"No, sir."

•^^Look again, if you please. There is something
there which you have seen before. Perhaps
you had better put on your spectacles, and look at
the object a little closer. Do you see now what
it is?"

'sit looks rather like an old rug."

It is a rug. I think you have seen that rug
before."

'' I canst call it to mind."

I fear you must have a bad memory, Mrs.
Marrable. Did you ever miss a carpet or rug of
any kind out of one of the Abbey bed-rooms ? "

Again Mrs. Marrable looked at Melnotte, the
detective, and by the nervous action of her fingers
it might be inferred that she longed to inflict some
slight injury upon his imperturbable countenance.

I may have been foolish enough to talk some
of my nonsense to spies and eavesdroppers," she
said acrimoniously, "but as to missing a rug or a
carpet out of a house where there's nothing but
honest servants "

"Mrs. Marrable, was there or was there not a
Persian rug missing out of Mrs. Belfield^s bedroom
on the 20th of August ? " asked the sandy-whiskered
gentleman severely. " Remember, if
you please, that you are on your oath."

Mrs. Marrable hesitated, looked piteously at her
mistress, whose face was rigid with agony, and
replied :

I did miss a Persian rug."

'^ Can you tell me the pattern of that rug ? "

"It was something of a pine pattern."

If you will be good enough to look closer at
the rug on the tabic, I think you will see that it is
a pine pattern."

It is too much discoloured for me to make out
anything about it."

You are underrating your own intelligence.
Pray look at the rug again. Now, will you swear

that is not the rug you last saw in Mrs. Belfield's
bed-room ? "

"No."

*' Then perhaps you will admit that it is the
same rug ? Remember that to deny a fact of which
you are convinced is perjury."

'^ I believe it is the rug."

^'That will do."

The winter day had closed in some time before
the inquiry had arrived at this stage ; and the
Coroner now suggested the adjournment of the
inquest, to give time for the development of fresh
evidence.

'the case is exceptionally painful, gentlemen,"
he said, ''' and I should be sorry if anything were
done in a hurried manner. I believe that upon
every consideration it will be best that this inquiry
should be adjourned until next Friday, when we will
meet again in this room at the same hour as we
met to-day. The interment of the remains of that
unhappy lady whose fate we are here to investigate
can be proceeded with in the meantime."

It was some time before the room was cleared of

coroner, jury, reporters, and audience, but Lady
Belfield and her son did not wait for the crowd to
disperse. They retired together by a door near
the end of the room where they lead been sitting,
and thus escaped the crowd.

Sir Adrian put his mother's hand through his
arm and supported her faltering footsteps as he led
her downstairs and out into the dusky street, where
her carriage was waiting for her. She spoke no
word until after the carriage had moved away, and
then at last the white lips moved, and she asked
in tones that were like a wail of agony :

"Is this true, Adrian''

''AVhat, mother ?''

"Is it true that he came to the Abbey that
night ? "

Yes, it is true."

*' Oh, God ! And you swore that he was not
there."

I perjured myself — to save him. I knew
nothing about the fly. I did not know that anyone
had seen him"'

'• You tried to save him — that means that he is

guilty — that — lie killed her," sobbed Lady Belfield,
in broken snatches of speech.

Adrian was silent for some moments, thinking
deeply, deliberating within himself if it might be
possible to keep the fatal truth from his mother.
But it seemed to him that it would not be possible,
that the meshes of the net were fast closing round
him and his brother, that all which had been done
that night in the darkness must inevitably be
brought to light. The only hope left was that
Valentine might escape pursuit.

*' Mother, I have striven to keep this horror from
you : I have sworn falsely this day in the hope that
my brother's guilt might remain for ever hidden :
but I feel that all is over , that the evidence you
have heard must bring his guilt home to your mind
as well as to the minds of strangers. Thank God
he is not so guilty as he may appear ; he was nota
deliberate murderer."

And then he told his mother briefly, plainly,
unflinchingly, how the deed had been done; how
one moment of passion had made Valentine
Belfield a criminal ; how he had obstinately

insisted upon hiding his crime, and had thus
brought upon himself the ignominy of this day's
inquiry.

'show are we to save him, Adrian's' asked
Lady Belfield. '' We must save him. Oh God,
to think of my son arraigned for murder, standing
in the dock to answer with his life ! They would
hang him, Adrian — they would hang my beloved
one. Oh, Adrian, you can help me to save him,
to get him away to some safe hiding-place before
the police can hunt him down. There are corners
of the earth where he would be safe. I would
go with him, live with him anywhere — in the
dreariest spot of earth, among a savage people —
happy and full of gratitude to God, only to know
that my dearest had been saved from a shameful
deaths

We will do all that ingenuity can do, dear
mother," Adrian answered quietly, while his
mother sat back in a corner of the carriage,
her face hidden, her whole frame convulsed with
grief. " In all probability Valentine has left
England before now. The fact that he has not

-written to me may mean that he is on the sea ;
that he snatched the earliest opportunity of getting
away."

The carriage was in the avenue by this time.
As the coachman drew up his horses in front
of the Abbey a gig drove rapidly round the
gravel sweep, and pulled up a little way from the
porch.

Two men alighted from the gig. One of them
was Melnotte, the detective ; and in the other Sir
Adrian recognized a local police-officer.

He took no notice of the two men until he had
assisted his mother into the house, and placed her
in the care of her maid, who was waiting in the
hall to receive her. Then he went back to the
porch, and confronted the detective.

I am sorry to appear upon an unpleasant
errand, Sir Adrian's said Melnotte. "I have a
warrant for your arrest as accessory to the
murder of Mrs. Helen Belfield. It is too serious
a charge to admit of bail, so I must request you
to accompany me to Chadford without loss of
time''

"You mean to Chadford Gaol, I supposes'

Yes. You will be treated there with all
respect aud accommodated with a private room.
I must warn you that anything you may say "

You may save yourself the trouble. I am not
going to say anything, except that I consider that
Colonel Deverill has been guilty of ungentleman-like
conduct in bringing a detective into my house
as my guest."

Colonel Deverill's position as a father may
excuse some laxity in a point of etiquette.^^

It was more than a point of etiquette; it was a
point of honour, Mr. Melnotte — if your name is
Melmotte''

"My name is Markham. I was a gentleman
once upon a time, Sir Adrian. Necessity compels
men to adopt strange trades. Will you be driven
to the gaol in your carriage, sir, or will you allow
me to drive you in my gig ? Thompson can walk
back."

I may as well go in your gig. It is too dark
for any one to recognize me ; and, for the matter of
that, everybody in Chadford will know where I am

before tomorrow morning. Be good enough to
wait while I give an order to my servant."

The detective waited, taking care not to let Sir
Adrian out of his sight during the brief delay.

Adrian ordered a valise to be packed with the
necessary changes for an absence of three or four
days, and then sat down at a table in the hall to
write to his mother, while Melnotte stood in front
of the fire, warming his back and admiring the
stately old panelled hall and vaulted roof.

It was a difficult letter to write, and Adrian
could think of only one form of consolation. ^* My
arrest may make my brothers escape easier he
wrote. " They cannot find any direct evidence
against me, and, on reflection, I believe it will be
impossible to bring any conclusive proof against
Valentine. Put your trust in Providence, dear
mother, and hope for the passing of the dark hour.
My heart is less heavy than it was under the burden
of an intolerable secret."

An hour later his mother was sitting by his side
in the gloomy-looking parlour which he was privileged
to occupy in Chadford Gaol.

My poor Adrian, it is so hard that you should
suffer — you, who are innocent — who would have
saved your brother's good name had he only been
guided by you. It is very harde

I can bear it, mother. Would to God it had
been possible for me to pay the penalty of my
brother's crime. I would have done as much
willingly — for your sake."

CHAPTER XIV.

*' 1 WILL STAND BY MY BROTHER "

It was the morning after the inquest, and Valentine
had begun his new occupation as man of all work
so soon as there was light enough in the dull grey
sky to allow him to set about his labours. The
sisters were astir at dawn, working diligently,
lighting the fires, sweeping the stairs, and cleaning
the lower rooms. Valentine relieved them of those
rougher tasks which they had performed hitherto.
He washed out the back yard, washed and hearth-stoned
steps and window-sills, and cleaned all the
lower windows. Inexperience made him clumsy ;
but energy and strength of will carried him through
the work much better than could have been
expected.

I had no idea window-cleaning was such interesting
works he said to Madge, as she gave
him his breakfast of tea and bread in the parlour.

where she and the two sisters had breakfasted previously.
Their morning fare was only dry bread.
Butter was a luxury reserved for the evening.
There was a wholesome meal of meat and vegetables
at two o'clock. Tea was taken between five
and six, after the inmates had been served ; and
there was a supper of bread and cheese at ten
o'clock. The sisters who sat up with the sick
were allowed tea and bread and butter in the
course of the night, but neither wine nor beer was
drunk by any of the sisterhood, and stimulants
were only given to patients when ordered by the
doctor.

Valentine took his tea and bread with as contented
a spirit as if he had been in the centre
of Africa, and no better fare had been possible.

'^ Vm afraid you will soon grow tired of window
cleaning and of dry bread," said Madge, contemplating
him with her grave slow smile, full of
thought.

You do not know me. If I am strong for
evil, I may also be strong for jjood. I mean to
serve you — as Caliban served Prospero, yet not like

Caliban. He served for fear ; I am your slave for
love. I shall be ready to clean the outsides of
the upper windows as soon as I can begin without
disturbing the patients. I am promised the
loan of a ladder from your milkman round the
corners

That milkman is a treasure. He keeps one
particular cow for our consumptive patients and
though I believe he adulterates all the rest of
his milk, our supply is always pure; and he
charges us a halfpenny a quart less than other
people pay. You cannot think how good people
are to us/^

1^11 go out and look after my ladders said
Valentine ; and he walked off in a business-like
manner, wearing his fustian and corduroy as if he
had never worn anything else.

A few paces from the house he met a boy with
newspapers,, bought a Daily Telegraphy and put it
into his pocket.

For my dinner-hour's amusements' he said to
himself. " I believe the working man always
reserves the news for his dinner-hours''

VOL. in. s

His step, which had been so heavy and sluggish
of late in the monotonous leisure of his country-home,
was light to-day, as he went for the ladder.
He came back carrying it on his shoulder. His
experiences as a sportsman had braced his muscles,
and he carried the ladder as easily as if it had
been a gun or an oar. He felt nearer happiness
than he had felt since that fatal night. In the
first place, it was an infinite relief to be away from
the scene of his crime ; and in the second place,
there was a world of comfort in being associated
with the one woman whose influence could at once
soothe and strengthen — the one woman who knew
his ghastly secret,, yet had not turned from him
with loathing.

He could never forget that kiss upon his forehead
which had assured him of a woman's pitying
love. He had taken no base advantage of that
sign of tenderness ; he had not pressed his suit
with the vehemence of a passion that will take no
denial. He had been humble with her, as became
him in the abasement of his guilt. And he was
happier now, toiling for her, than he could have

hoped to be. He laboured at his task all the
morning, one of the sisters working with him on
the inner side of the windows ; and the general
result was an increase of brightness which seemed
like the forerunner of spring. He saw something
of the inmates of the Forlorn Hope in the course
of his mornings work. In the front room of the
first floor — once a drawing-room, with French
windows and an iron balcony — he saw several
women of various ages, from eighteen to forty,
some engaged in plain sewing, others in fancy
needlework, and one at an ironing-board. These
were the convalescents and those who had been
received because of their destitution rather than on
account of ill-health. In other rooms he saw the
sick in white-curtained beds. Everywhere there
were signs of careful management, cleanliness, inventive
power, the ability to do much with little
means. This humble institution, maintained by
a few women, was more interesting than the
grandest building which public charity ever raised.
By half-past one the windows were all cleaned,
and Valentine went to the little room which had

s 2

been allotted to him, the room where he had spent
a sleepless night on a hard and narrow pallet,
which the Iron Duke might have approved. Here
he washed off the traces of his toil, brushed his
fustian jacket, and prepared himself for dinner,
hoping to eat that meal tete-astute with Madge.
He had heard her say that the three sisters dined
in the upper room with the women, and that
she waited upon them. She must take her own
dinner somewhere, he argued. Why not with
him ?

His hopes were strengthened on going into the
parlour, where he saw the table laid for two.
Madge was upstairs, where the dinner was going
forward. It was she who carved and distributed
the food, while the other three sisters ate with
their charges, and maintained the cheerful tone of
a family meal. There was nothing penitential in
the atmosphere of everyday life at the Forlorn
Hope : yet sorrow for sin was deeply felt there,
and many a penitent's tears had been poured into
the sisters' laps, and many a heart-broken sob had
mixed with the prayers of the community.

Valentine seated himself by the window, and
unfolded his Telegraph.

He began with a sweeping survey of the pages,
to see what was best worth reading.

A Devonshire Tragedy.

^' Considerable excitement has been created at
the town of Chadford, North Devon, by the finding
of a body in the Abbey river near that town, under
circumstances which appear to indicate foul play.
The body has been identified as that of the wife of
Mr. Beltield, of Belfield Abbey, Chadford, whose
disappearance from her home was one of the social
scandals of last autumn's''

Here followed a full report of the Coroner's
inquest, and an account of the arrest of Sir Adrian
Belfield on suspicion of being concerned in the
murder of his sister-in-law.

The startling character of the revelations, the
social position of the parties involved, and the
respect which is felt for them in the neighbourhood
combine to render this one of the most
extraordinary cases that have come before the
public for many year's, and the result of the

adjourned inquest will be awaited with keen
anxiety

Slowly and deliberately Valentine Belfield read
and pondered over the report of the inquest. To
hint who was in the secret the circumstances of his
guilt seemed to start out into the broad light of
day from the evidence of those different witnesses.
The unfinished letter, broken off in the midst of a
sentence — the missing rug found tied about the
victim's body — his own secret visit to his mother's
house — his brother's vigil : all pointed at the
fact of murder.

Yet how, in the face of such evidence against
him, had they dared to arrest his brother? Under
suspicion of being concerned in the murder?
Yes he had been with the murderer in that dreadful
hour after the deed was done. They two had
been together, and the law might call Adrian an
accessory after the fact.

He was still poring over the report, when
Madge came in, carrying a tray with the fragments
of the upstairs meal.

Come, brother John," she said cheerily, as she

set a dish on the table. " My people were in very
good appetite, but there is plenty left for you and
me. I am sure you must be ready for dinner'

Not quite' he answered gravely,, " and Vm
afraid I shall spoil your dinner if I tell you what
has taken away my appetite."

She went over to him and laid her hand upon
his shoulder, looking down at the newspaper. Her
quick eye caught the familiar names, and she read
the report of the inquest across his shoulder.

You see I was right' she said ; " there was
not an hour to be lost, and you have wasted days.
You will go at once now — at once — or as soon as
it is dark. It may be safer not to leave this house
till dusk. Your working-man's suit will serve a
good purpose now. I will go out and get you an
outfit, and pack everything ready for you. Then
you must start for Liverpool by the train that
leaves Euston at seven this evening, and you can
get off tomorrow morning by any ship that maybe
leaving. There must be steamers leaving everyday.
Take the first that will carry you far away
from England. You will go, won't you ? "

He was holding her arm in Lis strong grasp,
looking at her fixedly,, yet hardly seeming to listen
to her eager words.

You will go ? '' she urged.

'^ Not without you. I have said it before,
MadgCj and I say it again. I have no desire to
prolong my life unless I can spend it with you."

•'^ You have seen what my work is here, and you
ask me to give it up in order to ''

To share a murderer's exile ; to play hide and
seek with the law ; to drive away the horrors of
remorse ; to cure bad dreams ; and to save a
sinner from madness. That is what I ask you to
dO; Madge. Any one can carry on your work here.
No one but you can save me.^^

What if I were to say yes ! '' asked Madge,
after a few moments of deepest thought, returning
that fixed look of his with a gaze that was still
more earnest, for it seemed to peer into his very
soul.

"You lift me from hell to heaven at the mere
thought. Oh, Madge be generous, reward an
ungenerous lover. I loj^t you once by the meanness

of my love. I love you now as you deserve to
be loved. Forget all I have ever been : remember
only what I am — your adoring slave. Let us be
married before the Registrar tomorrow morning.
We can start for Liverpool afterwards."

'^ And when we are gone, Valentine, when you
have got clear array, what is to become of your
brother ? Have you thought of that ? ^'

No, he had not thought of that ; but he
answered, almost carelessly :

He will be safe — there can be no evidence
against him.'

'' The evidence against him is almost as strong
as against you. There is no one but you who can
prove his innocence."

^' And you would have me give myself up in
order to clear him.'''

^' If there is no other way of clearing him —
yes."

'^ You hold my life very lightly. '^

I hold life as less than honour. You have
brought your brother into peril. It would be a
cowardly act to desert him now."

Yet a few minutes ago you urged me to leave
the country'

I forgot all but your own safety'

I have told you that I do not set a high price
upon that. Well, you are right, Madge. You
are always right. I will stand by my brother. I
will go back to Chadford tomorrow, even if
Chadford be a short cut to the gallows''

It will not prove that," she answered, her pale
face kindling with the light of enthusiasm.
^' Confess the truth as you confessed to me. Let
all the world know how you sinned in one fatal
moment of passion, and how you tried to hide your
sin. There are few who will not pity you, as I
pity you."

She bent over him as he sat leaning forward,
with his eyes brooding upon the ground. She
laid her hand upon his head, and, thrilled by that
gentle touch, he looked up and their eyes met.

Say that you love me, Madge, and I will do
anything."

Yes, I love you — yes, I always loved you. It
was love for you that drove me out into the world

in my despair to find something to fill my empty
hearts aching for love of you. It was love of you
that sought relief in soothing sinners. I have
always loved you. Do this one brave thing, and I
can respect and honour you'

Will you marry me Madge^ if Jack Ketch
does not get me ? '^

Yes''

'that is a promise worth waiting for. Will
you wait for me, Madge, if they keep me in Dartmoor
prison till my hair is white ? "

I will wait till the end of my days. Come what
may, there shall be no other love in my life''

Pledge yourself to that with a kiss, Madge."

He clasped his arms round her as she bent over
him, and their lips met, half in sorrow, half in joy ;
joy on his side that she was won, would own love's
subjection, she who had seemed to him too strong
for love ; sorrow on her side that he must stand asa
criminal before his fellow men, and risk his life
for honour's sake.

"When shall I start for Chadford, Madge ? '"^
he asked.

'' The sooner the better. The police may be on
the water for you. I should like you to be able
to return there as a free agents

"You are right. It would be hateful to go
back under convoy. There is an afternoon train,
a beast of a train that stops at nearly every
station, the train by which I travelled that night'
with a shudder. " I will go by that''

I will go with you.'''

*' Madge," he cried, overjoyed.

I may as well keep you company on the
journey, while we are still free to be together.
Will you go in those clothes? "

*' No. They would look like a disguise. I left
a suit at the slop-seller's. If any one would fetch
it?"

I will go for it'' she answered, ^' and I will
arrange for leaving this house for a few days."

CHAPTER XV.

THICKER THAN WATER

The police had not been idle during the day of
the inquest or during that day on which Valentine
Belfield was making his first experiment in the art
of window-cleaning. The usual machinery had
been at work, and with the usual result of failure
during the first forty-eight hours of pursuit.
The first few days in such a hunt are generally
blank.

Melnotte had not gone back to London after
the inquest. He relied on subordinate intelligence,
assisted by photography, to track the suspected
criminal. His own work he felt lay in the neighbourhood
of Chadford, where the final links in the
chain of evidence were to be put together. Lord
St. Austell was still at the Lamb Hotel, keeping

very quiet, but ready at all seasons to confer with
the detective.

Sir Adrian spent the first day of his imprisonment
in a listless indifference as regarded himself
or his own convenience, but in keenest anxiety
about his brother. He had Mr. Gresham, the
solicitor, with him upon the evening of his arrest,
and they discussed the evidence given at the inquest.

^' You have to deal with the evidence as it
stands, Gresham," he said. ^' I admit nothing
about myself or my brother."

*' I am sorry to say, Sir Adrian, that unless you
can disprove John Grangers statement, you tacitly
confess yourself guilty of perjury."

I am not in a position at present to disprove
Grange's statement ; but I think I have as good a
right to be believed as he has."

On any indifferent matter your word would
doubtless be taken in preference to his ; but on a
question of life and death for your brother, the
statement of any disinterested witness hould be
preferred to yours.'^

'' What am T to do in my brother's interest ? I
do not care about myself."

*^ In both your interests we must try to secure
Distin. I will telegraph to him directly the office
is open tomorrow mornings

Mr. Distin's fame as a criminal lawyer was not
unknown to Sir Adrian Belfield, and it seemed to
him well that in this struggle with Fate he should
have the best assistance that training and hereditary
instinct could afford. Distin had been suckled
upon criminal law, and cradled in the Old Bailey.
No doubt Distin was the man.

It was a shock to Sir Adrian, therefore, when
Mr. Gresham came into his room next morning —
soon after the coffee and hot rolls which an obsequious
official had brought over from the Ring of
Bells — carrying Mr. Distin's telegram : " Sorry I
cannot accept your retainer. Am already engaged
by Colonel Deverill.'^

This is unlucky for us Sir Adrian. It is bad
enough not to have Distin with us, but it is worse
to have him against us.^^

'^ You can get some one else I suppose if you

are not strong enough yourself to protect our
interests

I am not a criminal lawyer,, Sir Adrian ; but
perhaps my regard for your family may stand in
the place of experience at the Old Bailey. I am
not afraid to undertake your defence if you will
trust me''

I would rather trust you than any other
member of your professions

The following day was Sunday — a dismal Sabbath
for Adrian who had so rarely been absent from his
place in the old parish church, and whose Sundays
had been verily days of rest — days devoted to
kindly visiting among the old and infirm, to serious
reading and quiet thought. A gloom had overshadowed
all his days since his brothers crime, but
Sunday had been not the less a day apart — a
time of prayer and meditation, remorseful memory
of the hapless dead, and intercession for the
sinner.

This day he spent with his mother sitting beside
him, in mournful silence, or in silent prayer for
the most part. They sat together through the

dull wintry day, taking very little heed of time —
only noting the passing of the hours by the church
bells, sounding with a heavy monotony from the
old Norman tower near at hand — the fine old square
tower, with its crock eyed finials, rising high above
tiled roofs and picturesque gables, clustering on
the summit of the hilly street. More distant bells
came with a softer sound from a church on the
other side of the river, and, mingling with these,
came the shrill single bell of a Nonconformist conventicle.
To that mourning mother's ear it seemed
as if the air were full of bells, and she thought,
shudderingly, of that great bell of St. Sepulchre's,
which she had read of tolling with funereal stroke
for the passing of a sinner's soul. The bells had
done their worst by seven o'clock in the evening,
when Adrian entreated his mother to share the
dinner that had been brought from the hotel for
him. She had ordered her carriage to come for
her at ten o'clock. They sat down at the shabby
little table, in the light of a paraffin lamp, and each
made a pretence of eating in the hope of encouraging
the other.

VOL. III. T

There was to be an inquiry before the Magistrates
tomorrow — an inquiry at which Adrian would appear
in his new character — no longer a witness
but a prisoner, accused of being implicated in his
brother's crime.

The morning came, with a low grey sky and a
heavy mist, through which the long ridge of the
moor showed darkly.

The Magistrates room was crowded, as the
Coroner's room had been. There were three
Magistrates on the bench, all of whom honoured
the name of Belfield and sympathized with the
unhappy mother, who sat apart in her black
raiment, with the old family lawyer by her side.
Lord St. Austell and Colonel Deverill were
present, and the legal element was represented
by Mr. Cheyne, the sandy-whiskered gentleman
from the Treasury; Mr. Distin, who watched
the case on behalf of Colonel Deverill ; and
Mr. Tompion, Q.C., whom Mr. Gresham had
engaged to protect his client.

Markham, alias Melnotte, sat near Mr. Distin.

The inquiry before the Magistrates involved a

recapitulation of the evidence that had been given
before the Coroner, except in the case of Sir Adrian,
whose lips were now sealed, and who sat apart,
with a constable standing near his chair.

The Doctor repeated his statement. Colonel
Deverill once again declared his conviction that the
body found in the Abbey river was that of his
younger daughter, and again swore to the rings
which she had worn. Again Mrs. Marrable reluctantly
identified the Persian rug. The important
question of identity was as fully established in the
minds of the county magistrates as it had been in
the minds of the Coroner and his jury.

The next question was how the deceased had
come by her death.

That she had not drowned herself was established
already by the evidence of the surgeon. That she*
had been killed by a blow upon the temple, and
had been thrown in the river after death, was indisputable.
Mr. Tompion cross-examined the
medical witness in the endeavour to shake his
testimony upon this point, but the attempt was
half-hearted and futile.

T 2

Mrs. Marrable was severely handled in cross-examination
by Mr. Distin. She admitted that Mr.
Belfield had been disturbed in mind since his wife's
disappearance, and had seemed altogether an altered
man; that he had avoided the rooms his wife had
occupied, and had never been heard to mention her
name. All this had been thought only natural ina
gentleman whose wife had run away from him.
She admitted that Sir Adrian's behaviour on the
morning of Mrs. Belfield's disappearance had caused
some talk in the household. One of the menservants
had met him on the stairs going up to his
room early in the morning, and had been struck
by his dejected countenance.

'^ Was that before Mrs. Belfield's disappearance
was known to the household"' asked Distin.

'' Two hours before."

Mr. Gresham objected that this was not evidence.
It was only an impression derived from another
person.

^' We can call the servant who made the remark,"
said Distin.

At this moment there was a stir and the sound

of voices at the further end of the room, near the
door opening to the street, and then the crowd
made way for a tall man in a furred overcoat, who
came slowly up to the Magistrates' table. A silence
of wonder came upon the whole assembly, which
was broken only by a faint cry from Lady Belfield,
who had risen hurriedly at the approach of her
younger son.

Valentine ! '' she cried.

Perhaps it would be as well to hear my account
of the main fact before you waste time upon details,"
said Valentine Belfield.

He was pale but self-possessed, confronting all
those eager faces calmly, as one whose mind had
fully realized the worst that could befall him, and
who was prepared to endure it.

'^ I am here to answer for the death of my
wife' he said quietly, after the usual formula,
standing like a rock, with his face towards the
bench, and with an air of seeing no one but the
]magistrates who sat there. '^ It was I who
killed her."

The clerk began to take down his evidence, which

was given-with a deliberation that made the writers
task easier than usual.

'* Yes, it was I who killed her. She had been a
loving wife, and I had been a neglectful husband,
over-secure in my confidence, forgetting that there
are always scoundrels and profligates on the watch
for such prey — a pretty woman with a careless
husband, intent on his own pleasures. We had
never quarrelled, and I had never seen occasion for
jealousy, till one night in a railway carriage I
overheard a conversation between two men which
informed me that my wife was being pursued by a
notorious seducer. At first I was inclined to be
incredulous, but on discovering certain facts connected
with the sale of a horse which I had bought
for my wife in good faith, but which had practically
been the gift of her admirer, I saw that this
persons intentions were as bad as they could be.
The fact that he had been my particular friend
would, I suppose, hardly make his conduct baser.
The seducer is generally the husband's friend.

I came down to Chadford without an hour's
delay, meaning to save my wife, if there were yet

time, but in no soft temper towards her. The first
thing I heard upon arriving was that the seducer
was living in the neighbourhood, in hiding. I
entered my mother's house after midnight, with no
worse intention than to call my wife to account
for her falsehood and her folly, and to have a complete
understanding with her. Such an explanation
might have resulted in total severance, or in
reconciliation. I had not asked myself which way
it was likely to end. I was very angry ; my heart
and my head were both on fire. God knows I had
no thought of killing her ; but I desired nothing
more keenly than an encounter with her lover.

I found her after midnight, with her trunks
packed ready for departure, all her preparations
made. She was writing when I entered the room.
She tried to keep the letter from me in her terror,
but I snatched it out of her hand. This is the
letter — unfinished'

The letter was handed to one of the Magistrates,
who read it, first to himself and then aloud, amidst
a breathless silence.

At the far end of the room, among the spectators

was a tall woman in black, who had entered
immediately after Valentine, and who stood there
watching and listening. She wore a small black
straw bonnet, very plainly made, and a thick veil.
Behind that veil, and in that bonnet, no one
noticed Madge Barley's striking beauty. She was
only one figure more in the closely packed crowd,
all intent upon the man who stood in front of the
Magistrates' table making a confession of his crime.

*' We had some conversation after I had read
that letter, a brief dialogue, which only served as a
commentary on that text. She loved another man,
and she had ceased to love me. She stood before
me, looking me in the face and telling me that^she
meant to dishonour me.

''• I could nH stand this, and I lifted my cane
and struck her. I suppose I meant to knock her
down. I don't believe I meant to kill her."

There was a pause, and a little choking sound
in his throat, before he went on very quietly.

'' Unhappily, my cane had a loaded handle. I
struck her on the temple, and she fell at my ieQt —
dead. I hardly know whether she breathed after

she fell, for I was unconscious for some minutes.
I believe I fainted.

When I recovered my senses my brother was
in the room. He told me that my wife was dead,
and urged me to make the fact public at once, and
to exonerate myself from any darker crime than
that of which I was guilty — the crime of an unpremeditated
blow, which had proved fatal. Had
I been wise or reasonable, I should have taken my
brother's advice ; but I was maddened at the
thought of my wife's treason and my own peril.
I wanted to save myself from the hazard of an
inquiry. My statement might not be believed ; my
crime might be called murder. I thought myself
clever enough to escape any question about that
night's work. My wife's letter announced her intention
of running away with her lover. My wife's
trunks were packed ready for the journey. The
world should be made to believe that she had
carried out her intention.

Unwillingly, under strongest protest, my
brother looked on while I carried my dead wife
through the shrubbery to the river, and threw her

in at a spot where I knew the water was deepest.
I took measures to weight the corpse, and it would
have lain there quietly till th crack of doom had
no search been made. When the business was
over, I left the park, and walked all through the
rest of the night. I got into Bideford next day,
and took a boat, and was knocking about the
coast for a week or so before I went back to the
Abbey.

No one but my brother knew of my being at
the Abbey that night : no one but my brother
knew of my crime. His was not a guilty knowledge.
He knew nothing until the deed was done ;
he gave me no help in getting rid of the body ; he
did his utmost to induce me to confess what I had
done.

This is all I have to say."

The constable who had charge of Sir Adrian
was presently ordered to take Mr. Eelfield into
custody ; but the prisoner was treated with considerable
courtesy, and accommodated with a seat
while the inquiry went on. As Valentine seated
himself near his brother, Adrian stretched out his

hand, and the brothers clasped hands silently,
amidst the silence of the court. Lady Beltield sat
with her head bent and her face hidden. There
was a strange conflict of feeling in her breast.
Gladness because her beloved had acted an honest
part, apprehension at the thought of his danger,
that peril of liberty and life which he had of his
own accord returned to face.

The next witness was one who had not been
called previously, a witness whom Melnotte had
hunted down since the inquest.

This was the man whose boat Valentine had
hired on the 20th of August, and who swore to
his passenger's strange manner, and the state of
physical exhaustion in which he had remained fora
long time.

This was the only new witness. The others
repeated the evidence given at the inquest, with
such additional details as Sir Adrian's counsel or
Mr. Distin could extort in cross-examination.

But there was no startling effect produced by
any of these witnesses. It was felt by most
people present that the drama was played out.

No one doubted the truth of Valentine Belfield's
confession. He was there, a voluntary witness
against himself, and there was the accent of truth
in every word he had spoken.

His wife's own hand acknowledged her guilty
intention, and in the unfinished letter there was
some justification for the husband's violence. He
had done well to be angry — but he had sinned in
his anger. That was all. Between the justifiable
anger that would have cast ofi* an erring wife, and
the savage fury which slew her, there was a wide
gulf ; and that gulf had been too easily crossed by
the man who had never learnt to curb his temper
or to control his evil passions. That was what
most people in the Magistrates' Court thought about
Mr. Belfield, as the brothers sat quietly, side by
side, like and yet unlike, but never truer in their
allegiance to each other, come weal, come woe,
than they were to-day.

The result of the inquiry was that Valentine
Belfield was committed for trial at the next
assizes, charged with the wilful murder of his
Avise, Helen Belfield, on the morning of August

20th, while Sir Adrian Belfield was set at liberty,
the Bench of Magistrates choosing to ignore those
points in his brother's confession which showed
that though he was guiltless of being an accessory
before the fact he was admittedly an accessory
after the fact. Local influence and spotless character
bore down the weight of evidence, and there
was a murmur of approbation in the room when
Sir Adrian Belfield was ordered to be released
from custody. Even the fact that he had deliberately
perjured himself was forgotten,

Valentine slept that night in Exeter Gaol. Lady
Belfield and Sir Adrian travelled by the same train
that carried the prisoner, and took up their abode
in comfortable lodgings near the Cathedral, where
the heart-broken mother might dwell in retirement,
exempt from the publicity of an hotel, where her
entrances and exits would have been Watched by
a score of curious eyes.

During the five weeks which elapsed before the
opening of the assizes, Lady Belfield never left
Exeter. She saw her son every day, and spent
many hours with him in his imprisonment, comforted

by the mere fact of being in his company,
comforted still more by the softened temper which
he showed in all things. His whole nature seemed
to have been chastened by that agony of remorse
which his resolute soul had struggled against in
vain.

I fancied I could forget that night, mother'
he said, ^' blot the whole thing out, live out my
life just as if no such horror had ever happened ;
but I did not know what the shedding of blood
means. Never for one single hour of my life
have I forgotten — never shall I forget, while
I have a brain to remember. But I can bear
the memory better now. It is not so heavy a
burdens'

'^ You have done all you could in atonement,"
said the mother fondly. " It was noble of you to
come back''

Noble ! I should have been a contemptible
cur had I hesitated, when I saw my brother's
honour at stake. But perhaps I might have been
that cur had it not been for a woman ! "

'^ What woman, Valentine ? "

One who has eaten the bread of dependance in
your house, mother, but as good and true and noble
a woman as you who gave that bread."

And then he told his mother the story of Madge
Darley's life, from his wicked wooing in the idle
autumn afternoons and her steady repulse of his
overtures, to his last experiences in the Forlorn
Hope. He spared himself in no wise, confessing
how dishonourable his intentions had been in the
beginning; how true and steadfast she had shown
herself from first to last.

^' And yet she loves me, mother, as men are not
often loved. She has loved me from the first.
She loves me none the less because of this cloud
upon my life. She has been to this prison once a
week since I was brought here. She has come all
the way from London, leaving the work which she
holds sacred, and she has sat with me here, hand
clasped in hand for an hour or so, and then has
kissed me good-bye, and has gone quietly back to
lier work, travelling so many miles just for that
one hour. If ever I am a free man again, Madge
Darley will be my wife. Will it wound your

pride, mother, that I should marry a daughter of
the people''

My dearest, if she is as good a woman as you
think her, I will welcome her as my daughter. I
would be grateful to her, even if she were an erring
woman, for the sake of her devotion to my son."

She is spotless, mother, and as true as steel."

Mr. Gresham, and the famous George Tompion,
Q.C., who was to conduct Valentine's defence, aided
by a pair of clever juniors, had fully discussed the
chances of the prisoner, and were of opinion that
he would be acquitted on the capital charge. It
would be a narrow escape perhaps, as the concealment
of the body was a damning fact. But it was
hoped that the wife's letter would influence the
jury, and incline them to a lenient view of the
circumstances, nor could the feeling inspired by the
respectability of the Belfield family be ignored.
There was no doubt that Lady Belfield's personal
character would have weight with a judge and jury.
Mr. Tompion was not mistaken in this view of
the case. He surpassed himself in the eloquence

of his defence ; he melted at his own pathos, and
drew floods of tears from his audience. He dwelt
on the agony of the husband's feelings stung to
madness by the treason of the wife he adored; he
painted the peaceful family life — the mother with
her twin sons, the domestic circle into which sin
had never entered until the seducer came there like
the serpent into Eden. He depicted the remorse
of the unhappy man, who in one moment of
madness had struck down the creature he idolized.
How, in his horror at finding himself an involuntary
assassin, he had tried to hide his deed from the
light, had tried to forget what he had done. In
vain, in vain.

You have heard, gentlemen, that the prisoner
was a changed man from that hour. He was no
hardened reprobate. The pangs of conscience
tortured him by night and day, and he knew not
one moment of relief until he stood up before his
fellow-men, and voluntarily confessed his crime,
inviting whatever punishment the law might
inflict."

And then Mr. Tompion went on to show that in
VOL. III. U

DO case could the crime be more than manslaughter.
The act had been unpremeditated ;
the blow had been struck by an instrument which
happened to be carried in the prisoner's hand, and
to which no evil intent could attach itself. It had
been the act of a single moment. The medical
evidence showed that there had been but one blow,
and that had been unhappily fatal. Yet it had
not been necessarily fatal. Had the blow fallen
upon any other part of the victim's head, it
might have stunned, but it need not have killed
her. There was nothing to show that the prisoner
had ever contemplated her death. Had he taken
his brother's advice, and at once alarmed the
house, the suspicion of murder could not possibly
have attached to him.

This, and much more, urged Mr. Tompion in
mitigation of Valentine Belfields guilt ; and the
Judge followed with a summing-up which strongly
favoured the prisoner, albeit he took care to point
out the reprehensible nature of all his acts after
the fatal blow, and the wrong done to his dead
wife's reputation and to the feelings of her kindred,

in allowing her to be talked of as a runaway wife ,
while she was lying in her unconsecrated grave,
unhonoured and unmourned. The whole course of
the prisoner's conduct after his fatal act must be
considered as an aggravation of the guilt of that
act, said the Judge.

The result was a verdict of manslaughter. The
Judge pronounced sentence — two years' imprisonment
with hard labour.

It was a heavier sentence than the sanguine had
hoped for; but to Lady Belfield, whose fears had
been terrible, this worst and last result of her son's
wrongdoing seemed light. She clasped her hands
in silent thankfulness when the sentence was pronounced.


There was another woman who stood with
clasped hands, full of resignation — that woman
who had promised to be his wife when his hair
was white. Madge Darley saw him move slowly
away from the dock between two-warders, and
knew that for two weary years the law would hold
him in subjection like a little child, meting out his
tasks and regulating every movement of his life.

u 2

She knew that his slow hours would pass in automatic
labours — cleaning his cell, going out and
coming in at the word of command, working with
a gang of other toilers, each the image of himself ;
eating drinking, kneeling to pray by line and
rule ; living for the most part in a death like
silence, in which the ticking of the clock or the
sudden opening of a door is almost too much for
the prisoner's weakened nerves.

And this was all to be suffered by the spoiled
child of nature and of fortune — the athlete whose
life hitherto had been all activity ; the sportsman
to whom horse and dog and gun were among the
necessaries of life ; he who had been of so proud a
temper, he who had never brooked control, not
even the gentle restraint of love ; he was to submit
himself meekly to the government of a low-bred
warder, to humble himself before hirelings and
slaves — worse than a slave himself.

She thought of all this, sadly enough, as she
lingered in the precincts of the Assize Court, waiting
to question one of the officials as to the time

of the prisoner's transference to Dartmoor and the
rules as to visitors there.

After waiting some time, she found a friendly
sergeant, who told her the Dartmoor regulations,
which seemed hard and cruel to her, who would
have travelled from London to Devonshire every
week just for the comfort of sitting by the captive's
side for an hour, in mournful silence for the most
part.

Sir Adrian met her as she was leaving the
court.

I have been looking for you, Madge/^ he said.
My mother would like to see you before you go
back to London. May I take you to her ? "

'' I should like to see Lady Belfield very much.
There is no train that will take me back to
London this evening. I have engaged a room
for the night, and shall go by an early train tomorrow's'


'^ Then you can spend the evening with us.
My mother wants to thank you for your devotion
to my brother."

She has no need to thank me. I have only
obeyed my destiny. I could not help loving
him. I loved him only the better in his misery
than I loved him when he was proud and
happy."

They walked together to the house in which
Lady Belfield was lodging, and Adrian led Madge
Darley up to the drawing-room, where his mother
was sitting in an easy chair by the fire, weeping for
the son whom she must see so seldom in those two
unhappy years. She had seen him led off as a
criminal, to become one with other malefactors.
It was not enough that he had confessed his guilt,
that he suffered the slow tortures of remorse. He
must pay the penalty. And he had looked so
pinched and haggard in the grey winter light, and
afterwards in the glare of the gas. Would he live
to accomplish his penance ? Would he ever come
forth again into the light of day a free man ?

Madge went over to the sorrowing mother and
knelt down beside her. Lady Belfield put her arm
round the girl's neck and kissed her.

He told me all that you have done for him'
she said. ^' I thank God that there is one other
woman in the world who loves him as well as
I do."

Mrs. Baddeley stayed with her father, and
did all in her power to support his spirits
through that terrible time between the discovery
of the body and the conviction of the criminal.
Lord St. Austell went back to London immediately
after Valentine's confession. He felt that
there was no more for him to do. His murdered
love was avenged. His identity with the dead
woman's lover had not been hinted at by any of
the witnesses, nor had Valentine mentioned his
name. Yet St. Austell knew that there were very
few people in England who would not come to
know that he was the man who had wrought this
evil.

So far as it was in his nature to feel sorry
for any sin of his life, he was sorry for the sin
that had brought Helen Belfield to an untimely

grave. Yet, even while remorse was still new
and keen, he was capable of arguing with himself
that the husband was the greater sinner —
first for neglecting his wife, and then for killing
her.

CHAPTER XVI.

A LAST APPEAL

Colonel Deverill started for Marseilles directly
after the trial, escorting Leo and the poodle back
to London on his way. From Marseilles he meant
to cross to Ajaccio, and spend the next two or three
months in Corsica. It Alas an out-of-the-way island,
where he might get a little sport, and where he
was not likely to meet many of his English
acquaintances.

Leonora Baddeley was deeply shocked by the
events of the last three months, and even the knowledge
that the kind fellow from India was on his
homeward way did not suffice to restore her spirits.
Everything in her life was at sixes and sevens : her
creditors impatient ; Beeching inclined to be objectionable
; and the poodle's domestic comfort hardly
compatible with a husband in residence, inasmuch
as the dear thing always required the most luxurious

easy chair in any room lie occupied, and could sleep
only on the fur rug by his mistress's bed, where
he made the quiet night musical with his snores.
There was not room for a divided duty on that
small flat in Wilkie Mansions; and Leonora feared
that when her kind, good fellow was restored to her,
his first exercise of marital authority might be to
turn her poodle out of doors.

And then, little by little, her involvements would
be revealed to him ; and the butcher and the baker,
and the man who had supplied her with lamps and
oil to feed them, would demand their due. How
was she to face those gruesome revelations : how
answer to her husband for having spent four times
as much as her position justified ?

She could almost have wished that the kind
fellow's regiment had been forgotten by the
authorities at the War Office, and left in India for
the next ten years, as had happened once in the case
of a distinguished regiment.

They would have liked it," she told herself,
and it would have been such a relief to me."

She parted with her father at Paddington, he
having refused to waste an hour in London. He

was going by the night mail to Paris, and to Marseilles
by the next morning's express.

I hate London, and England, and every place
that can remind me of my poor girl," he said.

He kissed his daughter in a sad farewell, and
Tory stood np on his hind legs and licked the
Colonel's face, deeply sympathetic, and aware that
there was trouble in the family.

He is such a clever darling'' said Leo ; " Tm
sure he knows disagreeable letters — bills and lawyers'
horrid threats in blue envelopes — for he always
brings them to me with an air of being sorry forme.
When shall I see you again, fathers'

I don't know. I feel utterly beaten. My life
has been a failure in most ways, Leo ; but this last
blow has crushed me. I don't feel as if I should
ever take any interest in life again. I used to
regret the passage of time, hated the idea of being
an old man ; but now I wish I were twenty years
older, with my memory gone, and my senses dim,
tottering upon the edge of the grave.'

"It has all been very sad for us, but it was
not half so dreadful for her," argued Leo philosophically.
'' Think how little she suffered. A

few moments of startled surprise — one swift, strong
blow that ended life in a sudden flash, and she was
gone. She died in the zenith of her beauty, adored
by her lover. It was ever so much better a fate
than to have gone away with St. Austell, and for
him to have grown tired of her in six months, as he
most assuredly would."

'' Don't talk about it," said the Colonel sternly.
'' There is no consolation any way. She perished in
her youth and beauty, with her mind intent upon
sin. She had not a moment for repentance. God
be merciful to the poor light soul, and let half the
burden of her sin rest on me, because I brought
her up so carelessly, and never took pains to guide
her steps into the right way."

It is all too sad," sighed Leo ; " she might
have done so well if she had only kept her head."

Mrs. Baddeley had her burden to bear in the
way of sympathetic speeches and condoling letters
from all her particular friends, who had read and
doubtless gloated over the account of the trial.
They had pored over the unfinished letter ; they

knevf all poor Helen's weakness, and her intended
sin ; they who had envied her for the effect she
had made in Society, and who perhaps were
secretly rejoiced at her evil fate. Leo had to
endure condolence from all comers, and to say the
same set phrases over and over again. " Yes, it
was all too dreadful. I believe that wretched man
was half-maddened. There was always a strain of
madness about him ; '' and so on, and so forth,
till she seemed to repeat the same sentences
mechanically.

I suppose twins often are little queer in their
heads"' replied one not over wise lady.

The season was in full progress by this time,
and fashionable drawing-rooms were bright with
tulips and narcissi, but Mrs. Baddeley went nowhere.
She wore deepest black, which looked
wonderfully well against a background of yellow
tulips ; and she stayed at homo, waiting for the
good fellow from India. She had put down her
victoria ; or it may rather be said that it had been
put down for her, since the livery-stable keeper had
refused to supply her any longer with horse and

man, and held her carriage in pawn while he sued
her for his account. She spent her days yawning
over the works of Muche, and playing with Tory,
just as she had done in Devonshire ; and she took
her constitutional on the Bayswater side of Kensington
Gardens early every morning, before the smart
people were out. She would not drive anywhere,
since there was degradation in the thought of a
hired vehicle, while her own pretty carriage, with
its neat appointments, was locked in a mouldy
coach-house under a tyrants embargo,

Mr. Beeching called upon her, but she said nota
word about the victoria. He had been somewhat
sullenly disposed since his bargain with Mrs.
Ponsonby and his quarrel with St. Austell. He
said that he had found out the hollowness of friendship.
Leo felt that there would be no good in
mentioning the victoria ; so she wrapped herself in
the dignity of her grief, knowing that she looked
very handsome in the black gown for which Jay
had not yet been paid, and which fitted her better
than anything of the famous Ponsonby' s.

The days were drawing nigh in which she might

hourly expect her husband's arrival, and she was
beginning to think about the little dinners she
would give him, and how best she might soothe
him, and reconcile him to Tory's existence, and to
the burden of her debts.

We shall not entertain this season," she told
Belching ^* but you must come and dine here
quietly whenever you can. Frank is so fond of
you.-

And of a hand at ecarte, at which he always
wins;' ansNYcred Beeching bluntly. "Yes, I shall
like to come ; Frank and I get on capitally."

It was the day after this little talk with Mr.
Beeching that Leo's maid brought her a foreign
telegram. The page had been sent home to his
mother, as an expensive detail that must needs be
suppressed in adversity.

The telegram was from Aden.

'• Sorry to inform you, Major Baddeley died
yesterday evening on board the Metis, of cerebral
apoplexy. Will be buried here unless you telegraph
other instructions.

PiiiLPOTT, Regimental Surgeon's

The shock was severe, and there were pangs of
remorse mingled with the widow s grief. She
remembered how recklessly she had pursued her
self-indulgent course, caring only for the pleasure
or the triumph of the hour, proud of her beauty,
heedless of her husbands welfare ; trying always
to believe that to be soldiering under an Indian
sky was the best possible thing for him. She
remembered with how little gladness she had anticipated
his return ; how willing she would have been
to leave him in India till his head was grey and
his limbs were feeble. And now a sterner Captain
than any of the officials at the War Office had
ordered him to a further shore than the uttermost
border of Afghanistan or the disputed limits of
Burma.

She had sighed over the loss of her independence
— had feared to stand before the only man
who had a right to interrogate her ; and now he
was snatched away and she was free — free to make
the best of her life free in the pride of her beauty,
before time had put his withering finger on a
single charm.

With that telegram still in her hand she looked
at herself in the glass, and told herself that her
armoury was in good order. She had lost no
weapon by which such women as she have power
over men.

If he only cared for me/^ she said to herself,
and then she stamped her foot passionately, and
crushed the telegram in her hand.

She had no one to help her. Colonel Deverill
was in Corsica ; and she had no other near relation.
Should she have her poor fellow brought home, to
be carried into Gloucestershire, and laid in the
burial place of the Baddeleys ? No, the Baddeleys
had never done anything for him since his father's
death. He had brothers, some rich, some poor.
The poor brothers had been only remarkable for
dropping in to lunch or dinner on precisely the
most inconvenient occasions ; the rich brothers had
held themselves aloof.

To bring him home would be dreadfully expensively
mused Leonora, " and I am almost
penniless. No, he must be buried at Aden, poor
dear. There is no help for it."

VOL. IlL X

She telegraphed to the regimental doctor, and
to the colonel whom she knew, giving them full
authority to act. And then she sent off an advertisement
for the Times — " Suddenly, at Aden, &c.
&c., deeply regretted ^' — in a thoroughly businesslike
manner ; and then she sat down and cried.
She wept for him honestly, after her fashion, telling
herself how good he had always been to her, how
easy, how indulgent ; trying to persuade herself
that she had been desperately in love with him at
the time of her marriage, which she had never been
at any time ; telling herself that she would feel his
loss immensely. She tried to awaken within herself
all those stock sentiments which a loving wife
ought to feel — and then her thoughts wandered off
to the engrossing question of ways and means.
Those harpy tradesmen would be more than ever
ferocious now that she was a lonely widow. They
would sharpen their claws to assail her. They
would listen to no more excuses, wait no longer for
remittances from India. They would sweep off' her
pretty furniture, her bamboo and beads, her
Japanese jars, fans and feathers and embroidered

porters ; all that bright-lived plumage which had
made her nest so gay and pleasant to the eye of
admiring man.

^' They would take you, my dearest treasure, if
they could '' she cried hysterically, flinging herself
upon the hearth rug and snatching the alarmed
Tory to her breast. ^' But they shall never have
you — no, not if you aise worth eighty guineas and
I am a pauper — never while I have life's

The announcement of her husband's death had
the effect she feared, and the lawyer's letters in a
day or two were more peremptory than before.
There was also a shower of other letters, from condoling
friends — the very people who had been
continually asking, " And where is Major Badges
? " " And 2vho is Mrs. Baddeley's husband ? "
and who now wrote as if they had known and
loved him, and blandly consigned him to a better
world with quotations from Scripture.

Leonora had scarcely finished these customary
tributes, when the maid brought her a telegram.


Major Baddoley was buried at seven o'clock

x2

yesterday morning, in the English Cemetery.
Military honours."

'* How nice' sighed Leo ; " he could not have
had them in Gloucestershire. Buried already !
My poor, good-natured lamb. How dreadfully
quick. ^'

She was still studying the telegram — those few
words meaning so much — when the electric bell
sounded again, and the maid announced jNIr.
Beeching.

I see you have had plenty of letters already'"
he said, glancing at the scattered correspondence
on her table. " I wouldn't write. I thought it
better to come''

'you are very good," she faltered, giving him
her hand meekly, with lowered eyelids, remembering
that he was the one man among all her
intimates who could afford to help her out of her
difficulties.

^' I am not a humbug, Mrs. Baddeley. I'm not
going to pretend that I'm sorry for your husbands
death. As a man, I liked the Major well enough.
He was my very good friend, and I was his, I hope.

But he was your husband, and he came between
me and the woman I love. Come, Leo, there's no
need to beat about the bush. You have held me at
arm's length for years, because you were a wife.
And though I've felt that I was being fooled —
for you've blown hot and cold, don't you know,
led me on and held me off — yet, douce take
it , Tve respected you for keeping me at a distance."


I always knew you were generous-minded,"
said Leo, with a stifled sob, beginning to feel that
her debts would be paid.

You did your duty to your absent husband,
and I honour you for it,^' pursued Beeching, admiring
the beautiful head, with its dark shining
hair, the heavy eyelids and long lashes, the perfect
figure set off by the close-fitting black gown ; '^ but
you area widow now, and you are free to reward
my devotion. When will you make me happy,
Leo ? How soon may I call you my wife ? "

My dear Beeching, my poor fellow was only
buried yesterday."

Yes, I know. I am not going to ask you to

marry me tomorrow. There is the world to bethought
of, I suppose ; though I don't care a hang
about it. Will you marry me this day six
months ? '^

Don't ask me anything to-day. I am so
utterly wretched. I cannot get that poor fellow's
image out of my mind. Come to see me again ina
week. I shall be calmer then'

Mr. Beeching would fain have persisted, but
Mrs. Baddeley was firm, and he went.

She rose from her sofa when he was gone, and
began to pace the room strangely agitated.

'* To have unlimited money, a house in Park
Lane or Grosvenor Place, to give the best parties
in London, to have all those people who have been
barely civil at my feet. They all worship money !
Yes, that would be something. But then there is
Beeching included in the bargain ! To pass my
whole life with Beeching — to see him every day —
not to be able to send him away — to have him for
my travelling companion wherever I went. Always
Beeching ; no escape, no variety. That would be
terrible. Would Grosvenor Place, and a four-inland

and a yacht, and a large box on every first
nighty and everything in the world that I care for,
counterbalance that one drawback — Beeching ? ^'

She walked up and down in silence for a quarter
of an hour, thinking intensely.

I don-'t think I care much for money, or I
should snap at Belching' she told herself, and
then in a sudden burst of passion she clasped her
hands and cried : '^ Oh, to spend my life with the
man I love, the only man I ever loved ! That
would be Paradise. There may be a chance even
yet. He was so fond of her, and I am like her,
and he cared for me first. If it is ever so small
a chance, I will not throw it away.^^

She sat down at her desk, and wrote a telegram
to Lord St. Austell, Park Lane.

Let me see you here for half an hour
on particular business. I shall wait till you
come''

It was late in the afternoon when St. Austell
was announced. The day was cold and dull, and
in that grey light he looked ill and worn, aged by
ten years since last season. He was in mourning,

and his closely buttoned frock coat had a severe
middle-aged air.

"You summoned me, and I have comes he said,
coldly touching Leo's offered hand. " I can't
conceive why you should want to see me, and I
think you ought to know how it distresses me to
see you."

"I am sorry for that. I have had startling
news, and I could not rest till I told you. St.
Austell, I am free. My poor husband is dead. It
is no longer a sin for me to talk of the past. Why
cannot we both forget all the misery of last year ?
You were cruel to me — more cruel to that poor
girl you tempted. But you may forget all "

Never. I have been untrue to other women.
I shall be faithful to her until my dying day''

You think that now, perhaps. You will tell a
different story next year."

I will wait for next year, and the heroine of
the new story."

"And yet you once pretended to care for me,"
said Leo, trembling with indignation.

It was no pretence. I did care for you — very

much at that time. Only you cared so very well
for yourself, you see ! You cared so much more
for yourself and for your own reputation than you
cared for me. Orpheus trod the burning paths of
Hell in quest of his love. You would not have put
your little finger in the fire for my sake ; and so,
finding what you were — a woman of the world,
worldly to the core — I fell out of love with you,
somehow, just as easily as I had fallen in love.
And then your sister came upon the scene —
younger, fairer, fresher, and with a heart — which
you had not.'^

If it pleases you to think thus of me, so let it
be," said Leo haughtily. " We can be friends, I
suppose, to the end of the chapters

She looked at him piteously, pleadingly, even
while her lip affected scorn. Yes, he was the only
man whose accents had ever touched her heart,
whose face had ever haunted her. She could have
flung herself on her knees at his feet, and kissed
the wasted hand which hung listlessly at his side.
She could have died as Helen had died, only to beloved
by him for one hour. But she knew that all

was over. Of that old fire which had blazed so
fiercely for a season, not a spark remained.

Tell me about my poor friend's death V he
asked civilly ; and she told him all she knew.

And then after a few trivialities, Lord St.
Austell wished her good-day.

There was no help for it. It was her destiny to
be burdened with Beeching.

EPILOGUE.

Two years had gone by since that day in which
Lady Belfield saw her son led out of the dock as a
convicted felon; and she was sitting in her accustomed
place by the hearth in that innermost
drawing-room which was her favourite — the room
that held her own particular piano, and all her
chosen books. She was sitting in the spring twilight,
sad and silent, but not alone in her sadness.
A girlish figure sat on the fender stool at her feet,
and a month old baby was lying in that girlish lap.

There were two Lady Belfields now in the old
Abbey, a mother and a daughter-in-law who never
disagreed, for the daughter was just that one
woman whom the mother would have chosen out
of all womankind for her son's wife.

Little by little in the sad slow days after the
trial a new love had grown up in Adrian Belfield's
heart, and he had learnt to admire and appreciate

Lucy Freemantle's gentle character and unpretentious
charms. There was no cloud upon the
dawn of this new love. It came to him like the
slow soft light of a summer morning, creeping up
from the dark cold east and gradually filling the
world with warmth and brightness.

They had been married a little more than a
year, and this happy union was the consolation of
Constance Belfield's heart.

To-day that heart was to be tried by a joy that
was too closely interwoven with grief. Her son
was to be released from prison. He was to return
to the house in which he was born, his crime expiated,
his penance fulfilled ; but he was to return
only to die. For a long time his health had been
broken. His strength had gradually decayed from
the beginning of his imprisonment ; and he had
spent at least a third of his prison life in the
infirmary. And now his mother knew that he was
given back to her marked for death.

She had been permitted to see him at stated
times. The hard rules of prison discipline had
been relaxed in his favour. She had knelt beside

his bed in the big white airy ward, and had talked
with him hopefully of the days when he was to be
restored to her.

'' I shall go back to you an old man, mother'
he said, " fit for nothing but to sit by the fire and
yawn over a newspaper. I shall never hunt fox or
stag, hare or otter. I shall never call myself a
crack shot again. The springs are broken.^^

Of the contingency of non-return he had never
spoken. His disease was that slow and insidious
malady in which the sufferer hopes till the last.
He knew that his constitution was shattered, but
he did not know that his life was a question of a
year or two at most.

Madge Darley went to see him as often as the
prison rules allowed, and her presence cheered him
like strong wine. He seemed always at his best
when she was there ; and even the eyes of love were
deceived by the brightness of his looks and the
hopefulness of his manner. It was only when the
doctor told her the hard bitter truth — one lung gone,
the other attacked — that she knew how vain a dream
that was upon which her lover dwelt so fondly.

He was never tired of talking of their future life
together.

'' I am a poor feeble creature, Madge/^ he said,
but at least I shall not be a hindrance to your
good work. I won't promise to clean the windows,
but I can write your letters and keep your accounts.
You must not live at the Forlorn Hope after our
marriage ; but we can have a snug little villa in the
Tilbury Road, and you can give twenty-four hours
in every week to the good work, as the other
sisters do"'

She opposed him in nothing, knowing that this
dream of his could never be realized. She saw the
traces of gradual decay at each new visit, saw that
the shadows were deepening and the end drawing
nigh. She saw this and she mourned for him as
one dead ; but in all her sorrow she persevered
bravely with the work which she had begun under
such narrow conditions. The Forlorn Hope had
prospered. There were three houses now in the
dingy street off Lisson Grove, and there were nearly
seventy ladies who each gave four-and-twenty hours
in every week to the task of reclaiming fallen

creatures of their own sex. The plan had answered
admirably. The sisters did not renounce the world
and its affections, its domestic ties, or its social
pleasures. They wore no distinctive habit, they
affected no asceticism beyond a strict economy.
They only gave a seventh part of their lives to the
task of helping the wretched : but this much they
gave ungrudgingly, and with a regularity w which gave
way to nothing less than serious indisposition. Any
sister who showed herself light-minded and inclined
to play fast and loose with her duties was politely
informed that she had no vocation for the work, and
was requested to retire. Frivolity was thus eliminated
at the outset ; and, although many of the
sisters were young, all were earnest workers. Some
were rich and some were poor ; some brought the
comforts and graces of life — flowers, and hot-house
fruit, and books and music, and rare old wines —
from their luxurious homes, to cheer the sick and
broken-hearted ; some contributed largely to the
expenses of the institution ; others gave only their
time and labour ; but there was an equality of zealand
love which levelled all differences.

To-day Madge had gone to Dartmoor with Sir
Adrian, to assist in the release of the prisoner.
They had posted there and were to post back ; five-ands
thirty miles by moor and road, with a rest and
a change of horses midway. They were to have
left the prison at one o'clock, and it was now five.
They might be expected momentarily. Just as
the mother had sat listening for the sound of hoofs
upon the gravel, expectant of her younger son's
return from hunting, so she listened and waited
now.

Hark ! the steady trot of four horses. The carriage
was in the avenue. Constance Belfield went
out to the hall, motioning to Lucy to stay with her
baby.

I want to see him alone first," she said falteringly.


To be alone with him was impossible. The old
butler and Andrew and Mrs. Marrable were there,
ready to welcome the wrongdoer, almost as if it had
been his return from a honeymoon. He walked a
little in advance of his companions, carrying himself
erect as of old, making a great effort against

weakness. He shook hands hastily with the old
servants looking at his mother all the time, and
then held out his arms and clasped her to his
breast.

"At home at last, mothers he said, kissing the
pale forehead and the soft silvery hair, which
had whitened in the days of his captivity; ^^ no
more prison bars, no more galling restrictions. T
belong to you and Madge thenceforward

"To me and Madge. Yes, dear. I shall not
dispute Madge's claims answered Lady Bel-field,
holding out her hand to the tall pale
girl in black, who had once been a servant
in that house, but who now entered it as a
daughter.

They all went into the drawing-room, where
Lucy had sent away her baby, and sat waiting
for them in the glow of a great log fire, and
where the tea-table was spread just the same as in
the old days of the return from hunting. They
sat round the hearth in a family circle, while
Lucy poured out the tea; and all tried to be
glad because he had come back to them, and all

VOL. in. Y

were full of sadness, because they knew he had
returned only to die.

There is no one in London society better known
than the beautiful Mrs. Beeching. Her portrait
has been painted by three of the most famous
Academicians, and has been exhibited for three
consecutive seasons. Her dog Tory is a celebrity,
and is sought after as an attraction at charity
bazaars. She is one of those ladies whom people
who are struggling to get into Society always
endeavour to know. Her drawing-room is the
gate of a second-rate Paradise, one of the outer
circles of the smart world. The great family of
Parvenu Pushes have climbed a long way upward
on the social mountain before they begin to
drop Mrs. Beeching.

THE END

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO.
LONDON AND EDINBURGH
