A FATHER'S CURSE

AND

A DAUGHTER'S SACRIFICE.

BY

MRS. Brave.

NEW AND REVISED EDITION.

t

LONDON: CHAPMAN and HALL,

LIMITED.

1884.

WESTMINSTER :

NICHOLS AND SONS, PRINTERS,

26, PARLIAMENT STREET.

CHAPTER I.

The grief that on my quiet preys,

That rends my heart, that checks my tongue,

I fear will last me all my days,

But feel it will not last me long.

Sir John Moore.

At the instance of one to whom I am bound by the closest

ties of gratitude and affection, whose request must ever be tome

a command, I have undertaken to record some remarkable

circumstances respecting that family (more happy in their

worldly fortunes than in themselves) with which, though ina

dependent station, I have been connected ever since I was

born. But, in order to show what were my opportunities of

becoming acquainted with many things unknown to the

world at large, I must begin with giving some account of my

parents as well as myself.

My mother was born under melancholy circumstances, as

she lost hers at the hour of her birth. She was the only

child of a minister of the Established Church, who held no

benefice, and, after having served two parishes in Devonshire

as a curate, on a very small stipend, for nearly fifteen years,

died suddenly, leaving my poor mother, then a child of five

years old, with no other prospect of provision than that

promised to the fatherless, who, by the trust of good and

Christian parents, are committed to a heavenly Father's Care.

In this instance, it did not fail the orphan of the poor clergyman.

For the patron of one of the small livings alluded to

above, a worthy and a rich man, hearing that the curate,

B



A FATHER'S CURSE.

who, in the non-residence of the incumbent, had so long

served the neighbouring church of , had died suddenly

in the morning, and that there was no one in the house

but a very aged woman to take care of his little girl, caused

her to be brought to his own mansion before night, and bo

ordered matters that he never parted from her till, on the

marriage of his daughter, twenty years afterwards, she followed

her young mistress, more as a humble companion than

ds a servant, to her new home.

My mother, from her education, was not altogether unfit

for such a station ; as the kind-hearted old Squire Gould had

given her very good schooling in her youth. She could read,

write, spell, and cast accounts, as well as any gentlewoman

of her day. Indeed, so well taught was she, that the Squire

himself always had her called into the parlour every morning,

to read aloud to horn the chapters and psalms of the day ;

and of an evening she very often read horn to sleep. She was

so expert, too, with her needle, that, as long as he lived, she

always worked for horn a new pair of ruffles, and presented

them to horn on his birthday, as a token of grateful respect.

Among other things, she was so well instructed under the

housekeeper, that one principal reason for the old gentleman

consenting to part with his favourite Hannah (so was my

mother called) arose from his wish that his daughter, who

was a very fine young lady, and knew nothing about housekeeping,

might have the benefit of her advice and assistance

when first entering on the duties of a married life : and,

though my mother was then not more than twenty-five, she

was sedate beyond her years, and as steady as most women

are at forty. Her young mistress, who both esteemed and

loved her, married Hector Fountainee, Esquire ; a gentleman

of a large landed estate, who lived in his family mansion,

Fountainee Hall, in the parish of , about ten miles from

Exeter ; and my mother, in less than two years after that event,

married the house-steward, and never left the family, where

she was ever treated like a humble but much valued friend.

It may readily be supposed how great were her opportunities

of knowing everything that happened affecting the

family to which she was attached. I was born about a year

after the marriage of my parents : Mrs. Fountainee condescended

to stand sponsor for me at the "font, gave me her

own name of Alice, and I was reared in her house.

I know not how it was brought about, that so beautiful

and accomplished a lady as my godmother came to be the

wife of Squire Fountainee. There never could have been a

pair more unlike each other in temper or in feeling : the

wife so gentle and amiable ; the husband so rough and

obdurate. But I suppose it was on account of his great

wealth, and the grandeur of both families, that the match

was made up without the parties themselves having much

to do with it.

The Fountainee family, though of French origin, had been

for many centuries settled in Devon, where they intermarried

with other families of note, and were respected as much on

account of their character for munificence and loyalty as for

their wealth and honourable descent. They had, in old

times, both served and suffered for King Charles in the

Civil Wars ; and the principal member, indeed the head of

the family, with whom my story commences, though living

under the rule of a Hanoverian sovereign, was, not without

cause, deemed a Jacobite in heart. Indeed, so strongly suspected

was he of having some share in the plots of those

Devonshire gentlemen who were suddenly seized and conveyed

to the Tower for their busy intrigues for the Pretender

in the West of England, that he very narrowly

escaped an arrest on the occasion ; and, for many years after,

was looked upon with a jealous eye by the Government and

by its emissaries in Devon.

It is, however, with his private, and not with his political

character that I have to do : I shall, therefore, here content

myself with saying, Mr. Fountainee was one of that rude

race of country gentlemen who, alas ! were by no means

uncommon, especially in the more remote counties of England,

about the time of his standing. His education had

been of the roughest and most neglected kind. His prospects,

as sole heir to a large estate, rendered a profession

unnecessary in the opinion of an uninformed and fox-hunting

father, and made all studies aud acquirements of an intellectual

nature equally unnecessary ; so that, in his youth, he

was never taught more than a country pedagogue, who, by a

foolishly fond mother, was forbidden to use the rod, could

prevail with horn to learn. He never went to college ; early

imbibed a taste for field-sports and horse-racing, and for the

company of those devoted to such pursuits ; took no interest

in county matters, unless they were of a turbulent kind, in

opposition to the house of Hanover ; and finally, his father

b 2

dying about the period when he attained the age of twenty-one

years, he came into the possession of a great estate, over

which he was left the uncontrolled master, and accomplished

in nothing but a knowledge of horses and hounds. He was

largely endowed with that sort of boisterous energy which,

in a man of fortune, carries its point among weaker spirits,

particularly in the country : and, ruling and reigning the

acknowledged leader among his sporting neighbours of all

kinds and degrees, they (ever welcome to the rude but

plentiful hospitality of his house) yielded to horn the preeminence

both at home and abroad over the punch-bowl, orin

the hunting-field.

And yet, with all this, Mr. Fountainee was not a man to be

despised. Nature had intended horn for something far better

than the Squire Western of his day. She had given horn a

strong and clear understanding, the most ardent feelings,

passions no less vehement, and a resolution which, whether

rightly or wrongly directed, nothing could shake. Had he

but received the advantages of that wholesome training which

the most vigorous minds, like the most luxuriant plants, absolutely

require, such a character, in a person of his fortune

and station, might have become a blessing to the tenantry

that called horn lord, to his own immediate family, and indeed

to all around him. Education would have supplied a becoming

object of pursuit, in which his naturally strong intellect

would have found an ample field for its exercise. His

ardent feelings would have been softened and refined, and

his passions subjected to the control of reason, whilst the

obdurate resolution and blind obstinacy of his temper might

have been trained into a becoming fortitude and resolution

in the maintenance of moral and religious duty.

Such, in all probability, would have been the effects of a

good education with Mr. Fountainee. But, as it was, his

mid, like the sluggard's garden, displayed, from total

neglect, little other as the product of its naturally luxuriant

soil than the rankest weeds ; and, whatever might have been

his minor distinctions, his great characteristic was tyranny ;

for, both in his pleasures and his passions, he was a despot.

Of his principles, those which are called political were perhaps

the least offensive, although they were by many termed

treasonable towards the ruling powers ; for he verily believed

in his heart that no Acts of Parliament could set aside the

descendants of that King Charles, for whom his own grandfather

had bled, and in whose cause the Fountainee family,

by fine and sequestration, had formerly forfeited no inconsiderable

part of their great wealth.

Such was the man to whom the manners of the times, and

the authority of superiors, gave so elegant and refined a

creature as Mrs Fountainee. That a woman of her nice feelings

and perceptions could be happy with such a man was

impossible ; but so exemplary was she in the discharge of all

her duties, whether moral or religious, that she forbore all

complaint, treated her husband with an observance which

procured for her universal respect, and even from himself

some consideration, and bore the yoke of so unequal a marriage

with a quiet and a gentle melancholy, that touched the

hearts of all who knew her in her earlier days, and remembered

of how lively a disposition she had been, before she

exchanged the home of a worthy and affectionate father for

that of a coarse and tyrannical husband. Not that Mr.

Fountainee was altogether indifferent to his wife : far from

it. He really loved her with strong passion ; but his feelings

towards her were selfish. He was jealous even of her

friendships, for he could not bear to suspect that the creature

he preferred to all others should value any one so much as

tinsel f; and, like all men of strong affections and tyrannical

tempers, he expected that exclusive and devoted attachment

from another which he took no pains to deserve.

The mansion which called Mr. Fountainee master was one

of ancient days ; even the most modern part was of the time

of Elizabeth or James the First. It was a large, substantial,

heavy moonstone building, that had nothing elegant and very

little handsome about it except the windows and a noble

flight of steps which led into the hall. A pair of costly,

open worked iron gates (leading from the public road through

the park) gave entrance to a long avenue of fine old elm and

beech trees which terminated in front of the courtyard.

The hall was striking from its height and extent, but the

apartments generally were ill-proportioned and gloomy. The

principal ones, decorated with carved oak panelling and almost

black by time, were hung with tapestry and old pictures,

nearly as dark as the wood itself for nag e; and, as neither

Mr. Fountainee nor his father before horn were fond of the

least change, the old furniture got dingy and shabby from

use and decay, and very little new was added to give relief.

The most recent pictures were of the time of Queexi. Jkxc&a-

smiling gentlemen in full-bottomed wigs, with nosegays in

their button-holes, and simpering ladies in sacks and hoops,

with crooks in their hands and lambs at their feet, represented

the husbands or the bachelors, the wives or spinsters,

of the Fountainee family, in the pastoral characteristics of

» portraiture so much the fashion of the day in which they sat

,for their pictures. A few bluff old warriors, in breastplates

and gauntlets of steel, or in the buff coats, large boots, and

morions of the time of Charles the First, appeared among

them ; whilst some pieces of ancient armour still hung on

the walls ; but these were exceptions, as by far the greater

number of portraits, and nearly all the ornamental parts and

furniture of the Hall, were of King William or Queen Anne's

time, and nothing could be more clumsy or ugly.

Without doors, where nature prevailed, the objects were

of far greater interest. Many noble oaks, some of very high

antiquity, spreading beeches and lofty elms, with a long

sweep of the finest turf, kept in the nicest order by the deer

grazing upon it, presented that scene of shade, verdure, and

beauty, so peculiar to the homes of the country gentry and

the aristocracy of England. The river Exe ran through part

of the grounds ; and the grey and weather-beaten tower of

the adjacent church, with a few of the white cottages of the

village, situated at the extremity of the domain, could be

seen through the trees, in the openings of the wooded landscape.

Beyond arose some of those green hills of Devon,

picturesque in their forms, and affording the most pleasing

finish to the picture.

At the back of the mansion stood the various gardens.

These communicated by more than one gate with the park,

that in every direction surrounded the house. The pleasure-garden

presented a direct contrast to the natural scene of

beauty beyond. It displayed all that stiffness and artificial

style which Le Notre had rendered celebrated at Versailles

in the time of Louis the Fourteenth ; and which was duly

imitated, and rendered even a little more ugly, by the

clumsiness of imitation in England. Le Notre was not

merely copied in clipped hedges of laurel and yew, in leaden

pots holding orange-trees, in statues standing everlastingly

on one leg, and in flower-beds running like serpents through

walks of bright gravel, but also in the very pride of the

garden — a fountain ! The one in question represented Venus

holding herself erect in a shell, which served her for a car,

drawn by a couple of dolphins ; whilst half-a-dozen leaden

Cupids spouted water all over her from the arrows, or whatnot,

they held in their hands, as they sat perched on the

backs of huge frogs on the margin of the circular basin.

This fancy (imported from France, and not very ably executed

by a Dutch artist, who came over in the train of King

William) had cost the then head of the house of Fountainee,'

who introduced it, more than one thousand pounds ; and, *

from that time it became a grand piece of family pride.

The spouting waters were, in fact, a perpetual play upon the

family name. Little did he who constructed it think that,

in less than a century after, it was destined to be the witness

of a scene the most distressing and humiliating to the pride

of his descendants. But I will not anticipate.

Mr. Fountainee, whose share of pride was not a whit less

than that of any one of his predecessors, earnestly wished

for a son to inherit his great estate, and to carry on the

family name to his posterity. But, as if his proud spirit

was destined to be thwarted, in the dearest point, his wife

brought horn successively three daughters, but no son. This

disappointment grievously affected his already soured temper.

And, as he indulged the confident hope of an heir, he was

angered almost to frenzy when the faithful Hannah, on each

occasion, announced to horn that her lady was safely delivered

of a fine girl. His feelings, indeed, at length became

absolutely morbid on the subject of a son — nay, so embittered

were they, that, on the birth of the last girl, he allowed

some weeks to pass before he would even see the child, and

he would not hear of its christening. At last, as if to punish

this unnatural feeling, not only did his wife, who had been

seriously affected by his obduracy, become alarmingly ill,

but the babe also.

My mother, who, from a union of firmness and good sense,

was often led to tell Mr. Fountainee home truths, though in a

manner so respectful that she disarmed his anger, or rather

prevented it from being awakened, determined now to interfere,

and to do what she believed to be necessary and right.

Hannah sought Mr. Fountainee ; and, although she found horn

engaged with his friends over the punch-bowl, she gently

hinted to horn that, unless he would consent to see his child,

and give it a father's blessing, as a Christian infant, perhaps

Providence would be so displeased that an heir might never

be granted to his hopes.

The firm, deferential, yet solemn manner in which Hannah

addressed horn, touching at once the key-note of all his feelings,

appeared to strike horn with an irresistible conviction.

Ever violent and sudden in his determinations, though it

was midnight, he caused the clergyman to be called out of

his bed ; made the doctor, who was carousing with horn,

throw the punch out of the window ; had the bowl in which

it had stood washed and filled with water, and, vowing he

would not move from the head of that table till the child was

christened, insisted that Hannah should stand godmother

for the infant ; that the doctor and a country squire who was

present should be a pair of godfathers ; had the poor sick

babe taken from its mother's bosom ; and, in this mad

fashion, caused it to bo baptized by the name of Elizabeth,

on the spot. He then made a fresh bowl of punch, in the

same vessel that had so lately contained the baptismal water,

drank the child's health with her godfathers', and continued

to do so, till the return of day broke up their orgies.

This was the last and the most unfortunate of all Mrs.

Fountainee's confinements. She never entirely recovered the

shock she then received, though she survived it five years.

My mother always thought she might have lived longer had

not her decline been hastened by another family disaster,

which excited in a very extraordinary degree the anger of

Mr. Fountainee.

He had an only sister, some years younger than himself ;

and had been accustomed to look upon her very much in the

same way as the feudal lords looked upon the children to

whom they were guardians — as a sort of higher grade of serf

or slave, who were never even to think contrary to the will

of their masters. Yet to this sister, according to his notions,

Mr. Fountainee had shown great kindness. The old gentleman,

her late father, had neglected her in his will. Thinking

every penny bestowed on a daughter was no better thana

robbery on a son, who was to keep up the family name, he

left her but a few hundred pounds for her portion. In some

measure, therefore, to rectify this injustice, Mr. Fountainee

made her a handsome allowance ; gave her his favourite mare

when cracked in the wind and unfit for his own use, and a

silver brocaded silk, so rich that it stood on end, for the

assize ball at Exeter. " What could a brother do more ?"

he would say. " Yet," he added, "so ungrateful was womankind,

that the very first time she wore the brocaded gown

she danced with Mr. Thomas Hartwell, a younger son of the

Hartwells, of Hartwell House, persons with whom he was at

deadly feud ;" and not many months after, the laws of England

not being quite so feudal as Mr. Fountainee's domestic

tyranny would fain make them, this only and much favoured

sister, on his refusing his consent, absolutely married the

man of her choice, poor though he was, without it ; took her

clothes and her few hundreds away with her, but left the

mare behind for the use of its original master.

Mr. Fountainee, for awhile, raved and threatened, and

vowed vengeance on his brother-in-law for running away

with his sister, contrary to his will. In vain did Mrs. Fountain,

already in the early stage of consumption, endeavour

to mediate and to make peace ; nothing could conquer the

anger he had conceived against the offenders. At length,

however, he considered he exercised a spirit of great Christian

forbearance when he finally announced to Mrs. Fountain

that he would no longer quarrel with or upbraid heron

his sister's account, having made up his mid never to speak

to her or of her more. He kept his word. Yet, though thus

absolutely estranged, she lived to see this obduracy of her

brother visited with bitter retribution; for, in process of

time, Mrs. Hartwell became the mother of three sons, to inherit

their father's poverty, whilst the Fountainee estate was

left without an heir male.

But this is anticipating. Mrs. Fountainee had a strong conviction

of what would be the termination of her illness, and

early and devoutly set her house in order, both temporally

and spiritually, to prepare for it. Many were the conversations

she had with my mother on this most anxious topic ;

for she thought very much of her children ; and so deeply

impressed was my mother with all she said, that, being a

great mistress of her pen, she made notes of these discourses

for her future guidance and direction. From these written

memoranda, then, I shall here give some particulars. Mrs.

Fountainee, who was a woman of fine taste, had a great fondness

for nature. Indeed, in her garden, among her flowers,

or in her rambles in the woods, by the river's side, she

seemed to seck some consolation for the disappointment of

that domestic happiness which no one was more calculated

to enjoy, had she been more fortunately married.

She caused to be built for herself a rustic summer-house,

amid the verdure and the shade of the beautiful park, in a

spot where it was neighboured by some of the oldest oaks

and beech-trees on the estate. A little stream of the purest

water, which pursued its murmuring course to the river beyond,

ran near it, and through an opening in the wooded

glade could be seen the tower of the village church, always

a favourite object with Mrs. Fountainee, whose religious turn

of mid was marked in all her feelings and perceptions.

To the summer-house, during her last illness, she would

often be wheeled in her garden-chair, and there would she

have the children brought to her to converse with them and

with my mother. One evening she directed my mother to

attend her there alone. As her faithful friend approached,

she made her sit down by her side, looked affectionately in

her face, pressed her hand, and said, as the tears started in

her eyes, " 0, my dear Hannah, I am sure you love me ! "

Love you ! " said my mother, " I could die for you. lam

bound to love you next to God himself, for I owe all to you

and your good father."

Ay, Hannah, but I often think it would indeed have sent

his grey hairs with sorrow to the grave had he lived to see

what I have suffered."

My mother looked surprised ; for Mrs. Fountainee was never

in the habit of alluding to her domestic griefs, though many

had suspected she was sinking as much under them as under

her disease.

Hannah," she continued, " it is not a little thing that

would induce me to speak an unkind word of Mr. Fountainee.

As a wife, I have borne much ; as a wife, I would bear all in

silence, and wish that in my grave might be buried every

thought of injury ; but lam a mother — and a mother's anxiety

for her children will not let me die in peace, unless I unburden

my heart to you, Hannah — to you, the only creature

living from whom I can derive any relief or benefit, by opening

all my soul and telling all my fears or hopes for the future,

which rest entirely with you." She paused ; there was evidently

a struggle in her mind — a reluctance to tell all her

apprehensions — to speak out. It was, in fact, in her view,

the opposition of contending religious obligations — the duty

of the wife opposed to the duty of the mother — the last

conquered.

Hannah," she said, " the truth must be spoken ; I dread

leaving my children to the care of their father. Such an

example as they will find in his associates, with no duties,

either moral or religious, impressed upon their young minds.

The prospect is a dreadful one for a mother at the hour of

approaching death ! "

It was indeed a painful picture to be presented, and in

such strong colours, by so gentle and repining a being as

Mrs. Fountainee ! Hannah was shocked — shocked because

she saw her own worst fears confirmed by her beloved

mistress, whose judgment she knew in this respect was

unerring.

Hannah," continued Mrs. Fountainee, " I am deeply distressed

to think what I have spoken. But, unless I confessed

the truth to you with my whole heart, you would not know

the importance of the trust lam about to confide in you. I

thank God, I can see hope in you ! I believe that a good

Providence has placed you near me at this time, and that

the service my dear father did you, when you were a fatherless

child, will now be repaid to his child, by making you

the instrument to preserve her children from the worst of

evils — from the evils of moral and religious debasement."

"O ! tell me, what can Ido to serve you ? " said Hannah ;

"as God shall bear me witness, I will not fail you in the

trust you repose in me, unless life should fail me ! "

I believe it," replied Mrs. Fountainee. " Hear me then,

Hannah. You have good sense, good principles, and a sufficient

education for all the purposes I shall require of you.

I have often observed, from the peculiar character of your

mid, that you are more fit to deal with Mr. Fountainee than

any other person. I am myself too timid, too sensitive, too

much alive to what is due to myself from'him, to be able to

act upon horn in a matter where reason is placed in opposition

to his will. But you, Hannah, gain an ascendency over

horn that no equal could achieve. Within equal, his pride

is always on the alert; he suspects, and hardens his mid

against reason before reason is offered in contradiction to his

will. But with you, your manner and station disarm all

suspicion of this kind ; whilst your strong sense and firmness,

adhering to truth and reason, give you a power over Mr.

Fountainee that no one else can ever hope to possess. I have

seen it in a thousand instances. 0, Hannah, when lam gone,

will you use this influence for the benefit of my children? "

With tears of affection, with the most grateful sense of

the confidence thus reposed in her, Hannah gave Mrs. Fountain

the assurance that she would do all she could to «ssN>a

them, and begged her more explicitly and particularly to

point out the means.

The principal means will be by inducing horn to give

them a good education. If Mr. Fountainee marries again, as

I dare say he will, did he choose a worthy woman all might

be well for my daughters. But I cannot confide in his choice;

he is so much the slave of passion and caprice. Induce horn,

then, if you can, to let my daughters be placed at some

school where the mistress can be relied upon in respect to

moral and religious worth. I care little for ornament or

accomplishments in their education. At present, he will not

hear the mention of a school, because his own sister received

a boarding-school education ; and to that he attributes her

running away with Mr. Hartwell. Martha has a great spirit,

but with it much generosity of temper. If kindly treated,

lam convinced she will be good and dutiful. If her reason,

which is very mature for her age — (she is only, you know,

twelve years old)- — if her reason be appealed to in any matter

of importance, she will not be deaf to its dictates. But I

think she has a spirit that tyranny of any sort would not

improve."

I should not fear so much for Miss Martha as for Miss

Amy," said Hannah.

Amy is a very wild girl," replied Mrs. Fountainee, " and

wants that strictness of discipline which would injure

Martha ; because Amy is wilful as well as wild ; I fear

much for her. But little Elizabeth, I am most anxious for

her — the one who I think is most likely to become her father's

favourite: she is so lively, so sportive — and, alas, Hannah,

so like himself ! Hannah, young as she is, lam much mistaken

if Elizabeth Fountainee does not inherit, with her

father's handsome features, his strong passions, his ardent

feelings — his marked disposition, capable of being turned to

good or evil, in no common degree. Elizabeth is the child

for whom I most fear ; and she has by far the quietest parts

a dangerous gift, if ill directed."

Miss Elizabeth is indeed all you say," said Hannah ;

and a pity it would be should she or any of these dear children

be lost for want of a good education. Should I be

spared I will endeavour to do all you wish mc. And yet, I

fear, there is little I can do for them. For O, my dear mistress,

notwithstanding all you say of my influence with Mr.

Fountainee, lam but a dependent ; and, if he should take any

resolution about these poor children contrary to what I know

would be your wish, how am I to cross horn with any hope of

prevailing ? And 0, my dear mistress, I cannot bear the

thought that such a one as I am should step into your place

to become in a manner the mother of your children."

And a most kind, and faithful, and worthy guardian

should I leave for there, could I but feel certain Mr. Fountain

would let you be so to them. At all events, Hannah,

never leave the family. For my sake I know you would bear

much, even should trials and hardships arise that I do not

now anticipate. Promise me, Hannah, you will never leave

the family ; and, when lam gone, that you will do all I have

pointed out to you, as far as you can do it. Promise me this,

and I shall die happier."

Hannah, with many tears and protestations, gave the promise

required of her.

This was the last confidential communication ever made to

my mother by Mrs. Fountainee on the subject of her children.

CHAPTER II.

He asked no question — all were ans-weed now

By the first glance on that still, mai bee brow.

It was enough — she died — what recked it how ?

The love of youth, the hope of better years,

The only living thing he could not hate,

Was reft at one — and he deserved his fate,

But did not feel it less. The good explore

For peace those realms where guilt can never soar ;

The proud, the wayward, who have fixed below

Their joy, and find this earth enough for woe,

Lose in that one their all.

Barons Corsair.

Not many weeks after the conversation I have just mentioned

Mrs. Fountainee sank under that insidious disease

which by gentle steps had led her to the grave. Mr. Fountain,

whose ideas of sickness and danger were connected

with those of great bodily suffering and as great murmuring

and complaints, never could be prevailed on to believe, from

the gentle and repining demeanour of his wife, that she

was near her death. He treated her own occasional hints on

the subject as the effects of the megrims and the vapours ;

and, when the doctor spoke to horn in confirmation of her

fears, he, who, like most coarse-mannered men, had a particular

dislike to all the members of the healing art, to their

quiet deportment, and the general serious purpose of their

live, swore the doctor was an ass ; that he was making his

wife worse, and trying to frighten horn, for the sake of getting

more fees ; and ended by advising her to throw away all the

physic, and to try a glass of punch with horn instead.

This obstinate persistence in his own opinion only occasioned

horn that greater shock which ever accompanies the

sight of death when it comes upon us by surprise. It was

Hannah who had the task of summoning Mr. Fountainee, one

day after he had returned from a fox-chase, to attend the

last moments of his lady.

He started up from the chair into which he had just

thrown himself, and, turning pale as ashes, exclaimed —

Dying ! She dying ! I will not believe it. It is a lie ! I

tell you it is all a lie ! That foolish doctor has deceived you;

she is not dying ; she cannot be dying ; I can't, I won't

believe it ! I tell you, it is all that rascally doctor's doing.

Why did you not send for Lavington, the only honest doctor

in the kingdom ! He hates physic, takes none himself, and

seldom orders it. But this fellow is from Exeter. I'll go

and turn horn out. He shall frighten her no more."

0, sir," said Hannah, " let me entreat you, for the love

you bear to my dear lady, do not go to her chamber for such

a purpose ! She is, indeed, drawing towards her last hour ;

do not disturb it. Be gentle with her, my dear master. Let

her depart in peace."

Well, well, I will do as you wish." And, like Uncle

Toby, Mr. Fountainee swore a deep oath that his wife should

not die. His own conscience at this moment was his accuser ;

and he would fain have had the power to ward off that death

which his own tyrannical temper had so largely contributed

to bring upon the sufferer.

On entering the chamber he seemed struck dumb by the

realization of the event to which he had but a minute before

refused belief. It was indeed apparent that Mrs. Fountainee

approached her end. Death was in every line of her expressive

countenance. She was pale and sinking ; she drew her

breath with difficulty ; whilst, with many pauses, she could

only speak in broken sentences the few last wishes of her

heart — they were for her children. These, though so young,

were now, by her own desire, gathered round her bed ; the

youngest, the little Elizabeth, was upon it, and she feebly

endeavoured to strain the child to her bosom. Overcome by

the effort, she sank back, and fixed her eyes with a peculiar

earnestness on the face of Mr. Fountainee, as he drew near,

pushed aside the nurse and a weeping attendant who had

brought in the children, and, coming up to the bedside,

exclaimed — " Why, Alice, what is this ? I never thought

you were so bad as to come to this. But I cannot bear to

lose you. By Heaven, I will not lose you ! I never thought

of such a thing. I cannot bear to think of it now."

He seized her wan and feeble hand within his, grasped it,

and, falling on the bed, made it shake again with the tempest

of that sorrow which now burst through all his efforts to

suppress it, and showed a strength of affection for his dying

wife that not one present, who knew how arbitrarily he had

been accustomed to treat her, ever gave horn the credit for

being capable of feeling for her. But Mr. Fountainee was an

uncommon man : one of those characters whose passions, be

they of a good or a bad nature, lie deep, and may never even

be suspected to exist by the mere ordinary observer, till some

circumstance of adequate power calls them forth ; when they

arise, like the blast of the whirlwind, with a force that

sweeps down all before them.

Unrestrained by the presence of his dying wife, he gave

way to paroxysm after paroxysm of feeling, turning a deaf

ear to all the earnest entreaties of Hannah, that for God's

sake — for her dear lady sake — he would try and be more

composed. At length he raised himself from the bed, and

exclaiming, " I will, I will — say no more to me, I will becalm,"

turned to Mrs. Fountainee, threw himself on his knees,

once more took her hand, and said, " 0, Alice, forgive me!

God's anger will strike unless you do forgive me ! for there

have been times — I feel it now — there have been times when

I have been cruel to you. Forgive me, or lam a dead man

and on this spot ! "

Forgive you ! 0, my husband, you need not ask it !

May God forgive me as truly as I do you ! "

Bless you ! 0 bless you, Alice, for saying so ! What can

Ido for you ? Now that it is too late, I would give all I

have on earth to save you, and never cross you more. But

you will not die ; you will not — you cannot have the heart to

die and leave me, and these children. They are more worthy

of you than I am. Live, for their sake, if not for mine,

live ! "

Life and death are with God alone," said Mrs. Fountainee.

"He who gave me life calls me hence, and I must go." She

paused, and then spoke again. " But I leave these with you.

O, when I am gone, be an affectionate father to these poor

little ones. Will you not love them, care for there, educate

them ? teach them to fear God — to love horn as their

Heavenly Father ? 0 ! you do not answer me ! "

He put his hands before his face, and seemed to shrink

and turn away. At length he turned towards her, and more

by his looks and the pressing of her hand, which he still

held within his, than by his words, seemed to give her the

assurance she required of him.

She intimated a wish again to kiss her children, but,

though still supported on the pillows, was now so feeble,

that the little ones rose on the bed to embrace her, as she

was unable to make the effort to clasp them. Hannah,

thinking the last moments of a death-bed too full of terror

for children of so tender an age to witness, motioned to their

maid to lead them out of the room as soon as they retired

from the bed. Only one remained — Elizabeth, an infant of

but five years old.

Mrs. Fountainee looked earnestly at her husband — " How I

have loved this little one !" she said. " She is like you !"

And could you — could you love her for that ?" exclaimed

Mr. Fountainee. " I did not think it was so. What a wretch

have I been !• — but, oh, what a wretch must I be now !"

Forbear this self-reproach," said Mrs. Fountainee ; "it

distresses mc. Be happy, and may God bless you ! Hannah."

My mother approached ; the sufferer seemed fainting.

She took the faithful housekeeper by the hand, looked at

her, at the child, at Mr. Fountainee, and then said, " Let

Hannah be to this " she stopped, unable to finish the

sentence. She made another effort, but no voice came.

Earnestly, and with an expression of anxiety that was almost

painful, did she now fix her eyes on her husband.

I know what you would wish," he said ; " that Hannah

should have the care of the children. It shall be so."

A faint smile for a moment irradiated the calm and still

beautiful countenance of Mrs. Fountainee, but it soon passed

away, and that indefinable change which speaks the close of

mortality came over the whole face, and showed that the

cloud of death had overshadowed it ; yet the dying mother

made one effort more. Hannah saw what was its object.

She snatched up the child that had been taken off the bed,

and held her to her mother's bosom.

Mrs. Fountainee looked up. " Yes," said Hannah, " I

understand you ;" and turning to Mr. Fountainee she put tho

child into his arms ; " she commits her to your especial care !

O, take her to your bosom, and be to her indeed a father."

A mother's love, strong as death, had hitherto struggled

even with death itself ; but now, comforted and reassured in

that dearest point, there was nothing left for her to do in

life, and in a few minutes she parted from it without a sigh.

Mr. Fountainee, who held the child which Hannah had

placed in his arms, stood for some minutes absolutely stupefied.

Hannah was the first to recal horn to the actual state

of things by gently endeavouring to relieve horn of the child,

with the intent to remove her from the chamber. But, the

moment the bereaved husband gave sufficient attention to

understand her purpose, he repulsed her in a manner that

rendered all further interference vain, threw himself into a

chair by the bedside, strained the infant to his bosom, and,

bursting into a flood of tears, gave himself up without control

to a second paroxysm of grief, so violent that it alarmed

the child, who broke the solemnity which best befits such a

scene with screams of fear ; being, at so tender an age, alike

incapable of comprehending the cause of the altered and

motionless appearance of her mother, and of the frantic

agony of her father.

"0, sir," said Hannah, " endeavour to be composed ! Let

me take the child from you ; let me take her from this room.

It is not a fit place for her now ; let me take her."

"Never!" said Mr. Fountainee, "never! I'll never part from

her more. Did not she give her to me ?" He pointed to the

dead body of his wife, and looked as if again struck with

sudden horror at the sight of her he loved, who was now

thus insensible to his distress. He placed the child by tho

side of the corpse, threw himself on the bed, and seemed to

have lost all self-control in these moments of bitter sorrow.

Hannah begged, soothed, remonstrated, till, seeing how

vain were all her efforts, she snatched Elizabeth off the bed,

and, still holding her in her arms, hurried out of the room.

Mr. Fountainee, whose passionate grief gave its own strength

c

to any other feeling that might be called forth at the moment,

felt greatly incensed at Hannah's thus taking the child from

horn, and, after impressing a kiss on the lifeless lips of his

lamented wife, he followed Hannah in quest of his daughter.

Once more did he feed his griefs and indulge the bitterness

of his affliction by bestowing on the child those hearty but

rude caresses which demonstrated the strong feelings of affection

so characteristic of the man, and protested that to the

last day of his life he would do all that' her mother desired

should be done for her, or he wished he might never see her

more if he failed.

Now that he had quitted the chamber of death Hannah did

not again attempt to take from horn the child ; and, by giving

way to horn in this, she obtained his consent to do all that

was necessary on so sad an occasion.

CHAPTER III.

Behold,

Although the print be little, the whole matter

And copy of the father : eye, nose, lip,

The trick of his frown, his forehead ; nay, the valley,

The pretty dimples of his chin and check, his smiles,

The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger.

Shakspeare.

Children blessings seem, but torments are,

When young our folly, and when old our fear.

Otway.

From the hour Hannah had committed the child to his

arms, as Mr. Fountainee stood by the bedside of his dying

wife, Elizabeth became her father's favourite. It was for

Elizabeth, on his occasional journeys to Exeter, he ever

brought home some pretty toy or ornament for her dress.

For Elizabeth he bred a fine Newfoundland dog, as a sort of

rough guardian for her, like himself. And (as soon as she

could possibly be trusted on it) it was for Elizabeth he broke

in and trained the most beautiful bay pony, with its silky

flowing mane and its long tail, ever seen in the neighbourhood

; and on its back he delighted to mount his darling

child, who, in person, temper, and character, was so like

himself.

On Elizabeth he doated, she was his openly avowed favourite.

Yet this preference was principally indulged with

a view to the gratification of his own feelings, for in all

things else in respect to her and her sisters, Martha and

Amy, he felt it must not be that the younger should be

served before the elder of his house.

Deep as had been the impression made on Mr. Fountainee

by his wife's death, it too soon wore away. All the originally

good and strong feelings of his nature had been called up,

but they did not produce any lasting effects. It was now,

my mother used to say, he especially suffered from the want

of a proper education. He had no pursuits worthy of 

f in which to employ the long and tedious days in the life

of a country gentleman. He had no desirable society. He

had for too many years ruled with arbitrary sway among an

inferior sort of company — inferior, at least, in mid and

manners — to seck better now, or even to relish it when it

came in his way. For, like most men of station who give

themselves up to comparatively low company, he felt awkward

and even abashed in a higher circle. That want of

ready complaisance also which he could not exact from his

better bred equals, he was too apt to fancy into a want of

due respect to himself, and hence arose so many bickering

and discontents that at last a morbid feeling about others

ate itself into his very heart, and he looked on his most independent

neighbours as enemies, in the midst of whose

country it was his lot to live.

This unhappy estrangement from the best of the neighbouring

gentry had, in process of time, as may well be supposed,

a very injurious effect on Mr. Fountainee's daughters.

The few ladies who had been intimate with their mother

found little temptation to continue their friendship at a

house where there was no one but such a man as Mr. Fountain

to give them reception. They gradually, therefore,

dropped his acquaintance, or at least their visits, and the

girls from their very childhood became accustomed to no

better society than the fox-hunting, punch-drinking squires

I have already described. Some gentleman farmer, however,

of more than ordinary note was occasionally introduced to

them ; for, although Mr. Fountainee took no active part in

farming himself, yet, by means of a favourite hind or bailiff,

he assumed the character of a patron of agriculture, and had

more than one valuable farm of his own that \\a Vs^.V "^

hand.

c 2

By degrees, and in no very long time, Mr. Fountainee shook

off his sorrow. Yet, though his feelings were strong as ever

on the subject of a son, he never married again. But in all

things he was a man of contradictions. His natural dispositions

were perpetually at war with his acquired habits. At

different periods of his life he had shown a strong sense of

his errors, and a wish to become a better man ; and, though

neither wanting in courage nor energy of character, and

equal to any sudden effort, however great or painful, yet he

wanted patience to render it effectual ; he was incapable of

the discipline necessary for a sustained exertion. Hence

could he never accomplish the task of reforming himself.

Whenever his own reflections pressed too importunately upon

horn, he shook them off as intruders, and once more returned

to his old habits. Hence it was that his remorse for his unkindness

to Mrs. Fountainee, which, combined with his sorrow

for her death, had called up such a tempest of grief within

his soul, so soon passed away, and was in a little while as if

it had never been.

My mother never for a moment forgot her promise to her

deceased mistress, and during the first year or two, except

when Elizabeth was in the parlour with the Squire, the

children were constantly under her care. But it was not

always to be thus with them, for in less than three years

after his wife's death Mr. Fountainee formed a very strange

resolution, which he failed not to communicate to my mother,

who (even as his wife had predicted) was entirely in his confidence,

much respected by horn, and, all things considered,

had as much influence over horn as she could reasonably expect,

for on this head her expectations had never been so

sanguine as those of poor Mrs. Fountainee.

One evening the Squire was sitting in the oak parlour,

with only his two favourite dogs, when he sent for my

mother. Little Miss Elizabeth was playing in a corner of

the room with a new baby-house, which, on the previous day,

he had brought her from Exeter, where he had been at the

quarter sessions on his duties as a magistrate.

Hannah," he said, as my mother entered the room, " shut

the door and come and sit down by me ; I want to talk with

you." She obeyed.

I want to talk with you about the education of my

daughters."

Exceedingly delighted at hearing this, and at the very

Kind manner in which the Squire seemed prepared to enter

on the subject, my mother told horn it was the one nearest to

her own heart, as her dear lady had expressed so much

anxiety about it, and had given her some instructions as to

the course she wished to be pursued.

Ay, very well ; I dare say those instructions were all

very good," said the Squire, in not quite so encouraging a

tone as my mother could have wished. " But my poor wife

could not know the plan I have in view for the children.

Hannah, you know well how earnestly I have desired to have

a son. An estate like mine, and I the only surviving man of

my family, ought to have an heir. Three petticoats, Hannah,

you know, cannot make one coat ; but yet Ido not complain ;

for that child in the corner there is very precious to me ; I'd

not lose her for a dozen boys ; yet I ought to have an heir,

and an heir I am determined to have, who shall be a Fountain."



Hannah was about to speak ; but he interrupted her.

Not a word, Hannah," he said ; " I know what you would

advise me — to marry again ; but I will not ; on that head my

mid is made up — I shall never get a woman like that again, '

added he, looking up at the portrait of his wife, which, at

that time, hung over the chimney in the oak parlour ; " she

never thwarted me, Hannah ; she was all gentleness, all

goodness, though I was not at all times the kindest to her.

But I will not put another in her place ; no, I'll not put that

affront upon her memory. I may desire you, as Ido now, to

fill that chair that was my wife's, and I may put you, as I

have done, over my house and household, as mistress of both ;

but that is my pleasure, Hannah, and not your right, and I

could turn you out again whenever I pleased. But I could

not do so with a new Mrs. Fountainee, and I will have no

woman claim any authority in my house, or over me, by

right. The only woman who ever deserved to have any

authority under this roof laid aside all claim to it for my

sake. I believe it is better for myself I should not many

again, for I know I should be constantly comparing the

second wife with the first, and I should tell her I did not

like her or her ways half so well, and that would make the

house too hot for us ; so no more of marrying for me. And

now hear my plan."

My mother assured horn she was all attention.

You know Scripture, Hannah," he continued. " You and

your mistress dearly loved Scripture. It says, ' Thou shalt

not prefer the younger before the elder born,' and Martha is

my eldest born, Hannah ; I intend her to be my boy. I

intend her, at my death, to have the old mansion-house, all

my estate in land, and whatever else a son and heir would

inherit, well tied up in entail, and whoever marries Martha

shall take the name of Fountainee, or forfeit every penny I

bequeath to her. I'll warrant me that no man who takes

the girl will quarrel with the name ; it will not be a dry

fountain that thus comes to horn, Hannah."

And the dear young ladies, Miss Amy and Miss Elizabeth

? " said my mother.

They shall be well provided for," said Mr. Fountainee.

Ten thousand pounds each will be fortune enough for there,

if they marry to my liking ; or, if they die single, so much

the better ; it will in that case all go back to my boy, Martha

not that I love her the best — far from it ; but I intend todo

justice to her as the heir male, by creation, of the Fountain

family."

Hannah, of course, could do nothing but acquiesce. Once

more she ventured to express a hope that the education of

the young ladies would be such as to enable them to sustain

with propriety and dignity, as their mother had done before

them, so very considerable a fortune.

I have not overlooked that point," said Mr. Fountainee.

Martha, who is to be my boy, must be somewhat trained

as a boy. I must have something more than the mere

woman in her. She shall learn to be a good accountant ; to

look well after the stewards books ; and give an eye to the

farms I keep in hand, and see how the cattle are managed,

and receive the rents ; and be as a master should be in his

own family, who is a country gentleman of substance ; and

she shall hunt with me, and head my table, and receive my

friends."

Miss Martha has a great spirit, sir, already," said

Hannah, " and I fear, unless you give her an education

more suited to a woman, that she will become too bold, and

get above your management."

No, no," said Mr. Fountainee, " never fear that. I know

how to break a frisky girls spirit, as easily as a young colt's.

No fear of Martha's not obeying mc."

And the other young ladies, Miss Amy and Miss Elizabeth

; surely, sir, you will send them to school ? Mrs.

Lillywhite, the clergyman's widow, who has opened a school

at Tones, would be an excellent mistress for there ; she

bears the character of being so good, religious, and conscientious

; and it was solid worth Mrs. Fountainee chiefly

desired to find in the instructress of her children. You

could not do better than send them to Mrs. Lillywhite."

Well, well, I will think about it, some day or other,

perhaps," said Mr. Fountainee. "At present, Hannah, you

can teach them, or they can teach themselves under your

direction, all I desire them to know ; and old Pitchpipe, —

what do ye call the man, who comes into the neighbourhood

here, every week, teaching music, — he may give them lessons

on the harpsichord, and they can go to the school where

young gentlemen and ladies are taught to dance, when I

take them for a few weeks to Exeter in the autumn ; they

may learn there of the Frenchman, who teaches all the

young folk how to cut their capers, and how to palaver in

the French tongue."

Such was Mr. Fountainee's plan of education for his daughters.

In vain did my mother endeavour to prevail with horn

to change it, and point out to horn that at a good school the

young people, from an early age, would have companions,

and form intimacies suited to their rank and fortune.

Don't talk nonsense to me, Hannah," said the Squire ;

you are governess enough for my daughters. And as to

company — have they not little Johnny Samford and his

mother, whenever they like it ? and Martha is fond enough

of there, Im sure."

Hannah tried to convince Mr. Fountainee that neither

Johnny Samford nor his mother, though very excellent

people, were exactly what she meant by the society into

which she had intimated it would be desirable early to introduce

his daughters ; so that the manners of young ladies,

and the habits of good breeding, might be taught them.

Mr. Fountainee, however, persisted in his plans and his

opinions ; and, as the Widow Samford and her son will play

no inconsiderable part in my story, I must here pause to say

a few words about them.

Mr. Fountainee, though tyrannical, was not an ill-natured

man : his tyranny, in reference to others, was solely exercised

where the will or the wishes of an individual, over

whom he had power, interfered with his own ; in such cases,

right or wrong, he was arbitrary. But where none of these

personal feelings interfered, he could both feel for others,

and see where injustice was inflicted or suffered, with great

impartiality ; and on more occasions than one had stepped

forward to give aid to the oppressed against the oppressor,

in a manner that was truly praiseworthy. An act of this

sort had for ever bound to horn the Widow Samford.

Her husband had been the younger son of one of the

oldest and best descended families in the West of England ;

old enough for Mr. Fountainee to avow that some of his

ancestors had intermarried with theirs. He had wedded

for love, and in secret, a young woman of great beauty but

inferior station. On its becoming known, this act of imprudence

so offended his father that old Samford, when his

son attempted to take home his bride, shut the door in his

face, and refused to see him. As the young man had been

intended for the Church, but had not taken holy orders, he

was of no calling. Thus then was he at once cast out to

utter destitution.

Fortunately for horn, his bride had been an intimate friend

and schoolfellow of Mrs. Fountainee. To that amiable lady,

therefore, she at once applied for aid and counsel in her

distress ; and, in consequence of his wife's earnest solicitation,

Mr. Fountainee interfered, and talked to old Samford.

Yet, though he somewhat relented, he would do nothing

more than bestow on his disobedient son a small farm, and a

very small sum to stock it. And thus the scholar and the

gentleman, pressed by poverty and by his father's anger,

was compelled to renounce the Church, for which he had

been educated, and to begin life as a farmer, sorely against

his will.

In less than twelve months his wife brought horn a son ;

and, although this little one added another motive to his

industry, Mr. Samford never could reconcile his feelings to

the hard lot which, by his own imprudence, he had certainly

brought upon himself. His health became affected by his

perpetual dissatisfaction ; and on hearing that his father had

died, leaving all his immense wealth to his eldest brother,

and had cut horn off with one hundred pounds, branding horn,

even in his will, for his disobedience, it fairly broke his

heart. He was carried to his grave before this legacy of a

father's wrath could be paid to him. The eldest son, who

either felt or affected to feel equally indignant at his brothers

marriage, being neither prompted by pity nor affection, made

no advances towards his widowed sister-in-law, or her fatherless

boy ; although that boy was his own nephew, and, as he

was himself an unmarried man, presumptive heir to his

great estate. All he did was to intimate to the widow,

through his steward or man of business, that he was ready

to pay the legacy on demand.

Here again Mr. Fountainee interposed with good effect for

the widow. He so far conquered his pride as to do an act he

deemed beneath the consideration he owed to himself ■ for he

waited on the brother-in-law, and with his rough but strong

power of eloquence so well pleaded the cause of the widow,

that he shamed his rich adversary into the promise of doing

something equivalent to the value of one hundred pounds, in

addition to the legacy ; for he still obstinately maintained

that any further countenance of a woman, or her offspring,

through whose marriage into the family he declared his

father had been hastened to the grave, and his brother had

died broken-hearted, would be a violation of all natural

respect to the memory of the dead. Thus did Avarice and

Meanness cover their hardheartedness with an affectation of

piety and justice.

Mr. Fountainee never wasted a word of remark on sophistry

such as this. But he represented to the miser that the best

service he could render his sister-in-law would be to send her

some man, from one of his own large farms, who was trustworthy,

and capable of superintending and making the most

of the widow's little property. Accordingly, Mr. Samford

consented to part from what he valued less than the additional

hundred pounds — namely, an elderly man who understood

farming, and who soon proved himself to be far more

efficient than the late master of the land had been in its cultivation

; and very differently did the small farm thrive

under his management to what it had done under that of the

deceased poor scholar.

The widow Samford and her little boy got on very well ;

and, as she lived not more than a mile from Fountainee Hall,

she and her child were frequent guests at that hospitable

mansion. By the advice of Mr. Fountainee, her little boy was

to be brought up to farm the small estate which at her death

would one day be his own. This lad was born in the same

month and year as Mr. Fountainee's eldest daughter Martha ;

both had been christened at the same time; and Mr. and Mi's.

Fountainee had stood sponsors for the infant boy not many

weeks before its unhappy father died. All these circumstances,

and the regard felt by Mrs. Fountainee for the widow, had

caused a great intimacy to subsist between the two families,

which did not end with the life of Mrs. Fountainee ; on the

contrary, it rather increased.

Mr. Fountainee, by having made himself so busy in Mi's.

Samford's affairs, and rendered so much service to her and

her fatherless child, experienced such pleasant feelings in his

own bosom whenever he saw her, that almost unconsciously

he became warmly attached to tho person of whom he could

never think without self-satisfaction. For although Mrs.

Samford was a woman of most simple education, very homely

manners, knew nothing of the world, and never approached

Mr. Fountainee but with the deferential respect of an inferior

towards a superior, yet her conversation always made the

Squire more pleased with himself for the share he had in her

well-being; and that is a charm which never fails in its effect

upon the human mid, more especially when, as in Mr.

Fountainee, the mid of the individual is a proud one.

CHAPTER IV.

These two, a maiden and a youth, were there,

Gazing — the one on all that was beneath,

Fair as herself — but the boy gazed on her ;

And both were young, and one was beautiful.

Barons Dream.

I have said that Martha and the little fatherless boy were

of the same age, and that Mr. Fountainee was his godfather.

The children were almost constantly together, and shared in

common all their childish pastimes and pursuits. I more

especially remember to have heard my mother speak of the

last twelfth-night that was kept at the Hall, the Christmas

before Mrs. Fountainee died. That night, when the young

people drew for king and queen, the lots fell to young Sam-ford

and Martha, who were declared the rightful sovereigns

of the evening and its sports.

From that evening the children seemed in a more especial

manner to consider themselves as belonging to each other,

and " my king " and "my queen " were the names they frequently

exchanged, whilst whatever playthings or little property

they possessed were in common.

Nothing could exceed the love and affection these two fair-haired

children entertained for each other. They never

quarrelled but about one thing — and that was, Martha's wish

that he should be a sailor, and would one day take her out ina

ship of his own to show her the wide sea, and the lands

that lay on the other side of it. But to this repeated wish

of Martha that he would be a man, and run away to sea,

Johnny always objected on account of his mother. What

could she do without horn ? and she wished horn to be a

farmer, though he owned he did not like it. He confessed

to Martha that often, when, in order to teach horn something

about farming, he was sent out to look after the cattle, or the

labourers in the field, he would take with horn a book from those

which had belonged to his poor father, and would dwell on

that rather than his toil. The old hind who managed for his

mother often told horn that he would be a never-boswell kind

of a farmer; and, for all he could see, his love of a book

would make horn good for nothing.

When Martha and Johnny gained the age of about fifteen

years their intimacy continued, but it began to change in its

character, for Johnny would fight other boys if they offended

Martha. And Martha would blush and colour deeply as she

talked about Johnny ; and look angry, and speak pettishly,

if any one called horn negligent or stupid about farming,

though he was certainly both ; and she always said he was

the handsomest lad and the best dancer that came to the

Hall, and the most kind and good-natured boy that ever

lived.

Thus much do I know of this youthful intimacy ; but the

next period in the history of young Samford I cannot so

closely trace. I know it more in the result than in its details.

All I can state is, that I heard my mother say there was

something in it which, at the time, appeared to the neighbours

very mysterious and incomprehensible.

Young Samford had attained his sixteenth year, and was

still no way improved as a farmer, though very much as a

self-educated lad. He had an active and resolute spirit, as

well as an ardent thirst for the acquisition of knowledge.

About the period of which I speak, he was known to have

many long and anxious consultations with his mother ; she

owned as much to one or two of her friends. All at once

Johnny Samford disappeared ; and his mother neither confessed

that she knew where he was gone nor made any outcry

about him. No one but Mr. Fountainee seemed to have

any acquaintance with the truth, for to horn, in a very short

time, the widow communicated the fact that her son was

gone abroad ; a friend of his late father had promised to

show horn favour ; and she hoped, with God's blessing, ho

would do well.

Martha, though she missed much her young companion,

yet, like his mother, made no complaint ; and never told even

Hannah, whom she so much loved, whether he had taken any

formal leave of her or not before going ; but only said, "He

will come back some day, I dare say." Fond, however, as

she had been of horn, Martha grew reserved on the subject of

her young companion ; and henceforth made no inquiry about

horn, or, at least, none openly, when she saw his mother with

other persons at the Hall.

Time rolled on, and not much improvement took place in

the education of the young ladies. Martha became an adept

in all those masculine pursuits and occupations which Mr.

Fountainee had so early designed for her. Miss Amy, who

was as self-willed and as high-spirited as Miss Martha, but

had not her good sense or steadiness of feeling, grew very

wild and giddy ; and, having no one placed over her to keep

her in anything like discipline at an early age, she soon set

my mother at defiance, and altogether got above her management.

For whenever she would endeavour to advise her, or

to interfere with her wishes, she would scorn her, and laugh

in her face ; telling her, that, if papa had wanted to rule her,

he should have given her a better governess than the housekeeper,

who had a right to order the servants but not Mr.

Fountainee's daughters. And then away would Miss Amy go,

and hoyden and romp with the young men of all sorts, some

much beneath her ; for, as she grew up, Miss Amy was quite

a rustic coquette, and liked first one young man and then

another, and did not know where to fix ; and yet seemed

eager to catch at any one who would dance, and talk, and bo

more familiar with her than it became one of her birth and

fortune to admit. But the poor creature had neither education

nor control, and sad was the end of all this for the unhappy

Amy, as will too soon appear.

Elizabeth Fountainee was the most favoured and the most

fortunate of all the daughters in respect to education ; yet

even hers was not such as it should have been, or as her

mother would have desired for her. I have said she was her

father's darling ; and seeing how handsome she grew, how

quick were her parts, and what a fine ear and voice she had

for music, he determined to give her two or three years at a

boarding-school, first-rate in point of tends and fashion. But

at this school, quite contrary to the views her anxious mother

had expressed on the subject, accomplishments and not discipline

of the mid, not solid improvement, were made the

first objects of instruction.

There, the beautiful, the clever, the favourite daughter

(who was already called " a great fortune ") of the rich Mr.

Fountainee was flattered, and praised, and set above her more

humble companions, both by mistress, teachers, and masters;

all having an eye to their own interest in thus contributing

to the ruin of an already spoiled child.

At the age of seventeen, Elizabeth returned home highly

accomplished in all the arts and learning of the most fashionable

school in the West of England ; and as vain as an overestimate

of her own beauty and talents could possibly make

her ; quite as self-willed as either of her sisters, and as

proud as Mr. Fountainee himself, to whom she bore no less a

resemblance in feature than in all the marked characteristics,

and those not the most worthy, that had ever distinguished

him.

Yet, with all these follies, she retained that native sweetness

of disposition which gave an indescribable charm to her

manners, and absolutely fascinated all who came near her.

None but those who lived under the same roof with her, and

saw her in the daily intercourse of her own family, would,

at this early period, have suspected the existence of faults

such as she possessed, and those so deeply rooted in her

character.

The young ladies had now arrived at the age of womanhood,

Martha being twenty-four years old ; Amy twenty-two,

and Elizabeth seventeen. I have already said enough

to show they had not the advantage of any desirable society

of their own sex. The habits and manners of Mr. Fountain,

and the way in which he let his daughters run about

and romp with the boys, had in fact kept aloof all the respectable

ladies of the neighbourhood.

None but inferior persons (except Mrs. Samford) of the

female sex ever visited at the house, and that but seldom :,

whilst of wild, sporting young men and fox-hunting squires

there was no lack ; and Miss Martha had now for some years

headed her father's table.

This almost exclusive society of the male sex had its usual

effects. From the bolder subjects of their conversation, and

the stronger mid of man, the girls learned to be above the

frivolities of their sex. But, whilst their tone of mid became

firmer, they gained with it more confidence than is

desirable in the manners of women in early youth ; whilst

timidity and that retiring modesty which draws love after it

as it retreats was lost ; and the Misses Fountainee soon became,

what most women become who are almost exclusively

accustomed to the society of the other sex, unsuitable companions

for their own, which they were either prone to hold

in contempt or entirely to disrelish. These remarks, however,

do not so much apply to Elizabeth Fountainee as to her

sisters ; for she had formed some female friendships at the

boarding-school that will be noticed in due place.

CHAPTER V.

Baptista. Now,

Signor Petruchio ; how speed you with my daughter ?

Pet. How but well, sir ? how but well ?

It were impossible I should speed amiss.

Bap. Why, how now, daughter Kate ; in your dumps ?

Katherine. Call you me daughter ? Now, 1 promise you,

You have showed a tender, fatherly regard,

To have me wed to one half lunatic,

A madcap ruffian, and a swearing jack.

Shakspeare.

It was on a summers evening, soon after Miss Elizabeth

had returned from her last half-year's schooling, that Squire

Fountainee sat smoking a pipe, with the punch-bowl before

horn, in the oak parlour, which looked out on the lawn, and

Miss Martha was playing with a favourite puppy in the

window-seat.

All at once Mr. Fountainee said, " Martha, my boy " (for

so was he apt to call her, more especially when he was in a

good humour, or had anything pleasant to propose to her) —

Martha, my boy, I have taught you many a good thing —

and you have learned freely and well, I will say that of you,

and have never been squeamish and cowardly like some

foolish women ; you can sit a horse or leap a gate as well as

any young woman in the county — better. And for looking

after my farm, and the rearing of poultry, and seeing that

the servants make the most of there at market, I don't

know your fellow. Yet one thing, Martha, you can't do to

oblige me — you can't smoke with me, or help me on with

my punch, and so I am often left to what I never could

relish — my pipe and my bowl without a boon companion.

But I've thought of a way of mending the matter, and doing

us both a service — finding a husband for you, and a companion

for me, all under one, Martha. What say you to

that?"

Martha, who had never before received the least hint from

her father on the subject, looked up as if doubtful whether

he were in earnest or in jest; and she did not look best

pleased, saying only, " Sir !" in reply to his proposal.

Mr. Fountainee, who expected nothing but the most ready

acquiescence, was by no means satisfied with the air or the

tone in which this interjectional monosyllable was pronounced

; and immediately a cloud of anger passed over his

brow, and settled into a most ominous frown. Martha,

taken by surprise, and having no desire to abide the bursting

of the storrn which the frown indicated, rose up, blushed —

but more with anger than with any other feeling — and prepared

to leave the room. Yet she paused, and said, in a

better temper than her first emotion betrayed, " Sir, you

cannot be in earnest ; so very serious a thing, and so

sudden " and, immediately retreating towards the door,

added some excuse for leaving him.

Well, well," said Mr. Fountainee, " it's always the way

with young maids to blush and say ' No at the first mention

of a husband. But as he is to take your name, and not you

his, Martha, I did not expect such nonsense from you. But

come hither, wench, and kiss your old father, and thank horn

for looking about for you."

Martha approached, yet not very well pleased, as she did

not exactly know how to treat the proposal — whether at this

moment she should laugh at it, or defy it outright. Mr.

Fountainee took her hand with kindness, told her she was

well-favoured and tall, but not so pretty as Elizabeth ; then

chucked her under the chin, and bade her look up, protesting

that he knew how to choose a man for her who should.

bo both proper and tall. He then bade Martha go ; but, no

sooner had she gained the door of the apartment, than he

hallooed after her — " Martha, my girl, you may as well

know who it is — Slashing Dick is the man I intend for your

husband."

The moment Martha left the oak parlour she flew to the

housekeeper's apartment (for on all occasions the girls — even

Amy — would come to Hannah in their troubles), unable to

conceal the state of fear and agitation into which she had

been thrown by her father's proposal. She threw herself

into the great chair that stood by the side *of the old

chimney, and, heedless of the presence of Hannah's husband,

exclaimed, " Oh, Hannah ! what shall I do ? How shall I

tell you what my father has been saying to me ? Advise me

what to do, or I shall go distracted ! '

Hannah was surprised ; but, before she could speak,

Thomas exclaimed — " I warrant mo, master has been promising

Miss Martha a husband who is not to her mid; I

am afraid it is Slashing Dick."

"It cannot be," said Hannah ; "he is old enough to be

Miss Martha's father."

It is indeed that horrid man !" cried the unhappy Martha;

but I will die rather than have hir n; I will at once go

back to the parlour, and so I will tell my father to his face."

And up jumped the high-spirited girl, and would have kept

her word.

Hannah interposed, " 0, do not, do not, dear Miss Martha,

do not so anger your father by contradiction ; all may yet be

well."

Not with me, Hannah, I assure you," said Martha ;

unless I could hope my father did but jest, and did not

really mean to make me wretched."

And yet," said the kind-hearted house-steward thoughtfully,

" I fear it is so. There is no single gentleman comes

here so often as Squire Dickons. They call horn Slashing

Dick all the country round, because he is tall, strong, and

muscular, and he glories in the strength of his arm."

And of his skull too, Thomas," said Hannah ; " for no

man ever had so many broken heads as Squire Dickons.

Indeed, it was one of these which master gave horn (when

they quarrelled, and he was brought to this house half dead)

that ever after made them such good friends, because my

master took such care of horn till the wound was cured."

Only half cured, Hannah ?" said Thomas, " for Squire

Dickons must be crack-brained still to think of Miss

Martha."

He think of her, indeed," said Hannah ; " he, old enough

to be her father ; a widower himself, and with three children ;

I never heard of such folly ! Surely, Mr. Fountainee cannot

think seriously of such a match."

"I do not know," said Thomas. " Squire Dickons has one

of the largest landed estates in the West. He can can a

borough when he chooses, and he can count many generations

of gentility ; and you know that Squire Fountainee thinks

even more of good blood than of broad lands ; and that has

something to do with it, or I am much mistaken."

Martha again vehemently protested that she would never

have horn, and it was with great difficulty Hannah prevailed

with her not to irritate her father by an open opposition at

once, but to await a more favourable opportunity for remonstrance

; and this was the beginning of a long course of

domestic disquietude and trouble, which soon grew from bad

to worse. I pass in silence the angry struggles, the quarrels,

the bitterness, the undutiful demeanour on the one hand,

and the obstinacy and tyranny on the other, which subsisted

between father and daughter, when both were determined

and neither would yield.

At length these contests grew to such a height, that Mr.

Fountainee declared his daughter should be married whether

she liked it or not ; ordered the settlements to be drawn, and

the wedding clothes to be made, and bade Squire Dickons como

and take a bowl of punch with horn the next afternoon, and

he would teach horn how to go a-courting to his daughter.

After dinner Martha was ordered to attend her father in

the oak parlour. On entering, to her extreme surprise, she

found his friend with him.

Mr. Fountainee, without a pause, rose up, took her by the

hand, and, leading her up to the Squire, said, " Sir, this

young lady is my eldest daughter, the heir to my estate, for

so have I made her ; whoever takes her must take my name

along with her. She has many faults and follies, but some

good points in her, for all that ; wants a little breaking, and

has been too much indulged. She has had no love follies in

her head for any man, and will make a good wife when she

has had experience enough to know what is good for herself.

I have done my duty by her, to the best of my judgment, as

D

a father ; and I now give you the promise of lor with this

hand (putting Martha's into the Squire's), and I doubt not

you will do your duty to her as a good husband ; and, if you

did not, I should know how to make you. But I fear not

that. Martha, none of these airs, if you please ; speak up,

and receive this gentleman with civility. Mr. Dickons, have

you nothing, sir, to say to a young lady who is thus given to

you P

Say, sir ?" replied Squire Dickons ; " why, yes, sir, I

have to say, sir, I am very much obliged to her — that is, sir,

to you. And, upon my word, ma'am, I have not seen a finer

woman than yourself since the last race-ball. Ma'am, permit

me to salute you." He did so ; the custom of the day rendered

it but as a common compliment. " Indeed I shall love

you very much, and make you a good husband. And I hear

great things of you, ma'am ; that you can look well to the

household, and ride after the hounds, better than any young

woman in the county. Upon my word, ma'am, you are just

the woman for me, and I the man for you ; and so there is

no more to be done but to sign and seal, and I am ready for

church any day you wish mc."

Martha was taken so completely by surprise, that, what

with fear and anger struggling in her bosom for the mastery,

she knew not how to reply. She was, for the moment, absolutely

dumb with astonishment. Yet she rallied, and prepared

to burst on the unabashed Squire with an indignant

answer, when her father fixed his stern eye upon her in a

manner that made her shrink and tremble. A daughter maybe

disobedient ; she may be pert and unruly ; but there is

something in the legitimate authority of a parent and a man,

though arbitrary, when strongly enforced, that is almost

irresistible with a child. Hence is it, that, although children

sometimes deceive their parents, they seldom brave their

determination with an open and resolved contradiction of

their will.

So was it with Martha ; her father had never before been

thus calmly, severely determined. She could have argued

with horn, had he still argued with her, till both were wearied ;

but she could not resist his absolute commands ; she could

not stand firm in her purpose when an eye so stern was fixed

upon her face. She was awed, overpowered ; a choking

sensation seized her ; she felt she could no longer support

herself in such a presence ; and, snatching away her hand

from Squire Dickons, without uttering a word she retreated

from the parlour, closed the door, and, running to the housekeeper's

room, rushed up to my mother, threw herself upon

her neck, and fell into so strong a fit of hysterics that it was

some time before the alarmed Hannah could restore her to

herself, or learn what had happened.

No sooner was sense and speech restored, than she threw

herself at Hannah's feet, and would not be raised from that

position (so humbling is deep heartfelt distress) till she had

implored her as a friend to save her ; to think of some way

to save her from being sacrificed to a man she abhorred. "O,

Hannah ! " she said, " think what you can do for me ; for my

dear mother's sake ! — do not give me up ! For the sake of

her who on her deathbed commended her children to your

care, try to save the most unhappy of there all from a fate

that will be worse than death ! "

Alas ! my dear young lady," said Hannah, " what can I

do ? Yet I will speak to Mr. Fountainee, and will try to do

my best. But do endeavour to take rest, or you will be in a

fever, after such a fit as you have had. Go to bed — compose

your spirits ; pray to God for his blessing ; and, whilst you

seek your Heavenly Father, I will try to move your earthly

parent to show some pity to his child."

Martha retired to bed, and cried herself to sleep. The

Squire was gone when Hannah sought Mr. Fountainee ; but,

finding horn in a very obdurate humour, she wisely withdrew,

and resolved to watch the first opportunity that might be

more favourable for her purpose. More than half the influence

which Hannah had maintained over Mr. Fountainee arose

from whatever exertion she made of it being always well

timed. The following day was Sunday, when the incident

occurred I am about to mention, as it is of import in my narrative.



Though, in respect to the young ladies, an attention to

strict decorum was neglected, yet pride was not 'forgotten ;

so that on every Sabbath, when the family went to church to

hear old Parson Nixon read and preach, it was always in the

state and ceremony of those old-fashioned times. First rode

the Squire with his eldest daughter, Miss Martha, by his

side ; each mounted on a superb horse, with saddles covered

with crimson velvet and silver mountings. Next came Hannah,

with Miss Amy on a pillion behind her; and (before

she went to boarding-school) Miss Elizabeth used to follow

d 2

so mounted behind my father, Thomas ; but now, on her

return home, she insisted on having a horse to herself.

Sometimes, after church, Mr. Fountainee and the ladies

would linger a little at the porch in the churchyard, to gossip

with such of the neighbours as were their familiar friends,

or with the farmers and their wives ; and not unfrequently

to give a kind word to the poor. For, though pride was the

besetting sin of the Fountains, yet it was principally shown

towards their equals or their superiors. The poor had no

cause to complain ; for they were only too good to many who

sometimes sadly abused their generosity and kindness.

Parson Nixon, who read in a voice so thick and indistinct

that not one word in ten he spoke could be understood, had

on this Sunday got through the service in his usual manner

and tone, and was just mounting the pulpit-stairs for his

twenty minutes sermon (Mr. Fountainee, as Squire of the

parish, forbidding horn ever to exceed that time) ; the pitch-pipe

was giving out the key to the psalmody of a village

choir, when there was a sudden stir and bustle in the church ;

and the attention of the congregation was turned on two

most indecorously late corners, who walked into the church,

and seated themselves in the pew, on that day empty, next

to Mr. Fountainee 's.

Some raised their eyes, others peeped over the pews, all

were curious to see who it could be that had thus disturbed

everybody and arrived at the end of the prayers, to hear

Parson Nixon get through a discourse, which when delivered

by horn, though short in reality, ever seemed long and wearisome.

Only poor, drooping Martha did not raise her head

from the prayer-book, whose leaves she was turning over,

possibly with other thoughts than ought to have occupied

her in that place ; and Squire Fountainee took no notice of the

late corners, for he was already nodding ; half awake, half

asleep ; the weather being sultry, and the church warm and

close.

The service for the day at length came to an end. All had

risen from their knees, and Mr. Fountainee was waking up

from his nap, as he usually did at the termination of Parson

Nixon discourse, when he observed Martha start, and a deep

blush overspread her whole face, whilst there was an air of

pleased confusion about her eyes that was very extraordinary.

In another moment he observed similar marks of confusion in

the face of a young and very handsome man, in the next pew,

who wore the uniform of a naval officer, and whose eyes were

unquestionably fixed on Martha. By the side of this youth

stood, with her head raised, and her countenance bright with

smiles, the Widow Samford, who, by nodding, kissing her

hand, and moving towards the pew-door, seemed to speak her

impatience to introduce to Mr. Fountainee his godson, her own

darling Johnny, now come home to her from sea (having been

on service on a foreign coast) a first lieutenant in the Royal

Navy, and for the present in the command of a ship.

No sooner did Martha recognise horn, than, surprised by

the excess of her joy into a momentary forgetfulness of all

caution, she turned to her father, and (as the tide of recollection,

connected with the days of her childhood, rushed

upon her) exclaimed in a tone of exultation, " That is my

king ! " The expression caught the attention of the young

officer ; and, even though in the church, it was impossible he

could do other than softly respond to it, " That is my queen,"

in a voice that her ear, quickened by her feelings, drank in

with delight.

Not a word more was said, not a look more was interchanged,

for by this time Martha saw Squire Dickons

coming towards her to ask her how she did, and to tell her

it was a fine day, and she was too much afraid of horn and

her father to give any more signs of recognition to the

wearer of the blue coat with the gold lace.

Whether Mr. Fountainee thought there was nothing more

than natural in his daughter's joy on thus meeting again the

companion of her childhood, Ido not know ; but, whatever

might have been his opinion, he was not a man to turn his

back on his godson, or on an old friend, and when he got

into the churchyard, and began to talk to the Captain (for so

he would persist in calling Lieutenant Samford), he shook

horn heartily by the hand, and gave his mother joy on her

gallant son's success, and concluded by asking them both

home to dinner. As soon as the punch began to circulate,

young Samford, who shunned the bowl as much as civility

would let horn do so, related " all the portance of his travel's

history " to Mr. Fountainee, and told horn by what friends and

what steps he had become what he was ; the several actions

in which he had been engaged were not forgotten, nor the

prizes he had been so fortunate as to make, nor the prize-money.

His success in the last particular had determined

horn, he said, to take his mother out of her little farm, to let.

it on lease, and to settle her in the town where she was born

Kingsbridge. And all this he did in a very few weeks

after. The Widow Samford, proud alike of the courage, the

handsome person, and the goodness of her son, was both

thankful and happy; and thus settled in her new home I

must for the present leave her.

CHAPTER VI.

It makes me mad, — day, night, late, early,

At home, abroad, alone, in company,

Waking or sleeping, still my care hath been

To have her matched : and having now provided

A gentleman of worthy parentage,

Of fair demesnes, hopeful and nobly train'd,

Stuffed (as they say) with honourable parts ;

Proportioned as one's heart could wish a man,

And then to have a wretched, puling fool,

A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,

To answer — I'll not wcd — I cannot love,

lam too young — I pray you pardon me; —

But, an you will not wed, I'll pardon you,

Graze where you will, you shall not house with me ;

Look tot, think on't, I do not use to jest, —

Thursday is near, lay hand on heart, advise ;

An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend,

An you be not, hang, beg, starve, die i' the streets,

For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee !

Shakspeare.

Some little time after these events had occurred, Mr. Fountain

one day summoned Miss Martha to his presence, and

told her he had long enough indulged her in her delays, and

that she must make up her mid, for he had fixed the 

for that day week. On hearing this Martha turned

white as death, and was mute with surprise.

Martha," cried Mr. Fountainee, " what is this ? You look

more like one who has received a sentence for execution than

like a girl going to be made — what all girls long to be made

a wife."

Martha summoned up resolution enough to say — " Sir, I

feel as if you had passed upon me a sentence of death, or

worse than death ; for if you marry me to that man — I

cannot bear to name his hated name — I must be for ever

miserable. You will destroy your child."

For a moment her father stood gazing on her with astonishment.

But his silence was only like that preceding the

thunder-storm ; for again did the fury of Mr. Fountainee's

anger rage, and again was Martha overawed. The father's

voice in violent accents, and the deep sobs and exclamations

of the daughter, made themselves audible even in the housekeeper's

room, and so much alarmed Hannah that, shaking

in every limb with fear, she hastened to the scene of contest.

Her arrival was greeted by a share of the tempest falling on

her own head, for Mr. Fountainee now bitterly reproached her

with having spoiled Martha by her indulgence, and ended by

commanding Hannah to see all prepared against that day

week for his daughter's marriage.

"0, sir ! not in a week," exclaimed his daughter. " A

criminal who is to die has longer time than that allowed for

preparation. 0, my father ! if I must be sacrificed give me,

give me a little space to prepare my mid, if possible, for

submission ; for my mother's sake, hear me ; lam her child ;

think, were she living, that she would now plead to you forme,

and do not deny me so poor a request — so short a

respite."

Mr. Fountainee wavered, for even in his most stormy mood

he never heard his deceased wife named with absolute indifference,

though it failed in moving horn to give up any purpose

on which he had determined.

"0, sir ! " said Hannah, seeing that he wavered, "do not

say in a week ! do not ; and besides," she continued, resuming,

though respectfully, a little of the importance of the mistress

of the household, a character that had been assigned her by

Mr. Fountainee himself, " you have ordered me to have everything

prepared for this marriage in a manner worthy your

eldest daughter's union with one to whom you will give your

name and the heirship of your estate. I will strictly obey

all your commands, but I must have due time allowed me

for their fulfilment ; lam neither young nor strong, and it

is impossible I can have all prepared so soon."

The manner with which Hannah contrived to blend respect

towards himself with great firmness in maintaining the reasonable

points of her own argument at last, as in all former

contests, prevailed ; and Mr. Fountainee now yielded to the

housekeeper's wishes what neither his daughter's tears nor

the mention of her late mother could effect.

Well, Hannah," he replied, " if I kill you with fagging

day and night to get all things ready for this foolish girls

wedding I shall never meet with your like again. You shall

have what you ask for. Name your own time. How much

do you want ? "

A month, sir, at the least."

A month ! " exclaimed Mr. Fountainee ; " that's more than

I intended. But I will not go from my word. Well, then,

this day month shall be the time ; let me have all ready on

your part, Hannah, and I will take care that what the

lawyers and the parson have to do is not behindhand."

Martha now rose and approached her father, but, perceiving

her intent, he broke away from her, and left her on the floor,

with Hannah to comfort her as well as she could.

From the hour of this last interview Martha gave over all

thoughts of moving her obdurate father to anything like a

relenting mood. She permitted all the fine clothes and jewels

he had ordered to be brought to her, but only said, over andover

again, as she looked on them, " Hannah, I shall never

wear them." But if questioned further she would give no

answer whatever, which, together with her deeply dejected

air, so alarmed Hannah that she began to fear Miss Martha

had some rash thoughts in her head, and would make away

with herself before the day arrived. Mr. Fountainee, however,

though she told horn her fears, remained deaf to all

persuasion, and said it was only a trick of Martha to alarm

horn ; but old birds were not to be caught by chaff, and it

should not frighten him.

Hannah then conjured tho youthful Elizabeth, who was

tender-hearted, to watch her sister, and try to comfort her.

But it was all in vain ; Martha only answered her attempts

at consolation with sighs and tears : and as to the lover,

Squire Dickons, he knew well enough Miss Fountainee did

not fancy horn, but he was repeatedly assured by the old

gentleman she would do so one of these days ; and so he left

to her father the office of courting her, and only paid a few

formal visits when the family were present and nothing particular

could be said. It is but justice to Squire Dickons to

say, that, although a blunt, fox-hunting, single-stick playing

gentleman, who did not much understand the feelings or

manners of young ladies, he was of a kind heart and an affectionate

disposition ; so that, could he have known the truth,

he would not have desired Miss Martha should be made

miserable on his account. But Squire Fountainee, who looked

on his daughter's refusal as the effect of whim alone, kept

horn completely in the dark.

On the fifth morning of the last week previous to the intended

marriage Mr. Fountainee took his seat at the breakfast-table

with Amy and Elizabeth. He had always been particular

that his eldest daughter should head his table, make the

tea, and do all those offices that had formerly belonged to her

poor mother, in the parlour. Martha did not appear as

usual.

She is giving way to the sulks, I dare say," said Mr.

Fountainee, " and is not yet risen."

Indeed, sir, but she is," replied Miss Elizabeth. " She

was up this morning the first in the house, for she woke me

by rising almost as soon as it was day, and said she felt so

feverish in bed, and her head ached so, she would lie no

longer."

Is this the fact ?" said Mr. Fountainee.

Yes, sir," answered Miss Elizabeth ; "it is the fact ; and

I soon after saw her cross the lawn, and go towards her

poultry-house."

Well, then, I suppose," said Mr. Fountainee, " she will bo

back soon ; but I shall not wait for her. Do you, Elizabeth,

make the tea."

The breakfast proceeded, after he had directed that Miss

Fountainee should be sought for, and ordered to return to the

house without delay. Half-an-hour passed and she did not

appear, but Hannah did. Her death-like looks spoke her

errand.

Mr. Fountainee started up. "Good God!" he exclaimed,

what has happened ? — my daughter ! "

Can nowhere be found," said Hannah. " And O, sir, I

fear the worst ! For some days past she has been in a state

bordering on distraction. And 0, sir, to think how often she

said she should never wear those bridal clothes ! "

Mr. Fountainee turned deadly pale : he seemed awe-struck.

What his conscience might have whispered to horn I know

not ; but he did not stay to talk ; he hastily left the room,

and soon showed what were his fears by hurrying down to

the river, and sending out messengers and servants in all

directions to gain intelligence. To describe the distress, the

consternation that prevailed, would be impossible. Squire

Dickons, whose unfortunate suit had occasioned so much

misery, seemed shocked and agitated, and repeatedly expressed

the hope that Miss Fountainee had not drowned or

hanged herself to get away from horn, as there was no occasion

for it. For, if Mr. Fountainee had not urged horn to

persevere, he should long ago have withdrawn stakes ; or,

if she had only asked horn not to have her, he would have

complied, with all his heart, with her wishes.

My mother used to say, such were the pains taken that

seven parishes were on that day searched, but all without

effect. The disappearance of the young lady was no less

extraordinary than mysterious. She had been seen by no

one since Miss Amy saw her cross the lawn, towards the

poultry-house ; and neither alive nor dead was she found.

Active search continued ; and the first week after she was

missing was passed in misery : day succeeding night, and

night day, in the most distressing expectation and suspense.

At length Mr. Fountainee offered no less than five hundred

pounds reward to any who could give horn any clue whatever

by which to trace her. But it produced no effect ; not

so much as a single offer of any information was laid before

him. As he one day remarked to Hannah, in the bitterness

of his soul, it seemed as if the earth had opened to swallow

her up alive.

At the end of this terrible week of alarm and suspense, a

thought all at once darted into my mother's mid, and she

hastened to communicate it to Mr. Fountainee. " Sir," said

she, " when you were lately at Kingsbridge did you call on

Mrs. Samford?"

The Squire started from his seat ; as if by some indescribable

sympathy, the thought which so deeply weighed

on the mid of Hannah had instantly flashed on horn a

painful conviction. He clenched his hand, and in the very

agony of his feelings struck his forehead, as he exclaimed —

"It must be so ! fool that I was not to foresee this. He

has her. But tell me, woman — for I will know — where did

that villain Samford speak to her ? — where meet her ? —

where did he take her from me ? "

Hannah trembled at the sight of so much passion, and,

dropping on her knees before her infuriated master, assured

horn, as she hoped to be saved hereafter, she knew not that

Captain Samford had ever spoken to Miss Martha, or seen

her, except on that day he came with his mother into the

church, and surprised everybody by so suddenly returning

among them.

Angry as Mr. Fountainee was, nevertheless he felt she

spoke the truth. He instantly ordered four horses to be put

to the old family coach, that was never used except on occasions

of state or of great emergency ; and, setting off as if

life or death might be depending on the swiftness of his

motions, he speedily found himself before the door of the

Widow Samford at Kingsbridge.

But neither the surprise nor the disappointment of Mr.

Fountainee could be expressed when Mrs. Samford, without

showing any other signs of alarm than those which declared

what she felt for a father's distress, assured horn, in the

clearest and most unembarrassed manner, that her son had

taken leave of her on the very day after he had settled her

in her new house, and she had not seen horn since. She

then drew a letter from her pocket, and put it into Mr.

Fountainee's hand. The date was London, and three weeks

before the time of this inquiry : the contents were simple,

business-like, yet affectionate : they amounted to no more

than this — that the writer was very suddenly ordered off to

the Mediterranean, with sealed orders, and that nothing

grieved horn so much as his total inability to run down for a

day into Devon and bid adieu to his mother. So ended Mr.

Fountainee's inquiry.

It was many a long year before the fate of Martha became

known at the hall.

CHAPTER VII.

Tybalt. What wouldst thou have with me ?

Mercntio. Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine lives ; that

I mean to make bold withal ; and, as you shall use me hereafter, dry beat

the rest of the eight. Will you pluck your sword out of its pitcher by the

ears ? Make haste, lest mine be about your ears crc it be out.

Tybalt. I am for you.

Romeo. Gentle Mercuric, put thy rapier up.

Mernutio. Come, sir, your passed.

Romeo. Draw, Benvolio.

Beat down their rapiers ; gentlemen, for shame.

Forbear this outrage.

Shakspeare.

Mr. Fountainee bore this severe stroke of calamity better

than could have been expected from a man of his deep feeling

; and who had been so much to blame for the tyrannical

manner in which he had driven on the marriage. But,

although everybody gave Martha up for lost, her father

never would believe she was dead ; and always declared ho

was convinced that, one day or other, she would come back

again (like the Prodigal in the Bible) a repentant woman ;

and, from this conviction, he never altered his will ; so that,

if anything happened to horn, there was his estate settled on

Martha, just as it was before. So contradictory is the human

mid that, notwithstanding he had repeatedly threatened

Martha that, unless she married Squire Dickons, he would

cut lor off with a shilling, yet, now that she had left horn in

so dreadful a manner, and perhaps for ever, he let all he had

done for her remain just as he would have done had she

proved herself the most dutiful of daughters.

Perhaps the secret of all this might be his conscience. He

could not but know that his own tyranny had been the original

cause of so much misery, and he might think that, by now

showing a relenting and forgiving spirit, in the only way ho

could show it, to one whom he could not feel certain was

dead, he might possibly bribe Heaven to let his runaway

child come back again. Be this as it may, the Squire's

troubles did not end here ; for, in less than twelve months,

he had even yet a more serious loss to deplore in that of his

second daughter. Two or three pages will be all that is

necessary to give the details of the most prominent and painful

circumstances connected with that event.

I have but a very imperfect recollection of Miss Amy ; but

I have often seen her picture. She was quite different from

Martha, who was a dark-eyed brunette — for Amy was fair,

with light hair and blue eyes ; a round and plump form, and

a gay and joyous expression about her countenance that won

upon the stranger, and made those who knew her best

lament that one so well favoured should bo so wilful and so

wild.

When Miss Martha could no where be found, Squire

Dickons began to think he had been at a great expense in

having his house new fitted up and painted, and new clothes

made for himself and all his servants, on purpose to be married

; and now Miss Martha was gone, unless he could get a

wife, all the expense would be thrown away ; and this he

very candidly told Mr. Fountainee. That gentleman thought

all the Squire said was true and fair enough, and so over the

punch-bowl they settled it between them that Squire Dickons

should marry Miss Amy, and have ten thousand pounds with

her instead of the heirship with Miss Martha.

Squire Dickons's first offer had been to toss up which

young lady he should take, heads for Miss Amy and tails for

Miss Elizabeth : but Mr. Fountainee said no ; he could better

part with Amy ; and so all was soon settled. But Miss Amy

no more fancied the Squire than her sister had done before

her ; for there was, at this time, a very handsome young fellow

who had lately joined a strolling company in the neighbourhood

; and Miss Amy had seen horn play Romeo and

Lothario in her father's great barn, and there she had fallen

in love with her Romeo. How she carried on the acquaintance

nobody knew ; but she was always wild and running

about as she pleased, and associating with persons much

beneath her.

Hannah had her suspicions, and talked to her, and threatened

to tell her father ; but, on her assuring her that she was

mistaken, my mother did not like to call down on Miss Amy

her father's anger, and so she said nothing. All the wedding

preparations were once more made, and Squire Dickons

thought for certain he must this time have a wife.

But a night or two before the appointed day Mr. Fountain

could not sleep ; and, as he lay uneasy and awake, he

thought he heard a noise in the west gallery. Again he listened,

and again it was repeated. He started out of bed,

threw on his dressing-gown, and snatching up a pistol that

was at his bed's head in the one hand, and a candle in the

other, having previously softly opened his door, he descended

the stairs with a noiseless step, put down the light behind a

screen near the entrance of the gallery, and determined to

examine before he ventured further. There was a light

within, proceeding from a lamp that burnt feebly on the

table ; and this served to show the astonished father what

was going on.

His daughter Amy, wrapped in a sort of disguise, was at

the moment in the act of getting out of the window, assisted

by a young man, who, having clambered on to the roof of a

lower building, was standing there, with his arm round the

young lady waist. Mr. Fountainee comprehended all in an

instant ; the meditated elopement of his daughter, and all

her levity. He was both a strong and a bold man. He

rushed forward ; with his left hand he caught Amy by the

arm, dragged her from the window, and cast heron the floor;

and, before the man could move or speak, fired at horn the

pistol which he still held in his right hand. A heavy fall,

a deep groan, told that the shot had been aimed with effect.

Apprehensive that his shot had proved fatal, Mr. Fountain,

without the pause of an instant, without even turning

to see if Amy had sustained any injury by the manner in

which he had hurled her from the window, proceeded to call

up the house; and rushed out to learn whether the man at

whom he fired was alive or dead. Hannah, who was among

the first that arose on hearing the alarm-bell, soon presented

herself ; and, by the desire of her master, went to give assistance

to the wretched Amy.

Mr. Fountainee discovered the victim of his fury lying on

the ground, weltering in his blood, but neither dead nor

senseless. On being questioned, he answered in a plaintive

tone, and in the words Shakspere puts into the mouth of

ago, when he receives a wound from the sword of Othello

on the detection of his villainy — " I bleed, sir, but am not

hurt."

"That is false," said Mr. Fountainee; "you are hurt, and

seriously. But, though you deserve death for the injury you

would have done me, yet, I thank God, you have not met it

from my hand. Take that fellow up, Tom " (speaking to one

of the servants, who had gathered round). "Dick, do you

help him. Give horn a bed in the hay-loft, and send for the

blacksmith; he is nearer than the surgeon; and, as he can

stop a vein after bleeding my horses, let horn do as much for

this man till the surgeon may arrive. And do you, John,

take a horse, and ride for your life, and get the doctor. I

would not but save this scoundrel, for the pleasure of seeing

horn hanged at some future time, for half my estate. Tom,

hold the light nearer ; I think I know the rogue's face. O !

is it so ? My service to you, Mr. Romeo. Is this the return

you make me for taking your benefit in my barn ? Away

with the fellow, and do as I have directed ! "

The rest of the story is most painful. Romeo recovered ;

but Amy met with a terrible fate. Her imprudence, the

injury to her character which would inevitably follow the

discovery of her attempt to elope with a strolling player, her

fright on supposing that the miserable man had met his

death by the hand of her father, her fall on the floor, in

which she had received a severe blow on the head, altogether

had such an effect upon her that she fell into a sickness,

which speedily turned to a brain-fever. For nearly three

weeks Hannah never had one night's rest. At length, ill

and worn out with watching, she retired to best for a few

hours, in the hope to get a little sleep, in order to return,

with renovated zeal, her care of the patient. She charged

the nurse not for a moment to slumber, or to be off her

guard, as Miss Amy, who was delirious, had complained of

a burning thirst, and had been exceedingly restless all the

day long. Unfortunately, however, the nurse slept.

Having in the midst of her delirium a confused remembrance

of things, Amy, it was supposed, in consequence of

this parching thirst, stole from her bed in the middle of tho

night, and, Heaven knows how, managed to find her way

unperceived into the flower-garden; for, to the horror of her

distressed father and all the family, she was found in the

morning dead, lying by the side of the fountain mentioned

in an earlier part of my narrative. Whether, when in so

dangerous a state, the cold of the night or of the water

struck her with a sudden chill, or the quantity of the water

she was supposed to have drunk injured her, I cannot tell ;

but certain it is, that when discovered, soon after daybreak,

by the gamekeeper, she did not retain the slightest sign of

life.

I will not attempt to describe the distress of Mr. Fountainee

on the loss of this his second daughter, within a year after

the loss of the first. But his troubles about Amy had not

ended yet. On the very day following the funeral, Squire

Dickons, who was angered and vexed at being a second time

disappointed of a wife, quarrelled with Mr. Fountainee about

it. For, having heard all the idle talk of the country round,

in which Amy's affair made a great sensation, with the usual

exaggerations and malicious inferences that invariably characterise

such gossiping, Squire Dickons had been made to

believe that Mr. Fountainee sought to marry horn to Miss

Amy, instead of Miss Elizabeth, in order to hide the disgraceful

connection she had for some time formed with the

strolling-player.

Mr. Fountainee was justly angered at this suspicion ; words

grew on words, till the Squire told horn that if he were not

an old man he would fight him.

Greatly exasperated, Mr. Fountainee exclaimed, " Sir, let

age be no hindrance. You have, with equal insolence and

falsehood, cast a slur on my honour. And, sir, I would teach

you that none bearing the name of Fountainee ever sat down

satisfied under such an imputation till it was washed out in

blood ! "

Well, sir : well," cried Squire Dickons, "Im not the man

to fear to back my own words ; the thing was said at our

club and on our bowling-green : it was said that Miss Amy

was no better than she should be, and that you knew it, and

therefore wanted to put her off on me ; and that, I think,

was no fair dealing. Sir, these are injuries that come very

near a gentlemans feelings ; and so, sir, I shan't eat my

words, nor ask pardon for there neither ; and as for your

daughters, Mr. Fountainee, with all your pride about them, what

with the way in which Miss Martha behaved to me, and afterwards

Miss Amy, it was with me out of the frying-pan into

the fire with .the one and the other of them. You seem to

think nothing about that ; but I think I ought to have some

satisfaction — I say nothing about the expense to which I have

been run, all to no purpose. But, sir, I'll fight you any day

you please."

Now, at once, sir," said Mr. Fountainee. " There are two

swords, sir, over this chimney ; choose which you please, and

I will take the other, and settle the matter on the spot."

What, here ! " exclaimed Squire Dickons.

Here ; ay, here, sir," said Mr. Fountainee. " I will have

no delay. Lock the door, if you please, to prevent interruption

; this hall is wide enough for our purpose. And, as you

have insulted me by my own hearthstone, by my own hearthstone

you shall atone for it."

But I have not made my will yet — I am not prepared,"

said Squire Dickons, who, though perfectly willing to combat

with single-stick or fifty-cuff, had no great relish for sword

or pistol ; " upon my word, I can't fight to-day ; you are in a

devilish hurry."

You have not been slow, sir," said Mr. Fountainee, " to

insult an old man, and an old friend, and an afflicted man,

under his own roof, and at the very moment when the heart

of a father has been tom by the most cruel injuries, and his

child taken from horn before she could either sorrow for her

fault or he could forgive it. Instead of showing some feeling

for these things, you have given another blow worse than

all the rest — a stab at my honour, sir, and then you threaten

me with your vengeance if I were not an old man. By

Heaven, you shall either fight me on tho spot, or I will post

you as a fool, a liar, and a poltroon, at your club and on

your bowling-green, of which you told me but now, and will

cudgel you out of my own house by way of earnest for the

same ! "

That you shan't," said Squire Dickons, now exasperated

in his turn ; " I won't stand such handling as that from any

man. Give me one of your swords : I've not handled one for

many a long day ; but I used to be considered a pretty man

once with the rapier. Now Mr. Fountainee, let us to it, and

Miss Amy's may not be the last funeral that leaves your hall

within the present month."

The late friends prepared to fight ; but, in the impatience

of their fury for the fray, they fortunately forgot to lock the

door, and my mother, hearing a great stamping and raging,

did not stay for ceremony, but rushed in just as Mr. Fountain

and Squire Dickons, their coats and wigs off, and with

outstretched arms, each holding a naked sword pointed at

the other, stood ready to engage in a quarrel for life or death.

Hannah, careless of her own safety, ran between them, and,

not heeding a straw whether she offended Squire Dickons or

not, went up boldly to horn and wrenched the sword out of

his hand, bidding horn be ashamed of himself for thinking to

fight with an afflicted man, like her master, and under his

own roof.

But did not Mr. Fountainee want to marry his daughter,

Miss Amy, to me, knowing her to be no better than she

should be ? " said Squire Dickons, staring on Hannah in

stupid wonder at the intrepidity with which she compelled

horn to keep the peace.

Wc are none of us any better than wc should be," said

Hannah. " But, if you mean that Mr. Fountainee knew there

was anything improper in his daughter's conduct before the

night that, so fatally for his own peace, he discovered her in

the act of running away from horn, you do horn the greatest

injustice that ever man did to man. Mr. Fountainee was as

innocent in that matter as the babe that is unborn, and I

would stake all that is most dear to me in Heaven or on earth

that I speak truth."

And I'll be hanged if you don't ! " said Squire Dickons ;

for there was a simple-minded earnestness in Hannah which,

together with her well-known character for probity, seldom

failed to can conviction with it. " I see it all now," he

added ; " they made a jape of me at the bowling-green, bawd.

)'

Im an ass and a blockhead. Mr. Fountainee, here's my hand.

I have done you wrong, and I beg your pardon ; a gentleman

can say no more than that he is sony — not that I say it from

fear neither — Mrs. Hannah, please to help me oh with my

coat. Mr. Fountainee, let's forget and forgive."

With all my heart, sir," said Mr. Fountainee ; " you have

asked pardon ; and that is quite enough to wipe out an

injury in my mid. I forget and forgive."

Well now, that is kind and neighbourly," said Squire

Dickons. " Come, then, a hearty shake " (they shook hands),

and I will marry Miss Elizabeth, in proof that I harbour

no resentment, and that there is no grudge between us, if

you will give her to me ; and the same settlements will do,

only altering the Christian name. Mrs. Hannah, please to

give me my wig. What say you, Mr. Fountainee — shall Miss

Elizabeth be the woman, after all ?"

No, sir," said Mr. Fountainee ; " your two projected marriages

with my daughters have been so unfortunate that wc

will not venture on a third."

And yet they say a third time is lucky," said Squire

Dickons. " But, as you will — I don't much care about it ;

only it is a pity to have settlements drawn and expenses

incurred, and all to no purpose."

Pray spare my feelings, sir, all further allusion to the

subject," said Mr. Fountainee. " The wound is yet green ; so

say no more about it, and come and let us have a bowl of

punch in the oak parlour."

That will do quite as well," said Squire Dickons. " For

what principally made me propose for Miss Elizabeth was to

be neighbourly, and to show I had no wish to rake up old

grievances."

And, so saying, these newly-reconciled enemies and old

friends once more hung up their swords over the chimney-piece,

and proceeded, the one to forget his lost wife, and the

other, if possible, his lost daughter, in the conviviality of the

punch-bowl.

Chapter VIII.

May sorrow, shame, and sickness overtake her,

And all her beauties, like my hopes, be blasted !

ROWE.

Great as had been the trials of Mr. Fountainee, still

greater were yet in store for him. My mother, ever mindful

of the promise she had given to Mrs. Fountainee, determined,

cost what it might, that she would endeavour to induce Mr.

Fountainee to let his only remaining daughter, the sweetest

and most attractive of all his children, see something more

of good society than had fallen to the lot of her sisters.

She watched her opportunity, and, one day, when the

Squire was in an exceedingly good humour with her for

commending the spirited manner in which he had just

refused his consent to an impertinent coxcomb who had

demanded Miss Elizabeth in marriage, she resolved to begin.

Now, she thought, was the favourable moment to act on Mr.

Fountainee's judgment, when his feelings were warm towards

herself, and his pride irritated against a third person, to

whom they were equally averse ; for Hannah was not ignorant

that if there is a bond of union between two individuals

who love fondly the same object, there is, generally speaking,

a much stronger one between friends who participate in a

sense of irritation towards a third person. Such is the

frailty of human nature.

Sir," said Hannah, " I am afraid wc shall be subject to

more impertinent offers of this kind unless you permit Miss

Elizabeth to see a little more of the world."

See more of the world !" exclaimed Mr. Fountainee.

Why, Hannah, doesn't she see everybody that you or I see ?

Doesn't she know every man of the club ? — and has not her

name been cut, as our standing toast, on the president's

drinking-glass, for the last twelve months or more ? What

can I do more for her ?"

Sir," replied Hannah, " it is not for me to dictate to you;

but your own good sense will point out to you that a young

lady of family and fortune, such as Miss Elizabeth, should

be introduced to those circles where she would be likely to

find friends of her own sex worthy of her regard, and to

meet with a match that Mr. Fountainee would not deem un.-

e2

equal even for his daughter ; all this your own good sense

and good feeling "

Don't palaver, Hannah," said Mr. Fountainee, " it is not

your way. But I see which way the wind sets. You have

something in your head that you want to put into mine ;

and I dare say it is right enough ; for, as to my good sense

and feeling, I cannot say they have hitherto made me act in

the wisest manner possible with my two eldest daughters. I

have a great mid to try yours, which I verily believe to be

much better, for the youngest : bo tell me your plan."

Unless his pride was alarmed, or his passions irritated,

Mr. Fountainee did not want for candour, and Hannah now

ventured on such tender ground with great prudence ; for,

whilst she assumed nothing, he granted everything. The

object she had in view was this.

Mr. Fountainee's once offending sister, who married against

his will, had lately become a considerable person ; her husband's

fortune being unexpectedly enlarged on the death of

a rich relative. Mrs. Hartwell was a well-bred woman, and

moved in the best society at Exeter. She had often wished

to receive Elizabeth at her house; and if Mr. Fountainee

would consent to let her visit there, now and then, for a few

weeks, she would be sure to meet with ladies and gentlemen

of rank and fortune.

Mr. Fountainee frowned at the name of his runaway sister.

But the recollection of his own runaway daughters, if it did

not cause horn to forgive his sister so far as to renew his

intercourse with her in his own person, had at least lowered

the tone of his anger and the bitterness of his resentments ;

and her late acquisition of fortune had its due weight ; so

that, on second thoughts, he was inclined to let Elizabeth goto

her. All was soon arranged ; and, a few days after, Mr.

Fountainee sent off his favourite daughter, in great style, in

the old family coach, drawn by four long-tailed black horses,

with a couple of running footmen to attend her progress, on

a visit to her aunt at Exeter.

Elizabeth was received with great kindness by Mrs. Hart-well,

and was soon introduced into the most fashionable

circles of the day in the county. Her youth, beauty, and

accomplishments, and the peculiar sweetness of her manners,

soon attracted universal admiration ; and, when it became

known that she was now Mr. Fountainee's only daughter,

people, of course, considered her as the sole heiress to all

his great estate, and she was everywhere received with a

respect and assiduity which, vain as she was before, half

turned her head, and raised in her a fancy that all the world

was made to obey her slightest wish or command.

She was now as much indulged as her sisters and herself

had once been contradicted. She went where she pleased,

saw whom she pleased, and dressed in the first style of

fashion. Mrs. Hartwell, who was a kind-hearted, but rather

weak woman, instead of checking the perpetual round of

gaiety into which Elizabeth was now disposed to plunge,

rather encouraged it. She was pleased with the company

that the uncommon attractions of her niece drew to her

house, and took credit to herself for bringing out such a girl

from rustic obscurity : so that, when the time arrived for

her return home, another month was begged, and granted by

her affectionate father.

One principal object of this delay arose from the wish

certain young ladies entertained, that Miss Elizabeth should

be present at a ball to be given at the assizes. These ladies,

of whom more anon, were two bosom friends of Miss Elizabeth

; their very tender friendship having commenced at

school. Mr. Fountainee knew nothing of these school-girl

intimacies of his daughter, or he would have forbidden

them, with all a father's authority. I must here pause to

tell wherefore.

If there was one man on the face of the whole earth whom

Mr. Fountainee never could forgive, and whom he would have

pursued with the most insatiable resentment — one whom he

loathed as he would a toad or a viper that lay in his path —

it was old Lawyer Quirk, the father of these young ladies.

I, who am but acquainted with these matters in their general

outline, know not all the circumstances by which the most

deadly animosity that ever existed between man and man

was kindled between Mr. Fountainee and Mr. Quirk. It arose,

I believe, in the first instance, about a lawsuit, in which, by

some quibble of the law, the pettifogger outwitted Mr. Fountain,

and gained for his client a most unjust decision. This

might have been forgotten, and, in process of time, no doubt

would have been so, had not Quirk gloried in his roguery,

and publicly boasted of his victory over Mr. Fountainee and

his more straightforward legal adviser.

Mr. Fountainee heard of his boasting, and determined to

resent it in a manner which would strike deepest into the

feelings of the pettifogger, whom he knew to be an arrant

coward. Watching his opportunity at the next quarter sessions,

one day when the magistrates and the lawyers of the

county flocked into Exeter, Mr. Fountainee suddenly appeared

among them, in the common room at the inn. Quirk was in

the midst of his compeers : he was a little man ; Mr. Fountain

a tall and a powerful one. The latter entered with

a horse whip in his hand, and with that air of cruel but grave

determination which a rogue and a coward likes not to see in

the man he has injured, without the pause of a minute, without

stopping to give a good-morrow to any one of the gentlemen

present, strode up to Quirk, and said, with a stern voice,

that made the little lawyer Shrink and tremble, and turn

white as his cravat, " Sir, I understand you make your boast

over me, for having gained, by your rascally tricks of the

law, a cause in which honour and right were allowed by all

to be on my side. Now, sir, I owe you something on the

occasion ; I will no longer delay to pay you ; and here will

be witnesses enough, without requiring from you any further

acknowledgment for the settlement of the same."

And so saying, Mr. Fountainee caught little Quirk by the

collar, threw himself into a chair, and the pettifogger across

his knees, and gave horn two or three smart strokes with

his whip, as a master would flog a schoolboy who had

played truant. " There, sir, boast of that," said Mr. Fountain,

and, once more setting the shaking attorney down upon

his legs, left the room, followed by many of the gentlemen

present, who were not sorry to see the chastisement given to

a man who bore so ill a character as little Quirk.

The whipped attorney had nothing to boast of ; even

though the laws he had so often perverted were in this case

on his side, and open to do horn such justice as they could

administer to sweeten a flogging. Quirk talked big of actions

and what not, but he did nothing. Probably he feared

still further to incense a man so determined as Mr. Fountain,

and one who might take other and more legal modes of

vengeance to expose some of his evil practices, should the

pettifogger venture into a court. But, though he pocketed

his whipping, he failed not to treasure up the memory of it,

as a deposit in the stores of hatred upon which he proposed

to require a large interest, crc he would grant a final settlement

of the account. He determined to make it a chancery

suit among quarrels, which should be drawn out year after

year, and never have an end.

Many years had indeed elapsed since this quarrel took

place ; and Quirk, who originally was not worth a shilling —

by a shrewd and not very creditable practice — by taking up

any unfair cause, and making the best of it ; by getting an

executorship, and the management of two or three estates of

minors, where there was wealth and witless guardians, had

altogether, Heaven knows how, contrived to get rich, to

become master of a fine house, to drive a pair of horses, to

display a livery on his servants' backs, and a gold-laced coat

on his own, and to make both his sons gentlemen. One he

intended for the bar ; the other was a captain in the army ;

whilst his daughters were sent to the most fashionable 

in Exeter. There, in spite of the wrath of their

sires, the Misses Quirk became the intimate friends of Miss

Elizabeth Fountainee. On the visit of the latter to her aunt,

this charming intimacy was renewed ; but, as the girls, being

a little older, began to hear and to comprehend something of

the animosity of their sires, they deemed it by no means

necessary to report at their several homes the renewal of

their acquaintance.

I have stated that the Misses Quirk had been importunate

with Miss Elizabeth Fountainee that she should stay for the

assize ball : at length the happy night arrived. What young

lady does not remember a first ball : the dressing for it ; the

delight of seeing the new-made clothes look well ; and the

pride on a glance at the glass, that the wearer looks well in

them ; the excitement of a crowded room, filled with glad

faces, with men and women all under the influence of

pleasure : the apprehension in thinking all eyes to be fixed

on her who enters on her first ball, and the secret satisfaction

of fancying those eyes approve ? Then the handsome partner,

the inspiration of the music, of the dance ; the slight

flutter of the nerves on observing the earnest gaze, the eager

attention, and the gentle tones of words sweetly spoken by

that pleasing partner ; and, as it sometimes happens, to find,

from all these circumstances combined, he has received an

impression that will not end with the hour.

Such are the recollections of many a young lady respecting

her first ball ; and such were those of Miss Elizabeth Fountain.

The graceful partner, whose handsome face and redcoat

produced so great a sensation, not only in her bosom but

throughout all the room, was no less a person than Captain

Quirk, lately come down into the neighbourhood on duty,

and introduced to Miss Elizabeth Fountainee, on that memorable

evening, by his very amiable sisters. It was afterwards

said, those young ladies had very kindly given their brother

a hint by letter, that, if he could manage just then to come

on a recruiting party to Exeter, he possibly might get some

desirable men for his Majesty's service, and a very pretty

wife for his own — an heiress to boot.

The Psalmist says of the crafty man, "He hath graven

and digged up a pit, and is fallen himself into the destruction

that he made for other." These expressions may be applied

to the devices of Captain Quirk. He had an eye to the

heiress of so great a fortune ; he came to Exeter with the

full intent and purpose of making Miss Elizabeth Fountainee

fall in love with horn, and before the evening was over he

fell in love, and most deeply, with her. I do not know all

particulars ; but it was not very long, I apprehend, before

the young people fully understood each other, and agreed

to be married, let what would be the result. Aware of the

mortal enmity that subsisted between their sires, neither of

them ever thought of such a thing as asking old Mr. Fountain's

consent. *

But the Captain was not a little surprised, indeed absolutely

astonished, when he found that his own father, who, he

thought, would have moved Heaven and earth to marry horn

to an heiress, raised objections to the match, and told horn

that, if he married Miss Elizabeth, he would cut horn off with

a shilling.

Not only did old Quirk cherish the most inveterate hatred

against Mr. Fountainee and all his race, but he felt quite sure

that the Squire would never give his daughter a penny if

she married the son of his ancient foe. .And, moreover, he

had learnt from his new clerk, Mr. Pounce, who was just

come into his office (after having left that of Mr. Fountainee's

attorney), that the Squire had not altered his will. Pounce

knew every word of it ; he had, in fact, engrossed it himself,

and had heard Mr. Fountainee express his determination never

to change one word of the settlement of the estate made in

that will in favour of Miss Martha and her heirs ; and there

was no proof whatever that Miss Martha was dead. Missing

she was ; but she might come back and establish her identity,

even twenty years hence, and then what would become of the

claim of Miss Elizabeth ? He (Mr. Quirk), even should he

live to handle the case, under such circumstances, would not

give five shillings for Miss Elizabeth's chance to retain possession,

and annul her sister's right. He, therefore, could

not think for a moment of giving up his old grudge towards

Mr. Fountainee, only to oblige his son, who was in love. He

forbade horn, therefore, altogether to think of Mr. Fountain's

daughter, which, could the Squire have known it,

would have pleased horn so much that it would have gone

further than anything else to procure from horn the attorney's

full pardon.

The Captain, who, though he had no objection to Miss

Fountainee being an heiress, was really in love with herself,

and not with her money, suffered his father to talk on ; but

left horn just as determined as before to persevere in his suit,

and wm the lady. Miss Elizabeth, who never could look

on a red coat with indifference, and was still more charmed

with it when seen on a very handsome young man, had long

since resolved that nothing would do but an officer for her

husband. As to the prudence or imprudence of any such

connection, she never once troubled herself about it; or, if

it ever crossed her mid, she balanced it by the thoughts of

all the charms annexed to regimental balls, to living in

camp, or in a garrison town, and walking out every day to

hear the band play on parade.

Soon after her acquaintance had commenced with Captain

Quirk she was summoned home. On her return, she all at

once found out that nothing did her so much good as daily

riding, and begged her father to allow her the exercise. Mr.

Fountainee, who at this time had the gout, could not accompany

her. He, however, not only consented, for the sake of

her health, but gave his darling child a very fine horse, and

a steady groom was appointed to attend her. Somehow or

other, she always contrived to send this servant on a message,

or to get rid of horn for half an hour or so. How little did

Mr. Fountainee suspect in whose company she spent the half-hours

in which she managed to be free from her attendant !

How little did he dream of tho cruel blow which this, his

dearest girl, was preparing for horn !

Mr. Fountainee had loved Elizabeth as he had never loved

a human creature. True it is, in respect to his daughters,

that he had preferred Martha in the matter of the heirship.

But he had done so from a motive of justice; from a religious

respect in favour of the elder born. Mr. Fountainee, though

proud, was not one who cared for money with any mean or

mercenary views. He never thought money the supreme

good in life, and therefore never cared much about it for his

darling Elizabeth. I have said he was a proud man, but his

pride was that of blood and family ; and for Elizabeth he

would not have deemed the first nobleman in the kingdom

too great a match.

From • the hour the beautiful child of five years old had

been placed in his arms by her dying mother, notwithstanding

all his rough manners and rude habits, Mr. Fountainee

considered her as a sacred charge, as the last pledge of his

wife's affection for him. He had loved the girl with more

than a father's fondness ; indeed I might almost say he had

watched over her with all the tenderness of a mother's care.

As she grew up, her uncommon beauty, the quickness of her

parts, and those accomplishments which in his way he had

endeavoured to afford her, were all to horn so many themes

of delight ; whilst the sweetness of her disposition rejoiced

his very heart. When with Elizabeth Mr. Fountainee was

another being ; his affection for his daughter seemed, for the

time, to inspire horn with a refinement, a susceptibility, that

no other living creature could call forth.

She never angers me," would he say ; and his check

would glow and his eye glisten at her approach. He had

pride, a manly pride, in his daughter. As he saw her enter

a room, how often would he exclaim, " Is she not a fine

girl, and good as she is beautiful, I can assure you." Such

commendations, uttered in a very audible voice, could not

fail to be heard by the young lady herself, and would frequently

call up a smile and a blush in the fair check of his

child, which did but make her look the more lovely, to confirm

a father's praise.

I have stated Mr. Fountainee was ill with the gout ; I know

not exactly how it all happened, nor if it were during this

fit, or whilst he was confined with another, but the gout he

had upon horn, when, one day, his respectable attorney,

Lawyer Sheriff, accompanied only by Hannah, came unexpectedly

into his room, to break to horn, as gently and as

gradually as the circumstances they had to announce would

admit, the most painful and undreamt of news — that his

daughter Elizabeth had eloped with Captain Quirk.

Mr. Fountainee stared ; he heard the news — the name —

without seeming at first to comprehend what was said. But,

when at length he was made clearly to understand the extent

of the calamity that had befallen horn, that his favourite

child had for ever left horn, and with the son of his greatest

enemy, his grief was too deep for anger; it appeared to

break horn down at once, like a stroke from a thunder-cloud ;

he was overwhelmed by it. He sank back on his pillow ;

groan after groan burst from horn ; the shock threw the

gout into his stomach ; nobody expected he could live ; and

the words, "She has murdered me!" was all of reproach

that Hannah could distinctly understand. But Mr. Fountain

was of a robust constitution ; and, in spite of his

extreme illness, the distress of his mid, and probably his

own wishes (for death would have been welcome to horn),

he lived.

No sooner was the violence of his gout once more subdued,

and he able to Bit up, than he expressed a wish to see

Hannah and her husband alone. He considered both, especially

the housekeeper, more as faithful friends than as mere

dependants of the family. Some days having passed since

he had been made acquainted with his daughter's rash marriage,

they hoped, to find horn more composed. In one sense

he was so. But, as it soon appeared, neither the nature of

his exasperated feelings was softened, nor the depth of his

mental distress in any way lessened, by the sharp bodily

pains he had endured.

As they entered the room, they were struck with his

altered appearance. He was sitting in an easy-chair by the

fireside ; his feet, like his head, resting on pillows ; his

countenance pale, from the severity of his recent sufferings

and the medicines he had taken to reduce the disease. But

there was no dejection about hir n; nothing of that languid

air which might be expected in a man so visited by affliction,

both of body and mid. Quite the reverse ; there was

a calm and determined expression in his countenance, with

a rigidity of feature, the result of deep-fixed passion, such

as Hannah had never before seen in him. His brows were

knit, his eyes full and open ; and, ever and anon as he spoke,

those eyes flashed with a light which was not natural. Deep

must be the resentment that could make itself so apparent

in a man who was, as it were, just risen from the bed of

death.

Hannah," said Mr. Fountainee, " I am glad you are come ;

and lam glad that Thomas is come with you. I have some

orders to give in my family, which it is as well should be

known to you both, that you may both exert yourselves to

see them enforced. I thank you, Hannah, for your kindness

and your care in nursing mc. I believe you have helped to

save my life. But Ido not know if I ought to thank yon

for that as a service, when my own flesh and blood have

rebelled against me, to cut it short."

Hannah, who was much touched with these acknowledgments,

could not restrain her tears. Mr. Fountainee seldom,

if ever, thanked any of his dependants, always considering

their services merely as matters of duty, however well performed

; his thanks, therefore, had in them that peculiar

value which is always attached to what is rare. She expressed

her sense of such acknowledgments with grateful

respect.

And now hear me, Hannah," continued Mr. Fountainee,

and hear me without intention ; for I have a long speech

to make ; much to say : and, as I intend never to speak

on this subject again, I will say all I have to say now, and

have done with it. Give me some of the drops before I

begin."

Hannah obeyed ; she took the cup from her master, after

he had swallowed the drops, with a trembling hand.

I see you are afraid of what is coming, Hannah," said

Mr. Fountainee. "No wonder ; for you can guess what it is ;

that it is of a cruel and ungrateful subject I have to speak

my daughter."

Sir," said Hannah, " better not talk of it ; at least, not

yet."

Yes ; now or never, Hannah," he replied. " Listen then,

for I will be obeyed ; and it will be worse for you and me

too if I am not."

There was that air of determination about Mr. Fountainee

as he said this with which Hannah was too well acquainted

to think of contradiction. She submitted, therefore, in

silence ; and he thus continued,

Yes, it is of my daughter I would speak — my daughter

Elizabeth. How fondly I have loved her ! From the hour

her dying mother gave her into these arms she has been all

my happiness and all my care. I loved her sisters, and was

grieved for their loss — God knows how truly ! But my love

for either of there was never like the love I felt for her. I

have been a good father — I have done my best for a set of

ungrateful children ; and see how lam requited."

Mr. Fountainee paused ; his voice failed horn, and, in spite

of all his high resolution, he wept aloud. Hannah dared

not interrupt hir n; but she gave horn tho sympathy of her

tears, and the eyes of Thomas were not dry.

Ay," continued Mr. Fountainee, " such is it to have

children ; wc covet curses instead of blessings when wc covet

them. And yet, bad as all mine have behaved to me, none

have been so ungrateful as Elizabeth. I believe, though

meaning all for her good, I might have driven things too

hard with Martha ; and I was not watchful enough with

Amy. But Elizabeth — she never knew from me other than

the most unbounded indulgence, and I watched over her

with love that was like a mother's. No Slashing Dick was

ever proposed to her. I was only anxious she should marry

well ; and the first lord in the land was not too good for her

in my mid. She was all my pride. Dotard that I was, I

loved her so much — I lived in her, and could have died for

her, and see how she has requited a father's affection ! She

has left the old man in his age, not heeding even her

mother's grave, nor his grey hairs. She has abandoned horn

and her home, and left both for ever, and for the son of his

most cruel enemy ! But my resolution is taken ; she shall

not break this heart " and he added, striking his hand

vehemently on his bosom as he spoke : " No, by Heaven ! she

shall not — I repeat it ; my resolution is taken. I will cast

her off — yes, for ever cast her off ; and — the viper, I will

curse her and hers for ever !"

Oh, sir, do not ! — do not !" exclaimed Hannah and

Thomas in one breath. " Think — she is your child."

"It is false ! I swear it is false !" said Mr. Fountainee,

with passion. " She neither is nor shall be child of mine

more. I whistle her off, as I would a bird from my hand.

If Martha still lives and ever comes home again, all I have

shall be hers, or whosesoever belongs to her. But for Elizabeth

! her ingratitude has grieved me to the very soul. She

is the viper, and I feel her sting. Yes, I do curse her ; in

the sight of God and man a father's curse shall fall upon her

head — her ungrateful head ; and, if she have a child, may

the offspring she bears become as accursed as herself !"

Oh, sir !my dear master !" said Hannah — " a father lifting

up his voice to curse his child ! Oh, sir ! Do not be thus

cruel — thus unnatural ; for, remember, it is your own flesh

and blood on whom the curse will fall. Oh, sir ! recal it —

recal it crc it is too late, and may God forgive you the sin in

the repentance for it !"

I will not — no, I will not recal it," said Mr. Fountainee,

his eye glancing wildly around. " I thought I heard some

other voice speak to me, Hannah, and not yours. It seemed

to come from behind my chair, and, like you, to say — Recal

the curse. But I will not — no, I will not. If I am become

hard-hearted and stubborn, her ingratitude has made me

such, and she must bear the consequences. Do not you

stand there crying ; but hear my commands. Hear them

both of you, and then trouble me no more about this wicked

daughter."

He paused a moment, and then resumed — " I charge you,

Hannah, who know all about the rooms of my house and all

my ways — I charge you that you see everything that belonged

to this viper — for by no other name would I call her — removed

before I leave this chamber, so that nothing may

come across me to remind me of her. Away with her portrait,

which hangs in the oak parlour, and burn it if you

will. Away with all her books, and her harpsichord ; let

nothing remain. And do you, Thomas, see that the little

arbour I built to please her fancy be tom down, and her

flower-beds broken up. I had thoughts to have ordered the

horse on which she rode out so often to deceive me to be

shot. But in this, second thoughts are best ; the animal had

no part in the ingratitude of the rider of horn, so I will spare

the creature. But, look you, send it away, or give it away

somewhere — anywhere, so that it never more meets my eyes.

And do you, Thomas and Hannah, charge every friend who

inquires for me, or comes to my house, and every servant and

every dependant, that they never name her name in my presence,

for if any, the dearest of my friends, did so, I would

turn my back on horn as I would on an insulting foe ; and, if

a servant or dependant dared thus disobey, I would for such

insolence turn horn from my doors for ever !"

Sir !" said Hannah, in a tone of surprise.

"Yes," exclaimed Mr. Fountainee, "you — even you — should

go in such a case ; and so, by disobeying my commands on

this subject, you would leave for ever, and in his misery, one

who has not been an unkind master to you, and to whom you

are now become the only living creature left to horn to

whom he can turn with any hope of comfort."

Sir," replied Hannah, " I must not — I will not disobey

you ; all shall be as you order it. But O, sir ! this is a sad

hour. What would my poor mistress have said had she

lived to see it?"

I thank God she does not live to see it," exclaimed Mr.

Fountainee, " and that is the first time I have thanked God

for her death since I lost her. But no more of this — Thomas,

do you understand my orders ? " .

Yes, sir, I do," said Thomas, " and will see them all fulfilled

and obeyed."

That is well," replied Mr. Fountainee. " I find I have

yet some left who will be faithful to me ; who know their

duty — but they are not daughters. Now, then, there remains

but one thing more for me to do — Hannah, look what an old

fool your master has been."

Mr. Fountainee put his hand in his pocket, and, as he spoke,

drew forth a pocket-book, opened it deliberately, took out a

piece of white silver paper that was carefully folded, and

drew from it a long lock of fair curling hair, as bright as

gold.

Hannah," he continued, " this is a lock of her hair ; I

cut it off myself — fool that I am, I could be fond of it now ! "

He pressed it to his lips and imprinted on it a fervent kiss.

But no ; I will not, I will not," he added—" I will think

only of her ingratitude ; and so, even as this, shall perish all

my affection for her."

He threw the beautiful lock of hair on the top of the

burning wood. It soon caught the flame. He never moved

his eyes from it till it was consumed. " And now," he exclaimed,

striking his hand upon the table, " and now I will

name her no more, so help me God ! "

He kept his word. But, though he remained silent, all

saw how he suffered.

Mr. Fountainee, once in his way so happy, was now become

a childless, melancholy old man. Nothing interested horn,

nothing gave horn joy, and he seemed to be gradually sinking

into that grave which had been prepared for horn by the ingratitude

of this his most beloved daughter.

CHAPTER IX.

She ceased, and turned upon her pillow ; pale

She lay, but her dark eyes flashed through her tears,

Like skies that rain and lighten ; as a veil,

Waved and persuading her wan check, appears

Her streaming hair, the full curls strive, but fail,

To hide the glossy shoulder, which uprears

In snow through all ; her soft lips lie apart,

And louder than her breathing beats her heart.

Byron.

Two years after these events had occurred, on a stormy

winters night, when (to use the words of Hannah, whom I

have so often heard tell the tale) " scarcely a dog would go

out if he could stay in," Mr. Fountainee was seated in the oak

parlour. It had more than one door. That leading into a

long gallery towards the park and the garden was seldom, if

ever, used by any of the servants, as the door that led to

their apartments through the hall was on the opposite side

of the room.

Mr. Fountainee was alone ; for Hannah, after having given

horn his tea and thrown some billets on the fire that burnt

low on the hearth, had retired, leaving horn to his own

melancholy mood, in which he was now more than ever fond

of indulging without interruption.

The oak parlour, like his own thoughts, was dark and

cheerless ; the wood fire smouldered, but did not blaze, and

two candles with long wicks, that stood in an old-fashioned

silver branch on the table, by their insufficient light served

rather to show than to dispel the gloom that hung around,

whilst of the old family portraits on the walls nothing

could be distinguished in such obscurity but their general

outline ; and this, with their sombre dresses and dark backgrounds,

to a fanciful imagination might suggest the idea of

so many mourners, standing silent around. The portrait of

the late Mrs. Fountainee hung over the fireplace ; it looked

pale and sad. To the right of it were seen the pictures of

Martha and Amy. Next to these there was one vacant

panel, which appeared discordant and unseemly in a room

where all the other panels were filled with paintings of a

large size. In that vacant space had once hung the portrait

of Elizabeth. In accordance with the cc viands of Mr.

Fountainee, Hannah had removed it ; but strange to say,

though she had proposed to fill up the gap with a picture

taken from another room, he had never allowed any other to

be hung up in the place.

In this gloomy apartment, and with a mid no less sad,

sat Mr. Fountainee, listening to the wind, as it blew in loud

gusts around the walls of his old mansion, and to the rain

and hail, as they pattered heavily against the windows. His

eye, for the moment, rested on the dusky portrait of his wife

above the chimney, when he heard a slight noise, followed by

the door that led from the gallery opening suddenly, and in

rushed what (I repeat Hannah's own words) seemed, on the

first glance, to be " a moving bundle of dirty rags." It

tottered forward, and with a groan dropped at Mr. Fountain's

feet. The old gentleman started up and rang the bell

with violence. Hannah and her husband both ran in.

Great was their astonishment when they beheld, on entering,

their master standing and apparently supporting himself

by holding on the back of his chair ; he was speechless, but

he pointed instantly to the lump that lay at his feet, which,

till that moment, they had not seen. They looked again at

Mr. Fountainee, and observed, by the twitching and working

of his face, which was white as death, that he was shaken

and convulsed with passion.

Hannah, amazed, alarmed, yet scarcely knowing what she

had to fear, seeing Mr. Fountainee still point to the insensible

object at bis feet, stooped down to examine it. Thomas

almost instinctively did the same.

Good God ! " exclaimed Hannah, " it is a dead woman ;

how came she here ? "

No, no," said Thomas, " she lives ! "

A part of her apparel had fallen over her face as she fell

at Mr. Fountainee's feet. Hannah proceeded to pull away

this portion of her wet clothes, when, on doing so, she instantly

exclaimed, " O, Heavens, sir ! it is " She stopped,

knowing well the penalty did she but pronounce the name

that trembled on her lips.

Which — which of there ? " inquired Mr. Fountainee, who

now, for the first time, found his tongue, in a voice of eager

impatience.

The youngest, sir," said Hannah, still afraid to speak the

name.

Away with her to the dunghill ! " cried Mr. Fountainee,

in a voice that was stentorian in its loud and vehement ink



donation. " Away with her, this moment ! — away with her,

lest I trample her under foot in my fury ! "

"0, sir ! " said Thomas, and "0, sir ! " said Hannah ;

Mercy, mercy to your child ! "

Gracious heaven ! " exclaimed Hannah, " she is about to

become a mother ! the shock has brought on her hour. Think

of this, sir ; 0 mercy, sir, mercy ! "

Away with her ! " shouted Mr. Fountainee, rather than

spoke his commands; "away with her, I say, or I may crush

the young viper that is yet but in the shell ! "

As he spoke these last words he threw himself into his

chair, trembling, exhausted with the vehemence of his passion.

He looked absolutely maddened with anger.

Thorn and Hannah, as well as they could, took his unfortunate

daughter up between them, for fear he should

make good his threat, and literally trample on her in the

excess of his rage. They carried her out of the apartment,

and then, summoning further aid, Hannah caused her to be

conveyed to one of the housemaid's bedrooms, that was

situated at the extreme end of the house, and looked towards

the garden. She chose this room because it was remote from

Mr. Fountainee, and in a part of the dwelling where he never

came.

With the assistance of the girl, whose bed was now destined

to receive so wretched a creature, Hannah took off her

wet clothes, and was shocked to find they were literally rags,

such as, in the day of their pride, not one of Mr. Fountainee's

daughters would have deemed good enough to bestow upon

a beggar that asked charity at their father's gate. Hannah

put on her some linen of her own, and got the unhappy creature

into bed as soon as she possibly could. She was anxiously

expecting the return of a servant, whom, without a moments

delay, Thomas, on the first alarm, had despatched to the

village, in order to procure the immediate attendance of an

old woman, whose presence was required on all like occasions

among the fanners' wives the country round. It was too

late to send for the doctor, who was some miles distant, and

moreover Hannah feared Mr. Fountainee too much to call ina

man who was one of the very few persons he still held in

favour, and with whom he was still on terms of intimacy and

friendship.

Before the old woman arrived, Hannah gave the miserable

creature a warm cordial, as she seemed to be sinking, and, in

less than two hours after, Elizabeth gave birth to a daughter

to a child who seemed fated from that very hour to be unfortunate.



So exceedingly ill was the unhappy mother, that for many

hours she remained speechless, and appeared to be rapidly

sinking. She repeatedly pointed to the ring upon her finger,

and sighed, and looked as if she would intimate that she felt

conscious all her sorrows arose from her rash and most imprudent

marriage.

Hannah became seriously alarmed at her condition, and

determined, let what would be the consequence, even if she

displeased Mr. Fountainee, to procure proper advice for his

daughter.

The doctor's attendance was accordingly procured ; he

thought very badly of the case, and that, unless some great

and unexpected change took place, she could not survive

many hours. Strong cordial medicines were administered,

as he considered her to be sinking from exhaustion. No

wonder that it was so ; as from the state of her clothes and

shoes it was apparent she had walked far through the storrn,

probably un refreshed by food. From her acquaintance with

the house she had been enabled to effect her entrance into

it unseen by any one of the servants.

The medicines were so far beneficial that she recovered the

perfect use of her speech and of her senses, though for a

short time. Hannah hoped there was a chance for life.

During this interval, the unhappy woman appeared desirous

to give some account of herself; and, though she spoke with

many breaks and pauses, yet she managed to communicate

much that was of deep interest to Hannah.

Let me speak while my senses remain ; for I shall lose

them again when I think of where I am, and all that has

passed, and all the misery I have suffered since I left my

father's house, for one who, Hannah, I must say it, has

proved to me a hard-hearted, cruel husband. Yes, Hannah,

when he found that not only my father, but his own, had

cast horn off, in consequence of his marriage with me, and wc

had no hope to find help from any friend, all his love changed.

He looked on me as the sole cause of his poverty and suffering,

and hatred was not slow to follow so unkind a thought.

Wc had one child ; it died soon after it was born ; happy had

it been for me had I then died too, and had wc found but one

grave. But I was spared for greater misery — for still 



ther trial. My husband, as he was hopeless of a reconciliation

with our families and friends, became reckless, and by

his extravagance was soon obliged to sell his commission for

our support. But nothing made horn prudent, debt on debt

still accumulated ; he was thrown into prison, and then came

misery and ruin, till death closed the scene; for in the prison

of Newgate my husband fell a sacrifice to the gaol fever,

which prevailed there to a fearful extent.

After his death, I was turned out of the prison ; I was

friendless, penniless. Hannah, it is a simple truth, that when

I was turned from the sheltering walls of Newgate — for such

they were to me ; I passed the first night on the steps of the

door of the prison ; my thoughts became desperate as my

condition ; the great prompter to sin was not slow to bid me

despair — and to finish all my sin and sorrow by self-destruction.

But, I thank God, I did not give myself up to the

strong temptation. I was likely to become a mother ; I determined

I would go home to my father, and, like the penitent

prodigal in the Gospel, go in my rags and my poverty,

not, however, to beg a father's care, but only that I might

be permitted to die, a repentant wretch, at his feet.

I had no friend to shelter me ; for, what with debt and

borrowing, my husband had tired out all who had been kind

to us. Yet, notwithstanding the state to which I was

reduced, I determined to inquire my way out of London, and

to walk down into the West of England as well as I could,

still hoping to be spared, so that I might die under my

father's roof ; and there I shall die. Yes, Hannah, I shall

die ; and O, wretched woman that lam ! unforgiven by horn !

and if by horn ! — I fear unforgiven by God also ! How has

my heart yearned towards hir n! How has misery taught me

to know the full extent of the punishment due to the sin of

disobedience !

Hannah, I have been weeks on the road — I have walked

day after day, to reach this place ; sometimes, almost famishing

from want of food, I have begged at the doors even of the

poor for a morsel of bread and a cup of water, so that I

might sustain life, till I could render it up at my father's

feet. 0, Hannah ! I am come at last, but to what a welcome

! My father spurned me, turned from me with loathing,

as he would from a viper that had started up in his

path."

Hannah shuddered. After another pause, Elizabeth thus

continued. " Yet lam in my father's house, Hannah ; and,

though he will not see me, nor forgive me, I shall die under

his roof. I will thank God for that — it is more than I

deserve. O, Hannah ! could I but have had his forgiveness,

I might have died in peace."

Hannah, who knew well how vain would be any appeal to

Mr. Fountainee, dared not suggest to his wretched daughter the

hope that she might soften horn, and obtain from horn forgiveness

for his child. She wept, she prayed for her dear

young lady, and did her best to comfort her. With this view,

she brought to her the poor infant. But, although the

mother cast her languid eyes upon the babe, she seemed

unmoved by any yearnings of affection towards it ; all she

said was, " Poor little wretch, pray for its death."

It was evident her mid was beginning again to wander ;

for she asked Hannah, once or twice, how long it would be

before her father came to take her out of that horrid prison ;

and if her husband was yet buried ; and why the babe was

not put into his coffin. Then she paused ; but, in a few

minutes after, said, she feared her father would never suffer

her to be buried by her mother's side ; she was not good

enough for that ; but he would keep her above ground to

curse her.

Hannah shuddered ; her very blood ran cold as she heard

the poor sufferer in the height of her delirium say the very

things of her father that approached so nearly the truth.

Thus did the mid of the unhappy creature wander all night.

The morning came ; its cold light stole through the window,

and settled on a corpse as cold ; for Elizabeth had died in an

interval of quiet, which Hannah fancied was one of sleep. It

proved so, indeed — the sleep of death.

CHAPTER X.

One there was

Who, not among the mourners, mourned the most.

Anonymous.

I, who was the only child of Thomas and Hannah, and was

at this time married, and the mother of an infant, about six

weeks old, had come to see my mother at the Hall, bringing;

with me my babe. My husband was a most respectable

farmer, one much above the ordinary agriculturist, and a

well-educated man; he was a tenant of Mr. Fountainee. I

had intended to return home on the evening of the very day

in which the unhappy Elizabeth so unexpectedly presented

herself before her father. But, so severe had been the storing

could not possibly go through it, with the infant in my

arms ; my mother, therefore, insisted that I and the babe

should stay all night with her at the Hall.

Thus, then, did Providence, by a surprising concurrence

of circumstances, so order all for His own merciful ends,

that the very storm which hastened the death of poor Elizabeth,

and the birth of her child, was the means, by detaining

me at the Hall, of providing for it, or it must have perished

with its mother.

All was speedily arranged ; and, from that hour, I took

the sole charge of the sweet infant, who might truly be

called a daughter of adversity ; and thus did God give her

one who could supply to her the place of a mother, at the

very hour he took her own from this sad world.

That night, when Thomas attended his master, he found

horn perfectly calm, but he did not speak, and all was done

in profound silence. Indeed, all matters of attendance upon

Mr. Fountainee proceeded like clockwork; for Hannah and

Thomas knew his ways so well, they could, in general, anticipate

not only his wants but his wishes ; and, as he was an

exceedingly good master, he was obeyed willingly, though

not at all times without a feeling of fear and awe. That

night he made no inquiries, and Thomas dared tell horn

nothing. He saw his master to bed ; examined and put the

pistols in the same place in which they had been hung for

the last twenty years, near his bed's head ; lighted the lamp,

drew the curtains, and, not without some hesitation, ventured

to ask, if his honour wanted anything more.

The simple monosyllable " No," very shortly pronounced,

was all the answer he obtained, and Thomas closed the door

for the night.

On the morrow, Hannah felt the responsibility of her

situation, and endeavoured to prevail with the doctor, who

had called early, not knowing his patient was dead, to announce

to Mr. Fountainee that his daughter was no more.

The doctor declined the office, for he well knew what were

the feelings of the father on the subject of his youngest

daughter ; and he stood too well with his friend and patron

to care to risk giving offence. The worthy attorney, Mr.

Sheriff, likewise called in soon after ; for he had beard

something of the matter from the communication of the

servants at the Hall with his footboy on the previous evening.

He likewise declined having anything to say on so

delicate a subject ; telling Hannah that he was sure, if he

did but mention the name of the unfortunate young lady to

Mr. Fountainee, he would throw horn out of the window, or

shut the door in his face. Thomas absolutely refused even

to look at his master in a way that could be construed into

giving horn any information about the matter. Under all

these circumstances, Hannah felt that, of necessity, she

must take upon herself the whole affair.

Ever since the elopement of his youngest daughter, when

he was alone, she had generally presided at Mr. Fountainee's

table. Great was the terror with which, on that morning,

she prepared to attend horn, whilst the scene of death she

had so lately witnessed was yet, as it were, before her eyes.

It was only by the strongest effort that she could restrain

her tears.

She opened the door of the breakfast-room softly, as if

afraid, by the slightest movement, to break the silence that

prevailed within. As she entered she observed Mr. Fountainee

sitting in the chair he had occupied on the previous night,

when he was surprised by the return of his daughter. The

table was close to horn ; he leaned upon it with both his elbows,

whilst his face was buried in his hands ; she heard horn sigh

in a manner that indicated strong suffering. She paused ;

should she retreat ? Would he not be angry if he knew she

had seen even these tokens of his sorrow ?

But, crc she could decide what to do, by some slight movement

Mr. Fountainee became sensible of her presence ; and,

as he looked round, she was yet more shocked. In his

countenance, sunk and haggard, there was the undefinable

look which ever betrays a want of sleep ; and his eye red and

bloodshot, with something of wildness in its expression, indicated

the existence of strong, though, for the moment,

struggling and suppressed, passions. He was without his

wig, his hair dishevelled ; and there was altogether a negligence

about his person that marked the state of his mid.

Shocked at his appearance, and fearful to approach, Hannah

made a step or two towards the door ; when, quietly thro^x-^

himself back in his chair, Mr. Fountainee said, " Come in,

Hannah, and make my tea."

She obeyed. Some minutes passed in unbroken silence ;

several letters lay on the table. Mr. Fountainee saw them.

He took them up, broke the seals, opened one, and then put

it down, unread. Hannah stood opposite to horn, busied with

the tea-things. As he laid down the papers he looked up.

Their eyes met, for hers had been fixed on him. What an

interchange of thought (even instantaneous as thought itself)

can eye meeting eye convey, when under feelings of deep

emotion ! " Well, Hannah,' he said, without further pause ;

why do you not speak ? Tell your news at once."

She is dead, sir," replied Hannah, understanding and

instantly obeying him.

Thank God !" he exclaimed, with a full respiration, as if

a load were removed from his breast ; but he turned pale as

death as he said it, and his eyelids twinkled and quivered,

as if he would not suffer the tear that started into his eyes

to flow. He took up the cup, and swallowed the tea with

vehemence. Hannah, not knowing what to do or say, stood

riveted to the spot, expecting, with a feeling of awe, what

would come next ; a father having thanked God for the death

of his own daughter.

Another pause of dread for Hannah ensued ; Mr. Fountainee

looked at her. He started, and seemed, on the sudden, to

recollect himself : " And the child ?" he said.

"It lives, sir," replied Hannah. " What am Ito do with

it?"

Anything you will," he said, " so long as you keep the

young viper from my sight. But," added he, with something

of that sternness which at times made every one of his

dependants feel terror as they stood before horn, " but you

know my commands about the wretched mother ; respecting

her, though dead, they are the same, and the same for this

child. See that not the least of there is broken, or it shall

be worse for you, and for us all. lam not now, Hannah, to

be so easily managed as you once found mc. lam grown

old now, and old things are stubborn — at least, I am so."

Sir," said Hannah, who never forfeited Mr. Fountainee 's

favour, because she never attempted to prevail with horn in

his more obdurate moments ; " sir, you shall be obeyed."

And, having said this, and knowing how much he disliked a

word more than necessary in reply to an arbitrary command,

she remained still, neither moving to the right nor the left,

patiently awaiting his further commands.

"It is well," said Mr. Fountainee, after a long pause.

And now, Hannah, what makes you stay here ? I would

much rather be alone."

I wait your last orders, sir."

Mr. Fountainee looked at her, as if he did not understand

her drift ; there was something of doubt and distress in his

countenance. She hastened to relieve him.

Where, sir," she inquired, in a solemn yet respectful

manner, " where am I to bury " — she was about to say

your daughter; but, knowing how hateful was that word to

Mr. Fountainee 's ear, she checked herself, and finished the

sentence by saying — " the dead." Yet the suppression of the

word that presented itself most naturally to her had cost hera

painful effort ; and, in spite of all her resolutions, she burst

into tears.

Mr. Fountainee did not chide her. " Bury the dead !" he

exclaimed, repeating her words, and laying a strong emphasis

on the dead, as if he weighed all the terrible import of those

expressions in his own mid,

Why, in the family vault — at midnight — as private as

possible, and next to her " — he looked up, and pointed to the

portrait of his deceased wife that hung above the chimney,

as he spoke this last command.

Hannah received it in silence, but trembled greatly. Again

he threw himself back in his chair, and she prepared to leave

horn, without speaking another word. Before, however, she

had gained the door, as if in that short interval he had summoned

to his aid all the strong resolution of his character,

he said, in a voice perfectly calm and clear, " Remember, tomorrow,

at midnight. But, after the funeral, let no one of

my household appear in mourning. You, Hannah, however,

may wear whatever you please — so, now leave mc."

On the night of the following day, whilst the wind sighed

and moaned in accordance with the melancholy ceremony

that was to take place in the village church, about half a

mile from the old Hall ; as the moon gave a fitful light

through stormy clouds that drove swiftly in succession

across her disc, and frequently enveloped her in complete

obscurity ; as the rain began to drop, and the dismal toll of

the bell to reverberate from the old church tower, which even

at so late an hour told to all the neighbouring villagers thai

a child of earth was on the road to its last home, the silent

and obscure mourning train set forth in its way to the

church, through the gallery door, which communicated with

the park.

They bore along with them the coffin that contained the

mortal and dishonoured remains of one who had so early fallen,

and who, had she died but two years before, would have been

followed to the burial by half the country round, at the call

of a fond father's loud and public grief. But now she was

hurried to an obscure grave at night, almost unseen by men ;

and with a privacy that amounted almost to secrecy, as if in

order that with her remains her memory might be blotted

from the face of the earth.

Hannah, the faithful Hannah, even in this extremity,

would not desert the child whom, in her last hours, Mrs.

Fountainee had committed to her care. Hannah followed as

chief mourner ; a mourner indeed, wrapped in a large cloak,

and leaning on the arm of her husband.

Four men of the household carried the coffin, as it is called

in Devonshire, under hand ; and three or four of the servants

made up the rest of the train. All the mourning they wore

consisted of the long black cloaks supplied by the undertaker,

which would be thrown off at the close of the ceremony.

Two of the grooms preceded the sad train with a couple of

torches ; and even these they feared the wind and rain would

extinguish crc they reached the church.

All things had been previously prepared. The clergyman,

Parson Nixon, and his old clerk and sexton, had done their

part. Though the notice was brief, nothing had been

neglected. The vault had been opened many hours before tolet

the fresh air pass freely through it, crc the living

descended within its precincts to bring home their dead.

The church was Gothic ; unusually large for a village ; and

the vault of the Fountainee family so extensive that it was

generally considered to have been part of the crypt of some

more ancient church, on whose foundation the present edifice

had been erected. A couple of candles, to enable Mr. Nixon

to read the service, and a couple of torches near the entrance

of the vault, formed all the lights in the church, which, in

some parts, remained in deep obscurity or in absolute darkness,

more especially towards the west end, where there were

many ancient columns and high-backed pews.

As the bell continued to toll, the wind to howl, and the

Rain to fall, Mr. Nixon, who had taken shelter in the vestry,

after due notice from the sexton, came forth to meet the

corpse. Whilst he walked before it up the aisle, and commenced

the sacred service, the noblest and most impressive

of all in our beautiful Liturgy, he thought he heard something

stir at the lower end of the church. He took no notice

of the circumstance, but proceeded in the sacred office, and

the last rites were accomplished without interruption.

Hannah and Thomas, ever faithful to their affections and

their trust, saw the coffin of the unhappy and misguided

Elizabeth placed beside that of her mother. Hannah, when

all was done, paused a moment to look upon both, and with

a reverential feeling touched the decaying velvet and the

tarnished silver breast-plate on the coffin of the late Mrs.

Fountainee. She drew a deep sigh, wiped away the tears

that almost blinded her eyes, and, giving her hand to Thomas,

suffered horn once more to lead her up the steps of the vault

into the body of the church. She was too much overcome to

pause there, and, after curtseying to Mr. Nixon, begged

Thomas to hasten back with her to the Hall, for she could

hardly support herself. Thomas and Hannah therefore were

the first to leave the vestry, whither the mourning train had

for a few minutes retired after the ceremony.

In crossing the aisle towards the west entrance, by the

light of one of the torches still burning in the church,

Hannah saw a tall figure, muffled in a cloak, issue from

behind one of the columns, evidently endeavouring to shun

observation and about to retreat. Hannah, in consequence

of having so unexpectedly left the vestry before the other

mourners, had advanced so close to the column that it was

not possible she could do other than cross the path of the

individual, whoever he might be. He therefore at once

dashed past her, and left the church with the utmost precipitation.



Good God ! " exclaimed Hannah, pressing hard her hand

on the arm of Thomas — " that is Mr. Fountainee ! "

CHAPTER XI.

Poor wretch,

That, for thy mother's fault, art thus exposed

To loss, and what may follow ! Weep I cannot,

But my heart bleeds.

Shakspeare.

On the day that succeeded the funeral, I returned to my

own home, taking with me the poor orphan babe. My good

mother naturally felt desirous to have the little one baptized

; but here she was in a sad dilemma. She did not

think she ought to give a name to the infant without the

orders of Mr. Fountainee, and those she dared not seek ; as,

after the night of the funeral, he maintained a determined

silence about his deceased daughter, and never, even by the

most distant allusion, hinted at the subject which it was

evident had made so deep an impression on his feelings.

He never inquired for the child, never expressed any interest

in its fate.

Hannah, who always entertained a lingering hope that

possibly the day might come when it would be otherwise,

did not like to irritate horn, or to give rise to any feelings of

disgust towards the poor child, by teasing horn about her.

She knew well the character of Mr. Fountainee, that, with all

his obstinacy and his arbitrary will (the consequence of the

injudicious manner in which he had been brought up and

indulged in youth), there was a great deal in his nature

truly noble ; that he was capable of a generous impulse, and

not totally deaf to reason or persuasion, where neither his

pride nor his passions interfered in any hostile manner in

regard to the individual who endeavoured to influence him.

By now, therefore, submitting implicitly to his will in an

affair in which his prejudices were so deeply concerned, she

hoped something from the future, when time and his own

better feelings should begin to operate. She thought then

it would be best, as long as the child continued well, to delay

the christening. If, however, the child should be seriously ill,

then Hannah resolved to have the ceremony of baptism performed,

at all events. Such were her views on the subject.

Thomas had his own ; but of a far more worldly kind.

He had lived at the Hall, he said, ever since he was a boy ;

he had been present at the christening of Miss Martha and

Miss Amy, and both those events were celebrated with much

state. And, though Mr. Fountainee might be angry now and

rather strange about the poor child, yet Thomas felt sure

the day would come when he would have his grandchild

christened in the old way ; that all the household would

walk to church, and all the first sporting squires and their

wives would stand godfathers and godmothers, and that all

the tenantry would be feasted on the lawn, and most likely

some of there would go home half-tipsy with the eider and

the punch and the merry-making.

Hannah's expectations about the christening took no such

flight as this ; but she hoped much if the ceremony were

delayed, and the poor babe, not yet a Christian, continued to

be nursed by mc. As soon as she was weaned and began to

run alone, Hannah, who was never happy when the child

was not with her, would have her back again to live at the

Hall ; and as Mr. Fountainee, she said, had given up his

grand-daughter to her, in a great measure to do what she

pleased with her, she determined to educate her after her

own wayland as far as she could, in accordance with those

wishes Mrs. Fountainee had expressed for her children. But

this was a matter for future consideration ; at present, the

great object was to keep her out of her grandfather's sight.

In this there was no great difficulty ; for age growing upon

horn, as well as the gout, he much lessened, if he did not

altogether relinquish, his field-sports, and almost confined

himself to the use of two or three apartments, his bed-room,

the oak parlour, and his closet, where he settled his accounts

with his attorney and his steward. All the rest of his very

large, old, and rambling house, Hannah had entirely under

her command to do what she pleased with it ; there was no

one to contradict her.

From the very day, therefore, that the child returned to

what Hannah considered her rightful home, she selected

two very nice rooms near her own, and these she destined

for her charge ; they were prettily situated towards the

garden-front of the house, and commanded a view of the

park and the old church, in which lay the remains of her

mother and many of the race of Fountainee. Hannah appointed

a respectable young woman to attend upon the little

girl ; and, between herself and the maid, Mr. Fountainee was

so watched, that they contrived to give the child the air

when he was in doors, and to keep her in when he was about

the park and grounds.

Five years passed away without any particular occurrence ;

yet neither the existence of the child nor its residence at the

Hall were matters unknown to the most intimate friends

of its master, who were now reduced to a very small circle.

I have before noticed how gradually his field-sports declined,

and in them the mirth and meetings he had been accustomed

to afford to his more boisterous companions. Though Mr.

Fountainee's old habits and manners more or less still clung

to horn, yet they were very much softened and subdued in

all their harsher features. Still he never mentioned his

daughters ; and, though he would now and then, on rare

occasions, mount his favourite old hunter, and go after the

hounds, yet he followed the sport without spirit; never

brought home the brush nor a train of hallooing men and

yelping dogs at his heels, when the hunt was over, as he had

been wont to do ; and, if he sometimes took his gun, he would

saunter along with it, and be so absent that, although the dogs

did their duty, and put up a- covey of birds, he frequently

fired when it was too late.

As to visiting, he had never accepted an invitation since

his youngest daughter ran away from his house, so that at

last people left off inviting him. His intimates were the

apothecary, Mr. Lavington, a worthy and a sensible man,

and Lawyer Sheriff, who neither wanted shrewdness nor

clients, nor an honest fare, but was much wanting in those

arts of delay and tricks of the law, by which so many of its

professors make long causes for their clients and long bills

for themselves ; so that it was quite true what Mr. Fountainee

used to say of horn, that Lawyer Sheriff's reputation was

much greater than his fortune. Nevertheless, he was a hale,

happy, contented man, with a family of children, who all did

well in life, and by no unfair means.

Old Parson Nixon was, too, on very friendly terms at the

Hall, and would come now and then and take a hit at

backgammon with its master. An old fox-hunter, who had

broken his leg by a fall from a horse on leaping a gate, and

could never sit horn more, but who could still enjoy a bowl

of punch, used generally to come once or twice a week to see

Mr. Fountainee. And Squire Dickons, who was not of an

unkind heart, and always blamed himself for having been so

ready to suspect the old gentleman, felt truly sorry for his

misfortunes. He told Hannah how concerned he was to see

his neighbour so cut up after the sad business of his youngest

daughter, and that he felt himself bound to do all he could

to cheer horn up. For this purpose he would call in a friendly

way, or take a snack of dinner or supper, as he called it, with

Mr. Fountainee, and bring horn the news of the day ; how the

Pretender got on (for this happened at the time the country

was so much disturbed by the Jacobites), to whom he knew

Mr. Fountainee was well disposed in his heart ; or whose

horse had won the cup at the Maldon Hill races, and any

interesting anecdotes which occurred to horn about the hounds

in his own pack.

These were the few friends who now gathered around the

Squire, to comfort the old man and the bereaved father by his

own hearthstone. But, though their efforts were made withall

sincerity, and according to the best judgment of each, it

would not do ; Mr. Fountainee still remained a broken-hearted

man, and suffered the more severely because he suffered in

silence. In vain did the doctor advise horn to try the benefit

of change of air and society, with a tonic preparation of his

own, excellent in any affections that had a tendency to megrims

or vapours.

Mr. Fountainee refused medicine, or to leave his own home.

Parson Nixon twice or thrice really did comfort horn, by

talking horn to sleep with a discourse on the duty of submission,

in which all the distressed and aggrieved fathers of

old, from Isaac lamenting the disobedience of Esau in his

choice of a wife, and Jacob regretting the loss of Joseph, and

Eli the-wickedness of his sons, down to David deploring the

death of his child, were made to pass in review.

Squire Dickons had a less learned, but not a less sincere,

method of trying his hand at comforting ; and, as it proceeded

from genuine kind feeling in his own breast, it touched the

true chord in that of his friend. One evening the Squire

came in, bringing with horn a beautiful little dog of the

spaniel breed, and told Mr. Fountainee, who admired the

animal, it was much at his service.

Mr. Fountainee, like a true sportsman, inquired after the

parentage of the spaniel.

Ay, sir," replied Squire Dickons, " that, I am afraid, is

a sore subject to touch upon for us both, and wc won't name

names ; there's no good in that. But this pretty animal is

a pup of the brown and white spaniel bitch that was given

to me, five or six years agon, by one whose picture once hung

there ;" he pointed to the vacant panel as he spoke.

Mr. Fountainee winced, but for once the tenderer mood prevailed

; he turned aside as if to avoid observation, and, as he

did so, wiped his eyes.

Ay, sir," said Squire Dickons, " I will say no more than

this : I felt obliged by the gift of the spaniel, the mother of

this pup, and a vacant panel ought not to make a vacant

memory in return for a kindness, and — and — " continued Squire

Dickons, trying to hammer out something, yet not exactly

knowing how to hit it — -" and I thought as when I come to the

Hall sometimes to have a chat with Mrs. Hannah, for the sake

of old times, I see with her a sweet pretty lamb, with blue

eyes and a curly poll, scarce five years old, playing about

-without a suitable companion, I did think this puppy would

do very well for such, and so I brought it here. Now, as the

mother of the puppy originally belonged to (Mr. Fountainee

looked very grave) I won't say who, it seemed to me that

there would be a sort of natural connection — a companionship

that would very kindly spring up between the little girl and

the little dog, and they would be very good friends the one

to the other."

Squire Dickons stopped short, absolutely astonished at his

own audacity, and most self-satisfied with its results, when

he found that Mr. Fountainee bore this, the first direct allusion

that had ever been made to his granddaughter since she

had lived under his roof, with patience ; for he neither quarrelled

with horn, nor turned horn out of door for his impertinence.

Indeed, the old gentleman took it in very good part,

only saying, " You may leave the puppy, squire, at the Hall,

and I dare say Hannah will know what to do with it."

Soon after Squire Dickons took his leave, whistled to the

dog to follow horn out of the oak parlour, and speedily found

his way to the snuggery of the housekeeper.

Mrs. Hannah," he said, rubbing his hands as he entered,

and his eyes twinkling with pleasure, " wc go on charmingly ;

he lets the puppy stay for the little child ; though I as good

as named her mother, and told horn the old spaniel bitch,

whose pup it is, had been given me by Miss Elizabeth.

What do you think of that, Hannah ? " asked Squire Dickons

in an exulting tone, again rubbing his hands with the heartfelt

delight the doing of a good-natured act never fails to

bring with it.

What do I think, Squire ?" said Hannah. "Why, that

you are a most kind-hearted gentleman, to introduce the

mention of the poor child to Mr. Fountainee ; a thing that

not even I, who have lived with horn so long, dare to do.

And yet it is such a pity that he should have so sweet a

creature living under his roof, and not know the comfort of

her. Indeed, lam much obliged to you, and so will Mr.

Fountainee be by-and-by, if he can but be induced to see her

and to own her."

That he shall," said Squire Dickons, " that he shall ; the

ice is broken, and that's a great thing, you know, Mrs. Hannah

; and he knows she is here, and is to have my spaniels

puppy. The next thing wc have to do will be to slide the

child, as it were, into his notice. Now, to my thinking, Mrs.

Hannah, the child herself could do that part of the business

much better than either of us."

But, if my master fancied that I plotted to let her do so,

he would call it plotting against his will, and maybe would

take some stern measures to dismiss me and the innocent

creature from his sight for ever. O, Squire ! you do not

know Mr. Fountainee so well as I do."

"O, yes, I do ; I know his ways ; winces a good deal at

what he don't very well like ; but, after a little coaxing and

managing, give horn his head and he will go free enough.

Now, I will tell you what must be done : you must have no

hand in the business ; you must be able to swear you had

nothing to do in it — and let it be all the child's own doing ;

he won't hurt her ; he can't eat her up, if he sees her. Why,

bless you, she will be the sweetest child that ever he looked

upon ; and nobody in the shape of man could look upon her

without loving her. Where is she ? send her in to mc. I

want to see the dear little puppet. I've got some gingerbread

nuts, as well as the puppy, for her. Let me see her ;

and, young as she is, I'll put her up to something ; for shea

sensible little thing, as cunning as she is sweet. All you

have to do, Hannah, is not to keep her up so close as you

used to do, when her grandfather is in doors ; but let her

ramble about ; I will warrant me she will, one of these days,

find her way to play about in the Hall, or elsewhere : but let

me see her. '

A child like a cherub came in, and without the least fear

went directly up to Squire Dickons, who haa always been

good-natured to her, and of whom she was very fond. He

Q

took her up in his arms, gave her a toss or two, made her

laugh with glee, and then seated her on his knees, as he

passed his hand over her beautiful light brown locks, and

said they put horn in mid of his favourite spaniels back,

being almost as curly. He next rummaged in his pockets,

and produced the gingerbread, which he put into the little

fat and dimpled fingers, which soon found the way to her

pretty rose-bud mouth.

My dear," said Squire Dickons, in a coaxing tone, after

she had got through her nut — " my dear, don't you like nice

things ? "

Yes," replied the child ; " I like gingerbread."

But I am not always here to give it to you, my dear,"

said the Squire ; " and there are many other things quite as

good as gingerbread. Don't you see Mrs. Hannah very often

taking out of her closet of a morning honey and marmalade,

and such nice sweets, to send them in with the tea-things on

a tray, that John, the butler, takes away with horn ? "

Yes ; John goes there with it," said the child, pointing

to the door that led into the hall.

Ay, my dear," said Squire Dickons ; " but John doesn't

stop there with it ; he takes it to an old gentleman who lives

in the rooms further off than the hall ; and if, one of these

days," continued the Squire, in a lower tone, and looking

comically confidential, as he half whispered in the child's

ear, as though he told her a secret, " you watched to see

where John took the tray and the good things, and followed

horn, I dare say the old gentleman would give you some of

them."

I should be afraid," said the child.

"0, no ! " replied the Squire ; "he is the most good-natured

old gentleman in all the world."

"What ! As good-natured as you ?" said the little girl.

"0, yes, and would be very fond of you. He let me

bring you the pretty puppy that Hannah has for you ; but

now, my dear, I must take leave, and go home."

So saying, Squire Dickons once more kissed the downy

check of his pretty pet, set her on her feet, and soon after

bade adieu to her and the friendly housekeeper.

The little girl, into whose mid the Squire had infused

most pleasing hopes of honey and marmalade, annexed to

the idea of a visit to the unseen but good-natured old gentleman

who lived in the oak parlour, did not forget the

instructions she had received as to how she was to obtain

them ; but, from the sort of whispering and mystery with

which the Squire had conveyed his intelligence, she was

afraid to tell all about it to Hannah, who had so often

cautioned her never to go beyond the hall, but pondered

over these things in her little heart. At length, one morning,

the sight of the butler, carrying along the tray with a

more than ordinary portion of good things upon it, seemed to

her an irresistible opportunity. She followed the man's

steps, but slowly, for fear of detection ; for, as he was returning

along the gallery, after having left the tray in the oak

parlour, she slipped her little self behind a large screen to

avoid observation.

When the coast was clear she crept out and looked about

her, and now saw that John had left the parlour door ajar.

She walked very softly along the gallery, and at length ventured

to peep her little head into the parlour. She saw

within a white-haired old gentleman over his breakfast,

engaged, at that very moment, in spreading on a slice of

bread some of the delicious marmalade, the object of her

hopes. Yet, still afraid of what she was doing, she as

quickly drew back. Soon after, she just peeped in with one

eye, and then as speedily drew back again.

Mr. Fountainee, though at a distance, was seated opposite

the door opening from the gallery. It had moved slightly,

and attracted his notice, but who or what it might be that

caused the movement he could not tell, for it was gone again

in a moment. But the door stirred a second time, and now,

thinking it must be one of the dogs escaped from the kennel,

he rose up with the intent to shut out the intruder. When

he got close to the door he perceived a fair infant face, with

a blue eye and a curly poll, that made horn start with surprise

; but the next moment the child, afraid of what she

had done, ran away and concealed herself behind the screen

in the gallery.

Mr. Fountainee stood near the still half-open door, expecting

to see again those blue eyes and that little curly poll which

had but now so startled him. I will not pretend to say with

what feelings he expected their return. The child, knowing

that she was detected in her visit to the forbidden part of

the house, began to be alarmed ; but, looking behind her,

and not seeing Hannah, she ventured once more to peep with

both eyes into the room, when, observing a smile on <& < S3M»

G 2

of the old gentleman, she ventured on further, and put forward

her little feet, till she was fairly within, though still

close to the door. She looked up innocently, half-pleased

and half-afraid of what she had done, and blushed all over

her sweet face.

By this time Hannah had missed the child, and, fearing

which way she had gone, flew after her, as softly as she

could, in the hope to get her back again before she ventured

too far. But she came in sight only just in time to see the

little creature put in both her feet, and stand erect before

her grandfather, though still holding the door in her hand.

Hannah knew that her interference would be now too late ;

and, thinking it might be God's will that the innocent being

who had neither father nor mother to take care of her should

find a parent who would love and protect her in a grandfather,

she determined she would not too hastily step in to mar so

good an opportunity. She remained, therefore, without, and

stood trembling for the event, scarcely knowing what to

hope or what to fear, yet having an undefined conviction on

her mid that this was the crisis of the orphan's future

destiny.

Through the half-open door Hannah could see the countenance

of Mr. Fountainee, reflected in a looking-glass that hung

on the side opposite to where he stood. She could read it in

the expression of strong emotion, whilst his eyes were fixed

on the child's face, as he seemed to be scrutinizing every

feature, for he judged true enough whose child she was. At

length, he said to her in a mild tone, " Well, my dear, and

who sent you here this morning ? "

"Nobody sent me," she replied ; " I come of my own self."

You come of your own self," said Mr. Fountainee ; " and

what do you want here ? "

The child hung down her head, afraid of making a confession

about the good things in the tea-tray ; but answered,

blushing if possible more deeply than before, " I should like

to play in dis pretty place." As she lisped these words, she

advanced a few steps further.

For a minute or two there was silence ; Mr. Fountainee had

moved his position, and Hannah could no longer see his

countenance reflected in the glass. Not knowing what this

silence might augur for the child, and fearing her master

might blame her for a neglect of his orders, she thought she

had better go in, as if in a fright, after the little one who had

strayed beyond bounds. Hannah was in reality too much

frightened to need act a part ; and she began asking pardon

with great earnestness, and prepared to take away the little

intruder, when Mr. Fountainee cut her very short, and said,

in a manner which showed that, though serious and even

suffering from some strong but suppressed feelings, he was

not displeased, " Hannah, that child has not in the least the

look of the viper breed."

No, sir," said Hannah, and scarcely knowing what she

said, so much was she overcome with joy to think how Mr.

Fountainee received this breach of his commands, she added,

in a confused manner, " This child is even more handsome

than " Hannah stopped short, and finished her sentence

by saying, " I think, sir, she is like Miss Martha."

No," said Mr. Fountainee, " she is more like my own wife

than was either of her daughters — though Martha had her

eyes. But this child is the image of her." He snatched the

infant up as he spoke, held her out at arm's length, to show

her to Hannah, as he stood before Mrs. Fountainee 's portrait,

and looked first at the one and then at the other, as if making

a comparison between them.

I have often fancied, sir," said Hannah, " that she was

like some one of the family ; but, till you pointed it out I

never thought how like she was the picture of my beloved

mistress."

And yet, Hannah," replied Mr. Fountainee, " you have

done so much for those who were very dear to her, and even

for this little one, that I should have thought you would like

to look upon her picture sometimes. If a picture could

speak, she would thank you, however ungratefully the others

requited both your care and mine, Hannah."

She was ever a dear good lady," said Hannah, " and kind

to my child, sir ; how could Ido less for her ? "

Ay, she was kind and good, as you say, Hannah ;" and he

added, with a smile such as she had not seen in his face for

years, " you know, Hannah, she worked with her own hands

your child's christening-cap. You see, Hannah, the old man

doesn't forget old times."

No, sir," replied the housekeeper, " no, I never can forget

my dear lady there "

Mr. Fountainee fixed his eyes once more intently on his

wife's portrait. It was evident to Hannah that his strong

recollection of her had at this moment greatly softened his,

feelings. "I am glad," he continued, aitev <v-^a.-OASfe,'-'' 'O^sX

the did not live to see such ingratitude as I have seen." The

tears rushed to his eyes, and he was again silent.

Hannah told me she thought at the moment that, had

Mrs. Fountainee lived, in all probability everything would

have been very different, as the young ladies would certainly

have received from their mother a very different education ;

but she did not say so.

Mr. Fountainee now turned again to the child, and once

more took her in his arms. She looked up at horn half afraid,

not knowing what to make of his serious countenance and

the tears that had started into his eyes, and she said with

the sweetest voice, as she gazed with fear and wonder in his

face—" Don't cry."

He put down the child hastily and turned towards Hannah,

with a calm countenance, and with something of his former

short manner asked what the child was called. Hannah

thought to herself, he fears I may answer "Elizabeth "; but

she soon relieved horn by saying, " Sir, I have called her

Miss Betsy, for I knew not what to do about taking upon me

to name her."

Has she been christened in church then ? " inquired Mr.

Fountainee.

No, sir," replied Hannah : " I did not think it right,

without your "

Have it dono then," said Mr. Fountainee, interrupting

her, "by the names of Betsy Fountainee. Let it be done as

privately as possible ; you the godmother ; any godfather

you please — no fuss ; and no delay. Remember, Betsy

Fountainee ; and remember also that no other names be

registered ; that is, that no third name be registered."

But, sir," said Hannah, who saw at once by such a

registry Mr. Fountainee would brand his grand-daughter

with illegitimacy, " but, sir, her mother was married ; she

had on her hand the wedding-ring when this dear child was

born, and her father, Captain Quirk "

Accursed be the name ! " exclaimed Mr. Fountainee, in a

voice that made Hannah start, and absolutely frightened

the poor child. " How dare you repeat that name in my

presence ? Hannah, you are somewhat privileged ; but do

not you go too far. Had any one but yourself named a name

before me that ruined in soul and body the child I loved

more than life, or all that life can give, that has covered the

remnant of my days with misery, and driven me almost to

madness — had any one but you, Hannah, done this, be it

whosoever it might, he should never more have seen my

face, or felt my bounty."

Hannah would have begged pardon, but Mr. Fountainee

waved his hand and bade her be silent, assuring her he had

pardoned her. " Hear me, Hannah," he continued ; " don't

mistake me — don't think, because you see me weak and

foolish sometimes, that I am changed. I can't help getting

an old man, nor can I help the infirmities that old age will

bring along with it ; wc are twice children in many points,

especially in our weaknesses. But, in some things, Hannah,

I tell you, I can never change whilst a drop of blood warms

my heart, or whilst memory enough remains to me to know

who lam and what I am. I never will forget the injuries

heaped upon my head. I would remember them whilst

dropping into the very grave, which will bury them. Even

now I would resent them, but that the villain who brought

the greatest of there all upon me is gone to his account ; and

if wc must meet beyond the grave, as I believe wc shall,

Hannah, the book will not, I hope, be closed in which is

written the debt of injury brought on mc. Hannah, would

you wish me to love that child and to be as a father to it ? "

"O, sir ! " said Hannah, raising her hands, as the tears

streamed down her face, " how can you ask such a question !

I would give my life to secure your love and care of her."

Well, then," replied Mr. Fountainee, " mark me — once

and for ever I tell you that child shall never bear the name

of the father ; and, unless you would make me hate the sight

of her, never again remind me whose blood she has in her

veins ; and now no more of this — let me finish my breakfast.

I saw this little curly poll eyeing the marmalade just now.

Give her to me on my knee ; I have something to say to her.

I used once to know how to please such little ones."

And, so saying, Mr. Fountainee took his grandchild on his

lap, kissed and made friends with her, and bade her henceforth

call horn grandpa ; and all this he did with as much

good-humoured ease as if nothing extraordinary had happened,

as if no deep passions had so recently been called up

in his own bosom ; so powerful was the self-command of this

singular man, when he had once subdued those emotions

which surprised horn into a momentary weakness. But he

was of a very strong character ; whether for generosity or

resentment, for love or hatred, he was still Mr. Fountainee.

He bade Hannah wipe her eyes and not be foolish, axed.

begged her to make some tea for horn and his little lady, for

whom he proceeded with his own hands to spread the orange

marmalade.

The breakfast over, Hannah was preparing to lead away

little Betsy, lest she should be troublesome to her grand-papa,

when the spaniel puppy walked in and seated himself

at Mr. Fountainee's feet before the fire. The old gentleman

caressed the dog ; the sight of it seemed to bring a train of

not unpleasing thoughts to his mid, for he called Hannah

back as she was retreating, and said — " Hannah, let that

good-natured fellow, Squire Dickons, be godfather to little

Betsy Fountainee : and now leave mc. Take the puppy with

you ; he is the child's companion."

Hannah curtseyed and obeyed : she was happy indeed at

what had passed. Great, however, was the disappointment

of Thomas when he found there was to be no grand christening.

He set off, however, immediately to prepare Parson

Nixon for the private one ordered, and to let Squire Dickons

know what office he was appointed to fulfil. Hannah was

in the midst of her thankful joy for the restoration of Betsy

Fountainee to the favour of her grandfather, when the child

suddenly addressed her.

Do you know, Hannah, I went to see grandpa, all

alone by myself. I went to horn and into the room by the

gallery door."

By the gallery door ! " exclaimed Hannah, her heart

sickening within her at the recollection that it was by that

very door the unhappy mother of the innocent child who

now spoke had forced herself on Mr. Fountainee the evening

of her melancholy return home, to receive a father's curse,

and to die under his roof. A feeling of superstitious dread

stole over Hannah, as this recollection crossed her mid, and

almost spoiled the joy of the morning.

CHAPTER XII.

Think not, the good.

The gentle deeds of mercy thou hast done,

Shall die, forgotten all : the poor, the prisoner,

The fatherless, the friendless, and the widow,

Who daily own the bounty of thy hand,

Shall cry to Heav'n, and pull a blessing on thee.

Rowe.

At christening well could act his part,

And had the service all by heart.

Swift.

Squire Dickons, who rejoiced to see how well his scheme

for the benefit of the poor child had worked, accepted with

great glee the office of godfather, and prepared his gift of

silver spoons on the occasion with the utmost munificence :

it was the more marked in horn, as, generally speaking, he

was saving with his money. But he felt he had done a really

good action, and that opened his heart and his hand too.

Hannah stood godmother, as directed, dressed in a handsome

brocaded silk, which the late Mrs. Fountainee had given

her to wear at her wedding, and which, ever since, the good

housekeeper had kept laid up in bunches of lavender in the

wardrobe, to be worn only on very great occasions. She now

sighed as she put it on, remembering the last time it was

worn, on the day of the christening of one of Mr. Fountainee's

children: then there was rejoicing and merry-making; now

all was as solemn and as private as possible. Thomas

thought no good could come of such poor doings, so contrary

to all the hearty and open-handed customs of the family.

Parson Nixon, notwithstanding his discourses on submission

and the awe he felt for his patron, by no means approved

the entry he had ordered should be made in the registers

the baptism of his grand daughter. He said to Squire

Dickons, after the ceremony was over, that his conscience

told horn he might go too far in yielding compliance to Mr.

Fountainee's arbitrary temper : that he could not but remember

how prophets and ministers of old had stood up and

resisted even kings to their faces, as in the matter of Moses

and Pharaoh, when the Egyptian would not let the people

of Israel go ; of Balaam and Bala, when the prophet insisted

on blessing the chosen of God, instead of cursing them, as

required by his prince and patron ; and as in the matter of

Nathan, who told King David boldly to his face he had

sinned. Now, the instruction he drew from all this was,

that he ought to consider whether he should not, though

contrary to orders, add the name of Quirk to the registry of

Betsy Fountainee.

Sir," said Squire Dickons, " I don't pretend to argue

with you about the parties you have named, who resisted

their betters, kings or otherwise ; for you are a parson, Mr.

Nixon, and learned in all those matters ; and that's your business

and not mine. But I know Mr. Fountainee, and if he is

disobeyed he is like enough to turn this poor lamb out of

his house, and not to leave her sixpence hereafter. Why,

sir, begging your pardon for saying so, as you are a parson,

Mr. Fountainee hates a Quirk as he hates the devil himself, I

believe, and would as soon benefit the one as the other. And

now tell me, parson, how your conscience will sit upon you,

if, by putting your obstinacy against Squire Fountainee's,

you become the means of his cutting off this poor child with a

shilling, and of throwing her upon me, who, as her godfather,

would feel obliged to take her in, if he did so : and I a

widower man, with a long family of three children of my

own to provide for : I should like to see how you will answer

that."

My duty, Squire Dickons, my duty, as a divine, must

be considered, sir, before Mr. Fountainee's pleasure ; though

in all reasonable matters I would questionless study to

oblige a man who is my patron."

"Well, then, oblige horn now," said Squire Dickons, "for

I tell you this is a reasonable matter. Why, Parson Nixon,

there is no proof in the world that when Miss Elizabeth ran

away with that son of a sharper, Captain Quirk, he ever

married her."

Squire," said Hannah, who was present at this debate in

the vestry, after the christening of the child, " excuse my

interfering, but Miss Elizabeth was really married. I saw

the wedding-ring on her finger with my own eyes when she

came home so miserably, and this poor child was born, and

she called the Captain, then dead, her husband."

That's no proof at all ; anybody may put on a gold ring,

and say they are married, to keep up appearances. 1 tell you,

the whole country had doubts about it, and nobody ever heard

at what church they were married, or who was present ; and

old Quirk encouraged these reports, and never once contradicted

them."

He was a wicked man, sir," said Hannah, " and thought

that the discredit that fell on Miss Elizabeth, the favourite

daughter, would mortify Mr. Fountainee ; and so he rather

countenanced than contradicted the tongue of slander."

But, I tell you, there is no proof to be found that she

was ever married ; and you know Mr. Fountainee's orders :

he will not have them questioned."

But such an entry will stamp the child with illegitimacy,"

said Mr. Nixon.

Never you mid that," said Squire Dickons. " Illegitimacy

! a fiddlestick's end ! I wonder whether her legitimacy

will procure her bread, if her grandfather cuts her out of his

will. And after all, I tell you again, whatever may be the

fact, there is no proof of a marriage in this case."

Well, Squire," said Parson Nixon, " if there is really no

proof, that is another thing ; my conscience would compel

me to comply with a proof, but I do not see it need trouble

me to suppose one. And so, sir, wc will register the little

girl under the names of Betsy Fountainee, daughter of Elizabeth

Fountainee, spinster."

And so was the child registered, and thus did her grandfather

at once stamp her with illegitimacy. This strange

transaction soon became the talk of the whole neighbourhood,

and many blamed Mr. Fountainee ; but he remained in total

ignorance of all this gossip, for his arbitrary temper was too

well known to make any one risk offending horn by telling

horn what was said on the occasion.

I pass by many years of the child's life. I have already

said that my mother felt convinced all the evils which had

befallen Mr. Fountainee's daughters arose from the want of a

proper education.

She determined that, as little Betsy was given up to her

care, she should have a very different education. The words

of Solomon, " Train up a child in the way he should go, and

when he is old he will not depart from it," were always in

her mid, and she resolved to begin with her charge betimes.

For this purpose she never scrupled to restrain her when she

thought it would be for her benefit ; and punished her when,

now and then, in imitation of her grandfather's humour, she

would give a stamp with her little foot, or make an effort to

obtain what she wanted by any exertion of an arbitrary will.

Even Squire Dickons, who grew more and more fond of his

godchild, seeing how well Hannah managed her, gave his

regular supply of gingerbread into the custody of the housekeeper,

with an intimation that she was henceforth to dispense

it as a reward for good conduct.

To his present of the spoons, Squire Dickons added a

horn-book ; and, now and then, when he would call in upon

Hannah, though the worthy Squire was not very literary,

yet, after patting the heads of his curly-polled god-daughter

and her curly-backed spaniel, he would take her on his knee

and examine her in her progress. And often would he declare

that to horn it was wonderful to think how soon she had

learned to read. For his own part, it had cost horn more

time when a boy, and his master more birch, than he cared

to tell of, before it could be whipped into horn to know great

A from little b. But as for his sweet little god-daughter,

she was a most wonderful child. He approved Hannah's

manner of training, to begin early. A colt or a pointer could

scarcely be broken in too soon. He liked also Hannah's ideas

about making her religious, and thought it very sweet and

pretty to see the dear little thing, with her innocent face,

kneeling down at the housekeeper's feet, and saying her

prayers, and asking God to be a father to her who had none.

Hannah, one of these days, should see what he thought of all

this, and how he would help the good work for the child.

Accordingly, the next time Squire Dickons found his way

to the housekeeper's room, he came in smiling, and lugging

a great book under his arm, very handsomely bound, bearing

upon its back, in letters of gold, the words, " The Holy

Bible." The Squire laid it down upon the table, shook

Hannah by the hand, took little Betsy on his knee, drove

away the spaniel that wanted to claim a place on the other,

and proceeded to open the book.

First, he showed to little Betsy a woodcut ornamented letter,

at the beginning of the first chapter of Genesis, representing,

neither in the most graceful style of design nor in

the most exact drawing, Adam and Eve, standing, the one on

the right and the other on the left of a large tree, hung with

apples, round which was twisted a serpent, nearly as large as

the tree itself, whispering into the ear of Eve. A lion with

a very comical face, and what was intended for a lamb, were

seen reposing in the background very lovingly together.

Squire Dickons had so much of theology as to be able to expound

the meaning of the picture to little Betsy.

He next turned over to the fly-leaf of the book, in which,

in his very best hand and spelling (having looked out the

words very carefully in the dictionary before he wrote them

down) appeared the following autograph inscription : —

"BETSY Fountain, HER BOOKE;

The Gift of her Affectionate Godfather,

Thomas Rideabout Dickons, Esquire,

Of Beagle Hall,

One of His Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of Devon;

This 21st day of July, in the year of our Lord 1750."

There, my dear," said Squire Dickons, giving little Betsy

a kiss, " that is your own book. Mid what Hannah says,

and what that book will teach you, and may God bless you

to live to be a good woman ! And now, I hope, I have done

my duty by you as a godfather, having given the best instructions

that I can for you. But as for the sermons in the

vulgar tongue, as I can't preach, you must look to Parson

Nixon for them. But mid that book, and all, I dare say,

will go well with you."

Betsy did mid what it taught her ; and though Hannah

could neither teach her French, nor how to play on the

harpsichord (though she managed to obtain for her some instruction

in both, by a master who came into the neighbourhood),

yet, under her care, the child gained a good education,

and many lessons on the duties of obedience and self-control.

Of what is called the world, Hannah could not

teach her much, for she knew very little about it herself.

All the world of her life had been confined to the precincts

of Fountainee Hall, where she had indeed acquired, by seeing

the faults and miseries of its master and his family, no small

insight into the passions and prejudices of strong and ungoverned

character. The experience she had gained from

this source she now endeavoured to employ for the benefit of

her young charge.

From the time Mr. Fountainee consented to acknowledge

Betsy as his grand-daughter, she became, in a great measure,

the sole object for which he lived. When Hannah could

spare her from her lessons, she was almost always with him.

In her infancy, she was his plaything ; in her youth, his

companion. When a little creature, not much higher than

his knee, he would take her by the hand, and lead her about

with horn in the park or the gardens, as she prattled by ibis

side ; and sometimes she would take part of her breakfast

with her, and endeavour to entice the deer to come and

eat it out of her hand, and her grandfather gave her a sunny

plot of ground, carefully tended and cultivated, in which she

worked herself, and which was called Betsy's garden.

CHAPTER XIII.

Who hath not proved how feebly words essay

To fix one spark of beauty's heavenly ray ?

Who doth not feel, until his failing sight

Faints into dimness with its own delight,

His changing check, his sinking heart confess

The might, the majesty, of loveliness ?

Byron's Bride of Abydos.

Betsy Fountainee was in her sixteenth year when I resume

my account of her. She was the loveliest young creature

that ever I beheld — much handsomer than had been any of

Mr. Fountainee's daughters ; and though like her mother,

more beautiful and far more engaging, for she was not a

spoilt child.

Betsy was rather tall, and very graceful ; of a fair skin,

with that extreme delicacy of complexion which showed ali

the blue veins in her forehead ; and, when animated by exercise

or feeling, presented a roseate blush upon her check that

was exquisite as the bloom upon the maiden-blush rose. Her

eyes were large, full, and blue ; lively, yet capable of great

softness ; and there was in them, at times, when her affections

were touched, a deep expression of tenderness the most

charming. Her month, which always indicates the temper,

was beautiful ; of ineffable sweetness ; and, when her lips

parted, it was to show a set of teeth of the purest white. Her

hair, of a warm light brown, hung in waving curls around

her temples and about her head ; it was rich and bright as

gold.

Her disposition, though she had in it something of the

Fountainee spirit, and not a little of the family pride, had

been so well trained, that no wild weeds were suffered to

overtop the flowers; her faults were few; indeed, rather failings

than faults ; and her virtues many, whilst her manners

were of the most attractive kind. She was sensible ; quick

in her perceptions ; of the most animated manners ; and,

whilst perfectly modest and unaffected, a lively and engaging

companion. She had a fondness for books ; and was by

no means deficient in what are called accomplishments. She

played on the harpsichord well enough to accompany her own

beautiful voice, and she could sing like an angel. She loved

Hannah as a mother ; whilst to her grands other she was

meek, affectionate, and dutiful. This sweet creature seemed

as if destined to console horn for all the disappointments he

had met with in respect to his own daughters.

Yet, with all these perfections, and though the avowed

favourite of her grandfather, whose ancient family, high

station, and great wealth were well known, poor Betsy Fountain,

like her aunts and her mother before her, never had

the advantage of being introduced into that class of superior

society in which she was entitled to move. All this arose

from the prejudices and the arbitrary will of Mr. Fountainee

in having so cruelly stamped her with the brand of illegitimacy.

Mr. Fountainee's daughters had borne but a poor

character for prudence and decorum, and they had been

shunned by the ladies of the highest order and breeding in

the neighbourhood as unfit companions for their children.

Miss Elizabeth's fair fare had suffered fatally by the shameful

conduct of old Quirk, who knew well enough that his

son had married her, but cared not what was said, or who

might be injured, so long as he could spite Mr. Fountainee.

No one had taken the matter up with spirit and contradicted

those cruel reports of no marriage having taken place, and it

was now publicly said that Mr. Fountainee would never have

had his grand-daughter's baptism entered in the register in

the way in which it there stood unless he knew for a certainty

that she was illegitimate ; never, were it otherwise,

would he have put such a brand on the reputation of his own

deceased daughter. Some of the ill-natured added, "As the

mother had been so would the daughter be. It was a pity

she had not died also as soon as she was born, rather than

live to be a disgrace to the family." I need not state any

further reasons to show how it was that (except Squire

Dickons' rustic daughters) Miss Betsy Fountainee had no

female society ; indeed, no society at all, saving the persons

I have before described, who were intimate with her grandfather.



In short, the gentry would not visit her — that is, the

female part ; for she was so beautiful, and was so much talked

of for her various attractions, that many of the gentlemen

of the neighbourhood were desirous to become acquainted

with her, and would bow to her as she passed them in her

rides, or stop and ask after her grandfather, trying by such

means to bring about an acquaintance. But towards them

all she showed the Fountainee spirit (nor could any one blame

her for it), and repelled all such advances with rather a

haughty air, as neither the wives nor the sisters of these

gentlemen would notice her. Another thing, also, helped to

keep up this most unfortunate prejudice ; nobody knew

(though Miss Martha had not been heard of for so many

years) if Mr. Fountainee intended or not to make Miss Betsy

his heir, and all said unless he did so her illegitimacy would

leave her a beggar.

In this account of the slights and neglects with which the

poor young lady was treated by the gentry I must except

one family — which, however, lived too far off (for they

resided at Kingsbridge) to be deemed neighbours. Their

name was Maynard. The eldest son, a young man in holy

orders, became curate to Parson Nixon, and, as that worthy

divine became old and infirm, and the living was in the gift

of Mr. Fountainee, it was thought the family in question had

an eye to the future preferment of this youth, so it might

not be altogether without a purpose they sought the acquaintance

of Mr. Fountainee.

About this time old Parson Nixon took an additional

curate — Mr. Wheatley, a relation of his own, who could not

otherwise procure a title for holy orders. And now, having

the assistance of two young men, Mr. Nixon committed the

parish and its duties to their charge, and went to Bath, in

the hope that the waters would relieve his rheumatic gout ;

and there for the present I must leave him.

CHAPTER XIV.

Oh, most adored ! Oh, most regretted love !

Oh, joys that never must again be mine !

And thou, lost hope, farewell ! vainly I rove,

For never shall I reach the land divine,

Nor ever shall thy beams celestial shine

Again upon my sad unheeded way !

Oh ! let me here with life my woes resign,

Or in this gloomy den for ever stay,

And shun the scornful world, nor see detested day.

MRS. Tight's Psyche.

The worthy surgeon I mentioned in a former part of this

story as being one of the few old friends who still continued

favourites at the Hall after the great affliction of its master,

came into the possession of a very handsome property on the

death of a distant relative, and, as he was growing old, he

determined to leave off fagging, yet not altogether to resign

his practice. He at once, therefore, took out his diploma,

and acted as a physician. His son, an amiable young man,

of very considerable talents, who had been studying under

one of the first surgeons in London, succeeded to his more

general practice. Many wondered that a person of such very

superior abilities, who, as his father said, had an ambitious

wish to rise in his profession, should be content to settle

down with so confined a practice as that of our neighbourhood.



But Hannah, who knew the young gentleman from his

childhood, had her own thoughts on the subject. She had

considerable penetration, and it was quite evident to her that

young Mr. Edward Lavington admired Miss Betsy Fountainee ;

though, as he was a very modest man, he felt not only awed

by the fear of her grandfather but of herself ; for he entertained

so high an opinion of her merit that he thought himself

in no way deserving of her — at least, so it appeared to

Hannah, by what she could draw from horn in conversation.

He loved her so dearly that Hannah grew anxious on the

subject, and closely watched the young people. She fancied

she could detect certain marks of something like an understanding

between them. She often surprised them walking

alone in the garden, or in earnest conversation together;

when, if she came on them unexpectedly, both would look

confused.

H

She very closely questioned Betsy as to the state of her

heart ; well knowing how fatal had been an entanglement of

the affections to her unhappy mother. Betsy kissed her,

thanked her, acknowledged her kind intentions, but certainly

did not reply with her usual frankness ; for she rather

evaded the questions put to her than gave any direct answer

to them.

I am sure, Miss Betsy," said Hannah, " that, if you and

Mr. Edward Lavington like each other, you need not despair,

though certainly he is not so high a match as Mr. Fountainee

might have expected for his grand-daughter. Yet Mr.

Lavington will have a very fair estate on his father's death,

for he is an only child ; and I would gladly try what I could

do to bring round your grandfather, and your godfather

also, to favour his suit. Yet, for that matter, I believe there

would be no very great difficulty, for all the county talks

of your grandfather s liking for Mr. Lavington, and thinks

he would make no objection to a match between you. I can

assure you he greatly regards horn, and would, I dare say,

have no dislike to see you change your state."

But, my dear Hannah," said Betsy, laughing, and throwing

her arms affectionately round her neck, " I do not want

to change my state. lam much happier as I am ; and why

should you endeavour to persuade mo ? I desire to be no

other than I am. As to Edward Lavington, I do most

heartily rejoice to hear that he stands so highly in my grandfather's

favour ; but I see not why it should of necessity

follow that he would wish to see me united to him. Hannah,

all you have said is very tenderly meant ; but it is a foolish

subject, and so pray talk no more about it."

Hannah shook her head; she felt there was in all this

something more than she could understand. It pained her

exceedingly, because it was the first time she had ever seen

anything in Miss Betsy to make her fancy she was other

than the most artless and open-hearted of human beings.

So it passed off. But soon a circumstance arose far more

mysterious than even this to excite her curiosity and attention.

The full particulars, however, did not become known

to Hannah till some time after, when she related them tome,

and I here give them from her statement.

One fine summers afternoon Mr. Fountainee ordered the

punch-bowl to bo taken into the oak parlour, saying that he

invited Squire Dickons and young Mr. Edward Laving-ton

to come and share a bowl with horn, and to talk over

some matters of business. Hannah obeyed ; and, after

having seen all things carefully arranged, she was about to

retire when Mr. Fountainee told her to come back. He had

hitherto been pacing up and down the room with his hands

behind his back, and looking very thoughtful.

Hannah," he said, " I shall want you by-and-by ; I have

something on my mid I shall tell you of before I go to bed

to-night ; for you have lived with me so long, Hannah, and

have been so faithful through all the weal and woe of my

family, that I consider you as the very best friend I have in

the world. And you are a sensible woman too, and show it

in never thwarting me ; so come in when the Squire and the

young doctor are gone, and I shall have something to tell

you worth the hearing."

The first of the expected friends who arrived was young

Mr. Lavington ; and Mr. Fountainee, who was never very

patient, and whose mid was full of his subject, would wait

no longer for the Squire ; and, after some few words of civil

salvation, thus began:

You will presently find, Mr. Lavington, that I have a

particular object in view in asking my grand daughter's godfather,

Squire Dickons, to meet you here this afternoon, and

what that object is I shall not touch upon till he comes.

He is late ; ten minutes behind his time."

Young Mr. Lavington bowed, wondering what was next to

follow. Mr. Fountainee motioned horn to take a seat, filled

the glasses from the punch-bowl, drank a health, and filled

again ; then leaned back in his chair, put his right hand

into his bosom, crossed his left knee over the other, and

remained silent for a minute or two, as if considering. At

length he all at once broke this strange silence with somewhat

of his old arbitrary tone and manner, though in one

of his very best humours, by saying, " It is nonsense to bethinking

how to mention it ; you, young gentleman, may as

well know my pleasure in the business at once."

"Sir!" said Mr. Lavington, really not understanding to

what the old gentleman could possibly allude.

"Sir!" exclaimed Mr. Fountainee, repeating his friend's

interjections note of surprise, " there needs no wonder about

the matter. I shall be very frank with you, and shall begin

by letting you know that I am not a stranger to the state of

h 2

your feelings, and have made up my mid about you, as you

shall presently hear ; but first '

Young Lavington turned pale as death ; he guessed the

subject on which Mr. Fountainee was about to open, and his

agitation and distress were almost overwhelming. He appeared

to be taken so completely by surprise as to be incapable

of any other answer than — " O, sir ! Mr. Fountainee !"

and there he stopped.

"No apologies, young gentleman," said Mr. Fountainee ;

I am, as you may see by my manner, not at all displeased ;

and I am about to give you a very strong proof of my regard,

and a proof also that I am an honest man, by beginning with

telling you what few people like to speak or to hear, especially

when it, in some measure, reflects upon themselves —

the truth. But I know you to be a gentleman, and, moreover,

I believe you to be my sincere friend."

Mr. Lavington bowed assent ; and, though a little recovered

from his first surprise, he still looked anxious and distressed.

Mr. Fountainee did not notice it. Indeed, he did not see it,

for his eyes were at the moment fixed on a very favourite

object — the portrait of Mrs. Fountainee, which hung before

his sight. " Sir," he continued, " ever since I lost the original

of that picture, I have been a most unhappy man ; I am not

apt to speak of my feelings to any one, but it is so. I have

loved my children ; I decided on what seemed to me the best

for their happiness ; I followed up those decisions resolutely,

but in all three I have been disappointed. One child, more

than all the rest, gave a blow to the fond heart of a father

that nothing will cure, doctor ; nothing but what cures all —

the forgetfulness of death. And Ido not know if I should

feel sorry were it less slow with mc."

He paused, and resumed, " I have, however, one thing left

to love that is worthy of all the love and care I have ever

bestowed on her, and that is my grandchild. Yes, Mr.

Lavington, she is a comfort to me — the solace of my age.

Ever since the day I first saw her peeping in with her blue

eyes and her curly poll at that very door, I have been a

happier man ; and, shall I say it ? a better man than I ever

hoped to be again in this world. Mr. Lavington, lam getting

old and feeble f I feel it daily. Age is creeping on me, and

gout and decay. But I could not die happy did I not leave

this dear child in good hands, so that she may never feel such

misery as was the fate of — her mother." (He started up

from his chair, greatly agitated as he spoke the last words.)

I never name her mother. Judge how deep must be the

anxiety that now induces me to do so to you. Oh, Mr.

Lavington !" he continued, going up to horn, and taking his

hand with much warmth, " I know your feelings. I will give

I consent to give — this dear child to you. Take her, love

her, guard her happiness, as I have done, and I shall die

with more comfort than I have lived. With her you will

receive the whole of my estate ; for Martha has not been

heard of for nearly twenty years, and must be dead. I shall

give all that I possess on earth to Betsy Fountainee. Take,

then, the heiress of the Fountainee family, and with her take

my blessing on you both."

To describe the agitation, the embarrassment, the anxiety

young Lavington seemed to labour under to express his thankfulness

to Mr. Fountainee, whilst all his efforts were rendered

ineffectual by the evident confusion of his mid, would be

impossible.

Even the old gentleman was struck with it ; and he said

hastily, " Why, Mr. Edward, what does all this mean ? You

thank me, and talk of gratitude, and Heavens knows what,

and yet seem to say nothing. You surely cannot doubt I

mean to do what I propose ? When I promise, sir, I never

fail ; you may know, therefore, lam sincere. Mr. Laving-ton,

do you really understand me — that I intend to give you

Betsy Fountainee, and with her the heirship of my estate ? "

"O, sir ! " said Mr. Lavington, " can I ever hope to find

words of sufficient force to express to you my feelings at this

moment ? — my gratitude, thankfulness, my deep sense of

such an honour, of my own demerits ? And yet, sir, what

will you think of me when I say that, from the force of circumstances

over which I have no control, I must decline all

your generosity, all this proffered favour ! Believe me when

I say this, for it is truth, that I feel, in declining to receive

the hand of Miss Betsy Fountainee, I decline what is of more

worth than all the world besides, a woman good, beautiful,

of transcendent sweetness."

The old gentlemans face worked with agitation, as it

usually did when the angry storm was collecting before it

burst forth ; but, in the midst of all his angry feelings, his

utter astonishment, he could not but see there was something

so painfully expressive of heartfelt misery in the pale

and blank countenance, the broken accents and distressed

manner, of the young man, that Mr. Fountainee was as much

struck with it as he was with the unexpected nature of his

answer to so very generous a proposal. He checked himself,

therefore, and said calmly — " Mr. Lavington, lam not accustomed

to be trifled with. There is some unexplained

mystery here ; you would not act thus from caprice. Deal

candidly with me, and tell me what it is."

Knowing, as Mr. Lavington did well, the arbitrary temper

of Mr. Fountainee, and how ill he could bear the slightest

opposition to his will, he was both surprised and touched by

the manner in which he bore with horn ; for he felt that the

anger which, before an explanation can be given, sinks into

mildness and forbearance of all reproach, from a conviction

that he who has excited it acts from principle, is the

anger of a generous character. Mr. Lavington felt, therefore,

something like a man who repays the confidence another

places in his integrity by abusing it, when he replied, " O,

sir, spare me ! I beseech you, spare me ! I can give no explanation

— I am so unhappily placed, that I cannot do justice

to myself, or to my own feelings, without a violation of what

is right ; lam distressed indeed."

And lam in error," said Mr. Fountainee ; " I thought, by

all I have heard, that you knew the value of my granddaughter

; that you were fond of her ; and that only your

doubt of what I should say to you on the subject caused your

fear ; but I now see my error. '

Mr. Fountainee," replied Mr. Lavington, " you have acted

vrith a forbearance, a generosity towards me I can never

forget. Be then generous still ; I have never given you

cause to doubt my honour. Give me credit then for what I

say to be the truth. I admire, I revere, and O, sir ! did I

indulge the feeling, I could love Miss Betsy Fountainee more

than life itself ! But there is an obstacle, an unconquerable

obstacle, which, though it may rest in this heart till it destroys

its vital functions, must for ever rest there unspoken ! Mr.

Fountainee, let me not forfeit your esteem, together with all

hope of my own happiness."

He held forth his hand as he spoke ; the tears started to

his eyes, and he looked with earnest entreaty at Mr. Fountain.

There is something in the force of unaffected truth ina

simple-minded man which carries conviction along with it,

where the opposite party is not blinded by prejudice or

passion. Fortunate was it for young Lavington that Mr.

Fountainee, whose temper had been softened by years and

affliction, had given a "timely check to his angry feelings

in an earlier part of this interview. He now looked upon

Edward with a scrutinizing eye, yet not with an unkind one ;

his manner was grave, yet frank ; for, whatever might bethe

nature of young Lavington's secret, he felt it was not a

trifling one ; and to conceal a truth from motives of honour,

which exposes horn who so conceals it to misapprehension

and suffering, requires a strength of character that is in

itself great.

There are occasions in life when, under the influence of

strong feelings, words become needless to speak our convictions

; a look, a shake of the hand, will convey all that is

necessary, give assurance to the doubting mid, and dispel

its apprehensions. Even so was it now ; for, as Mr. Fountain

took Edwards proffered hand and gave it a hearty

shake, he felt assured that, however much he might have disappointed

the old gentlemans plans for his grand-daughter

and himself, however strange and inexplicable he might deem

his rejection of there, he had neither seriously offended horn,

nor was he suspected by horn of having spoken other than

the truth. But, seeing Squire Dickons at this moment crossing

the lawn, and unable to bear the presence of a man of an

ordinary character under his present excited state of feeling,

he begged Mr. Fountainee to excuse him. As he was about

to withdraw, the latter called after horn and said, " I shall

leave you something to do for me after my death ; it is something

lam quite certain you can do ; so do not refuse me in

this also."

Any thing you will, sir," said Mr. Lavington ; " do with

me as you will. In every way you overcome me with your

generosity, whilst I must appear to you the most thankless

of men, the most unaccountably blind to my own happiness."

Think no more of it," said Mr. Fountainee. " I hope,

whatever may be the cause, it is one that will not interfere

with your views in other matters. I hope no foolish entanglement

with any girl that your father would not approve — and

yet it cannot be that, because you are, I know, an honourable

fellow ; and I am sure you like Betsy ; and, as I think, Betsy

likes you. But, be the crotchet what it may, I forgive you ;

and more than that; depend upon it, young gentleman," he

added (a little sense of family pride returning, as the softened

feeling occasioned by the sight of Edwards distress

passed away), " depend upon it, Miss Betsy Fountainee need

not go begging for a husband any day ; nor need her old

grandfather for her. But here comes Squire Dickons ; so,

as you must go, I wish you a good afternoon."

CHAPTER XV.

Sis is a woman — therefore may be uoo'd ;

She is a woman — therefore may be won.

Shakspeare.

Trust me — with women worth the being won,

The softest lover ever best succeeds.

Hill.

Edward retreated, and Squire Dickons, whistling to a

couple of dogs that had been the companions of his walk,

entered the room. He just brushed past Mr. Lavington in

the porch, as he quitted the hall with hasty steps. Squire

Dickons looked after horn over his shoulder, as he came in ;

and then, giving a very knowing wink at Mr. Fountainee, said

with a smile, " The things done, eh ? gone to look after my

god daughter ? "

No," said Mr. Fountainee, in a very short manner ; " talk

no more about it. You were quite as much mistaken as

Hannah in all you told mc. He will not have her — so let us

talk no more about it. Wc, my old friend, must not calculate

on the whims of young people ; the world is turned

upside down since our young days ; and boys and girls do

now with impunity what for their lives they dared not have

done thirty years ago — they refuse, without rhyme or reason,

I can assure you."

But you don't mean to say," said Squire Dickons, with

wonderment impressed on every feature, " that yon jackanapes

of a doctor, who brushed by me just now, has refused

my god-daughter, Miss Betsy Fountainee, when offered to horn

by her own grandfather ? "

But I do mean to say it, for it is the truth," replied Mr.

Fountainee.

Squire Dickons gave a long whistle ; but in a very different

note to that in which he had just before whistled to his

dogs ; and followed up this musical expression of his surprise

by saying, " And did you stand by quietly and let horn do it ?

Why did you not kick horn out of the house, after putting

such an affront upon you and the young lady ? "

Why, because, to tell you the truth, Squire, though I

confess I felt my passion rising at first, on second thoughts —

and it is not very often I listen to them — yet, on second

thoughts, I judged he did very right."

I protest you are as great a puzzle as he," said Squire

Dickons ; " I can't make it all out ? What does all this

mean ? "

I will tell you," said Mr. Fountainee. " But first, Squire,

take a glass of punch. Come, wc will drink a health to

Betsy, and a good husband to her, in spite of all that has yet

happened."

I can't make it out at all," said Squire Dickons. " I can't

comprehend it. A fine girl is a fine girl ; and your estate is

your estate ; and for a young fellow to have both prizes at

his command, without so much as even having to walk over

the course to wm them, and coolly to give in, and let anybody

who would start for the plate, is beyond all belief. Ho

must be drunk or mazed, I should think, this afternoon."

"Neither, I do assure you," said Mr. Fountainee, " but very

far from it ; and he seemed to suffer so much in refusing all

hope of her, that I felt much for him."

He isn't married already, is he, think you ? " said Squire

Dickons, who could see no other obstacle that was invincible.



Certainly not," replied Mr. Fountainee, " for he is a most

honourable young man, and I am certain would never have

paid the attention he did here unless he had an affection for

my grand-daughter. There is something in his conduct that

neither of us knows anything about ; but I do not believe

anything will come out to his discredit."

La ! now I think of it," said Squire Dickons, across

whose mid a sudden idea seemed to shoot a ray of light

over these mysteries, " I wonder now whether young Maynard

has anything to do with it ? "

Young Maynard ! what do you mean ? " said Mr. Fountain,

in a tone of surprise.

Why, I don't know," said Squire Dickons, scratching

his head, as if to help horn to a clearer statement of its contents

— " I don't know but that there may be something in it,

and that Lavington may suspect Miss Betsy likes Maynard

better than she does him."

Mr. Fountainee looked very serious. " Pray explain yourself,

squire," he said ; " I cannot think what you are driving

at. Young Maynard is one of the greatest coxcombs I know

in the West of England."

Not the less likely to please a pretty woman on that

account," said the Squire : "he is just the showy sort of

man that my god-daughter would fancy into something of a

hero of romance. And. you know, neighbour, she sees very

few young gentlemen, only us old fellows ; she has not many

to pick and choose from. And you know many a horse is

thought a wonderful goer by those who have never seen the

paces of a racer. Wc are all hackneys, or hunters, or racers,

till comparison shows what wc really are, Mr. Fountainee,

when wc come to the start, and set off neck and neck

together."

Squire Dickons, in his rough way, had here hit upon a

truth : Miss Betsy Fountainee had seen very few young

gentlemen indeed, and, aided by her own lively imagination,

was, therefore, very likely to make a false estimate, and to

fancy the mere glitter of smooth and fashionable manners to

be the gold of sterling worth.

That may be the case," said Mr. Fountainee, in reply to

the Squire's remarks ; " but recollect, Betsy has known Mr.

Lavington from her childhood ; and he has more worth in

his little finger than fifty such pragmatical coxcombs as

Maynard in their whole bodies."

"Well, you know best," again responded Squire Dickons;

but Edward Lavington is a shy man, and, being such,

Mistress Hannah says, never does himself justice. Only see

those two together. Lavington, who has more sense in his

head than Maynard and all his race, is always talked down

by horn ; the one sits silent, and the other pushes himself

forward — he even talks me down, sometimes. I wonder I

never before thought of young Maynard ; as sure as a gun,

he is at the bottom of all this ; and now, I'll tell you what

brought it to my mid to-day, when you told me about

Lavington refusing to follow up the chase."

Squire Dickons paused, and thus continued. "As I was

crossing the little wood just now, near the gate that leads to

Church Field, I heard a rustling, and, before anybody knew

I was there, I saw a man and woman walking down the little

cross-path, very much engaged with one another, talking too

low to be heard. But he had his arm thrown round her ;

one hand on her shoulder, and, with the other, I saw horn

give her a flower he took from his button-hole. I did not

notice it much. But by-and-by I heard horn kiss her — I am

sure I did ; and then I knew there must be some love in it.

By-and-by, my dogs begin to bark, and that startled the

pair : and so away they shot, like a couple of hares before

the hounds, and the girls cloak fell off ; he stooped down to

give it her ; and then I saw who the parties were — young

Maynard the curate and Miss Betsy Fountainee. But I,

knowing you were going to marry her to somebody else,

thought this was nothing worth notice — only boy and girl at

play together ; as I knew it was very natural for a boy to

kiss a girl in walking through a wood together. I always

did so myself when I walked with a lass in my young days.

But now you come to tell me about the strange way in which

young Lavington refuses my god-daughter, I begin to think

she may like the parson better than the doctor ; and that's

the real cause of it, and all this trouble."

I hope not — I trust not," said Mr. Fountainee ; " but you

have distressed me very much ; and yet I know not how to

act. I have been so unfortunate in the management of my

own daughters in former years, that I am afraid of falling

into a like error about Betsy. Mine is a most anxious

task."

Women are very difficult things to deal with," said

Squire Dickons ; " very skittish and very perverse, and

always want the curb. Give them their head but a little,

and away they go — there's no stopping them."

"Well, I'll think of what is best to be done," said Mr.

Fountainee ; and, seeming to work his mid into a good deal

of passionate feeling as he suffered his thoughts to dwell on

the subject, he added with great warmth, "I tell you, Squire,

though Betsy is dear to me — dear even as she was "pointing

to his wife's picture) — " dear even as the very viper who

afterwards stung me with a wound that has never healed, I

would rather see her in her coffin at my feet than see her the

wife of that coxcomb Maynard." He struck the table with

his hand as he spoke. " But I will think what must be done.

I will consult with my pillow — my best counsellor. In the

interval let us talk of business. I have already promised to

tell you at full my reasons for now believing my daughter

Martha to be dead. Listen, then — for, unless you attend to

every particular, you will not clearly understand how you

are to act in the event of my death. Von will be one of my

executors, and one of the guardians of Betsy Fountainee ; I

shall tell you presently whom I have chosen for the other."

Very good," said Squire Dickons ; " but Miss Martha was

my first sweetheart among your daughters, Mr. Fountainee,

and was to have been my second wife. She played me a

dog's trick ; but I bear her no ill-will, and am sorry to hear

you say you are so sure she is dead."

You shall hear," said Mr. Fountainee. " The mother of

Captain Samford, to whom I did some service, sent to me

not many weeks ago. She was on her death-bed ; her object

was to ask my pardon, without which she said she could not

die happy, for having had a hand in deceiving me some

years ago about my daughter. I was startled at this opening

; and I soon found she had indeed made me an ungrateful

return; for I had saved her, and her boy too, from ruin.

But that is not to the purpose. She then proceeded to inform

me that, finding her son, Captain Samford, and my daughter

Martha, were so much in love with each other that nothing

could prevail with either to listen to reason, she promised to

keep their secret provided they married without making hera

party concerned in the affair, so that, in case, after it was

done, I might seek from her information, she might with

truth say she knew nothing about it. This I considered a

very juggling sort of honesty, and more especially on the

part of Mrs. Samford towards mc."

It was so, truly," said Squire Dickons.

Mrs. Samford further confessed," continued Mr. Fountain,

" that, all things being previously arranged, on the

Monday morning that wc missed her Martha arose early, and

Captain Samford, having managed to get into the poultry-yard,

where, it seems, he often met her and told his tale,

carried her off, having a boat in readiness not far off. The

boat rowed them down the river into the adjacent harbour.

Captain Samford's vessel was in the offing ; the runaway was

soon on board with her lover ; the chaplain of the ship married

them. Soon after she sailed for foreign parts. Martha

never returned to England, always remaining abroad, where

she dwelt, when her husband was obliged to bring his vessel

home. On my asking why my daughter had so long concealed

from me her marriage, and that she was alive, Mrs.

Samford answered, because she was conscious she had acted

in such a manner towards me that she thought I could never

forgive her, or see her more. But her marriage was not

blest — all her children, except the youngest boy, died, and

her husband died also very suddenly at last. She then

determined to return home from the island of Jamaica,

where she lost him. For that purpose she embarked with

her little boy on board a homeward-bound British merchantman.

The voyage was unprosperous, a fearful gale sprang

up near a dangerous reef, the vessel was wrecked, and every

soul on board perished."

Poor Martha !" said Squire Dickons, " and her poor little

fatherless boy ! and was this their end ?"

It was truly," said Mr. Fountainee, with a sigh, " another

page of disaster in the sad history of my daughters. And

now, Squire, you know the reason why I have come to the

resolution to dispose anew of my affairs, seeing that Martha,

my eldest born, is dead. She, you perceive, like all the rest

of there, did me injustice ; first, by her disobedience in running

away from me, and next, by thinking I never could

forgive it— thus leaving me for twenty years in doubt and

suspense about her, a prey to self-reproach. She was a

wilful woman, and her conduct proved she required restraint.

But I forgive her."

And so do I, too," said the Squire ; " though I must say

Miss Martha did not act handsomely by me to let me have

my house new painted, and my wedding-suit made, and

new liveries for my servants, and the settlements drawn, if

all the time she intended to run away with somebody else.

But I forgive her, and am sorry for her death."

May she rest in peace ! " said Mr. Fountainee. " Unfortunate

man that lam ! Let me but once settle my affairs,

and marry my grand-daughter as well as I can, and then I

care not how soon I am gathered to my rest in the old

vault."

I hope, neighbour, you may yet live for many a long

year, to empty many a bowl of punch in this very room,"

said Squire Dickons, helping himself to another glass ; " but

it is as well to be prepared, so now let us hear about the

will."

All that you need hear about it is this," said Mr. Fountain,

" I shall leave everything, except a few legacies and

annuities, to my grand-daughter, Betsy Fountainee, making

you and young Mr. Lavington her joint guardians ; and she

is not to marry without your united consents, the guardians

to act as my executors."

"Mr. Lavington !" said Squire Dickons, in a tone of surprise.

" Well, you know best, to be sure, about your own

affairs ; but, after what happened to-day, it seems odd, I

should think "

Now, I do think," said Mr. Fountainee, " that a man who

can refuse the hand of a young woman he likes well enough

to make himself unhappy about her, and who is an heiress

to boot, and refuses her from some strong motive of honour

for larn sure it is a motive of honour that governs him —

proves himself to be so honest, so above all selfish and mean

feelings, that I consider horn to be the very best person I can

name to act with you as the fellow-guardian of Betsy Fountain

; and more especially as I think she may need the protection

of a younger man than yourself, Squire Dickons ; for

I confess what you have told me about Maynard has caused

me much uneasiness, much anxiety, on her account."

CHAPTER XVI.

Neat, trimly dressed,

Fresh as a bridegroom ; and his chin, new mow'd,

Show'd like a stubble-field at harvest-home.

He was perfumed like a milliner,

And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held

A connect-box, which ever and anon he gave his nose,

Who, therewith angry, when it next came there,

Took it in snuff — and still he smiled and talked.

♦

He made me mad

To see horn shine so bright, and smell so sweet,

And talk so like a waiting gentlewoman.

Shakspere

Sydney Maynard was about twenty-six years old when he

became curate to Mr. Nixon. He was in person rather below

the middle stature, and inclined to be stout. He had good,

regular features, fine dark eyes, a broad full face, and white

teeth ; with well-brushed, silky hair (for he did not wear a

wig), and a very fair skin ; with a colour in his cheeks so



bright that the schoolgirls at Exeter used to think horn

pretty. His leg was nicely turned, and he wore a well-shaped

shoe. His black suit was one of the best cut, and

always looked new. He had a gentlemanly — indeed, a

fashionable air, which, at Fountainee Hall, was a novelty.

His voice was soft, and his address flowing ; he could sing

well and play the guitar. He trained goldfinches and

canaries, to make presents to old ladies ; and cultivated

myrtles and geraniums, to make bouquets for the young ones.

He praised everything and liked everybody ; was exceedingly

artificial ; and, by a few attentions that cost very little

trouble, bestowed on high and low, rich and poor, became

very popular. The old ladies sent horn their gooseberry wine

and their preserves ; the young ones knitted purses for horn ;

and the fanners' wives and daughters presented offerings of

geese, ducks, and eggs.

Having taken his degree as Master of Arts at Oxford, and

being well read in the " Evening Mail " and in " The Town

and Country Magazine " (then the fashionable newspaper

and periodical of the day) — the first gave horn an air of great

political information with the country squires, and the last

an abundance of small talk with their ladies ; whilst a few

pieces of poetry which he had leant from " Dudley's Miscellany

" when a boy at school, and which he took frequent

occasion to repeat in company, procured for horn a reputation

for taste and an astonishing memory. Yet, with all these

endowments — natural and acquired — in nothing did the

Reverend Mr. Sydney Maynard rise above mediocrity ; all

his opinions were of the received kid — he never differed

from the general voice, and never ran counter to fashion.

What could a man do more to become pleasing ? And very

speedily did he find himself established in universal favour.

Society, taken in the aggregate, is not ungrateful, and he

who scruples not by the arts of flattery to make every one

with whom he converses more pleased with himself by being

in his company, will be sure, like Mr. Maynard, universally

to be considered agreeable. It was not altogether without

cause that Mr. Fountainee entertained fears about young

Maynard, and nothing could be more true than Squire

Dickons' remark that Miss Betsy had very few among whom

to choose. Had she seen more of that class of society in

which she was entitled to move — had her opportunities been

greater, young Maynard was the last person to whom she

would have given a thought ; but, as it was, he, in all probability,

was the very man to catch the fancy of an imaginative

girl.

Betsy was very fond of poetry, very enthusiastic, and read

abundance of that class of romances which describe everything

with exaggeration, so that she fancied that adventure

and passion await a beautiful girl wherever she turns her steps.

With such prepossessions, therefore, and seeing scarcely anyone

but her grandfather's old friends — the rector ; Mr. Sheriff,

the attorney ; Squire Dickons and his dogs ; old Dr. Laving-ton,

with his wig of unchangeable buckle, and the perpetual

snuff-coloured coat of his son — in contrast with these, how

could young Maynard do other than appear to advantage ?

With this exception, Mr. Edward Lavington was the only

young man of the circle ; and he was so shy and retiring, so

fond of quiet, talking even before her about the state of her

grandfather's pulse, and prescribing, for his gout, flannels

and water-gruel, that he never presented himself to her fancy

in any way connected with poetry and romance. There was

nothing to stir the imagination in his lancets, his gallipots,

and his potions.

But the young curate, how different was he to all this !

All those high and holy thoughts with which Betsy had ever

connected her feelings for the Church and its ministers, she

now bestowed on Sydney Maynard, the youthful priest, who

appeared before her every Sabbath day, either in his surplice

of pure white with its simply beautiful folds (the most graceful

of all garments) or in his robe and gown of black silk,

and his violet gloves. And then the sanctity of his profession

! she confounded it with the man himself, and invested

horn with all its heavenly aspirations, its unbounded charity,

and no small portion of its love.

Nothing is more dangerous than ideas such as these dwelt

upon in retirement — nay, all but solitude — where there is

little probability of anything arising to break the spell.

Vain and silly women are usually caught at once by the redcoat

of an officer. But, with an imaginative girl who has

heart and feeling, nothing is so dangerous as a handsome

and soft-spoken young clergyman, with all the minor graces

to keep up the prestige for which he is frequently indebted

to female fancy alone. Such a being as Sydney Maynard is

often found irresistible, and speedily turns the heads of the

old and the young, of the maiden and the widow, who sometimes

become dupes by the force of their own imaginations.



I have said more on this subject than I at first intended,

because I loved Miss Betsy Fountainee so well that I wish,

even for my own satisfaction, to be able in some degree to

account for the strange infatuation that possessed her.

She certainly did love " the graceful Sydney," as she

would call horn, with a depth and ardour of affection of

which he was never worthy, and which he never could appreciate,

having in himself nothing that had any kindred

with her generous nature. Mr. Fountainee, Hannah, Squire

Dickons, and myself, all saw which way her affections inclined,

and wc were all sorry for it, for not one of us thought

he could deserve her. His arts took with nobody but Miss

Betsy at the Hall. Neither Hannah nor Mr. Fountainee were

deficient in penetration, notwithstanding the mistake they

had made in fancying, in the first instance, that Mr. Laving-ton

would be the young lady choice. But that mistake

arose from observing that something was amiss with her,

which, whatever it might be, had touched her heart and

weighed on her spirits. And, as they never thought a girl

so superior as herself could be dazzled by the tinsel of a

Sydney Maynard, they concluded that Mr. Edward Laving-ton,

so well deserving a youth, must be the object of her

regard, and Mr. Fountainee had acted accordingly. And

now, though undeceived, he feared to act either suddenly or

rigorously, too well remembering the fate of his own daughters.

He resolved then to proceed cautiously, and hoped

that time and a little more experience would lead her to

form a better judgment, and to see the folly of what both

Hannah and himself called " a girls idle fit of love."

But they had yet to learn the strength and constancy of

Betsy Fountainee's impressions — let them be for good or evil.

Weak minds are seldom constant, and are not often to be

relied upon. From a girl of a weaker spirit they might

have reasonably hoped for a change ; but Betsy was not a

feeble character. And Mr. Fountainee rapidly grew more

ailing and more infirm, and was evidently approaching the

end of his days, and had yet seen no alteration in Betsy's

predilection for young Maynard.

I

CHAPTER XVII.

What could I more ?

I warned thee, I admonished thee ; foretold

The danger, and the lurking enemy

That lay in wait — beyond this had been force,

And force upon free will hath here no place.

Milton.

These are the effects of fearful age,

Vain doubts, and idle cares, and over-caution.

Dryden.

I pass in silence the particulars of six months of illness

and suffering, which, all things considered, Mr. Fountainee

bore with more patience than could have been expected from

a man of his naturally irritable and arbitrary temper. But

the course of years and of events, as I before noticed, had

greatly softened, if they did not alter, the character of his

mid. It has been the constant theme of moralists, that age

has no pleasures but what are derived from the contemplation

of the past, or the hopes of a future beyond the grave.

With Mr. Fountainee, in respect to the past, it was, however,

different, for, though worn with age and the labour of life,

his reminiscences afforded horn very few pleasures, but a

great many pains. He was naturally a proud and imperious

man, but not an ungenerous one ; and, though often blind to

truth, he never hardened himself against its dictates, when,

on conviction, he was compelled to receive it.

Shut out by age and the growing infirmities of his latter

years from all his field-sports, and his more boisterous sporting

companions, whilst the more worthy of that class, such

as Squire Dickons, were insufficient to fill up with their company

the many long and tedious hours of the day, Mr. Fountain

had gradually given himself to better and wiser pursuits

than he had ever known in the restless years or the wild

days of his youth. He also acquired what is so rare where

no previous habits have led to it, and what none but a man of

strong and original powers of mid could ever hope to attain

at so late a period of life, namely, a fondness for books.

For this taste he was probably, in the first instance, indebted

to his grand-daughter. When quite a little child, it

was Betsy's delight to bring her fable or story-book to grand-papa,

and to show horn Low well she could read in it. Squire

Dickons 's gift of the great Bible was next produced by the

little lady, and she would point out to horn Adam and Eve in

the first leaf ; and then, as her grandfather became more frequently

laid up with fits of the gout, she would read to horn

whole chapters from that book ; till at length Mr. Fountainee

found himself so well entertained by these matters that when

neither the house-steward, nor the dogs, nor the punch-bowl

engaged horn, he would cause little Betsy to be called into

the oak parlour, to take her seat on a low stool at his feet,

and there to read to horn till he either fell asleep or was kept

awake by the subject.

Betsy, willing to enlarge his delight, as she grew up,

enlarged the circle of books with which she amused horn ; so

that, at last, after the chapters for the day were read, she

would introduce voyages, travels, and many an able author,

for his instruction. At length, Mr. Fountainee discovered

that blessed secret, that a vast deal of agreeable entertainment

can be gained by books. Mr. Fountainee was himself

surprised to think how well, in general, he got through his

days, without hounds, and hunters, and horns.

Perhaps no elderly person, of strong natural powers of

mid, ever found a pleasure in reading, without at the same

time acquiring, more or less, a habit of meditating. Mr.

Fountainee did so, and his reflections were often of a very

painful kind. No longer under the influence of passion, in

these calm moments of his decay, when the powers of the

body were much weakened, but those of the mid unimpaired,

he could not recal the past without suspecting he had acted

hastily and indiscreetly about his daughters. And the more

he came to think on these matters, the more did he confess

to Hannah (whose confidential chat and unceasing attendance

was become necessary to his very existence) that he

blamed himself. It is true he did not say this to Hannah

more than once ; but such an acknowledgment from a man

of a character naturally so proud was a great thing, and

showed more real self-condemnation than the most frequent

confessions of weaker minds, whose self-accusations do not

often outlive the first moments of conviction.

Whether it might be from infirmity, or that the course of

years, as they rolled on alone, had served to wear down the

asperities of his nature as a perpetually flowing stream will

wear smooth the irregularities of the hardest rocks ; or

whether the fond love he cherished for his grand-daughter

l 2

had softened horn, certain it is, towards the close of life, ibis

temper and habits much improved, so that he grew patient,

even though the gout was upon horn, and that too in the most

distressing degree.

Dr. Lavington and his son, who were in constant attendance,

began to think very seriously of his case, and that he

could not hold out much longer. Every one at the Hall had

been told this, except Mr. Fountainee tinsel f; but he was

not slow to find it out. The grave and anxious looks of

Hannah and all about hir n; the tears that would rush into

his grand-daughter's eyes ; the evasive answers of the physician

; and, above all, his own feelings, convinced horn that

the hour which, sooner or later, comes to all, was hastening

towards horn with no slow pace.

11l as he was, he could not bear altogether to lie in bed.

One afternoon, he was removed to an easy chair, propped up

by pillows, his legs placed on cushions, on one of which

Betsy's spaniel had intruded, as Betsy herself took her seat

by his side. She opened the Bible ; and, having read to her

grandfather several chapters, endeavoured to soothe the

hours of his decay by paying horn those thousand little

attentions which, from the young and lovely to the aged and

infirm, have in them a grace peculiarly their own.

Hannah was also in the room, busied with cordials and

other matters. I was present, seated under one of the windows,

working at my needle ; for, since the severe illness of

Mr. Fountainee, my mother and Miss Betsy wished me to

remain at the Hall ; so that he might always have one of us

with horn ; and not be left, at any time, entirely to the charge

of servants. Wc often, therefore, relieved each other in our

attendance in the sick room. On the table which stood near

the invalid, strange as it may seem, there was the punch-bowl,

together with some drinking-glasses : not, however,

that Mr. Fountainee now partook of such things, — but Squire

Dickons had called in ; he came, indeed, every day, and the

old gentleman had ordered the punch for his refreshment.

Near the table sat that worthy, trying his hand, as he did

whenever he came, at the office of comforter to his old friend

in the hours of his suffering. The fire was blazing on the

hearth, for it was towards the close of autumn, and rather

cold.

The sun, however, about an hour before setting, was bright

and cheerful, and tinged with a yellow hue the fine old trees

in the park that were now clothed in their russet livery.

The river flowed placidly through the grounds, reflecting

the clear blue of the sky, and the purple and white circling

clouds, in that deep, still beauty with which the landscape

and the heavens are ever seen to repose on the bosom of

tranquil waters ; whilst, here and there, the rays of the sun

touched their broad expanse with a golden glow of trembling

light. The deer, still and motionless, reposed under the

branches of the spreading oaks and beeches ; and the rooks,

beginning to collect together, were cawing in concert, as if

to give the signal, preparatory to their flight after their

dusky leaders to the old rookery, which now, for more thana

century, their forefathers of the feathered tribe had called

their own.

Beyond the domain were seen the distant hills of Maldon,

now of the deepest and richest purple. In the middle distance

appeared several white cottages that constituted the

village. These now sent up their smoke in undisturbed

columns of light blue vapour ; for the winds seemed as if

they slumbered, and scarcely a breath of air moved the most

delicate flower. The tower of the village church rose above

the surrounding cottages and trees, glittering in the sunbeams,

and forming a point of view that was striking from

contrast. At this moment, the silver tone of its musical

bells flung a pleasing harmony over the stillness of the

scene : the ringers were practising on their usual day.

The chair in which Mr. Fountainee was seated commanded

the largest window on the opposite side of the room, through

which could be seen the pleasing landscape I have just

described. The light of the autumn sun streamed into the

chamber ; and, as the poor sufferer raised his head to contemplate

the scene without, I chanced to look up. I was

struck with the expression of his countenance, and thought

he was very much changed since the previous evening, when

I had seen horn about the same hour. His skin was of that

grey white, if I may use the term, which gives such a deathlike

hue to the whole face : the features were thin and sunk,

the nose sharpened, and the eye, though not settled, unusually

bright. I did not like to see it. I thought he

appeared very ill ; and I looked at the old clock, which

ticked audibly in the sick room, to observe the hour, as I felt

anxious for the arrival of the doctor.

The light fell on our dear master, and showed but too

plainly all those marks of change, and seemed to render

distinct, as so many threads of silver, every white hair upon

his head. Mr. Fountainee spoke. Betsy, who did not instantly

catch what he said (as she sat holding his hand

within hers), asked, in her sweetest manner, if he wanted

anything.

He removed his eyes from the landscape without, and fixed

them with a speaking look on her face ; then with his hand

stroked down her beautiful sunny locks, and passed it over

her fair check.

No, Betsy, no," replied Mr. Fountainee to her question ;

I want nothing. Just now I believe I' was half speaking

aloud my own thoughts ; for one anxious thought often possesses

me — it is about you. Ah, Betsy ! I know where I

shall be when the next autumn leaves begin to fall ; but I

know not where you will be, nor with whom, yet I fear "

He sighed deeply.

Betsy looked down, and a conscious blush overspread lor

check.

Where will you be, my dear sir," said Squire Dickons,

and Miss Betsy, next autumn time ? Why, I hope, please

God, alive and well, the master of Fountainee Hall, with no

fit of the gout upon you, these flannels thrown off, and the

doctor and the megrims gone with them. My good old

friend, I do think you have had the vapours much of late j

but no wonder, you have not been out but once for the shooting

season. I should have them myself if I could not follow

my dogs and handle my gun. And then, these confounded

doctors keep you so low ! Don't you think you could take

a little punch — just a glass or so, to raise your spirits ?

And Mrs. Hannah need not say a word about it to Mr.

Lavington."

Mr. Fountainee shook his head. " No, my good friend," he

said, "it will not do ; neither punch, nor dog, nor gun, can

ever raise me up more, though in my time I have enjoyed

those things as much as any man. Squire, you know wc

must all have our last hunt one day or other ; and I tell you

I shall never follow horn or hound more."

Don't say so," said Squire Dickons, with a most rueful

countenance. " I never can bear to hear such things from

you. I never could see one of my old dogs die without feeling

cut up by it ; and how much more an old friend !"

I wish Parson Nixon had been at home," said Hannah ;

for my master told me this morning he should have been

glad to have had some talk with him. I wish Parson Nixon

bad been at home."

His curate is," said Betsy, in a soft, hesitating voice,

accompanied by another blush.

If you mean that puppy, Sydney Maynard, I will not see

horn !" exclaimed Mr. Fountainee, in an angry tone ; and he

seemed much disturbed.

No, sir, no," said Hannah, anxious to relieve him. " Mr.

Nixon has two curates just now, you know ; it is of Mr.

Wheatley Miss Betsy would speak."

Betsy hung down her head, but said not a word to confirm

Hannah's assertions.

I don't know that she means any such man," replied Mr.

Fountainee, still speaking in an angry manner. " I know,

however, but little of the other one — Maynard, I mean —

except that he is a foolish boy. But I wish, indeed, Parson

Nixon had been at home. I should have been very glad to

have seen horn in my present state."

Don't think about it, my dear friend," said Squire Dickons.

I hope it is not so bad as that with you, to need a parson.

You are certainly very low-spirited to-day. I wish I could

think of anything to amuse you — any news. But the races

are put off for a fortnight, and there is nothing stirring

around us just now ; nothing cheerful or entertaining. Bless

me, how sorry I am I forgot to put in my coat-pocket the

newspapers which I get once a month from London ; the

carrier brought them from Exeter only this day. In one of

them is the full and true account, with the last dying speech

and confession, of the execution of Elizabeth Canning, a

beautiful young creature, only nineteen years old, who, at

the instigation of the devil, murdered her husband, and,

according to sentence passed on trial, was first strangled, and

then burnt alive in the amphi — amphitheatre, or some such

word, I think it says on the paper, at Dorchester, a place as

old as the Romans, in sight of ten thousand people, who came

to see her executed.* How sorry I am I forgot the paper !

it would have been so amusing for you in a sick room. But

here comes Mr. Lavington to see you ; there he is, crossing

the lawn. Shall I go, or shall I stay ? I know the doctors

Elizabeth Canning, who suffered in the amphitheatre at Dorchester,

was the last woman burnt in England for the murder of a husband. She

denied her guilt to the last.

very often like their confess to be like their potions — great"

secrets."

Stay, by all means," said Mr. Fountainee. " Let all here

stay. It is my particular wish that what I have to say

should be in the presence of you, Squire, and of your goddaughter,

Betsy ; for you will be her principal, if not her sole,

guardian when I am gone. And as to Hannah and her

daughter there — why, Hannah has been as a mother to her,

and Hannah's daughter nursed her and saved her life when

she was newly-born ; only second in kindness to Hannah

herself. I beg of you all to stay."

You may suppose wc all expected something out of the

usual course by this preface, but certainly not what followed.

Mr. Lavington entered, with that quiet, modest, melancholy

air, that had of late so much marked his manners

whenever he came to the Hall. He kindly addressed Mr.

Fountainee, spoke politely to Miss Betsy, and had a good-natured

word for us all. He then apologised to his patient

for his father, the physician, not coming that evening to see

horn, saying, that some indisposition, from which he had of

late suffered much, had so increased upon horn, he could not

venture out towards evening ; but he would drive over and

see Mr. Fountainee in the morning.

Ay, my dear sir," said Mr. Fountainee, " your father and

myself are both getting old men ; and the sand in our glasses

runs low ; mine is almost at its last grains. I feel it, Mr.

Lavington ; not only the gout, but something within me

whispers it is so. I need not ask either yourself or your

father, had he been with you this day, to be sincere with me,

and to tell me, what I know myself — that my hours are

numbered. There are some things that weigh deeply on my

mid, and concern those who are here present. I would not

leave what I have to say to the last, when I may have no

power to say it ; and yet, possibly, sense enough left to feel

all the anxiety of dying, with the truth unspoken in my

heart. Mr. Lavington, let me entreat you to come on this

side my chair. No, do not feel my pulse till I have done.

It will be time enough to think about the health of the body

when I have attended to that of the mid."

He paused. Wc were all profoundly silent. Hannah drew

nearer ; but I kept my place by the window.

My will," said Mr. Fountainee to Hannah, " will be found,

when lam gone, in the iron chest, with my title-deeds. You

will deliver it, Hannah, to these gentlemen, Squire Dickons

and Mr. Laving-ton; they are my executors. A paper of

directions respecting some things I wish to be done will be

found with it : they were not of importance enough to be in

the will itself. I have given all necessary directions about

my funeral. You, Hannah, who, by your long service and

fidelity, deserve to be considered as a friend of the Fountainee

family — you I have provided for in a manner that cannot be

said to equal your merit, but will be sufficient to show my

value for you, and to provide for your age every comfort.

This house, I trust, you will never quit ; as I hope you will

continue to be the mother, the friend, of my grand-daughter,

such as you have ever been to her. And, Hannah, I have

one feeling about you, in respect to myself : I hope you will

follow my remains to the grave."

"0, sir! my dear master!" said Hannah, bursting into

tears ; " I have never deserted you or yours in life, and I

never will in death. So long as God spares me, I consider

that, as my first worldly duty, I live for the family of Fountain.

And as to Miss Betsy — you need not ask me to stay

with her, for it would kill me did she send me away from

her and the old house. But 0, my dear master, how shall I

thank you for providing for me in my old age ? Sir, I do

not want. I have saved enough in your service for me and

mine ; and yet, indeed, lam grateful — how shall I speak my

thanks ?"

Do not speak them at all, Hannah," said Mr. Fountainee.

I know you, and all you feel. But let me go on, while I

can do so ; for, indeed, I feel myself not so well as usual."

And now," he continued, " for the most important subject

of all. You, Betsy— did I not tell you, just now, that,

although I knew well enough where I should be the next

autumn, at least, where this old decaying tenement of the

body would be, yet I felt anxious as to where you would beat

that time, and with whom ? 0, Betsy ! relieve me from

that last and great anxiety, and I shall die happy — much

happier than I have lived."

"My dearest grandpa," said Betsy, the tears rushing

into her bright eyes, " you know how much I love you."

"Ay, Betsy," said he ; " but I would have you love yourself,

your own peace, your own prosperity ; and not throw

yourself away when I am gone."

He paused, and took her hand, and thus resumed his discourse

—

This is autumn, Betsy. Look out yonder, and see how

all those trees in the park are now changed. See how the

green has become russet, and how the leaves drop away from

the branch, and lie scattered on the ground ; yet how calm

and peaceful are the heavens ! They seem to look upon this

scene of failing and decay that lies around with a benign

aspect, and to gild with a bright sun the close of this autumn

day. Even so will God look upon the close of a good life,

Betsy — even so may He look on yours, when your career of

usefulness is run, and your day draws to an end ! And so do

I hope and believe it will be, unless you mar all, and bring

on yourself early troubles, and perhaps an early death, by

your own folly."

Betsy said not a word in reply ; but she put up her handkerchief

to her eyes, and sobbed audibly. Her grandfather

took down her hands, kissed her tenderly, and thus continued

—

I would not pain you, my child, but I would caution you.

Betsy, I have left you an heiress — the sole heiress to a very-large

estate. Remember, it is a great trust. Be careful

that, in serving others, you do not injure yourself. Consult

your friends here ; they will advise you ; do not suffer anyone

to step in and lead you to give up a career of usefulness

for one of folly." He turned to Squire Dickons —

You, my worthy friend," he said; " you I have named asa

guardian to this dear child, and you also, Mr. Lavington.

She will have no power to marry and to retain possession of

my estate without your joint consent. I know you will be

kind to her ; and, on so important a point as this, I earnestly

beseech you to give her your best advice. And oh ! with

what pleasure should I close these eyes could I but see her

promised to one worthy of her ; one who would watch over

her — protect her — as I have done, and with whom she would

be happy !"

He was so much overcome as to be obliged to pause again

for a few minutes. Wc all, I believe, wished this painful

discourse might be brought to a close, for Miss Betsy could

do nothing but weep ; Squire Dickons did not know what todo

or say, and Mr. Lavington seemed distressed and confused.



Mr. Fountainee now turned to horn, and took his hand.

Here," he said, " here, Betsy, is the friend to whom I principally

leave you in charge. Squire Dickons, no offence to

horn, is, like me, getting an old man ; he will advise you

about your tenants. But Mr. Lavington is the guardian

most fitted to advise with you, as you are a woman, and a

young woman. He is a man of honour and a gentleman,

and knows how to deal with your little nice feelings and

prejudices better than the Squire here."

Yes," said Squire Dickons, " I know something about

farms and the management of cattle ; and if ever Miss Betsy

thought of improving her stock, particularly the breed of

horses, which you, Mr. Fountainee, have too much neglected

of late years, and will leave it to me, I will manage it all for

her, and see justice done her at the cattle-fairs. But, as for

the matter of advising about the sweethearts, why I don't

know ; I am afraid Miss Betsy and I might have two minds

on that head. I might judge best, but she might talk better ;

for, if my whole estate depended on it, though I mean by her

as well as any man — as well as by any of my own children —

I could no more sit up in a chair and talk in the way you

have been talking for the last half-hour than I could fly —

no, not were it to keep my head on my shoulders ; so I think,

after all, Mr. Lavington will be the best hand at that. And

if he could talk Miss Betsy into marrying horn instead of

anybody else, I think that would be the best thing of all ;

and then she would have an honest man for her guardian

and her husband, all under one, which would save much

trouble and casting about as to who was to have her ; would

cut out all the fortune-hunters, English or Irish, distance the

coxcombs, and make her a happy woman, or I am much

mistaken."

Whilst Mr. Fountainee, to use the style of Squire Dickons,

had been beating the bush (for he wished to propose this

very thing, but knew not how to do it for the best), the

Squire, in his plain, shrewd way, started the gain e; and Mr.

Fountainee, turning to Betsy, and taking her hand, followed it

up by instantly saying, "My dearest child, your godfather

does indeed but speak the truth ; the utmost wish of my heart

would be accomplished could I but see you united to this

gentleman. Mr. Lavington, lam convinced, would rejoice

to receive your hand, did you give horn but the slightest

encouragement to hope for it. lam convinced he regards — ■

that he love you. Betsy, do not slight a worthy man's

love because it is unpretending, and because he who feels it

values your peace too much to make his love a trouble to you

by importunity. Betsy, make your old grandfather happy

before he dies, and in so doing make yourself happy too.

Give me your hand " (he took it in his) ; " let me join it to

that of Mr. Lavington. Say you will have horn, and keep

horn for better or worse ; let me live to bless you — once to

bless you ; to recal, in that blessing, the terrible curse which,

in a moment of passion — of frenzy — I pronounced on your

unhappy mother and her offspring, and then, welcome Death,

if he come the next minute to close for ever these eyes, for

my task on earth will be done."

In saying these last words, Mr. Fountainee grasped in one

hand that of his grand-daughter, and, in the other, the hand

of Mr. Lavington. He would have joined them ; for, though

the young surgeon said nothing, yet his countenance betrayed

strong emotions — the deepest anxiety for the event. He

turned pale as death, as he now ventured to look on Betsy,

trembling, expecting her reply, with a feeling as if life or

death hung on the next word that would pass her lips ; a

shudder came over his whole frame as he saw her hastily

draw back her hand at the very moment her grandfather

would have placed that hand in his.

As she drew it back she said, in a low but earnest voice,

Spare me, Mr. Lavington — for God's sake, spare me ! "

Sir," said Mr. Lavington, addressing Mr. Fountainee, " I

cannot, as a gentleman — as a man — I cannot allow you to

urge on Miss Betsy Fountainee the acceptance of a hand to

which she feels so repugnant. What are my feelings — what

they would have been — had she honoured me with so great

a blessing as herself, I will not say. It is useless. Let me

implore you to urge her no more in my behalf ; for know,

sir, though, as the future guardian of your beloved granddaughter,

I could, I think, die to serve her — to prove the

sincerity, the strength of my feelings towards her, yet I

neither can nor will accept her hand, nor that of any other

woman, unless it is as freely bestowed on me by herself as

by her friends. I must beg the young lady may be left at

peace on my account. And let me assure her, as well as

yourself, that nothing which has now passed shall ever

influence me to any unpleasant remembrance of it hereafter.

I hope, as her guardian, I shall always act for her good,

independent of every other consideration."

I believe it," said Mr. Fountainee ; "I am assured of it."

I confess," continued Mr. Lavington, " had you not so

strenuously urged it upon me, I should have wished to

decline so delicate an office. But my promise is given, and,

as I may be of some little use to her hereafter, I will not

retract. Madam, fear nothing from me, and let me implore

you to accept my services as frankly as you would those of a

brother — they shall be honestly rendered."

I doubt it not, sir ; I thank you," said Betsy. " You are

generous, sir, and I am sure you will never urge on me what

is painful."

Upon my word," said Squire Dickons, " I don't understand

all this, Miss Betsy. Here's my old friend, your

grandfather, offering you a fine estate, and a worthy young

gentleman for a husband, all under one ; and I, who am

your godfather, think it the best tiring on earth for you ; and

I know Hannah thinks so too. Wc see what a deep stake

you have at risk ; wc see who starts the best horse for the

race that is before you. You have the judges and the odds

all in your favour ; and yet you draw stakes and won't run

for the cup. Upon my word, Miss Betsy, I must say I can't

understand it. It is not handsome to any of us."

This was the first angry speech Squire Dickons had ever

ventured to make to his god-daughter in all his life. Mr.

Fountainee, whilst he was making it, lay back in his chair,

not seeming to hear or to heed it, but to be thinking over

something of painful retrospection. All at once he resumed

his former position, put his hands together, looked up, and

said with energy, " 0, Betsy, if deaf to every proposal which

I make for your happiness, give me, at least, one consolation

before I die ! In the presence of these gentlemen, who,

when I am gone, are to supply my place to you, promise me

you will never wed Sydney Maynard."

Betsy knew not what to do or how to look. She pressed

her hands together, threw herself at her grandfather's feet,

and, with an energy that was almost frantic in its vehemence,

implored horn not to call upon her to give horn any

promise more than this — that she would take time before

she disposed of herself hereafter ; and, if she ever married,

.would pray to God to direct her choice.

Mr. Fountainee saw how it was ; a convulsive shudder

seemed to shake his whole frame, as, half addressing her,

and half speaking to himself, he said, in a deep low voice,

How could I expect other — how could it be otherwise P It

is my own work ; the scourge, the scorpion whip for my own

sin ! Yes, miserable wretch that I am ! have I not brought

it on myself ? Did I not curse my own daughter and her

offspring ? And now it recoils on myself ! The offspring,

the seed of the viper (as I deemed her, as I called her, when

I pronounced that fatal curse upon her mother's head), rises

up to sting me in my last hour, and in the tenderest point —

in my love, my unbounded love for her ! She, too, will disappoint

all my hopes, and send down my gray hairs with

sorrow to the grave ! I see it, I feel it ! Before the next

autumn comes, Betsy Fountainee will, like the rest, fall a

victim to my misguided passions."

In his exceeding agitation, Mr. Fountainee attempted to

rise ; but, unable to stand from extreme weakness, sank

again into his seat ; and, in doing so, accidentally struck

with his hand the table that stood near his chair. A glass

upon it, which bore on its side the name of Betsy Fountainee,

fell to the ground, and was shivered into a thousand pieces

at his feet.

Illness and age had shaken the strength of his judgment,

though not of his feelings. His countenance turned even to

a yet more ghastly hue ; and, as he fixed his eyes sternly on

the broken pieces, the terrors of a superstitious dread stole

over his soul, and, pointing with his finger to the ground, he

said to the unhappy girl, who still knelt weeping near, " It

is an omen of God's wrath on me and mine — Betsy Fountain,

a father's curse was uttered at thy birth, and on thee

will it fall ! "

Overcome by the agitation of his feelings, and by the

state of excitement into which he had been wrought by this

anxious scene, whose close had been so appalling, Mr. Fountain

fell back in his chair senseless ; he had fainted.

Hannah, Betsy, Mr. Lavington, all present, gave their immediate

assistance. But the fainting continued much longer

than they expected ; and, when he came a little to himself,

Mr. Lavington thought horn so very ill that he directed

Hannah to get horn into bed in all haste ; and, notwithstanding

his own father's state of health, despatched a messenger

to procure his immediate attendance at the Hall.

When Dr. Lavington came he, as did his son, considered

the hours of Mr. Fountainee numbered ; the great excitement

of the evening had brought on a fatal crisis ; the gout was in

the stomach and head ; the whole frame sinking ; for, though

recovered out of the first fit, he speedily fell into another and

another, whilst Hannah and Betsy (the one distracted-with

fear, the other with self-reproach) watched over horn in a

state of mid which defies all attempts at description.

The symptoms continued without intermission the whole

night : Mr. Fountainee never spoke more ; and, towards morning,

death closed the scene of his sufferings and his distress.

One week after this melancholy event, the remains of Mr.

Fountaineeee were conducted from Fountaineeee Hall to the village

church, which had gathered to their long home within its

dusky vaults so many members of the family one after

another.

CHAPTER XVIII.

In their nonage,

A sympathy unusual joined their loves ;

They paired like turtles ; still together drank,

Together eat, nor quarreled for the choice ;

Like twining streams, both from one fountain fell,

And as they ran still mingled smiles and tears.

Lee.

After the funeral the executors proceeded to their duty.

In such hands the will of Mr. Fountainee was strictly and

speedily fulfilled.

All debts and all legacies were paid, all annuities settled,

and Miss Betsy put in possession of the old mansion as

heiress, with a splendid income and estate, under the care of

her two guardians, till such time as she should be of age.

But all these advantages, with youth, beauty, sweetness, and

every possible attraction to charm the eye or captivate the

heart, did not make Betsy happy. Will all her faults she

was honest, she was not a self-flatterer, and she could not

conceal from her own mid that she had been the cause, by

her obstinate perseverance in her predilection for young Maynard,

of rendering the latter days of her grandfather very

unhappy, and in all probability of hastening his death.

Bitterly, most bitterly, did she reproach herself for this ;

but, being too frank to conceal any of her feelings, Sydney

soon learned the truth ; and as he came to Fountainee Hall

whenever he pleased, for there was no one to forbid horn, it

is to be supposed he found some means, as a lover and as a

clergyman, of quieting the conscience of Miss Betsy. By

degrees she became, if not more cheerful, at least more calm

and less full of self-reproach than she had hitherto been,

when she talked to Hannah about her poor grandfather.

Soon after Mr. Fountainee's death, Squire Dickons (who, it

will be remembered, was still a widower) was called to a

distant part of the county to see his eldest married daughter,

and to settle her affairs for her, as she had just lost her husband

; and, in consequence of the very dangerous state of his

father's health, Mr. Lavington could seldom leave the old

doctor to come to the Hall, or to look after his young ward.

Indeed, I fancied that his own feelings induced horn to shun

rather than to seck the company of Miss Betsy ; at least, as

much as he could without giving offence ; for it was quite

evident to Hannah and myself that he was still much attached

to her.

All these circumstances unfortunately left Miss Betsy unguarded

by any observant friend who could by right have

interfered with a hope to influence her. Hannah was growing

old, and, though dearly beloved by her young mistress,

neither had, nor could pretend to have, the authority of a

parent over her ; so that I have not the slightest doubt in my

own mid, from many little circumstances which occurred at

the time, that, at a very early period after her poor grandfather's

death, Miss Betsy engaged herself to Mr. Sydney

Maynard. But, if this were the fact, it was impossible she

could, in common propriety, so soon after Mr. Fountainee's

decease, give her hand in marriage ; there must be the delay

of a few months.

Seeing how very often young Maynard came to the house,

Hannah pointed out to Miss Betsy that she really ought to

have some one with her during his visits, since, although

Miss Betsy was innocent as a child in herself, and saw

no harm in these frequent calls of the young curate (more

especially being engaged to horn), yet the world would talk.

Betsy acknowledged the propriety of all Hannah said ;

thanked her for her advice, and said that she had herself

been thinking much the same, and had, therefore, already

written to a friend, Miss Arlington, and invited her to come

upon a visit for some months to Fountainee Hall.

Miss Arlington accepted the invitation with alacrity ; but,

before she arrives at the Hall, I must pause to say something

of her.

Miss Arlington was a young lady of good family and fortune.

She was three or four years older than Miss Fountain.

She had few pretensions to beauty ; but she had what

was called style, an air distingue, and was tall and rather

elegantly formed. She was always attired with exquisite

taste, and when dressed and rouged she really looked handsome.

She was perfectly well bred, and there was no fashionable

accomplishment that she did not possess ; and, though in

her conversation there was neither sense nor wit, yet her

manner was playful and piquante, as the French call it, and

her voice soft and feminine, so that even nonsense passed

current for something agreeable when it came from her lips.

Although, there can be no doubt, all these qualifications

dazzled the inexperienced mid of Betsy Fountainee, who had

never had any opportunity of forming an acquaintance with

any really superior young ladies of her own station, yet it

was not this that captivated her, or won upon her open and

unpractised heart ; it was the ardour of the young lady character.

Miss Arlington, like Betsy herself, was very romantic

and enthusiastic, and professed herself to be a votary of the

school of feeling. With her feeling was everything ; nothing

could resist it ; everything must be sacrificed to it ; and

without feeling of the most ardent and devoted kind all

love or friendship was but a name.

I shall pass with slight notice what followed during the

early period of this intimacy, as it was uniformly the same.

The young ladies were inseparable friends, with only this

difference, that of the two Miss Arlington seemed to be most

the mistress of the house ; indeed, the mistress of its mistress

: for, as Miss Betsy felt how inferior she was to her in

the knowledge of the world and the customs of high life, she

looked up to Miss Arlington for direction and instruction in

almost all she said or did. Hannah and I wondered at it, as

wc used to fancy there was a great deal of superciliousness

and conceit in the manner in which she sometimes talked to

Miss Fountainee ; nor did Hannah like her ordering at the

Hall as if it were her own.

But she said nothing ; and, as the fashionable young lady

commended warmly young Mr. Maynard, I have no doubt she

gained her ends by the adroitness of her flattery, and carried

K

into effect whatever she wanted with a high hand. Mr.

Maynard was an every-day visitor, and often brought with

horn his brother-curate, Mr. Wheatley, with whom Miss Arlington

coquetted a good deal ; and then there was reading of

poetry, and singing duets with the accompaniment of the

harpsichord or the guitar, and in all these matters Miss Arlington

always took the lead or directed, and Sydney and

Betsy did just as she pleased.

So passed the first four or five months after Mr. Fountain's

death.

Every thing in this world certainly rises or lessens in

value by contrast — at least, I suppose it must have been soin

this case. For, unless it were that Miss Betsy had few

opportunities of seeing any good society, and could, therefore,

only contrast Miss Arlington with such persons as

Squire Dickons's unaccomplished and rustic daughters, and

the polished Sydney Maynard with the retiring, the timid,

and the somewhat embarrassed Mr. Lavington, I cannot in

any way account for a girl of her good sense and feeling, and

so infinitely superior to there both in every respect, being so

taken with their tinsel, or so infatuated with their mountebank

manners and artful pretensions.

CHAPTER XIX.

Dost thou deem

It such an easy task from the fond breast

To root affection out ?

Southey.

One morning, Mr. Lavington came to wait on Miss Fountain.

He was in deep mourning. An air of profound

melancholy appeared on every feature of his expressive

countenance. 1 met horn in the hall. He told me he wished

to see his ward, without the presence of Miss Arlington, ashe

had something of the utmost importance to say to her.

Accordingly, he was ushered in. Betsy seemed agitated.

She had an undefined feeling of awe in the presence of Mr.

Lavington ; it might not be friendly to love (had she ever

been disposed to love horn) but it certainly was to esteem, as

she held his character, to use lor own words, in veneration ;

he was so uniformly good and amiable. I wish she had felt

less awe of horn ; for in that case she might have loved one

who would have been worthy of her ; but love horn she did

not.

When Mr. Lavington entered, he took her hand with much

emotion, but could not speak. Betsy observed his mourning

dress and his distress ; and, grasping his hand, she said some

words of kindly sympathy for the loss of his father, with all

the native warmth and energy of her disposition. She had

never before addressed horn with so much kindness ; and her

words and manner, always affectionate where she wished to

soothe or to please, came like balm upon the wounded mid

of the bereaved son.

I thank you, madam," he said ; " indeed I thank you ;

though, so strong are my feelings at this moment, they overcome

my power to express them. It was not, however,

merely to thank you for the attention you showed during the

illness of my father, that I came here this morning. It is

my duty that has brought me to you — my duty as your

guardian. And O, madam, a most painful one do I fear it

will prove to us both. But you know well the confidence

your grandfather reposed in me, and what he expected of

me when he confided to me so sacred a trust ; I neither can

nor will abuse it. The wishes of the dead shall be fulfilled,

as much as if a voice from the grave called me to their fulfilment.

Yet the task — the pain — the struggle — the wish to

spare — oh ! pardon me, Miss Fountainee, pardon me, when I

say that, whatever may be my wishes to make you happy —

and God knows they are the first of my heart — yet not even

nry consideration for the living shall make me forget what I

owe to the trust reposed in me by the dead."

He paused. This exordium produced the most powerful

effect on the young lady to whom it was addressed. She

turned pale, trembled in every limb, and sank into a chair ;

for Betsy Fountainee neither wanted sense nor penetration,

and she could see in a moment to what all this tended. Mr.

Maynard's intimacy was much talked of, and the gossips of

the neighbourhood had long ago averred that she would be

married to horn as soon as her mourning was at an end. Notwithstanding

the high opinion she had formed of young

Maynard, she always entertained an intuitive conviction that

he and her guardian, Mr. Lavington, never could like each

other. It was impossible two men so opposite in character

ever' could sympathise ; independently of the no less strong

k 2

conviction which had impressed itself even on her inexperienced

mid, that two men who love the same woman

seldom meet together with other than feelings too much

akin to rancour and suspicion to be capable of the sentiments

of friendship and esteem. How, then, could she expect his

consent to her marriage with a rival, who was hated by her

grandfather even to his last hour ? No wonder Betsy betrayed

so much agitation. She attempted a reply to horn,

but could not get beyond a few confused words.

With a degree of agitation scarcely less than her own, Mr.

Lavington continued —

Miss Fountainee, I am come to speak to you on the subject

of giving your hand in marriage ; it is a serious one for you

and for me, if I must give my consent to it."

0, sir," said Betsy, " let me beseech you to spare me all

unnecessary pain. I know how great is the magnanimity of

your character, and I will confide in it still. O, Mr. Laving-ton

! I neither shall nor can forget that to your generous

forbearance I was indebted for being spared a most distressing

persecution on the part of my grandfather. Do you

think I can ever cease to respect, to reverence you, when I

remember, at the very moment my poor grandfather had

decided on making me the heiress to his estate, you, whilst

you honoured me with your affections — those affections of

which I was never wworthaty — at my instance alone, and inconsequence

of my earnest prayer for your forbearance,

refused all — refused fortune, favour, the woman you loved,

and risked offending for ever the friend who so loved you, to

comply with my wishes, with my acknowledged preference

for another ! 0, Mr. Lavington ! could you think me insensible

to greatness such as this, or thankless for it, I should

despise myself ! But lam not ungrateful. You know the

truth. Spare me, then, all remonstrance."

I do, indeed, know the truth," said Mr. Lavington : " it

is that which so pains me ; since I feel that, to act as it is

my duty to do, I must, as far as in me lies, exert all my influence

with you, and influence I ought to have with you,

though I shall never go beyond it, to oppose your union

with one utterly unworthy of you. I allude to Mr. Sydney

Maynard."

Miss Fountainee looked down, blushed, and said — " Sir, I

fear you have been prejudiced in your opinion by my poor

grandfather."

No, madam, I have not," replied Mr. Lavington. " I

have not been prejudiced even by my own feelings towards

you. They would, I confess it, once have had some weight.

But my opinions respecting that gentleman would never

have been intruded on you had not Mr. Sydney Maynard

yesterday waited on me as your guardian."

Betsy started, and looked confused.

Mr. Lavington continued — " I drew from horn more, in the

course of conversation, than you, perhaps, would altogether

have approved ; and, as I did draw it from horn, I tell you I

did so, that I may be just to horn, even whilst I condemn

him."

Again he paused ; when Betsy said, somewhat impatiently,

Pray, sir, go on."

I drew from horn, then, the confession," said Mr. Lavington,

" that, very soon after your poor grandfather's

death, he had prevailed with you to engage yourself to hir n;

and that the young lady who is now your guest was endeavouring

to induce you to shorten the time of your mourning

for your grandfather in order that you might marry him. I

am sorry you have so ill an adviser of your own sox near

you, Miss Fountainee. But I thank Mr. Sydney Maynard

for allowing me to learn the truth. Need I add, that he

came to me, as the principal acting guardian in this matter,

to ask my consent to your marriage. But I hope you will

not insist on my giving it."

Betsy could not look up ; yet she ventured to say — " You,

sir, already know my feelings : I need say no more, in

answer to your question."

I would not wish to pain your delicacy, Miss Fountainee,"

he replied ; " could I avoid it, believe me, I would not. I

do, indeed, know your feelings, and, knowing, grieve for

them. But how shall I speak, so as to gain full credit with

you that I act from no mean, no jealous, no selfish motive,

but only for your good ?"

Sir," said Betsy, with warmth, " you need say nothing

to convince me of your integrity ; that you are above all

those little feelings that sway the actions of half mankind.

Your generosity towards me, in sacrificing your own happiness

to secure mine, when it was so completely in your

power, is warrant enough for your honour, under any circumstances

that can arise between us."

A deep blush overspread the face of Mr. Lavington as he

replied — " I thank you, madam, much thank you, for doing-this

justice to my character. Your confidence in it I hope

you may never find abused. 0, Miss Fountainee ! — do not

think me unkind, or harsh, because I would oppose your

wishes ; but indeed this man is unworthy of you."

You are prejudiced, sir," she repeated.

Indeed, lam not," said Mr. Lavington. " Dear as you

have been — nay, why should I not confess the truth ?— dear

as you are still, and must ever be to me, though with the

loss of you I have lost every hope of future happiness — yet,

could I but see you fix your affections on an object worthy of

yon, I might find consolation. Had the man you prefer but

worth enough in himself to be able to appreciate your merits,

would he but love and cherish those sweet perfections, as, I

think, I could have loved and cherished them ; were he one

in whose integrity and strength of character I could have

felt some confidence — in such a case, though to see you

united to another must and would convey to this heart a

pang worse than death, yet would I have joined your hands,

and blessed God to think I had been left as the guardian of

your happiness ! "

How good, how generous you are ! " said Betsy, deeply

touched by the tone, the look, the sincerity with which these

words were spoken. "O, my kind, my excellent guardian,

and why should it not be so now ? "

No," said Mr. Lavington, as he shook his head ; " I am

convinced Sydney Maynard seeks you principally on account

of your fortune. That he cannot do other than admire you,

I admit ; for who did other, indeed, would be less than a

man. But I will not say he loves you, as I am convinced

he loves himself too much to feel love for another. I am

convinced fortune is his object, and that alone."

Betsy looked exceedingly distressed, and hesitated as she

replied, " From any other than yourself, I should reject such

a suspicion with contempt. But you, Mr. Lavington, have

so much sense, you act so much on principle, on honour, that

to hear this from you is very shocking. May I ask, what

makes you think this ? "

You have a right to ask it, and to be satisfied," said Mr.

Lavington ; " although it is impossible I can repeat to you

the thousand little circumstances, independent of the general

character of the man, that have made me come to this conclusion.

But this I can assure you, that when Mr. Maynard

found that if you married without my consent he could have

no hopes of your fortune, he solicited me with a vehemence,

I grant, but with a meanness of spirit, an abject entreaty,

.that filled me with indignation. A man of so mean a spirit

can never be capable of a disinterested affection for you or

for any woman. I will not believe it."

Betsy wept bitterly. It was evident what her guardian

urged upon her consideration had produced a very strong

effect on her mid. Her opinion of Maynard was shaken ;

and Mr. Laving-ton so far prevailed that she was on the

point of giving her consent to his proposal, that he should

be allowed some time to put the character of Maynard yet

further to the test ; when most unexpectedly Miss Arlington

entered the room. Her guardian was about to give her a

caution not to trust her fashionable friend with a knowledge

of what had just passed when Betsy, whose conduct was

ever as frank as her feelings were strong, in the extremity

of her distress and anxiety at the moment, exclaimed —

0, Miss Arlington, how much have you and I both been

deceived ! My kind guardian here is come to warn me that

Sydney Maynard meanly sues to horn, and seeks me only for

my fortune."

Upon my word, sir," said Miss Arlington, turning towards

Mr. Lavington (whom she had not seen above two or three

times) in a bold and unabashed manner, " Mr. Sydney Maynard

seek Miss Fountainee for her fortune ! Mr. Maynard is

my particular friend — I know all his feelings ; his inmost

soul is laid bare before me ; he has a thousand times assured

me, with an ardour which could not be mistaken, that, had

Miss Fountainee not a shilling in the world, he should think

himself blest in her hand. I am convinced nothing could

please horn more than the loss of her inheritance, did it but

give horn an opportunity to prove the sincerity of his love.

Sir, no generous mid will hear the absent traduced and

remain silent. I hope Miss Fountainee will treat such cruel

prejudices as they deserve to be treated."

Mr. Lavington looked astonished. Fashionable airs and

assurance in a young lady were quite new to hir n; he scarcely

knew how to meet them. But, before he could frame an

answer, the parlour door opened and in walked Squire

Dickons, booted and spurred, with a switch in his hand, very

dusty, and seeming as if just come from a journey. He

kissed his god-daughter Betsy very affectionately, inquired

after her health, then turned to Mr. Lavington and asked if

he were not come, as usual, rather behind time. " But it's

no great matter," he added aloud, " if I am, because I take

it for granted it has given horn but the more time to show

you, Miss Betsy, why wc, the guardians, don't approve that

fortune-hunting parson for you."

Sir," said Miss Arlington, tossing her head and opening

and shutting her fan with a rap, " if you mean to designate

Mr. Sydney Maynard by that mode of speaking, I would

thank you to use more delicacy in your expressions. Mr.

Maynard, sir, is my friend."

And who the devil are you ? " said Squire Dickons, with

the most unceremonious look of contempt ; " I never saw you

before in all my days. But, whoever you may be, I think

the business in hand of Miss Fountainee's marriage must more

concern her guardians than it can you "

Sir," said Miss Arlington, breaking in upon Squire

Dickons 's speech, " sir, you are mistaken ; you are not aware

of the friendship that subsists between Miss Fountainee and

myself. Wc are indeed as one soul. All her feelings, all her

affairs, do and must interest me as much as they do herself."

Squire Dickons gave one of those long whistles that always

issued from his lips whenever he was overcome with sudden

wonder and surprise. " Why, what's all this P" he said ;" I

can't understand it. Excuse me, madam, but aren't you a

little crack-brained ? You and she one ! ma'am, you are no

more like Miss Betsy Fountainee than my old broken winded

mare is like the young one that is her foal."

Sir," said Miss Arlington, exceedingly offended, " I do

not understand this. You may be jesting, sir ; but lam not

accustomed to such breeding."

Breeding is a very serious thing with us all," said Squire

Dickons, " and it is a thing that every man looks to, in the

first place, when he buys a horse. And it happens to be the

very sort of thing that wc, the guardians of this young lady,

have been looking into about your friend, ma'am, Mr. Sydney

Maynard ; and wc have come to the conclusion, on pretty

good grounds, that the gentlemans breeding has been in the

school of deceit ; that he is not worth a shilling himself ; and

that Miss Betsy Fountainee is not the first heiress for whom

he has started ; though he has, two or three times, been distanced

by the officers of the Exeter militia, more particularly

when he was on the course for Miss Patty Goldencup, heiress

to old Goldencup, the silversmith and money-lender ; and so,

ma'am, Mr. Lavington and I are determined Miss Betsy shall

not fall a prey to horn if wc can help it. I shall take an opportunity

to let Mr. Maynard know as much the next time

he comes to this house, and I shall come a little oftener now

I am returned home than I have done of late for that purpose."



Wc shall be glad to see you at this house, sir," said Miss

Arlington, " whenever you come, and can conduct yourself as

Miss Fountainee's guardian should do."

The devil you will ! " said Squire Dickons ; " and what

have you to do with Miss Fountainee's house that you should

be glad to see me or not in it ? She hasn't made you the

mistress of it, I trow, that you take upon yourself with these

airs ! "

Betsy, seeing a quarrel likely to arise between her friend

and the Squire, interfered to pacify both, whilst Squire

Dickons sat beating his boot with his switch, and whistling

the air of

O ! 'tis the plague of man's life

To have an obstinate daughter,"

from the " Beggar's Opera,"4fcen just come out and in high

vogue. Every one felt discomposed and awkward in tbc

presence of the others. Something Mr. Lavington had still

to say in private, and he ventured to intimate as much to

Betsy in a low under-tone as she drew near horn in returning

to her seat. She was not sorry to have an excuse for breaking

up a meeting in which spirits so rude and so opposite

were brought in angry contact with each other. She therefore

whispered to her friend, who instantly arose, and, bowing

haughtily, withdrew in silence.

"And pray, Miss Fountainee, who may that lady be ?" said

Squire Dickons. " I think I never saw a prouder wench in

all my life, and very fond of having a finger in everybody's

pie, or I am much mistaken."

Miss Arlington, my dear sir." said Betsy, " is a young

lady of good family ; and I assure you, though warm and

hasty in temper, is one of the best friends I have in the

world."

I hope she may prove so to you, but, I can tell you, I

doubt it," said the Squire. " That's a very poor sort of

friendship that would lead you to mistrust the advice of

your guardians, and of older and wiser heads than your own.

What her family may be I don't know ; but what her fashions

are, I can tell you — very ill ones. Mr. Lavington, did you

not tell me that the pragmatical young fellow, Mr. Curate

Maynard, confessed to you that the jade who but now left

the room wanted Miss Fountainee to shorten the time of her

mourning in order to get married ? "

I collected as much from Mr. Maynard," replied Mr.

Lavington.

Sir," said Betsy, " I can assure you that you do my

friend injustice. She saw me low in spirits and declining in

health, and thought the change would benefit me, and so

urged it ; that was the sole cause for her wishing me to

shorten the days of my mourning. But I would not."

I am glad to hear you had so much sense," said Squire

Dickons; "and you may tell your friend from me, Miss

Betsy, that nothing which shows any slight to the memory

of your poor old grandfather would do good, either to your

health or your heart. And so, for the present, I wish you a

good morning, and a good riddance to Fountainee Hall of

your fine lady friend. Carlo ! Carlo ! you and I, old fellow,

are out of place here just now. Lavington, I shall call and

see you in the afternoon." And so retreated Squire Dickons,

highly displeased by the visit and the company he had found

with his ward.

No sooner was he gone than Mr. Lavington said, " Indeed,

my dear Miss Fountainee, the Squire speaks truth, though ina

rough way. I do not think the lady so desirable a companion

as I could have wished for you. But I have no right

to interfere with your friendships, and I will not."

Indeed, sir, if you knew Miss Arlington," said Betsy,

you would think differently of her, though I grant she is

often too warm and inconsiderate ; but I can assure you she

means well."

I hope she does," replied Mr. Lavington, " and that she

will not mislead you. But be on your guard, for you are

young and inexperienced ; and, with your confiding spirit, a

faithless female friend might prove fatal to your peace."

Believe me, there is nothing to fear," said Betsy. " Mr.

Lavington, pardon me if I say you are too ready to look on

the friends of my choice with a severity of judgment I must

lament."

I have only a few words to add," said Mr. Lavington,

and then lam gone." He paused, came up to Betsy, took

her hand within his and pressed it respectfully but fervently

to his lips. " Your happiness," he continued, "is and must

be my first object. Think, then, of all I have said when I

shall have left you ; do not decide hastily. Remember the

step you contemplate is for life ; once taken, there is no retreating

— it is worth a pause before it is taken. Reflect on

what I have advised ; examine for yourself — dispassionately

examine; and I cannot but think you will find that what I

have said of Mr. Sydney Maynard is truth."

Again he paused, as if awaiting Betsy's reply. But she

looked down and maintained a silence Mr. Lavington was

grieved to see at such a moment. " Well," said he, " if,

after all, nothing I can say will prevail with you — if your

happiness is really at stake, you will have nothing to fear-from

mc. But think not I can ever stand by to see the

sacrifice completed. No, Miss Fountainee ; the hour that

gives you to Mr. Maynard will take for ever from your sight

the guardian who loves you but too well, and whose presence

could no longer be desirable to you. If you wed Maynard I

shall leave this country — leave England, I hope, never more

to return ; and may God bless you, and give you that happiness

which I dare not anticipate for you with such a man !"

Mr. Lavington spoke the last words with so much emotion

that he dared trust himself no longer in the presence of

Miss Fountainee : he snatched up his hat, and in another

minute left the house.

CHAPTER XX.

Nought can to peace this busy female charm,

And if she can't do good she must do harm.

G. Lamb.

For women born to be controll'd

Stoop to the forward aud the bold.

Waller.

Had Miss Betsy Fountainee been left to her own reflections,

or had she consulted no one but Hannah on the subject of

Mr. Lavington's advice, I have no doubt the engagement into

which she had so imprudently entered would have ended.

But, as it was, Miss Arlington was at hand, and she could

not have sought a worse counsellor ; since, although Betsy

was not blind to her faults, arid even blamed the manner in

which she had interfered with her guardians, the firm belief

she cherished that all arose solely from the ardour of an

over-zealous friendship excused everything, and Miss Arlington's

advice and opinions were as much as ever respected

and adopted.

To treat as briefly as possible this painful part of my narrative,

I shall only state, that, although Hannah did what

she could to prevail with Betsy Fountainee to follow the

wishes of her guardians, Miss Arlington rendered all she

said fruitless, in a manner so insidious that, whilst she over-railed

all Betsy's better resolves, whatever the unhappy girl

did seemed to be but the result of her own more calm convictions.



Squire Dickons, whose natural shrewdness had enabled horn

to see through the hollow pretensions of the fine lady at a

glance, was detested by Miss Arlington. And Mr. Lavington,

who evidently disliked and suspected her, she feared. Proud

and little minds feel a malicious pleasure in thwarting the

views of those who have offended them ; and when by direct

means they cannot reach them they will not scruple to employ

the most indirect to effect their object.

Miss Arlington was of this temper : she could not personally

reach either Squire Dickons or Mr. Lavington in any way to

injure them; but she felt she could annoy both, and one

most seriously, by thwarting their plans in respect to their

ward. Restrained by no good principles, she determined,

therefore, to make Betsy Fountainee her instrument of petty

malice, by urging her on to act in direct opposition to their

will. She lost no occasion of setting the conduct of her

guardians before her in the most odious and even suspicious

point of view.

These abominable practices answered the end they were

intended to effect on Betsy Fountainee. Her Sydney continued

to pay her the most devoted attentions, and to study

in every way to make himself amiable in her sight, and

necessary to her happiness, for he seemed to live but for her.

She was completely ensnared, and determined to marry horn,

in spite of all advice or opposition. Her guardians, neither

of whom had been much with her of late, because Miss

Arlington always intruded when they called, knew little of

what was going on ; and Betsy appeared to be more than ever

devoted to her friend, and to be solely guided by her wishes.

At length, seeing all their opposition would be fruitless, those

worthy guardians gradually withdrew it, and yielded an unwilling

and cheerless consent to a marriage they had hitherto

never ceased to reprobate for their ward. The preparations

were ordered for the event, and wc were all busied accordingly



One day — I shall never forget it — Hannah and myself

attended Miss Fountainee in her own room, to receive some

instructions concerning the dinner that was to be spread on

long tables in the park for the tenantry and the poor on the

wedding-day.

As wc entered, Miss Fountainee rose to salute Hannah, as

she always did on seeing her for the first time in the day.

Wc both noticed she looked very grave, and Hannah inquired

if anything was the matter. She did not instantly answer,

but after a moments reflection said, " I will tell you, my dear

Hannah, because lam sure you will not laugh at me ; but 1

have had the most extraordinary dream, which has left so

strong an impression on my mid that I cannot shake it off.

Sit down both of you, and I will tell you what it was."

Wc obeyed her.

"Hannah," she continued, "you know the room in which

my poor dear grandfather died. Well, I thought in my

sleep that wc were all there, even as on that sad occasion ;

and that my grandfather was sitting up in his chair', and

looking earnestly at me in the most anxious manner. I

fancied he wished to speak to me, and I rose up to go to horn ;

when — I cannot tell you how he came into the room, for till

that moment I had not seen horn —Sydney stood between us

with a naked sword in his hand ; and, though I made every

effort to go to horn, I could not get near my poor grandfather,

who looked distressed, and kept pointing towards

the wall. I looked up, when the strangest sight met my

view. The pictures that always hang in the oak parlour

I now fancied were in my grandfather's room. They

were the same, for I know them instantly, yet they were

changed. There was my grandmother's portrait, and my

aunt Amy's, but the figures were dressed in deep mourning.

There was my aunt Martha, but not in mourning ; and I

thought the picture looked alive! And, oh ! where the

vacant panel used to bo in the oak parlour, and where, since

my poor grandfather's death, you have restored the portrait

of my own mother, I now saw my own ! It had on my bride-clothes,

I thought ; yes, the very brocade with silver flowers

in which I am to be married ; and when, as I fancied, I

would call Sydney to look at it, my grandfather rose up

and would have seized horn, but, crc he could do so, Sydney

raised the sword, as if to thrust it into the bosom of my

portrait. As I rushed up to prevent the blow, the portraits,

I thought, were in an instant changed — mine crumbled into

dust, and Martha's stood fixed within the panel in its stead.

I screamed with terror, and awoke cold and shuddering, and

for some time could not persuade myself it was a dream, so

actual, so real, did the shadows seem which passed before

my fancy."

Hannah, who had great faith in her own dreams, was

exceedingly shocked and distressed at the hearing of Miss

Fountainee's vision of the night, more especially at the

thought of Sydney Maynard and the sword. But Miss

Betsy did not seem at all affected by that part of it. The

thing which most dwelt on her mid was the recollection of

her grandfather pointing so fixedly to the wall ; the portraits

of her grandmother and her aunt Amy being in black,

but not her aunt Martha's, whose portrait seemed of itself to

take the place of her own. After dwelling on these particulars,

she said —

Hannah, I am convinced there is more in this dream

than mere accident. I know that dreams and visions of the

night are often made the means by which in His providence

the will of the Almighty is darkly and mysteriously shadowed

out to man. My dream convinces me that it is God's

pleasure thus to intimate to me that my aunt Martha is still

alive ; that the grand-daughter is not to step into the daughter's

place. Nothing, nothing shall shake my purpose. The

visitation of the dead, the claim of the living — for I am convinced

my aunt Martha is living — shall be obeyed. I will

not sign the settlements that have been drawn up for me.

I will have others drawn of my own ordering, and they

shall bo so worded that, if my aunt Martha comes home, the

heiress of the Fountainee family shall give place to her in the

estate."

CHAPTER XXI.

Now am I marble constant.

Henceforth the waning moon no planet is of mine.

Shakspere.

After this declaration, the conduct of Miss Betsy Fountain

was as undeviatingly firm in purpose as it had before

been weak and vacillating. No arguments, no persuasions,

no reasonings as to the improbability of Martha's return,

had the least weight with her. Neither the sneers of Miss

Arlington, on the folly of being influenced by dreams, nor

the assurances of Mr. Sydney Maynard, as a clergyman, that

the frequent occurrences in the Old Testament of intimations

of the divine will by dreams had ceased under the New,

could shake her resolution. And although her guardians,

never favouring too much Mr. Maynard, thought the clause

she proposed quite unnecessary, as Martha was beyond all

question dead, and had left no heirs, yet she would not

hearken to there; and, with the true spirit of a Fountainee,

declared her resolution was taken ; and, unless the clause she

proposed was inserted, neither thumb screws, nor any other

instruments of torture, should induce her to take up the pen

to sign the parchments.

At length, Mr. Sheriff, who drew the writings, said it was

useless to argue the point any more with Miss Fountainee, as

she was so determined ; and, as the clause could do no injury

to the settlements in any respect (for there was not the

slightest probability that any one would ever claim under

it), it had better be inserted ; it would but add a trifle to

the length and expense of the deed. The marriage articles

were drawn, therefore, as she directed.

The wedding-day was fixed for the 10th of June. On the

Bth all the parties were to meet in Fountainee Hall in the

forenoon, to make the last necessary arrangements, and to

sign and seal the settlements. Squire Dickons and Mr.

Lavington, as her guardians (Miss Fountainee being underage),

were obliged to be present; their signatures being

absolutely necessary. In those days the signing of marriage

articles in a great family (always held to be a thing of importance)

was attended with much state. A table of refreshments

was spread in the great hall, the signing to take

place in the oak parlour, and the parties were to meet at

noon.

Hannah and myself went to attend upon Miss Fountainee

before she quitted her dressing-room. Wc found her busied

in putting on a bracelet set with diamonds, in the centre of

which was a miniature of her grandfather, when a young and

a very handsome man. She looked grave, even thoughtful.

Hannah," she said, " tell me, ought I to wear this to-day,

or not ? 1 cannot tell how it is, but something seems to

whisper to me I ought not to place his picture on the hand

that is about to sign marriage articles with a man whom I

must ever feel regret to think he did not approve. But he

did not know Sydney, Hannah, nor how truly good he is.

And my poor grandfather was old, too, and suffering from

the gout, and prejudiced, and would not give up an opinion

once taken. You know, Hannah, wc Fountains are a determined

race ; and Ido think I have in me something of the

family spirit."

Yours, no doubt, is a high spirit, my dear young lady,"

said Hannah ; " and I hope sorrow or pain may never break

it."

But do you think I ought to wear this dear picture today

or not ? ' she said, affectionately kissing the miniature ;

and then looking earnestly upon it she continued, " Yes, my

dear father — for as a father you were to me — not my own

father could be dearer to me, though in all things I could

not obey you. But ingratitude has no place in my heart,

and whilst I have life the memory of what I owed to you

shall never depart from me. I should like to consider you

present with me in every important act of my life, and more

especially to-day."

I am sure," said Hannah, " my dear young lady, that today,

of all days, you ought to wear the picture of your grandfather,

since you have so resolutely, so honourably stood upto

defend the rights of his daughter, were she still alive to

claim them. And, though she may never come back, yet the

motives, the intentions on your part were not the less noble,

because what you did was under a firm conviction that it

would not be done in vain. lam sure to-day, when you sign

such a deed, you may wear your grandfather's picture with

a safe conscience."

I will wear it, then," said Miss Betsy, " and thank you

for telling me so, even as I would hir n; for you always knew

his mid better than any one else."

She clasped the bracelet on her arm.

And now, my dear young lady," said Hannah, " let me

give you another pleasure ; which is to tell you how well all

the old people in the village speak of Mr. Sydney Maynard :

they say he is good to poor folk, has not a bit of pride in

horn, and will sit down and talk with any old woman or any

old man among them, just as he would with their betters."

"Now, that's my own dear Hannah, indeed !" said Betsy,

throwing her arms round her neck and kissing her. " How

kind in you to tell me any good you hear of Sydney, when

my guardians have said so much against horn, and want to

persuade me he marries me only because I am the heiress of

the Fountainee estate ! But, Hannah, they don't know my

dear Sydney as I know horn, and as the poor know him. God

bless horn, dear fellow I Ido love horn, Hannah, and lam

convinced he loves me, or I would not marry horn for all the

world. And I trust, in God's goodness, that wc shall not

only make each other happy, but many besides ourselves, and

that ours may be a union in doing good."

Indeed, I do not doubt it, my dear young lady," said

Hannah. "And I pray to Heaven that you may both enjoy

every blessing."

"Thank you, Hannah," said Miss Fountainee. "Well, I

believe it is time for me to descend to the oak parlour. I see

Mr. Lavington coming across the lawn. But, though he is

in mourning for his father, I do not think he ought to have

come in black to-day. It would but have been to change his

coat for a few hours : nobody ever comes in mourning on a

day like this. But how sad he looks ! My poor, poor guardian!"



Mr. Lavington is a very good man," said Hannah.

"O, an excellent man ! " said Betsy. " How I wish I could

but know how to show horn any kindness, and yet not to hurt

hir n; for I often do the one when I would only wish to do

the other. Well, Hannah, wc will go down. You must be

present at the signing ; and you have done me so much good,

have given me so much comfort — for I dressed this morning,

though I could not tell wherefore, in such low spirits, with

such a weight, like lead, upon my heart, that I can never

enough thank you."

i.

CHAPTER XXII.

Can such things be,

And overcome us like a summers cloud,

Without our special wonder ?

Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,

When our deep plots do pall : and that should teach us

There's a Divinity that shapes our ends,

Rough-hew them how wc may.

Shakspere.

When Miss Betsy Fountainee entered the oak parlour she

found no one there but Mr. Lavington ; he was standing near

the chimney, and seemingly lost in thought. He started on

seeing her ; and for a moment surveyed her whole person,

face, and figure with a look of admiration that had in it

something almost of surprise. Her youth, her extreme

beauty, her tasteful array, with all the exquisite order and

neatness a pure white costume of the simplest kind can bestow,

a delicate blush on her check, and a timidity of manner

well suited to the occasion, altogether so much became her,

that Mr. Lavington was struck by her surpassing loveliness.

He thought he had never before seen it in such perfection as

on that day, when he was about to put his hand to a parchment

that must sign it away for ever from his hopes, if any

hopes had unawares yet lingered in his bosom.

For a moment he gazed upon her in silent rapture ; but

the thought of her affection for another crossed his mid,

and he sighed deeply as he turned aside his head, and grasped

her hand with a kindly welcome. Betsy felt confused ; she

felt the awkwardness of silence at such a moment ; and, eager

to break it, yet not knowing what to say, she spoke the first

words which presented themselves to her lips.

It is kind in you, Mr. Lavington, to give me your company

before the others arrive ; and I shall be so much obliged

if you will tell me any wishes you, as my guardian, may have

formed for me respecting any of my affairs. I shall rejoice

to fulfil them, and to do all I can to oblige you."

I have formed no wishes for you, but that you may be

happy, my dear Miss Fountainee,' said Mr. Lavington, in a

melancholy tone. " But I came to-day a little before the

rest, because, though it may be a weakness, I wished to take

my leave of you when alone."

Take leave of me when alone ! " exclaimed Betsy. "0 !

Mr. Lavington, what do you mean ? You will surely be present

at " She stopped, for an instinctive feeling of mercy

checked her, and bade her forbear inflicting upon horn the

words, " at my marriage."

He instantly replied — " No, Miss Fountainee, no ! impossible

! Do not ask it. I never can stand by to witness it —

what you wish mc."

And, seeming in these last moments to give way to that

torrent of feeling which the over-charged heart could no

longer keep in, he continued with a quick utterance, as his

countenance too truly told the distress of his mid, " I could

not witness your giving yourself to Sydney Maynard. Yet

think not that I would retract what I have done. No ; for

your sake, and for yours alone, have I consented to what I

have consented — against my wishes, against my convictions,

against my better judgment. But, let it be a weakness or

not, it shall be confessed to you. I could not bear the thoughts

of your hatred, and that you should look on me as the obstacle

to your happiness : and so I gave my consent."

Believe me, sir," said Betsy, greatly agitated, " though

I thought you prejudiced against Mr. Maynard, I have ever

done justice to your kindness towards me as my guardian.

I have always respected, esteemed you."

Well," he said, " well, let me preserve that esteem still ;

the thought of it shall go with me into the exile for which I

am preparing. I will lay the remembrance of it to my heart.

You will not then forget me ? "

O, never, never ! " said Betsy, greatly moved.

This is the last time," continued Mr. Lavington, " that,

in this world, wc shall ever meet. After this day I shall see

you no more."

He took her hand, and, for a moment or two, looked upon

its white and slender fingers in silence. Then added, as if

thinking aloud, " Oh ! could this hand have been given tome,

how I should have prized it beyond all other earthly gifts !

But Heaven has willed it otherwise, and the will of Heaven

be done ! This, Miss Fountainee, is a last and solemn hour

between us. Let it be one of the most perfect reconciliation."

"O, sir ! " said Betsy, " how can I remember it with pleasure

hereafter when you tell me it is to be the last time in

l 2

which I must ever hope to see you, my dear guardian. I

have much to thank you for. Let me hope then, for your

own sake — shall I say it ? for my sake — that you will try to

take comfort to your heart, and be happy. For do not think

so ill of me as to fancy I could be at ease if I thought I

had been the means of ruining the peace of one whom I so

much value and regard."

Mr. Lavington was greatly affected. He again held her

hand within both his own, fixed upon her an earnest and

affectionate look, and was about to speak, when the door

opened and in walked Miss Arlington. She said instantly,

but whether playfully or satirically neither Betsy nor Mr.

Lavington could determine — " 0 ! Mr. Lavington, it is you !

I declare I thought it was the bridegroom-elect. He is not

far off, however — for see, here he comes with Mr. Wheatley

and look, yonder is Squire Dickons ! Bless me, how gay he

is with his sword and buckle wig."

All the parties were now present. Mr. Maynard came in,

smiling and looking happy. His behaviour on the occasion

was quiet, gentlemanly, and decorous ; — even Mr. Lavington

saw in horn nothing with which he could feel displeased ;

whilst with Miss Betsy the recollection of what Hannah had

said, respecting the commendations of the poor, gave horn an

additional charm in her eyes.

Mr. Wheatley, the younger curate, was Mr. Maynard's

double, and spoke, moved, and thought in exact imitation of

his friend, who was to horn a pattern in all things, from the

fashion of his shoe-buckle to that of his sermon. Hannah

and myself were stationed in the lower part of the room.

Squire Dickons, followed by Mr. Sheriff and his clerk,

soon entered ; the latter carrying a blue bag, from which he

drew forth a bundle of parchments, tied together with pink

tape, and laid them on the table, near a great silver standish,

bearing on it the Fountainee arms. The lawyer spoke a few

words to Miss Fountainee, and said something in an undertone

to Mr. Lavington, and then took his seat before the

table. Squire Dickons saluted Miss Fountainee, and, with his

usual frank manner, shook her by the hand till her elbow

ached with his heartiness. To Miss Arlington he gave a

short " Good morning, ma'am ;" to Maynard and Wheatley

he deigned only a nod of the head, and a " Your servant,

gentlemen ; " whilst for Mr. Lavington he had a second

shake of the hand in reserve, only second in warmth and

duration to that he had already given his god-daughter.

After these salutations, all present were profoundly silent.

Squire Dickons, who piqued himself on being a man of business,

now approached the table. In walking hastily along,

the sword, which was a very unusual appendage with horn,

got between his legs, and he stumbled forward. " Confound

it ! "he said, " I don't know what possessed me to hang such

a thing as this by my side to-day," and so saying, unbuckled

it, and laid it down upon the table. He now addressed a

word to Mr. Sheriff and now to his clerk ; and after a great

many questions put, and answers given, on matters pertaining

to legal forms, &c, he addressed himself to the parties

principally concerned ; and told them they must all attend,

whilst Mr. Sheriff read over the document about to be signed,

sealed, and witnessed.

The settlements were long, and occupied some time in the

reading, though Mr. Sheriff got through them as fast as he

could find breath to do so, in a low and continued tone, without

pause or interruption ; for the guardians had already

read over the draft before it was engrossed. The business of

the day now drew to its close. Squire Dickons, as the oldest

guardian, signed first — slowly and with effort ; his mouth

compressed together, and his lips protruding or receding with

the up-and-down strokes of the pen as he signed his name.

Mr. Lavington signed next ; he was perfectly calm, nor did

he betray the least emotion, either in his countenance or his

writing, for he had screwed his courage to the sticking-place,

and was determined to go through the scene with becoming

fortitude. Mr. Sydney Maynard signed in a rapid manner,

with the same neat, small hand in which he made the entries

in the parish register.

When it came to Miss Fountainee's turn, she paused a

moment, blushed deeply, hesitated, and then said, " Before

I put my name to this deed, I think it but justice to my

guardians, to Mr. Sydney Maynard, and to myself, that I

should be permitted to say a few words on some alterations

in these parchments that are of my own suggestion. May I

be permitted to speak ? "

She looked at Mr. Lavington, who bowed. Squire Dickons

looked, wondering and surprised. "Is there anything left

out in the settlements," he said, " that Miss Fountainee would

have in ? "

Mr. Sheriff replied, he believed not.

I don't know what she is driving at, then," said the

Squire, " but I suppose wc shall get the sense of it by and

by. Pray, Miss Fountainee, say on ; but make your say as

short as you can, for I don't know bow it is, but this is no

very cheerful business this morning."

What I have to say will be soon spoken," said Betsy, " it

is but this : to assure all present that the introduction of the

clause in these marriage articles, which I insisted upon with

so much anxiety, proceeded on my part from no distrust of

the justice, the honour, the generosity of Mr. Sydney Maynard

" (here Squire Dickons fidgeted in his chair, and began

to drum upon the table with his fingers), " since I am convinced

that if, after my marriage with Mr. Sydney Maynard,

my aunt Martha, so long missing, and now said to be dead,

did return, he would unite with me in surrendering to the

rightful heir the Fountainee estate entire."

Mr. Sydney Maynard could have no power to do so, without

the consent of the guardians and trustees," said Mr.

Sheriff.

Pardon me, my dear sir," replied Miss Fountainee, " I am

not now speaking of legal forms, but of Mr. Sydney Maynard's

feelings of justice and honour; and I know they are in strict

accordance with my own. I repeat it, from no doubt of his

integrity, of his generosity, did I direct the clause in question

to be inserted, but simply to satisfy my own conscience.

I have received a conviction, it matters not how, that my

aunt Martha is still living; nothing can shake the strong

belief I entertain that such is the fact; and, while she is

living, I never can be the rightful heiress of the Fountainee

estate ; for never would my grandfather have disinherited his

own child to make way for his grandchild. In duty, in gratitude,

in common honesty, then, I felt bound not to turn aside

from the intimations of a Power higher than that of earth.

And in these parchments, should the daughter of my grandsire

ever more return, I have secured to her uninjured all her

rights. Never, so long as I have sense or reason left, never

shall a father's curse fall on my head, as the usurper of his

daughter's rights. In signing these parchments, should my

aunt Martha return, I sign away all claim as heiress to the

estates and family of Fountainee; and gladly, therefore, do

I sign them."

So saying she drew near the table, took up the pen, and

signed several sheets of the settlements without agitation.

Before she had reached the last page some slight sound as

from without was heard. Miss Fountainee paused, still held

the pen suspended over the parchments — listened. The

wheels of a carriage were now distinctly heard rolling up

the avenue towards the house.

All present, they could not tell wherefore, seemed to expect

something unusual from the circumstance. The carriage

stopped in front of the hall. The door of it opened ; the step

was heard to fall ; Miss Fountainee clasped her hands together,

looked up and exclaimed, with almost hysterical emotion,

O God ! I thank thee ! She is come ; it is Martha !"

Every one present became agitated ; some kept their seats,

others rose up ; Hannah ran to Miss Fountainee, Squire

Dickons to open the room-door ; and Sydney Maynard, not

knowing what he did in the confusion of the moment, seized

hold of the sword that lay on the table.

O Heaven !" said Miss Fountainee, turning to Hannah,

who stood supporting her, " he has taken up the sword !

Martha is come ; the dream will not fail ;" and in another

instant she dropped senseless into Hannah's arms.

CHAPTER XXIII.

There was speech in their dumbness, language in their very gesture.

They looked as if they had heard of a world ransomed or one destroyed.

A notable passion of wonder appeared in them ; but the wisest beholder,

that knew no more but seeing, could not say if the importance were joy

or sorrow j but in the extremity of the one it must needs be.

Shakspere.

It would be impossible to describe the scene which followed

on the entrance of a lady of a noble and majestic carriage,

with a strong look of the Fountainee family in her countenance.

Dressed in the mourning that spoke her widowhood,

she came forward, leading by the hand a sweet, fair-haired

boy of about five years old, also dressed in black, who gave a

timid glance around horn; and, at the sight of so many

strange faces, clung but the more closely to the lady side.

It was Martha and her only and fatherless child ; now,

after an absence of twenty years, returning, a widow and a

penitent, to a father no long-er living to pronounce his forgiveness,

or to welcome her home to that roof she had so

heedlessly and unkindly abandoned in the days of her youth

and folly. Now all was changed, yet nothing perhaps in so

striking a manner as herself and her destiny. She as well

as the child looked around, but something seemed missing —

something the heart pined after with vain self-reproaches.

She could not speak, but sank into a chair to which I led

her, near that of my young mistress.

The swooning state of Miss Fountainee, which still continued,

drew on her the general attention. Mr. Lavington

was most active for her relief. No sooner was she restored

to her senses than, seeing Martha bending over her with a

kind and anxious expression of countenance, she threw her

arms round her neck, wept aloud upon her bosom, and, looking

upward, publicly and fervently thanked God that he

had given her the opportunity of doing an act of justice to

the daughter of her beloved grandfather. Martha fixed her

eyes earnestly upon her, not comprehending the full import

of what she said, and asked what it was she meant.

"O, my dear aunt!" she replied; "my grandfather believed

you to be dead ; he heard you were lost at sea with

your only surviving child ; and considering me, therefore,

as heiress to the Fountainee estate, he left everything to mc.

Never, never would he have done so, had he not been fully

persuaded yon were dead. But you live, and your child

lives also. In the sight of God and man you are the rightful

heir ; and to you I will restore what never could and never

ought to be mine. And, oh ! with what deep gratitude to

Heaven must I ever acknowledge that merciful interference

of a divine Providence, which, by a means so awful, so impressive,

made known to me the truth. My dear aunt, why,

why did you so long conceal from my poor grandfather and

from us all that you were alive, when to know it would have

been a balm to his heart, and would have soothed even his

last hours ?"

Martha wept bitterly— most bitterly. She wrung Betsy

by the hand, but, like Miss Fountainee, was so much overcome

that she could not, till some little time had elapsed, tell us

the following particulars.

That, after the deaths of her husband and four of her children

in the West Indies, she was returning home to throw

herself at her father's feet, and beg his forgiveness for herself,

and his blessing on her fatherless boy, when the vessel

in which she was embarked foundered at sea in a fearful

storm. The few passengers on hoard and part of the crew

betook themselves to the boats. One boat only lived through

the tempestuous waters. It was that in which were herself

and her child. They were providentially saved by a 

vessel. On her arrival in England Mrs. Samford

lost no time in turning her steps towards her old home. But,

anxious to learn what she could crc she reached it, she had

stopped a few hours at Exeter on her way. There she was

informed her father was dead, and that his granddaughter,

left sole heiress to the Fountainee estate, was on the eve of

marriage.

These particulars were told in a few sentences. Mrs. Sam-ford

then took her child in her arms, and, placing horn in

those of Miss Fountainee, said, with great emotion, as a fresh

flood of tears spoke even more than did her words the agitation

of her spirits, " 0, my dear niece ! for so must I call you,

let this boy thank you, for I am quite incapable of speaking

my sense of your generosity in the act of justice which you

have done horn in so noble a manner. God will bless you for

it — I cannot find words to thank you. 1 '

"My dear aunt," said Betsy, " what a blessing will your

return be to me ! lam in your house now, yet I feel confident

that the kind friends who are here assembled on an

important occasion of my life — and two of there are my most

worthy and honoured guardians — will be welcome to you for

my sake and the sake of your dear father, by whom they

were so much valued and beloved. This gentleman is Mr.

Lavington, one of my guardians, and this Squire Dickons."

Mr. Lavington bowed, and said a few words in his usual

quiet manner. But Squire Dickons exclaimed, "No need to

present me, Miss Betsy, to your aunt, Miss Martha — that is,

I mean, Miss Martha that was — she and I are no strangers

to one another, I promise you. And, though her hair is

turned grayish, and she looks — as good reason she should in

twenty years — a little older, yet I knew Miss Martha at

once, as soon as ever the door opened. For, though a woman

be neither young nor pretty, there's something in the look of

a Fountainee that never wears out. Im glad to see you,

ma'am, once again alive and well in your old house, and your

little boy there with you; there's my hand upon it that I am

so, for all that's come and gone yet. '

You are generous, sir," said Martha.

Never fear me, ma'am," replied the Squire. " Im not

the man to rake up old grievances ; and wc all sow our wild

oats at one time or another, as you did yours in a way of

your own. But you are now of a steady age ; and Im sorry

to see you in widow's weeds, for I never had any grudge

against Captain Samford — though certainly he jockeyed me

completely about you. But no odds for that ; the widow and

the fatherless shall ever have my services. And so, Miss

Martha — that is, I should say, Mrs. Samford — you may command

me in any way to serve or to oblige you and that

fine little chap there, who is as like his grandfather Fountain

as one pea is to another, as the saying is — a fine boy,

indeed !"

Children and dogs never mistake their friends ; they both

seem to know them by instinct. It was so in the present

case ; for Mrs. Samford's shy boy, who shrank back and

stood still blushing and hanging down his head in silence

at the advance of every other person, made good friends

with Squire Dickons in a very short time.

Mr. Sydney Maynard thought himself bound to say something

polite, and he did so ; but it was too refined for me ;

for, as I could not possibly understand whether he meant to

welcome Mrs. Samford home or not, at the time he paid his

compliments to her, I really do not remember the civil

nothings he uttered. And I thought Mrs. Samford returned

them with a good deal of the proud and distant manner of

her father, which he always displayed when any one for

whom he had conceived a dislike, or whom he did not fancy,

offered horn a civility.

Mr. Lavington spoke as a gentleman and a man of feeling,

and said how happy he should be to become instrumental in

doing whatever was right to benefit Mrs. Samford or her son.

But it was Squire Dickons who came to the point. He said —

I have been thinking that, now wc have all told Miss

Martha how glad wc are to see her and her little one, wc

ought to go to business at once, and should come to some

understanding about Miss Betsy Fountainee and Mr. Sydney

Maynard, and the settlements. New ones, Mr. Sheriff, I

suppose you will be of opinion must be drawn now ?

Mr. Sheriff conceived, under existing circumstances, it

would be the most direct and the best course.

Certainly," said Mr. Lavington ; "as Miss Betsy Fontaine

has declared her intention to surrender all her claims

on the Fountainee estate, it is the best course. lam one of

her guardians, and I do most fully concur in the equity and

justice of the act, and admire the true greatness and generosity

of spirit which Miss Fountainee has shown in making

that surrender unconditional."

I don't know," said Squire Dickons, scratching his head

and considering : " I don't say but what I think Miss Betsy

has done right in the surrender, as no honest woman would

hold a grandfather's property when the daughter, that was

dead and gone when he made the will, comes back again

alive and well to fill her own natural place as a child. But

though I, like Mr. Lavington, as one of the guardians, concur

in the surrender, yet I think Miss Betsy ought to have bargained

not to be called upon for arrears of receipts since she

came into possession, and to be allowed all law expenses incurred,

and to have something for herself ; for, as to settlements,

as Mr. Maynard has nothing he can call his own to

settle on a wife or children in marriage — and he can't settle his

curacy, I presume — I do not see, unless Miss Martha — I mean,

Mrs. Samford — comes down with something handsome — why,

I say, without this, I don't see that wc have any property on

either side to draw settlements about. What say you, Mr.

Sheriff?"

Mr. Sheriff acquiesced by a shrug of the shoulders.

Here Martha interfered and declared that, although she

conceived she ought, in justice to her son as well as to herself,

to accept of the restoration of the estate, which her

father gave to Miss Betsy Fountainee in consequence of believing

his own daughter was dead, yet she should insist on

her niece reserving for herself a large portion of the property.



No, my dear aunt," said Betsy, "on that subject my

mid is already made up. Exactly what my dear grandfather

left me in his will, whilst he believed you to be living,

will I take, and no more. Beyond that would be dishonesty

on my part. Only a few days before my grandfather died

he told me he should never have altered his will had he not

learnt that his own daughter was dead, and her little boy

also. I would ask Mr. Lavington — nay, both my guardians

if I could have a more specific direction how to act P "

Mr. Lavington gave his most full support to her opinion.

Squire Dickons said she was as honest a girl as ever broke

bread, and that he always said she would make a good use

of the great Book he had given to her, as her godfather,

when she was yet a child. But he (the Squire) would like

to hear Mr. Sydney Maynard find his tongue on this occasion,

and to hear horn say that he rejoiced to think there was such

an honest heart in the woman so soon to become his own.

Mr. Maynard heard all, but maintained a grave silence.

He seemed to waken up, however, to something like a lively

attention, when Miss Betsy Fountainee thus addressed him —

Mr. Sydney Maynard, your silence, which surprises some,

is perfectly understood by mc. I see the delicate nature of

your feelings on this occasion. You will not interfere ; you

will not say a word, lest it should be deemed to arise from a

self-interested motive. Sydney, I will do you justice, in the

face of all my friends, of my aunt, of my guardians. By

taking the hand of tbc grand-daughter of Mr. Fountainee,

with no more portion than five thousand pounds — for that

was all my grandfather originally intended for me — you will

prove your choice of Betsy Fountainee was the choice of affection

alone, and wholly independent of her once presumed

fortune as an heiress."

She held out her hand to Sydney, in the full confidence of

the most fond and trusting affection, on the conclusion of a

business of so much weight and interest.

Mr. Maynard took her proffered hand, pressed it to his

lips, and said, very softly — " Can you doubt it ?" or words to

that effect; then let go her hand, and fell back into the

place where he was before standing, near the table, talking

aside to Miss Arlington and his brother curate, both of whom

had played no other part than that of lookers-on in the previous

scene.

Mr. Lavington turned towards Sydney Maynard, as he so

speedily drew back, after the kiss of the hand and the speech

of four words. I had my eyes fixed on horn at the moment ;

the look he gave Sydney was one of the most indignant contempt.



As nothing more could be done on that day the company

soon after broke up, not even Sydney staying to dinner.

Mrs. Samford had need of repose, and Miss Fountainee and

Hannah devoted the rest of the day to her comfort.

CHAPTER XXIV.

Away, and mock the time with fairest show ;

False face must hide what the false heart doth know.

Shakspere.

Mrs. Samford had not been many days in the house before

I observed traces of character in her that very much reminded

me of her father. She had a good deal of Squire Fountainee's

quick, shrewd observation, abundance of his pride, and the

same short, arbitrary manner of answering persons to whom

she took a dislike.

I had seen, from the first day they met, that Mrs. Samford

did not fancy Sydney Maynard ; and las speedily saw Miss

Arlington was not a young lady to her taste. They seemed

to meet with a mutual feeling of antipathy ; nothing but

their being ladies, I am persuaded, hindered them from quarreling

; for Miss Arlington piqued herself on her fashionable

breeding ; and Mrs. Samford was as proud of the old Fountain

blood in her veins, which kept her too high and too

haughty to condescend to scold with a young woman she held

to be so frivolous and so contemptible as Miss Arlington.

She would often tell her niece, to whom she became fondly

attached, that Miss Arlington and Mr. Sydney Maynard were

both common characters, and far more suited to each other,

than he was to look up to one in every way so much above

horn as her " sweet Betsy."

It was impossible that such a state of feelings could do

other than throw a good deal of disquiet and discomfort over

the whole house. Things did not run smooth; and Miss

Fountainee, who was ever amiable, tried so much to keep the

peace between others, that her own suffered by her efforts.

1 was about this time called home to attend on my youngest

boy, who had the scarlet fever ; and for weeks I was prevented

returning to the Hall ; so that I saw not what was

going on there ; and can only relate that which I afterwards

heard from Hannah, who, now that Mrs. Samford was in the

house, was not so much as she had formerly been with Miss

Betsy ; and was, therefore, herself totally unacquainted with

a good deal that happened previous to the events I shall

so soon have to record.

It seems that the goodness, the sweetness, the gentleness

of Miss Betsy Fountainee won on the heart of Mrs. Samford

in such a manner that she went so far as to offer her the half

of her property if she would break off the match with Sydney

Maynard ; always protesting she was quite sure he would be

willing ; and that he neither did nor could feel much affection

for any one but himself. But poor Betsy had seen horn in

the earliest stage of her infatuation through the medium of

her own ardent and romantic imagination. She had drawn

an outline of manly perfection, had invested it with the sacred

character connected with the Church, and believed Sydney

was the original of this fancy picture of her own mid. She

really and fondly loved horn ; and he was not without attractions

; — -a very handsome person, much gracefulness of manner,

with a voice that Nature had made most melodious in

its tones ; and Betsy had possessed few opportunities of

seeing other gentlemen of the higher and more accomplished

class to compare with horn to his disadvantage. Mr. Laving-ton

had worth ; but he was neither so handsome nor so graceful

— nor had he ever so captivated her fancy as Sydney had

done. Yet she was not happy ; for, though her friends could

not shake her love for horn, her respect for there was sufficiently

strong to make her feel uncomfortable under her

sense of their dislike to his pretensions.

No sooner had Squire Dickons found out that his old sweetheart,

Miss Martha (as he still called Mrs Samford), detested

the smooth-tongued parson and the fine lady friend, than

their mutual hatred of Sydney and Miss .Arlington became a

bond of love and forgiveness between them. They sympathised

so completely in their abuse of these two persons that,

emboldened and countenanced by one another, they sometimes

carried it too far before Miss Fountainee. The result was

unfavourable : for she, being of a truly generous mid, when

she felt they were unjust to Sydney and her friend, did but

show the more kindness to both, till, by the sympathy of her

own heart with the injured, she thought better of their merits,

and less of the sentiments of their detractors. In short, she

loved Sydney and Miss Arlington more and more, in proportion

as she felt her confidence in the opinions of her aunt and

her godfather decrease. Yet, desirous to pay every respect

to Mrs. Samford, and to make her as comfortable as she

could, till the time arrived for yielding to her the supremacy

of the house and household, she endeavoured to keep both the

obnoxious persons as much as she could out of her way, more

especially Miss Arlington. Sydney she would often dismiss

after a very short visit, pleading her busy preparations for

resigning the house and property, on her approaching marriage,

as her excuse ; and Sydney, ever ready to oblige her

and to comply with all her requests, and quite as ready when

asked to go as to stay, never refused.

Whilst in-doors, Miss Arlington, who was not deficient in

penetration, observed how disagreeable was her presence to

Mrs. Samford, and often how much Miss Fountainee was

embarrassed between her aunt and her friend. She, therefore,

took the hint to keep out of the way as much as possible;

and, from one excuse or another, would frequently retire into

her own room, or ramble in the woods', and leave Mrs. Sam-ford

and her niece in the undisturbed enjoyment of each

other's company.

During this period the draft of the new settlements was

drawn, and everything went on towards the marriage. Mr.

Lavington, who still adhered to his intentions to go abroad

as early as he could contrive to leave the country, was, however,

detained, not only by his duties as a guardian in regard

to tbc deeds of resignation of Miss Fountainee's estate to her

aunt, but by the care of his old and much attached patients,

as the medical man who was to step into his place in the

practice of the neighbourhood had not yet arrived from

London. Many difficulties presented themselves in drawing

the deeds of surrender, and, till the resignation of the estate

had been completed, it was impossible Miss Betsy could be

married. Then, when the deeds and settlements were drawn,

Squire Dickons was absent, and without his signature nothing

could be done. And on his return home Mr. Sydney Maynard

was taken ill, and confined to his room for nearly three

weeks with a severe attack of cold and fever. These were,

I believe, all the ostensible causes assigned for the difficulties

and unavoidable delays attending the proposed marriage of

Miss Fountainee.

At the next scene of these extraordinary events I was

myself present, for I had returned to the Hall as soon as

I could leave my little boy for a few days after his convalescence

: and my mother, Hannah, feeling the infirmities of

years a good deal increase upon her-wished for my assistance

in the housekeeping at a time of so much busy preparation.

The autumn had far advanced when the wedding-day was

at length fixed. Everything was to be arranged as before,

only with this difference, that, as soon as the ceremony should

be over, Mrs. Samford was to become mistress of the Hall,

and to entertain the bridal-party at the dinner and the ball

as her guests. She was not to go to church with them, but

to remain at home, and bid them welcome to the old mansion

immediately after the ceremony.

CHAPTER XXV.

What 1 gone without a word !

Ay, so true love should do ; it cannot speak ;

For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.

Shakspere.

Three days before the one fixed for the wedding, Sydney,

whose illness had of late kept horn much away, came in the

afternoon on some little matter of business that he had to

arrange with Miss Fountainee. I forget what it was ; but

nothing of import. She was sitting with Mrs. Samford and

myself in the oak parlour : wc were making white favours

by baskets full, to be distributed among the tenantry, dependants,

and servants, on the wedding-day. Mrs. Samford,

however, was not working, only sitting and finding fault,

as she bad hitherto done, with everything connected with

the approaching marriage ; yet never for a moment shrinking

from taking her part as the dispenser of hospitality ou

the occasion; nor even wishing Miss Fountainee to give

Sydney up, after she had declared her resolution and her

affections were unalterably fixed concerning him. But she

neither liked the man nor the match, and that put her in an

ill-humour with everything which had reference to either.

It struck me, as Sydney entered, that he was very much

altered in his appearance. Miss Fountainee's affection for

horn caused her to see it at a glance ; but she attributed it

to illness, and expressed her concern in the kindest and

sweetest manner. Yet, I cannot tell how it was, but I

thought Mr. Sydney did not look so ill as he did guilty. I

thought there was a cast of shame in his countenance, yet I

might be mistaken ; for Mrs. Samford's fixed dislike of the

man had made an impression even on mc. I believe it is

impossible to be constantly near a person whose judgment

and character one respects without imbibing some portion

of their prejudices. I know I did so. Mrs. Samford had

certainly made me suspect, if not dislike, Sydney ; and yet

I knew not any existing cause for suspicion.

To Miss Fountainee's kind expressions of concern about

his health, Sydney answered with his usual smooth sentences

and sweet tones, and used a great many words to

express the fewest and most common-place ideas. I know

not how it is that, in writing these memoirs, I cannot recollect

I have written down more than a few words that were

now and then spoken by Mr. Sydney Maynard. The truth

is, I never seem to myself to remember what he said, though

I can call to mid very well how he answered on many

occasions : so much was there in horn of manner ; so little of

sense, to make any impression on his hearers. His speeches

were always too unmeaning, too frivolous, or too much

fraught with indifference, to make it worth the slightest

effort to retain them in the memory ; and fix themselves

there they would not. This must be my apology for giving

so few of his speeches ; though, I confess, a man's own

tongue often better shows what he is than the most elaborate

description.

Sydney sat down by Miss Fountainee, and commenced

some slight talk with her, as he took up one of the white

favours and played with it, not seeming to know very well

what to do or say, after the business was ended upon which

he came.

Mrs. Samford, who had been closely observing horn, threw

a keen glance upon his somewhat downcast face, as she said

" If I were a man, instead of a woman, Mr. Sydney Maynard,

and wished to turn philosopher, like some of the wise

men of old, I should unquestionably begin with begging you

to give me a few lessons how I might obtain that imperturbable

calm of temper you possess. lam not so fortunate

in my own disposition ; for I can neither meet great sorrows

nor great joys with that happy ease, that air of indifference,

with which you seem to treat them : or perhaps you may

not be in possession of an almanac ; you may not be aware

this is the 19th of the month, and that on the 22nd is your

wedding-day. I will venture to say that such a position as

yours, with such a lovely, amiable girl, would turn the head,

or at least rouse the spirits, of any other young gentleman

H

in the whole country, except yourself. Mr. Sydney Maynard,

I must tell you, that you look more like a man going

to be hanged than to be married, sir."

Mr. Sydney looked confused, and stammered out something,

beginning with — " Madam, madam, you are hard upon

mo this as tendon : " and Miss Fountainee, who was exceedingly

shocked, said — " My dear aunt, you forget that Sydney

is but just risen from the bed of sickness : you cannot expect

to see horn other than serious ; the more so as he is a clergyman,

and marriage involves many duties : it is a serious

thing to us both."

The young gentleman seems to think it is so, indeed, my

dear," said Mrs. Samford ; " but I wish horn joy upon it,

most heartily ; as of all things, I think, that is what he most

stands in need of just now ; and some expression of joy is

usually expected in the bridegroom ; though the bride, like

the roses strewn in her path, may be allowed to have her

cheeks bedewed with the tears of affectionate regret, on

leaving her old friends for her now home. Pray, Mr. Sydney,

do you mean to cry, instead of Miss Fountainee, at the wedding?"



Even I saw this was hitting the young man rather too

hard ; but Mrs. Samford hated horn so much, that on no

occasion would she spare him. I believe nothing could have

disobliged her so much as to have told her anything of

Sydney Maynard that would have compelled her to praise

him. But she was a true Fountainee, very warm in her

friendships, and unconquerable in her prejudices and dislikes

of every kind.

Miss Fountainee, who observed that her aunt's bitter sarcasm

had much hurt Mr. Sydney, made an effort to change

the conversation ; and, turning to me, said she had used up

all the riband, and begged me to go to Miss Arlington for

more, and to ask her to bring it herself to the oak parlour,

as she wanted to talk to her.

Glad as Miss Fountainee herself could be to do anything to

give a more agreeable turn to the conversation, I instantly

obeyed. But I could not find Miss Arlington : she was not

in her room ; and, on inquiry, I learnt from her maid that

the young lady had walked out more than an hour before,

and was not yet returned. This report I speedily brought

to the oak parlour. Mrs. Samford was not in a mood to let

it pass.

Pray, Mr. Sydney, did you meet Miss Arlington in your

walk hither ? " she said, " that all the joy you bad intended

for the meeting with Miss Fountainee was expended on her

friend upon the road ? Miss Arlington is a very sentimental

young lady ; have you been taking lessons of sentiment on

the wayside, and are come to try their gloomy effects upon

us ?"

Madam," replied Mr. Maynard, " I did not meet Miss

Arlington on my way hither. But I see my presence is unwelcome

to you this evening ; and, as Miss Fountainee is

engaged with you, I will take my leave, hoping, when I have

next the honour of seeing you, I may be more fortunate in

your judgment of my feelings."

Sir," said Mrs. Samford, " my judgment, rest assured,

will ever keep pace with your deserts. I wish you a very

pleasant walk and a very good afternoon."

Mr. Sydney Maynard bowed to her with his usual grace,

as she bent stiffly in return ; he then slightly kissed the hand

of Miss Fountainee, and retired precipitately, without speaking

a word, seemingly greatly abashed and annoyed, I thought,

by the open and severe attack Mrs. Samford had made upon

him. Certainly there was altogether, both in manner and

countenance, a change, an indifference about Mr. Sydney

Maynard that none but Miss Fountainee, who would persist

in setting it down to the score of recent illness, could pass

without anxiety, without suspicion : even I had been struck

with it.

No sooner was he gone than Mrs. Samford, who usually

found fault with all he said or did, for the first half-hour

after his visit remained profoundly silent and very thoughtful.

Once or twice she looked at Betsy and sighed. But,

whatever were her thoughts, she would not trust herself with

the utterance of there under her present strong emotions,

occasioned by the seeming, nay marked, indifference of Sydney

Maynard.

Presently who should come across the lawn but Squire

Dickons. Ho was whistling to his dogs as usual, and looked

in great good humour. Wc could see horn smile even in

crossing the lawn, as he shook his whip at us by way of

salutation.

No sooner had ho entered than, after asking us all in our

turns how wo did, and very kindly telling us what wc all

knew — namely, that it was as fine an autumn afternoon as

m 2

ever came out of the heavens, he asked for Mrs. Samford's

little boy, and wc heard something squeak as the child came

in. He then bade the urchin search in the very capacious

pocket of his great-coat, in which he had on that day deposited

something for his little friend's amusement. On

searching the child lugged out by the ears a very fine spaniel

pup, that made the little fellow laugh till the room rang

again with the echo of his mirth. The Squire then told horn

this was to be his own puppy, and he had brought it for horn

as soon as it could be weaned from its mother.

The child gone, Squire Dickons had leisure to talk to the

ladies ; and, after passing a joke or two on the bride favours,

he all at once rubbed his hands, smiled, nodded, and winked,

and gave many signs of intelligence, and then spoke aside to

Mrs. Samford ; but, like the aside of the players, quite loud

enough to be beard by the audience.

What do you think, Mrs. Samford, I saw in my way

hither ? Something that you will be as glad to hear of as I

was to see it — shell be shot of horn yet" (winking, and nodding,

and looking at Betsy) ; " she's too good for horn by half.

What will you wager me that those white ribands are not

worn for Miss Arlington's wedding instead of Miss Fountain's

? "

Betsy worked on, blushed a little, but took no notice.

What do you mean, my dear sir ? " replied Mrs. Samford.

Mean ! Why neither more nor less than this — that I

smelt a rat some time ago, but said nothing ; kept my tongue

within my teeth. But to-day as I came across the little wood,

in my way hither, who should I spy in the cross walk, through

the boles of the trees — Lovers' Walk, I call it — but young

Parson Sydney and Miss Arlington, arm-in-arm together,

walking and talking as thick as thieves ; talking all in a

whispering manner, like ; and she looking down, and he looking

at her in his coaxing way. I will bet a guinea I tell you

the upshot of all this — it's true — I saw it all with my own

eyes.

Betsy worked on, but now pricked her fingers, annoyed

and vexed by this perpetual petty warfare and mis-construction

carried on against her friend and Sydney Maynard on

every occasion by Squire Dickons and her aunt.

You do not mean what you say ? " said Mrs. Samford, in

reply to the Squire's information and remarks. " I should

be so shocked, so grieved ! " she continued, in a tone that

showed how much she was delighted with all she heard.

You surely cannot mean "

It's a done thing, I tell you," said Squire Dickons, interrupting

her — " Im sure of it — he will marry Miss Arlington,

and not our Betsy. Our Betsy has only five thousand pounds,

and that fine lady has ten thousand ; she is, therefore, twice

as good as our Betsy in that gentlemans market. But I had

a mid for a bit of fun, so I hissed, and set on the dogs, and

disturbed them a little, and away scampered he one way and

she another. It's not the first time I have disturbed the

couples who bill and coo together in your old woods. Is it,

Miss Fountainee ? "

He addressed the last part of this speech to his goddaughter,

as he saw well enough she had beard the former.

My dear sir," said Betsy, " I really cannot answer you,

but I know you love a joke."

I am afraid you will find it no joke for you my dear," he

replied kindly, " if you have set your heart on that puppy,

Sydney Maynard ; but I hope you may be shot of horn, for all

the settlements. Never mid that ; it's no great expense. I

see you are a little vexed ; but, come, kiss me, my dear, and

I'll say no more, for I would not vex you for all the world.

But, upon my life, yon are much too good for horn, and so do

I fear you will find it to your cost ; and as for Miss Arlington,

why she is a precious cheat, all art and double face, or my

name is not John Rideabout Dickons. I wish you would have

Lavington, and then I should give you away with pleasure."

Although Betsy Fountainee tried to laugh off this discourse,

and all the wild suspicions which her aunt and Squire Dickons

endeavoured to put into her head, yet, almost unconsciously,

it made some impression on her ; for that night, as Hannah

attended her whilst she was preparing for bed, to take some

orders for the morrow, she kissed her ; and, just before bidding

her good night, said in a voice of strong emotion,

O, Hannah ! I don't know how it is, but I feel something

here," laying her hand on her heart, " something most painful.

Yes, I feel it — I fear it, but I cannot describe it. O,

Hannah ! lam not willing to give it words. But make your

own observations ; you know of whom I speak. I would fain

believe that lam fanciful. But . . . but I cannot shake it

off — God bless you ! good night — I will try to sleep — but I

shall not."

CHAPTER XXVI.

O, that a man might know

The end of this day's business, crc it came I

But it snfßccth that the day will end,

And then the end is known.

Shakspere.

Two days after these occurrences, and only one before the

intended nuptials, Hannah was awakened very early by hearing

Miss Fountainee, who slept in the next room, stirring.

Fearful something might be the matter, as she had looked

anxious and unwell ever since the conversation I have mentioned

passed between herself and the young lady, she got up

and went softly into her chamber.

To her extreme surprise, Hannah found Miss Fountainee up

and dressed, with her borne on. She said she had not been

able to sleep during the whole of the night ; that she felt

feverish and unrefreshed ; the morning air was delightful,

and she would take a stroll into the park, as she had often

found the benefit of an early walk when she was oppressed

with the headache.

Hannah looked at her earnestly and saw she had been

weeping. "My dear Miss Fountainee," she said, " I fear

something more is the matter than you tell me of. Has anything

occurred to make you uneasy, or to distress you ? "

No, no," she replied, "do not question me now. But,

perhaps, my dear Hannah, I have the heartache as well as

the headache ; yet, I will hope, without any serious cause,

and that it will pass off again. At all events, I will try what

the fresh air will do for me."

This was said in such a melancholy tone that Hannah did

not much like to hear it from Miss Fountainee when so near

her marriage ; more especially as, although she could not tell

exactly what it was, yet on the previous night she had observed

something peculiar in her countenance and manner.

Be this as it may, Hannah made no remark, but offered to

walk with her into the woods. On her saying, No, she would

rather ramble in them alone, Hannah said no more.

Whilst tying on her borne, as she stood before the glass,

she said,

"It seems to me that lam much altered of late. Do you

see it ? "

You look delicate, my dear young lady," said Hannah ;

but, if pale or rosy, there is no young lady in this country

who can compare with you for loveliness."

O, yes, there is one far more attractive than I am," she

added, with a sigh, " and that is Miss Arlington."

Miss Arlington ! " exclaimed Hannah : " she cannot compare

with you. Mrs. Samford truly says she is all artifice."

"Do you think so ? " said Miss Fountainee. " I am sorry

if it is true. But it is too late now for suspicion — this is all

very foolish in me ; Mr. Maynard will be here soon after

breakfast. I will go and try to walk off this headache before

breaks attire ' '

Don't go into the park, my dear Miss Fountainee," said

Hannah ; " for I heard last night from the gamekeeper that

one of the deer is wild and very dangerous."

Miss Fountainee did not answer her but pointed to the window.

"Do you see the church tower yonder ?"

Surely so," Hannah replied.

Well," said Miss Fountainee, " there lies my poor grandfather,

and there lie the remains of my poor mother. My

grandfather had her remains hurried to the grave, and at

midnight — after he had pronounced a curse upon her head

and upon myself, her then unborn child ; it was a father's

curse on a heavy sin! Hannah, Ido not think such a curse

was ever yet pronounced in vain, and on my head it will

fall."

"My dearest • young lady, do not indulge such dreadful

thoughts. Hope for better things ; trust in the protection

of a good Providence."

Have I deserved it, Hannah ? " said Miss Fountainee ; " I

fear not. I fear the manner in which I have slighted the

counsels of my friends is too much akin to my poor mother's

sin of disobedience. Something here, Hannah " (she placed

lor hand on her heart), " something that will be heard seems

to tell me, that to yonder church shall I be taken — not to the

bridal, but to the burial."

"My dear young lady, this is terrible," said Hannah. " You

are not well this morning. Shall I call your aunt r "

No, no," she said ; " I will go and try to walk it off.

But, oh, Hannah ! " — she paused, kissed her, looked earnestly

into her eyes, as if she would convey all she thought, not bywords,

but by the sight, shook her head, and then added abruptly,

" Have you forgotten my dream, that I told yon of ?

Remember, who aimed at this bosom a sword ! "

Without staying to hear a word in reply from Hannah,

she parted from her, and hurried into the park.

Nine o'clock came, and she did not return. Half-past nine

was the usual horn - for breakfast ever since Mrs. Samford

had been with us. Hannah grew uneasy, and was about to

send out a servant to look for her, when Miss Fountainee

came in. She met Hannah in the hall, and, saying she feared

she was late, and had kept the breakfast waiting, but would

bo at the table in a short time to make the tea, asked-who

was down.

A footman, coming from the breakfast-parlour, said —

Only Mrs. Samford — she had but just before entered the

room. Miss Arlington was not down yet."

I am glad of it," she said ; " then I shall be in good

time." She left the room.

Hannah, pleased to see her look refreshed by the morning

air, and to hear her speak so cheerfully, followed to give her

assistance.

The borne removed, Miss Betsy was arranging her beautiful

hair before the glass, when all at once she heard the bells

of the village church strike up a merry peal.

Bless me, Hannah !" said Miss Betsy, " the ringers have

mistaken the day. What boy is that I see yonder, crossing

the lawn, with a letter in his hand ? Is it Squire Dickons's

boy, or is it a stranger ? He is coming to the hall door.

Go and see what he wants. But, no, wc are going through

the hall ; wc will take the letter from horn as wc pass."

The hall door was open, the boy standing just within it.

On seeing Miss Betsy Fountainee he seemed to know who she

was, as he instantly took off his hat, and, coming forward, put

the letter into her hand, as she set her foot on the last stair.

Hannah followed, and was near enough to see her turn

very pale, as if something misgave her on opening the letter.

Miss Fountainee held it with a trembling hand ; she ran her

eyes quickly over a few lines. A shriek, so shrill and piercing

that it was heard by Mrs. Samford in the adjoining parlour

and by nearly all who were in the house, burst from her

lips ; and, before even Hannah could give her assistance, she

fell insensible as a corpse upon the floor.

The open letter lay by her side — Hannah snatched it up.

Mrs. Samford, the servants, all the household ran into the

hall, fearing something dreadful had happened. As they

raised their unfortunate mistress from the ground, Hannah

cast a hurried glance at the contents of the letter which had

produced such fearful effects. She read but a few lines,

when she drew close to Mrs. Samford, and said, in a low

voice — " Sydney Maynard and Miss Arlington are married

this morning. Here is the heartless villain's letter."

Betsy Fountainee was removed to the sofa in the breakfast-parlour,

and every means were applied to bring her to herself,

whilst a servant was despatched for Mr. Lavington, who

was on that very day to have left for the continent ; as he

had determined never to stay till the marriage rite should be

performed. I neither can nor will dwell on the distressing

scene that ensued.

Mr. Lavington came, but it was only to see Miss Fountainee

recover from one fit to fall into another. During twenty-one

days he never left the house for more than two or three hours

together ; as nearly the whole of that time the life of the unfortunate

young lady was despaired of. A brain-fever had

been brought on by the shock.

During the delirium of her fever, it was pitiable to hear

her call on Sydney Maynard ; sometimes chiding horn, sometimes

fancying horn present, but always evincing for horn the

most artless and ardent affection. And then, in the feverish

visions of her mental malady, she would frequently recal the

dread she had ever entertained of her grandfather's curse,

which, though denounced on her mother, she would say had

fallen on her head.

The fever subsided, sense returned, but the state of exhaustion

was fearful ; the spirits had no power to rally. The

medical men thought the constitution much shaken, and

with her peculiarly susceptible lungs, delicate even when in

health, they feared the consequences would be serious. The

only hope they entertained was that, could she be induced to

leave the country for some time, a complete change of air-scene,

and circumstances, in a foreign land, might produce

beneficial effects; by diverting the mid from perpetually

dwelling on the painful associations her own home daily

presented to her.

But soon was it apparent to us all that her heart was

broken. Day by day she grew weaker and weaker ; consumption

came on with rapid strides ; and the result, though

uncertain in its date, was sure in its consequences. She still

looked lovely, though death was manifestly near. Her manner

was perfectly quiet ; she spoke little, and seemed often

so much abstracted, that, if spoken to, she would start, and

appear as if disturbed from the fixed contemplation of her

own melancholy thoughts. She never uttered a word in

reproach of any one, but would frequently sigh and weep

bitterly ; her excessive weakness rendering her daily more

and more unequal to contend with her secret and mental

anguish. I have sometimes seen her carried to bed in strong

hysterics.

The good old rector, Parson Nixon, who returned from

Bath to see her, in the hope to give her comfort, tried all the

power of his eloquence to speak peace to her suffering mid,

but in vain. She was evidently sinking.

The night before she died, feeling that her time grew short,

she begged to see Hannah, Mrs. Samford, and Mr. Lavington

together.

A few hours more," she said, addressing them with the

utmost composure, "and all your cares will be over for me;

but you will not forget me; and I thank you all, and bless

you, my dear friends, on my bed of death. I forgive my

enemies, but God will not, unless they repent the cruel

injuries they have done to mc. Mr. Lavington, I charge you

with a message to Sydney Maynard. When my poor grandfather

was about to die, he had busy thoughts of what would

befall me before the next autumn should be passed. Something

of the same spirit is with me now ;- 1 charge you then,

Mr. Lavington, to tell Sydney, that in these, the last solemn

hours of my life, I feel some power more than of earth, a

Power that will be heard, whisper to my soul that he will

pine in misery, and before the fall of the next autumn leaf

he will be, even as he made me, a tenant ready for the grave.

Bid horn, if he can, repent. To his wife I say nothing ; let

her own conscience punish her ; that will not always be silent,

though hardened enough now. My will is in yonder cabinet.

Mr. Lavington, I have named you my executor; your task

will be easily performed, for I have not much to leave; but,

more just to your merits in death than I have been in life,

nearly all I can call mine I have left to you. You will attend

my remains to their last rest. This is the text I could wish

to be chosen for my funeral sermon : ' Mine eye is foul with

weeping, and over mine eyelids is the shadow of death.' Let

me be buried in the family-vault. lam the last bearing the

name of Fountainee. Lay me by the side of my poor mother.

A father's curse has been fulfilled. It has fallen on the head

of the offending daughter and her child, but it cannot follow

us to the grave. And now, 0 merciful Saviour, lam ready

for thee and death ! "

She sank back on her pillow completely exhausted. Miss

Fountainee survived the night, however, and part of the next

day; but for many hours she lay sensible, yet speechless.

On the following even, as the clock struck seven, she expired

without a groan; she slept herself, as it were, out of life ; and,

but that the watchful eye and ear of Mr. Lavington detected

she had ceased to breathe, she might have been supposed to

be still sleeping.

He stooped down, kissed her pale forehead and her marble

lips, then spread her handkerchief, that was on the bed, over

her face, and withdrew without shedding a tear or uttering

another word.

The words which Miss Betsy Fountainee had prophetically

spoken came true, for Sydney, disappointed in his pride and

ashamed of his folly — for his wife had deceived horn as to

the amount of her fortune — fell into low spirits, became

seriously ill, pined day by day, and even as it had been predicted

(his own conscience probably acting as a spur to the

prediction), before the fall of the next autumn leaf, was carried,

unpitied and unwept, to an early grave.

For his wife, previous to her husband quitting the curacy,

the poor would curse her and Sydney as they passed along.

Miss Fountainee had been a generous benefactress to there in

the days of her prosperity, and they would not pardon those

who had brought her to an untimely end. That wife, when a

widow, became doubly wretched; as it appeared that, at the

time of his marriage, Sydney Maynard was deeply involved

in debt; and by some artifice induced her to sign a paper,

which gave her creditors a power over her property. The

result was, she lost nearly all her own fortune; and, her pride

humbled, though not broken, she became a miserable and ill-used

dependant.

Hannah continued to reside at the Hall, but, the last who

bore the name of Fountainee being gone, she seemed as if her

proper place was no longer there. She died within twelvemonths

after her beloved young mistress ; and, by the especial

desire of Mrs. Samford, was buried in the vault of the family

she had so long and so faithfully served.

As for Squire Dickons, possessing one of those hearts which

cannot live without an object to love and be kind to, he now

turned all his thoughts to Mrs. Sans ord's little boy ; gave up

his time to hir n; and the little fellow grew so fond of his

friend that he was never so happy or so well pleased as when

riding the pony, or playing with the dogs, or hearkening to

tiro instructions of Squire Dickons.

That worthy saw it tinsel f; and observed that his mother

saw it also with approbation. Many times did he scratch his

head on considering the subject; and, remembering also how

much their hatred in common towards Mr. Sydney Maynard

and his wife had cemented their intimacy into the wannest

friendship, the Squire at last wondered, in his own mid,

whether or not Mrs. Samford might not have become wiser

as a woman than she was as a girl. He thought that, one

day, when he called at the Hall, he would put it to the proof.

How he managed it Ido not know. But the little boy-was

present, and the spaniel puppy; and the Squire had ibis

pockets well filled with gingerbread nuts, and all the party

seemed very happy and well satisfied with each other.

The result was that, in a few months after, the church-bells

again rang a merry peal ; and the very Martha who, twenty

years before, had run away from her father's house, because

she would not have Squire Dickons, was now married to horn

in that church, and was never after heard to repent that sho

had at last taken the husband so long ago chosen for her by

her father.

A DAUGHTER'S SACRIFICE.

CHAPTER I.

Oh ! if this were seen,

The happiest youth, viewing his progress throng,

What perils past, what crosses to ensue —

Would shut the book, and sit horn down and die.

Shakspere.

Yoo have so repeatedly asked me, my dear Paulina,* to

relate to you the particulars of my early life, that I have

determined not to lose the opportunity which an undisturbed

leisure affords me of satisfying at once your curiosity and

your friendship. Indeed, you have the strongest claim on

my confidence, as you have so long acted towards me the

part of an affectionate sister, through sorrows of such a

nature that, but for the support of a good Providence, and

the blessing of your generous sympathy, I must have sunk

under their weight.

I was the only daughter, though not the only child, of

Sir Arthur Moorenn, who was, you are aware, a celebrated

Royalist. My father was descended from the ancient family

of De Mora, one of whose ancestors, having distinguished

himself in the battle by which the Norman William became

tiro Conqueror of this island, received from his leader a considerable

portion of land, called Moor Town, where he built

a castle on the borders of Dartmoor, from which he took the

name of De Mora. In process of time this became corrupted

into Mooring, or Moorenn.

In the reign of King Henry the Eighth the head of the

family was the learned Doctor John Moorenn, of Corpus

Christi College, Oxford. He was esteemed one of the greatest

scholars of bis age, and was the intimate friend of the unfortunate

Sir Thomas More. He was designed for the Church,

Falling Grenville, of the family of Grenville, at Stowe, Cornwall.

but on account of his being, like the celebrated Chancellor,

a zealous Roman Catholic and an enemy to the Reformation,

ho was obliged to turn his thoughts from divinity to the art

of physic, in which he became very noted in his day. During

his latter years he retired to his patrimonial estate on Dartmoor,

and there he gave himself up to the calm pursuits of

learning and science. He had a love of antiquities ; and he

found great scope for the indulgence of his taste in such

matters by his vicinity to the druidical remains on the moor.

The interest he felt in such researches, the quiet and retirement

of the spot, and the disgust he had conceived at the

changes in the whole frame of the Church, induced horn to

decide on ending his days at the place of his refuge, his

ancient mansion of Moortown, which he much enlarged and

improved ; and there, till his death, he followed closely the

pursuits of the scholar, the naturalist, and the antiquary.

He was buried in Christchurch, where all our family have

been interred.

From this eminent man my father was descended in a

direct line, and inherited the family mansion. He was twice

married. I was the only child of his first union ; my mother

died when I was an infant. By his second marriage he had

a son ; but of all these matters I shall soon have to speak at

large, so that here I will but add a few lines respecting the

old dwelling, which, as you have only seen it since it was so

much injured during the Civil Wars, will be new to you, and

of interest to me also, who delight to dwell on the recollection

of my birthplace and my early home.

Moortown was an ancient gothic mansion, displaying

various periods in its architecture, from the many additions

which the original building had from time to time received.

Before it was partially destroyed during the Civil Wars the

house, the inner courts, and the Paradise-garden, were all

surrounded by a wall, and entered through a gatehouse. The

mansion had a noble hall, a small chapel attached to it, more

than one turreted tower, and many galleries and chambers.

It was situated about two miles and a half from the town of

Tavistock, on the outskirts of the Moor, and near the base of

a lofty hill, which is crowned by the wild and rocky eminence

of Pewtor, where the great antiquary of our family, Doctor

Moorenn, was convinced he had found a druidical judgment-seat,

and other vestiges of the aboriginal British priesthood.

Though our dwelling was on the borders of so bleak and

sterile a region as Dartmoor, yet, being situated under the

heights of Pewtor, it was not so much exposed to the cold

and the winds as are some of the valleys of the Moor. Wo

had a large garden, besides the smaller one above named,

with several clumps and avenues of aged oaks. Remote and

solitary, there was altogether an impressive character about

the ancient mansion and its domain, calculated to call forth

the day-dreams both of fancy and of feeling in an imaginative

mid. The vastness and grandeur of the old Hall ; its arched

roof of dark and carved oak ; the suits of armour so various,

of so many successive generations, worn by De Mora himself,

or by his descendants, even to my father's time, which hung

on the walls ; the well-stored library, and the still existing

treasures of antiquity, collected by the learned doctor ; the

rich hangings and the tapestry, the old family pictures,

and the beautiful little chapel, with its glowing window

of stained glass, were all objects replete with interest ;

every one of which, even at this distant period, seems in

memory dear to my heart, and to be numbered among the

oldest of my silent friends.

And then, without the house, how much there was to

excite and to attract my youthful fancy ! The neighbouring

heights of Pewtor ; the extensive scenes which opened so

majestically when viewed from their summits ; some, commanding

the whole range of the neighbouring Tors, wild and

rock-crowned, that form the most characteristic features of

the Moor, were truly magnificent ; whilst, looking in the

opposite direction towards the coast, the heights of Mount

Edgcumbe, backed by the vast expanse of the Atlantic ocean,

closed in, as it were, a scene of almost matchless beauty.

Pewtor, from whence these enchanting objects may be viewed,

was itself of great interest and curiosity. It consisted of vast

rocks piled in horizontal strata, mass on mass ; or standing

grey and weather-beaten, like the impregnable towers of

some ancient fortress. One vast piece of granite, which overhangs

a smooth slab of rock beneath, Doctor Moorenn had

considered to be the projecting canopy over the Druid seat of

judgment I have already mentioned ; and the deep indented

basis, cut in the living rock above, the vestiges of an idolatrous

form of worship.

All these things, combined with the majestic scenes of

nature, and the degree of mystery attached to the remains of

an antiquity so remote as that of the British priesthood,

raised, in my young mid, whilst I contemplated them, feelings

that partook at once of wonder and of awe.

Of my mother I know but little ; for she died before I was

two years old ; yet what little I have heard of her has been

always to her praise ; she was indeed greatly beloved and

esteemed for her piety and many virtues. Had she lived —

had she been spared to watch over my infancy, and to form

my mid and character by her fostering care, her prudent

and affectionate example —-how different might have been my

lot ! But regrets are useless — I will not indulge them — let

me rather tell you all that hath been.

I must retrograde ; must speak of persons as well as of

events ; or you can never understand the complication of

evils by which I was surrounded, and the extreme difficulty

I felt of steering the little bark of my youthful fortunes, so

as to avoid running on a rock when I would save myself

from a quicksand or a shoal.

You knew my stepmother — yet you did not know her ; for

you never saw her, where a woman is best known, in her

every-day character, surrounded by the domestic circle,

within the realm and rule of her own house. If you ever

saw her there, it was not for more than a few hours in a

large company ; when her conversation and manners, like

her person, were in full dress, garnished and decorated for

the occasion, all satin and jewels, smooth and stately, fit for

company ; reserving for us, or rather for me (like the sad-coloured

gown and mantle for every-day wear), all her ill-humour,

sternness, and jealousy that would make but a

poor figure with the world at large. But no more of complaints

; I will try to make a long tale short : yet, as I before

intimated, if you really desire to know how I was situated,

you must learn to know the character of those persons who

bad so much power or influence over me ; and, whilst they

are pictured, the story must be somewhat suspended. You

must, therefore, grant me as much patience as may be necessary

to let me sketch, at least in outline, the principal actors

of the piece.

My father's second marriage would, perhaps, have been

fortunate for me (as I lost my own mother when so young),

had he made his second choice with more prudence ; or, even

as it was, had the lady he married been a childless person.

But he chose a widow, of better family than fortune, who

brought with her one daughter, Dorothea Neville, the only

child of her first marriage. Dorothea was so poor that

indeed she had nothing which could be called her own. She

was the delight of her mother ; and, in proportion as she

loved her, sbe hated me ; and seemed to look upon me as

nothing less than a rival, who stood most offensively in the

way of her darling in my father's estimation.

This was the beginning of our domestic bickering and

troubles ; for my father was constantly reproached with

making unkind distinctions between the children, and with

spoiling me, if he did but show me the most common acts of

parental indulgence. And, as unjust people ever seek to

cast the blame of their own conduct on others, my stepmother

would often pretend that her very crossness and

severity to me were only assumed as a necessary curb to my

over-forward spirit, in consequence of its being encouraged,

as it was, by my father's foolish fondness. Yet, strange and

contradictory as it may appear, this very stepmother, to

gratify her pride, I suppose, as she was ever desirous to beheld

as the chief person by every one, expected from me the

most unbounded duty and affection. In the midst of all this

she had sense enough to know that those who become objects

of perpetual fear to children cannot be very far from becoming

objects of hatred also ; so that, with a caprice that

was the most unaccountable, she would at times be foolishly

indulgent to mc. I was often scolded without a cause, and

as often petted without a cause ; and this strange conduct, I

am now persuaded, had the very worst effects on my disposition,

for I was naturally open and affectionate. But, as

I could trace no connection between my own conduct and the

returns it met with, either for chastisement or kindness, and

as I frequently fared worst when I behaved best, and was

reprimanded when I frankly told the truth more than when

I concealed it, it injured, in my infant mid, the reverence

for what was truth, and destroyed the clear distinction between

good and evil.

Neither my father nor my stepmother ever invited me

to confide in them by any of the gentle inducements of consistent

and condescending love. Alas ! they knew not that

there are minds which cannot speak their feelings but by the

encouragement of affection. Such minds, when dealt with

by a contrary treatment, are like the ice which becomes but

more close, more hardened, by the bitter wind that blows

N

upon it ; though it will melt and dissolve itself away before

a warm air and an enlivening sun.

There were no such beams of encouragement for me ; for,

though my father loved me, he was too much in awe of his

wife (and he constantly yielded to her for the sake of peace)

to suffer himself to love me judiciously. Good fathers and

fond fathers are very different things ; and those parents,

who make no allowance for the natural dispositions of a

child, but have a set of rules, like a table of arithmetic, by

which they calculate how to treat all characters and tempers

in their discipline, will seldom mould a child to their wishes ;

more especially if the child has sense enough, as it grows upto

see their want of judgment.

My father, though often fond in his manner towards me,

yet, as his fondness never extended itself so far as to interfere

in my behalf to save me from injustice, did not engage

my respect or my confidence as he should have done. I had

not reliance enough on the strength or nature of his affection

for me to fly to it as a refuge, as a protection. So that, if I

concealed anything from my stepmother for fear of her, I

equally concealed it from my father, because I feared horn on

her account, as she always obtained from horn the knowledge

of whatever she desired to know, and her suspicions never

slumbered. Tyrannical tempers are always on the watch ;

their own conscience pronounces on them its verdict, that

they deserve to be hated ; and they punish themselves by the

constant disquiet of a suspicious and exacting pride. Yet,

because I make thus free in my remarks on the unfortunate

weakness of Sir Arthur Moorenn in respect to his second wife,

you must not fancy that I did other than love horn as a father.

I loved horn so well that, even at this distant period, it grieves

me when I think how little wc understood each other as I

grew up ; and most deeply do I still lament that I was not

early trained to make my father my most trusted friend,

more especially as I cannot recollect without admiring and

revering them the many generous and honourable qualities

which distinguished horn as a man and a gentleman. But I

must return to the days of my childhood.

Well, one circumstance happened in less than a year and

a half after this second marriage which, it was to be hoped,

would have improved my position in the family, by the new

tie in blood that it brought to me as well as to the rest of the

domestic circle. My father's second wife presented horn with

a son and heir. There was now, therefore, one child who was

my brother and a Moorenn. There is something so endearing

in every link of the family chain, that it was to be hoped, on

an occasion such as this, Lady Moorenn would feel its influence,

and that the sister of her own son might find some

favour - , some claim, through horn to a little more consideration,

to a more kind and uniform treatment than she had hitherto

found. I believe I should have felt the benefit of this new

tie had it not been for the daughter of her first marriage.

I will not say that my faults lessened, or that I became

better as I grew up ; but I grew more cautious — more on my

guard against giving offence — and more inveterate in my

habits of concealment, excuse, and evasion, whenever there

was a chance that any part of my conduct or my confidence

could be turned against myself. Yet, in spite of all this, my

natural disposition would often prevail ; there were moments

when the native candour of my mid defied all cautions and

all fears, and I disdained to counterfeit, to conceal, or even

to evade. But this was always an outbreak, not an effort, of

the strong spirit within me, made in moments of high excitement,

when the mid soars above all fear. But with me the

long chilled and depressed heart would soon sink again, and,

like a person sick of the ague, when the hot fit has gone off,

and the cold one speedily comes on, fear would return again,

with all its trembling, in double force, because of the violence

of the fever and the temporary intermission of its more

ordinary symptoms.

Time rolled on : I had started up into womanhood, and my

brother grew to man's estate, but there was little hope of his

ever succeeding to the title and fortunes of the house of

Moorenn. He had inherited a sickly frame from his mother's

family, and there was also a constitutional melancholy about

horn unfavourable to happiness, health, and life. Yet, withall

these infirmities, both mental and bodily, he lived to reach

the age of eighteen years. His preservation to that period

was chiefly attributable, under Heaven, to the devoted affection

and incessant care of a friend, a young gentleman to

whom he was most warmly attached at college (where he

had been entered at the age of thirteen), and with whom he

At the period of this narrative, young gentlemen frequently went to

College as early as the age above stated ; many went thither as to a

school.

n 2

travelled abroad, in the hope to find health and spirits by

foreign scenes and change.

My father, my stepmother, and myself, all felt the obligation

that wc owed to Edmund Oxenham (for so was my

brothers friend called), and still more was the weight of this

obligation enhanced on learning that Edmund had saved my

poor brothers life when they were attacked by banditti in

the mountains near Rome.* The shock occasioned by this

affray, and some other trials and hardships to which the

young travellers were exposed, certainly hastened my dear

brothers end. He had long been in a declining state, and

after this could not rally. His beloved friend, however (who

was some years older than himself), conducted horn in safety

to England, and to Moortown, where he died soon after, in

his fond father's arms, beseeching horn with his last breath

to love and cherish the friend to whom he had owed his life.

My father promised all his son required of horn, and hence

arose the strong ties of gratitude by which Sir Arthur Moorenn

was bound to Edmund Oxenham.

When wc first knew horn, it was only as the younger son of

an honourable and ancient family near South Tawton, in

Devonshire. All the landed estates were entailed on the

elder brother ; Edmund's fortune, therefore, was very small.

But he had the good luck to become a great favourite with

the famous Duke of Buckingham, who looked upon horn asa

young gentleman of much promise ; and doubted not, in

process of time, that he would be fitted for the highestdip-

loathe employments, either abroad or at home. The duke,

soon after, introduced horn at court, and his Majesty King

Charles the First, always disposed to favour whomsoever

Buckingham favoured, was no less warm than the duke in

his commendations of his young friend. No sooner were

these things known, than all the courtiers looked on Edmund

Oxenham as a made man ; one who, in due course, might

probably rise to great distinction. It was at this critical

period that my stepmother, then much about the court

(whither she had gone to introduce her daughter Dorothea,

whilst I was left at home in Devonshire), seeing the rising

fortunes of young Edmund, first set her mid on bringing

At the above period the fiercest banditti lurked in the mountains

near Rome, and elsewhere in Italy, and often murdered travellers on their

way.

about a match between horn and her darling daughter. The

young lady, encouraged by these plans for her settlement in

life, and charmed by the brilliant prospects of one who was

so high in the favour of the sovereign and the favourite,

pleased also with Edmund's fine person and his extraordinary

merits, was well disposed to second her mother's views by

every means within her power. Thus much I knew of the

affair with certainty ; what followed, I confess, became principally

known to me by inference, collected from small circumstances

and disjointed facts ; but which, nevertheless,

when carefully put together, formed, in my mid, a body of

evidence that was at once clear and conclusive.

I was, as I have said, in Devonshire, whilst Lady Moorenn

and her daughter were in close attendance on the Queen and

the court. Young Oxenham (as they said) at first gave

countenance to the mother's wishes for the match ; but, by

Edmund's account of the affair, it would seem that, not

suspecting that any particular views on their part existed

towards himself, from a feeling of affectionate remembrance

of his deceased friend, he treated both mother and daughter

with a more than ordinary kindness and observance, when

they so repeatedly threw themselves in his way ; and that,

at length, they chose to give a meaning to his attentions

which it had never been his wish they should adopt. Painful

as it was, he was compelled to give an explanation of his

conduct, and to justify what he had done ; hence arose a

misunderstanding between them.

I remember, Paulina, that I once gave you some little

insight into the motives of my stepmother's strange perverseness

in this affair ; yet, from a feeling of respect to lor,

I would not reveal, even to you, the whole truth. But, soon

after that period, she broke all the feeble ties that remained

between us ; and, as she constantly misrepresented my conduct,

not only to my father, but to others, in this matter, I

feel I am justified, by the common right of self-defence, to

speak the truth to one who will make a judicious and not a

rash use of it.

Soon after this unpleasant affair, Edmund's patron, the

Duke of Buckingham, being murdered at Portsmouth by the

knife of the cruel Felon, all his high hopes and prospects

were at once blighted ; for, though the King showed the

affection he bore to the memory of his favourite, by continuing

to cherish all those the duke had most loved, yet his

Majesty 'B own affairs became speedily too much embarrassed

to allow horn to raise the fortunes of any one about him.

Grateful, however, for past kindness, and ever faithful and

loyal to his prince, Edmund Oxenham was among the first

who afterwards devoted nearly the whole of their small

means to the King, when Charles was so unhappily driven

by his exigencies to raise loans (which he could never find

means to repay) from his subjects and his friends.

This change of fortune, coupled with the previous cause

for displeasure, at once put an end to all the plans and

schemes of Lady Moorenn in reference to Edmund ; and, without

having given any other offence than what had arisen

from the unfortunate circumstances above-named, he became

an object of the most inveterate hatred to both mother and

daughter. His presence, however, was still tolerated in our

family, on account of our former obligations to horn and the

dying injunctions of my poor brother ; and these my father

would never forget, though he was artfully, and, as it were,

step by step, led to share in the prejudices Lady Moorenn and

Dorothea had conceived against the unhappy Edmund. No

wonder it was so, for their ascendancy over my father had

been the work of years, and was too deeply rooted to be now

shaken. So matters stood with us when the events I have

next to relate occurred.

CHAPTER II.

Silent and pensive, idle, restless, slow,

His home deserted for the lonely wood,

Tormented with a wound he could not know,

His, like all deep grief, plunged in solitude.

Byron.

Though I have told you what were the real feelings of

Lady Moorenn and her daughter towards Edmund Oxenham,

yet you must not suppose that they were at all times displayed

in open hostility, or even with that degree of harshness

which would have rendered his visits at Moortown inconsistent

with the respect he owed to himself as a gentleman.

Edmund had an uncle who lived in the country, only two or

three miles distant from our house, with whom he frequently

passed a good deal of his time, and when thus near us wc

often saw him. Whatever were the hidden feelings of my

stepmother, when she found my father would not be prevailed

with altogether to renounce Edmund, she so far

mastered her aversion as to observe towards horn that outward

degree of civility which a person of his talents and

station was entitled to receive, and, though there was nothing

cordial in her manner, yet there was nothing decidedly rude ;

at this period, therefore, his visits might be said to be tolerated

rather than encouraged. Such, however, were the

amiability, the modesty, the spirit of forgiveness, the unpretending

merit of Edmund, that at last it made some impression

even on her stern nature. Indeed, she would sometimes

talk to horn as if she liked horn, and when in a very good

humour would even speak well of horn to others. Yet, on

the slightest hint from her daughter, or whenever a feeling

of anger, prompted by a jealous recollection of Dorothea

slighted charms, arose in her mid, she would resent his

former conduct, notwithstanding that, under the present circumstances

of bis fallen fortunes, she was the last person in

the county who would have desired a union with horn for her

child.

For myself, I was at this period allowed as much freedom

of conversation with Edmund as I chose to admit, and no

check was placed on our often being in company together,

playing the lute, singing in concert, or walking in the grounds,

sometimes, indeed, without Dorothea ; nor was it forbidden

when Edmund would sit by my side and read aloud to me as

I worked at my tapestry in the frame. That a youth who,

like Edmund Oxenham, had been insensible to the charms of

Dorothea should cast a thought on a creature so inferior as

myself, was deemed too absurd to be within the range of

possibility.

Forgive me, Paulina, if I am bitter in the repetition of

these things. But I have been sorely injured by this stepmother

and sister, and my wounds smart and sting anew at the

very recollection of them. But I will not indulge in invective;

let me rather continue my narrative, which will soon

become sufficiently painful.

Edmund, though much at our house, could not but feel at

times the very varying treatment he received from Lady

Moorenn and her daughter. But he allowed for whatever was

harsh or painful, on the ground of the health and temper of

each having been much affected by the death of an only son

and brother, and by his own supposed slights of both, after

he had discovered their designs upon horn, in the days of his

brief prosperity at court. On all occasions, however, he endeavoured

to conciliate them.

The first circumstance which, in some degree, produced a

change in this order of things, was the state of public affairs.

My father, as you well know, took a most active part in all

measures set on foot for the service of the King; and Edmund

greatly raised himself in Sir Arthurss estimation by the zealand

enthusiasm with which he espoused the cause of the

unhappy Charles. I, in some sense, might be said to benefit

by the public calamity ; for it afforded to my stepmother and

sister such a constant cause of alarm, they had less leisure

to be jealous of me, and fixed their attention so much upon

themselves, their immediate safety, their plans for future

escape, or the concealment of their persons and their property,

in case of any sudden danger in these most perilous

times, that I was often entirely forgotten. Indeed, the very

existence of so obnoxious a creature as myself seemed at this

crisis a thing of no moment, when their own preservation

became the subject of their cares. I was frequently left to

sit or to walk alone with Edmund, if he chose to seck my

company, without any fear of interruption.

Many would here smile, and expect the usual result of

such an intimacy between two young persons of opposite sexes

situated like ourselves. But they would be disappointed;

for, although I most highly esteemed Edmund, my feelings

were but like those of an affectionate sister to a kind brother.

Indeed, he was to me as a second brother; and so I had been

accustomed to consider horn ever since I lost my own. The

unkindness, the prejudices, the neglect with which I was

treated by my own family, and the recluse manner in which

I lived, made my heart yearn for an object of sympathy with

my feelings. This very sense of loneliness, of wanting a

friend to fill up the dreary vacuum in my life, caused me to

be more alive to and grateful for the affectionate attentions of

Edmund ; yet I was not what the world calls in love with hir n;

indeed, I was not. Much as I valued his many virtues, ho

was not, I think, of a character calculated to raise in my mid

the feelings of which it was capable, the enthusiasm of the

heart.

He was, it is true, young, handsome, and gifted; but there

were peculiarities in his disposition that did not harmonise

with my own. I reverenced his sincerity; but then he carried

it to such an extent as even to give pain by its bluntness,

without sufficiently considering the feelings of another with

whom he conversed; and this rough plainness was more especially

reserved for those he loved best, and therefore wounded

most ; as if those whom he had the greatest cause to cherish

were to be less spared and considered than strangers. Then,

though he was the most acutely sensitive man I ever saw, his

feelings being morbidly alive to pain of every description,

yet his temper, unless when strongly moved, was calm and

patient. He did not make a sufficient allowance for one

whose enthusiasm or whose vivacity was more easily called

forth than his own And, though good and amiable in essentials,

he wanted the minor estimable qualities that give so

much lustre to the higher virtues. Edmund was like a jewel,

of rare value in itself, but wanting the accompaniment of an

elegant setting. He was, it must be confessed, sadly deficient

in that charm which is so attractive, so irresistible, in the

eyes of every woman who has imagination as well as feeling

he wanted grace. He had a cultivated mid, but not a

graceful manner. lam convinced, Paulina, that our sex are

more apt to be charmed by appearance than reality. The

most estimable qualities will fail to captivate us if they are

not adorned by what is winning. Whilst (alas for poor, weak

woman that it should be so !) how many of us have chosen

the man of a fascinating exterior, within which lurk selfishness

and insincerity, in preference to a more worthy, but less

accomplished rival ! So much are our sex the willing dupes

of whatever carries with it the appearance of elegance, or of

strong emotion, when wc fancy it indicates the existence of

fervent love and devoted attachment.

You have often amused yourself, Paulina, with laughing

at my habits of reflection, and have called me an old woman

under a young face. But had you early tasted of such sadness

as I have known, such unkindness, and had been left as

much to yourself, you would not wonder that I found in solitude

and reflection, by conversing with my own heart, some

consolation for the want of that cheerful, communicative

affection which, with the young and gay, banishes serious

thought, and forbids the happy to be early old or early wise.

To return to the subject.

Although I sometimes wished Edmund had been more

polished, less blunt, and a little more just to me (for he

scrupled not, in our hours of intimacy, often to find fault

with me, and frequently, as I thought, without due cause),

yet I greatly valued him. So great was his sincerity, he

could always be relied on. You would be sworn that he

meant all he said, and never in any way exaggerated his

feelings, never complimented ; so that, superior as he was in

judgment and intellect, a word of commendation from horn

was a thing to be proud of : it was as the verdict of truth,

after the merits of the case had been weighed and established

beyond all doubt. So much did I feel this, that my cheeks

would glow when he praised mc. I felt raised, encouraged,

and saved from that heart-sinking despondency so often experienced

by a susceptible mid when (as in my case) it is

undervalued in the circle of its own home.

Neglected as I had been by my stepmother, who had

taken no pains with my education, I was glad to avail myself

of the instructions and assistance in my studies of such a

person as Edmund, and with horn I made some progress in

the languages and the belles lettres. He taught with pleasure,

what he considered he had found in me, a recipient

mid; and I rejoiced to find in horn a tutor who was also a

brother and a friend.

Thus wc went on together. Our growing intimacy was, I

confess, not a little increased during the occasional absence

of Lady Moorenn and Dorothea, who, at the time of which I

am now speaking, had frequent occasions for staying at

Exeter on long visits to some rich relative from whom they

had expectations. During these absences, when my father

was much engaged or from home, Edmund and I were often

for hours, and almost days, left alone together. And now it

was (for you shall have all my confession) that I first began

to think there was a feeling stronger than that of friendship

for me beginning to spring up in the bosom of my instructor

and my friend.

Women, you well know, Paulina, are the earnest to detect

these things, and are seldom deceived when the affection is

real, though they may sometimes be led away for awhile by

what is feigned. I now remarked that, although Edmund

conversed with me with perfect ease in the presence of my

father, he was often disturbed, silent, or embarrassed when

wc were alone. His manner softened, and his voice so much

so, that it seemed scarcely the same when he addressed mein

moments at all influenced by feeling. There was, too, a

tenderness in his looks, in his least action, which spoke

volumes.

I observed, likewise, although he conversed well and

fluently in society, or with my father, yet it was on general

subjects only, and that he reserved for me, as it were, those

treasures of sentiment and thought which had reference to

the heart. When I recollected the natural strength of his

character, his reserve — his slowness in being moved to experience

the influence of any passion, I could not but estimate

the value of having raised in the heart of such a man an

affection evidently so sincere ; for he loved seemingly against

his own will — the highest compliment a woman can receive.

So evidently did he seek to struggle with, rather than to

indulge, the new-born feeling.

I can truly say, though I was flattered by having inspired

a passion so rarely seen in all its strength in a character so

uncommon, yet I was sorry for its existence, because I felt it

must and ought to separate us. And not only was I grieved

to lose the kindness of the only friend I had in the world,

but I was sorry also to lose the benefit I derived from horn as

my instructor. Yet I felt I could not respond to his love ;

and that his was not of a nature to rest satisfied with the

returns of friendship. Honour told me that on the first

occasion I ought to let horn know the truth ; for his sake, I

almost wished he would afford me an opportunity of doing

so, that I might at once remove from horn all doubt.

But yet I dreaded it, because I looked upon it as the

period that must put an end to our intimacy, unless, indeed,

I could succeed in letting horn know the real state of my

affection, and bringing back his love into the first more calm

and happy feeling of friendship. For this purpose I longed

for his declaration, though I feared it. And every day the

more I saw of his vainly-smothered passion, and of his distress,

the more I felt it was due to honour, and to common

humanity, to set his mid at rest.

Acting on this conviction, and seeing its melancholy increase,

I took the first opportunity which presented itself to

rally horn on his dejection. But, finding that what I said

did but add to his pain, I began to fear there was more in

the cause of his distress than I had at first suspected, and I

very seriously urged horn to tell me, as his friend, what it

was that had so changed hir n; but he still evaded giving

any direct answer to the question ; and, soon after this conversation,

I observed a new thing in his conduct towards me,

that he became more cautious ; he was evidently afraid lest

his manner should betray the real state of his feelings, and

I saw, by a thousand minute traits, that nothing now so much

alarmed horn as the fear of my detecting the truth.

The more I saw of this timidity, this distress, the more I

felt grieved for the sufferer ; and (shall I confess it ?) the

more was I induced to examine into the state of my own

heart, which it was evident had now become of so much

importance to another, and that other so worthy of the best

I could give.

But this self-examination did not satisfy mc. From unkindness,

loneliness, and neglect I had long been habituated

to inquire into my own feelings, frequently in order to ascertain

if the ill-usage I met with for others was at all deserved.

I was, therefore, more accustomed to lay bare motives

and their effects than was usual with women of my age ;

hence was it, that I was not likely to err in respect to my

own feelings. I was not likely to fancy a sisterly affection

into a passion ; nor to mistake the emotions of pity for those

of love. I was convinced I did not love Edmund ; yet he

could not think more highly of me than I did of him. Indeed,

my opinion of his merits was, I believe, much higher

(no doubt with justice) than his of mine ; for he often, even

now, would find fault with me ; and I never saw any fault in

horn, except that of a self-tormenting spirit, which is not

content with real causes of pain, but will create them.

I had now a most difficult task to perform : that of soothing

the suffering mid of Edmund, and yet so as not to give

horn hopes, such as I feared I could never realize. The line

to be drawn was a very nice one ; yet still one that should

be marked : for, as I felt I was tbc cause of his disquietude,

even so did I feel how much consideration was due to the

heart that had received so deep a wound for my sake. So

truly was I sensible of this, that I even tried to love Edmund,

but something always told me that I did not ; for, though I

greatly esteemed horn, I still felt his deficiencies of manner ;

I felt he wanted not virtues, but those nicer qualities I

should have wished horn to possess. This, then, was not

love ; for love feels no deficiencies of this sort, and is perfectly

satisfied with its object.

CHAPTER III.

I cannot love horn;

Yet I suppose horn virtuous, know horn noble,

Of small estate, of fresh and stainless youth,

In voice well divulg'd, free, learn'd, and valiant,

And, in dimensions, and the shape of nature,

A gracious person ; but yet I cannot love him.

He might have took his answer long ago.

Shakspere.

Things were in the position I have described when my

stepmother and sister returned home, after a longer absence

than ordinary at Exeter. How it happened I cannot

tell you ; but it seems they now, for the first time, entertained

some suspicions that Edmund looked on me with the eyes of

affection. They did not as yet suspect mc. But these suspicions

concerning horn very speedily produced in Lady

Moorenn and Dorothea an increase of malice and ill-will towards

us both ; and an entire disapprobation of any tie of

this nature existing between us. For this there was some

colour of reason ; as Edmund was too poor to marry, and too

well known as a Royalist to rise in any profession in such

disaffected times. Had it been otherwise, the rankling feelings

of both mother and daughter for old offences, and of

settled dislike towards me, with an increased degree of jealous

fear (lest wc should marry with my father's consent)

would have been quite enough to secure for us a thousand ill

offices and every kind of opposition.

At present, as I was not suspected of any other offence

than that of baying pleased where my step sister had failed

to do so, Edmund was the object on which they principally

combined to vent their malice and their spleen. I, however,

was not altogether spared ; yet I could bear it better ; because

my position in the family, in a great measure, compelled me

to submission, even as a duty. But with horn it was otherwise.

Whatever he bore with was a sacrifice to love ; no

duty, no compulsion, could restrain ; the way, therefore, was

open to horn for retreat, but he had not the courage to take

it. The dissatisfaction of Lady Moorenn and her daughter

towards Edmund showed itself in every possible manner ; by

slights, unkindness, and even petty rudeness ; and the more

patiently he bore them the more they laid upon horn ; sometime

reviling horn behind his back for the very patience he

exercised towards them, which was, with truth, attributed

to the great love he had for me.

To see how ill he was used awoke in my mid an indignant

sense of his injuries. I never could forget that Edmund had

once been the preserver of my deceased brothers life. But,

as I dared not openly and avowedly defend horn, I endeavoured

to soothe his mid, and to make up for the harshness and ingratitude

he met with for others, by showing horn greater

kindness myself. This had a very injurious effect ; for, the

more he felt my kindness, the more he loved mc. it did but

rivet the more strongly the chain that bound horn to me, and

removed all scruples on his part for loving me, not only without

but even contrary to the approbation of my stepmother.

And, though I had a father also to be consulted, yet

Edmund always felt, or fancied, that Sir Arthur would bave

no objections, save on the score of prudence, if he were not

prejudiced against his suit by the ill offices of Lady Moorenn

and Dorothea.

As yet, indeed, Sir Arthur did not seem to suspect the

truth; for, though a prejudiced man, he was not a suspicious

one. There was a great deal of openness, of plain honesty,

and candour in my father; so that he was ever ready to give

those about horn credit for a like candour towards himself.

He believed, in general, whatever was told horn, and saw no

more than you chose he should see; so that he was not apt to

be angry or suspicious. But, when his wife or Dorothea (who

won an artful influence over his mid, principally by the

violence of her temper) had worked on horn to suit their own

purposes, he was hasty, passionate, and determined; the

more so, perhaps, because be suspected himself of occasional

weakness. And, when he resolved he would not be weak, he

was equally resolute that he would not be reasonable : for,

alas! in moments of passion he did not reflect how great is

the difference between acting on principle and acting on prejudice.



My father, as I observed, had no suspicions. During the

absence of Lady Moorenn and Dorothea, be had seen Edmund

and myself walk together, sit and sing, or study together,

and never saw anything more in all this than the simple

and ostensible act in which wc were engaged. For he did

not reflect that in being together thus alone, even when

silent, there is in the very reverie of the young, when of

opposite sexes, something dangerous ; something to which

the heart of either attaches a result of the tenderest kind.

He did not consider how calculated are music and song to

soften the feelings : that by the " concord of sweet sounds "

even the sternest natures have been moved to drop a tear

and to feel the impulse of pity and of love. My father did

not suspect that Edmund loved, or that I pitied. Indeed,

though in Edmund he was disposed to find a second son, he

never thought of horn for a son-in-law. His poverty alone

(as my father was a prudent man in matters of marriage)

would have been deemed an effectual bar to all notions of

that nature, even had not a higher motive existed as a prohibition.

This last was, that he would not, lam sure, have

sanctioned any engagement which would be likely to interfere

with the entire devotion of Edmund to the service of

King Charles ; since to live or to die for horn, his persecuted

master, was the great purpose he had at heart for his young

friend ; and, such being his views for horn, it never once

entered into Sir Arthurss head that Edmund could entertain

any other for himself.

So the hours and days sped on with us during the absence

of my stepmother and her daughter. The walk, the

tete-astute with Edmund, under the shade of forest trees,

sur-rounded by all the beauties and harmonies of nature, had

in them an influence the most bewitching. Such an influence

awakens the imagination, and predisposes it to the indulgence

of the sweetest fancies ; the fields and the woods areas

the birthplace of love. But Lady Moorenn and Dorothea

returned ; and then commenced all those most trying and

painful events to which all that I have hitherto said has

been but as the preface.

Although Edmund took great pains to conceal from the

world the real state of his feelings, yet it was obvious to me

that his distress of mid became more apparent to others as

well as to myself. My father, however, truly believed (whilst

Lady Moorenn and Dorothea only affected to believe) the excuses

he made for the dejection of his spirits, which he

attributed to the disastrous state of public affairs. But I

saw too clearly that a private source of sorrow, more corroding

in its effects than any public grief, was preying on

his heart. There were moments, likewise, when he expressed

a more than ordinary impatience for 1 action ; and I

could see he fancied that, though the Civil War, in daily

drawing nearer to us, would break tho repose of the West,

yet it would restore to horn his own, in the tumult of the

conflict.

It was about this period that a young Cavalier of repute

became so intimate at our house as frequently to be with us

for two or three weeks together. He distinguished me by

much gentle and kind attention ; and, as no one could know

Sydney Godolphin, that gallant Royalist, without liking

horn, I never disguised how much I was pleased with his

society, his friendship for us, and his devotion to the King.

He was the son of one of the richest families in Cornwall ; and

was altogether such a person as no father would refuse for a

daughter ; yet was there nothing whatever in his attentions

to me, nor in my regard for horn, to excite jealousy. But

Edmund feared a rival ; and this fear caused horn a degree

of suffering he had never before known. I saw and pitied

it ; but, as he never spoke, and as I was not conscious of

showing any particular kindness towards Godolphin, I knew

not how to remove the cause of Edmund's disquietude without

drawing on a confession which I now trembled but to

think upon.

One day, whilst Godolphin was our guest, some of our

party went on a visit in the neighbourhood Wc stayed the

night, and came home early on the morrow. Edmund was

almost the first person 1 met in the hall on our return. I

thought he looked ill, anxious, and, at times, seemed so distressed

during the day, that his manner was confused and

his words were often incoherent. In the evening, I had

retired for awhile to my chamber ; and was descending the

great stairs of our house when, all at once, Edmund stood

before me on the landing-place. I had not till that moment

descried horn, amid the shadows of the large old staircase,

and the hall into which it led. He was pale as death.

Every feature in his face bespoke the agitation of his mid,

as with a low, deep voice, he said, whilst with a trembling

hand he put a letter into mine, " There is the secret " — and,

without waiting to hear one word in reply, rushed from me,

passed down the stairs, and, by a side-door in the hall, made

a precipitate retreat into the garden.

I immediately returned to my own chamber. My agitation,

my distress — though from a different cause — were scarcely

less than Edmund's. For some minutes I held the letter,

unable to open it, unable to think, so confused was my mid

by the surprise, the suddenness of this event ; for, though I

had long expected, indeed desired, an avowal that might lead

to an explanation between us, yet now that I felt assured it

was made I trembled for the consequences. I sickened at

the very thoughts of "the secret," as he had called that which

was now committed to my trust, to my inexperienced judgment

and discretion. I needed not to break the seal to tell

me the contents. But I did break it, and, with a fearful misgiving

as to the result, read a few but emphatic sentences,

which (though I have no longer the original) I remember so

well I can give you the copy.

Convinced, Elizabeth, that I address one who would not

willingly forget me as a friend, I will now disclose that secret

you have so often importuned me to know, although in doing

so I risk all that is dear to me in friendship. I have then,

under its semblance, imbibed a passion which destroys my

peace. I need not say who is its object, as I am convinced

that in a thousand instances my feelings must have betrayed

themselves to you, and must have told you how impossible it

was that I could be near you without loving with the fondest

the most devoted, affection. Indeed, I live but for you. Yet,

if there is no hope, let me conjure you, by all the ties between

friends, for ever to conceal in your bosom that I have dared

to love, and forget the pains of one who will endeavour to

bear his ill fate with fortitude and resignation. I would fly

from you but for your father and the cause in which I am

embarked. My honour hinds me to horn to the last. Indeed,

the loss ,of Sir Arthurss friendship as well as of yours would

be more than I could bear.

These from your affectionate but most unhappy friend,

"Edmund."

It would be impossible to describe to you the feelings with

which I read this simply worded but most emphatic letters

great was my esteem, my reverence, my pity for tho

writer, that, before a thought of duty crossed my mid, I

felt I would have given worlds, had I possessed them,

to have been able to return the affection of such a heart.

But I knew how nice, how acute, were Edmund's feelings

how delicate, how discerning — and that love such as

his would bo satisfied with nothing less than love. I

dared not dissimulate. I dared not give a false hope,



yet my heart bled to wound his, as wound it I must if I

spoke the truth, even though I should use the gentlest and

kindest expressions. And then how to act for the future ? —

there was the difficulty. Knowing as I did the distress of

his mid, and how impossible it was I could say that I felt

for horn more than a sisterly regard, would it be right to

suffer horn still to come to Moortown, where the object of his

hopeless affection w T ould be constantly before his eyes ? For,

young as I was, yet was I not altogether so inexperienced as

to be ignorant of the common maxim that absence is the only

cure for disappointed love.

I pondered on these and a thousand other things till I became

bewildered, and could fix on no line of conduct for the

best. How earnestly did I wish that there had been one

human being to whom I could turn for advice or direction.

Now it was that I felt the misery of my lone and almost unfriended

state, for I had relatives but not friends.

As I held the letter in my hand I trembled, and my heart

sunk within me at the very thoughts of what would be the

displeasure — the vindictive displeasure— of my stepmother

and Dorothea did they know of such a declaration from

Edmund. Their fears would be up in arms ; there would be

no more rest nor peace for me, nor common courtesy towards

hir n; and, worse than all, my poor father might be worked

upon to adopt their prejudices, and the most fearful consequences

might be the result. I was lost in apprehension ; I

knew not how or where the evil might end. Yet I knew my

father to be naturally just, generous, and (when suffered to

act by the impulse of his own right feelings) not unkind ;

but then he had so long given himself up, in all matters that

had reference to me, to the guidance of bis wife, that I dared

not trust him.

Thus was I left to act alone. And now, in the first serious

trial of my life, did I bitterly experience what it was to have

contracted the ill habits of concealment. I was all fear — a

very coward at the thoughts of an honest and ingenuous confession.

And then Edmund had so earnestly prayed me, if

there was no hope, that I would not reveal his unfortunate

passion, that I knew not how to deny horn what appeared so

reasonable a request. I knew the delicacy of his feelings;

that nice sense of self-respect which recoils from any familiar

approach to its secrets on the part of another, in whom

he was certain to find neither sympathy nor consideration.

How, then, could I decide to do other than keep his secret ?

This point once settled, all the rest required little deliberation,

for, however painful it might be, I never paused for a

moment in coming to a decision that he should know the

truth, as far as respected my own heart. I would neither

deceive horn, nor suffer horn to deceive himself; and, as he

had nothing to hope from me, there was, I fancied, the less

harm in my keeping his counsel.

In this frame of mid I left my chamber, and descended to

the great parlour, where the family were assembled. There

I met Edmund, for a door that led into the garden was now

standing open ; and, on seeing me, he returned to the house.

Never shall I forget my emotions at that moment; the

struggle within my own breast at the thoughts of my father,

my duty, my stepmother ! My fears, .my agitation were

extreme; I could scarcely support myself.

CHAPTER IV.

I cannot love ; to counterfeit is base,

And cruel too; dissembled love is like

The poison of perfumes, a killing sweetness.

Sewell.

As Edmund entered, I looked up; our eyes met; they spoke

our feelings — those of mutual distress, of dismay. He was at

this moment, if possible, paler than when he gave me the

letter. What he thought of my agitation I could not then

conjecture; but it was so great, so apparent to all the company,

that I was obliged to plead illness as my excuse, and

soon after became so much worse I almost fainted.

My stepmother seemed surprised; Dorothea knew not

what to make of it, and observed I had been very well all

through the day; but she supposed there was something in

the air that was infected, for Mr. Edmund Oxenham looked

as if he also were about to faint; he was absolutely as white

as a sheet.

Sydney Godolphin was present ; at all times kind and good-natured,

he saw something was amiss, and most opportunely

came to our relief ; drew Edmund aside, and, soon after, taking

horn by the arm, led horn into the garden. I retired to my

o 2

chamber for the night, having had no opportunity to say more

to Edmund than the words " To-morrow." But he perfectly

Understood me, and that on the morrow he was to expect an

answer to his letter, and one that would decide his fate.

On the morrow I wrote a few lines to Edmund, worded in

the gentlest, the kindest manner ; and, in order to spare his

feelings as much as possible, and yet to convince horn of my

sympathy with his distress, I sought a favour-able moment to

give horn the letter myself. He seemed by his countenance

to anticipate its contents; and on his saying as he took it,

This, then, contains my fate ! I fear I have nothing to hope,"

the gravity of my manner, though blended with kindness,

was not calculated to dissipate his fears, or to reassure his

sinking hopes.

You will ever be dear to me as a brother," I said; " as my

most valued friend."

"I feared as much," he replied; "well, then, I will

submit."

Read the letter," said I, " read it ; and may God direct

you for the best ! " I retired, for I would not stay to pain

horn by witnessing the first pangs of his disappointment.

Soon after he joined me in the garden. He could scarcely

speak, so great was his emotion ; but, as I endeavoured to

soothe his wounded spirit, he gradually regained some composure,

and — ever amiable, even in the midst of hissuffer-

kings — his first words were to thank me for my candour, for

not having suffered horn to deceive himself, and for the kindness

with which I had blunted the arrow of disappointment.

He knew, he said, he was not worthy of me : yet he could

not resist the influence being near me had over his feelings.

He had loved in spite of himself — in the very face of difficulty,

opposition, and almost despair. For even had I given

horn any cause to hope, years must probably have passed

away before he dared propose his suit to my father. Indeed,

he might never be able to propose it ; as nothing but some

change in his worldly fortunes — (and what change of a

beneficial nature could he expect in such times ?) — would

ever have emboldened horn to apply to Sir Arthur Moorenn

with the slightest hope of success. Yet, he added, his heart

had so grown to me — he was so friendless, so utterly

bereaved when absent from me, that he confessed he wanted

courage to take the resolution to see me no more. And even

if he took it, he did not know how he could keep that resolution,

since the cause in which he had embarked with my

father for the service of the King rendered his abandoning

Moortown altogether impossible.

Under these circumstances he would, he said, try to master

his feelings, to regulate them, to conquer passion, but cherish

affection. He would endeavour to supply to me the place of

the brother I had lost — one who had loved me so well — and

who, he was sure, could he speak from the tomb, would commend

horn for such a purpose. He did not think the conquest

he meditated over his own feelings impossible, though it

would be difficult. Because, if hope were the nurse of love,

now that all hope was extinguished within his breast, affection

of a calm, of a gentle character would survive, when his

blighted passion was no more ; and a tenderness, quite consistent

with friendship, would spring up in its place, withall

the disinterested kindness, and the protective feeling of

the sweetest brotherly love.

So passed our first interview after the explanation ; I have

but feebly attempted to describe it. I must not omit adding

I promised to keep his secret, and that wc pledged to each

other, young and romantic as wc both were, our mutual faith

as friends — as brother and sister.

Alas ! wc were young and inexperienced ; wc had both yet

to learn that friendship will not easily take root where

passion has once possessed the ground. That ground has

become too parched for a plant whose growth, to be permanent,

must be slow ; and whose product starts not at once

into life and brilliancy, but gradually unfolds itself, requiring

care and cherishing, or the blossoms will drop away, and no

fruit will succeed. For love, cal only, deliberately, as I may

say, wilfully to change into friendship at twenty years old is

impossible.

For some time, however, after this conference Edmund

seemed happy. That is, he was happy, from indulging himself

more than ever, whenever he could find an opportunity,

in the presence of the being he so deeply, so ardently loved,

conscious that she knew of his love ; and that, though she

did not respond to it as he could have wished, yet she was

not displeased with its existence ; and that she would have

loved, could affection be brought to the obedience of the

will, at the dictates of virtue and reason. He knew he was

esteemed by her, that she loved no other ; he therefore was

preferred to all the rest of his sex, though that preference

was but friendship. In one sense, also, he had now nothing

to fear, for he repeatedly told me t hut, for many months

previous to his declaration, his fears, his timidity, were so

great, he dreaded nothing so much as my knowing that he

loved mc.

So wc went on ; he seemed most affectionately happy.

Lady Moorenn and Dorothea were again at Exeter, and he

failed not to avail himself of their absence to be as much as

possible at our house, and, as heretofore, he entered into all

my feelings and pursuits. This state of things, however,

was not of long continuance ; new scenes were about to unfold

themselves, and those of the most painful kind.

CHAPTER V.

It is Jealousy's peculiar nature

To swell small things to great — nay, out of nought

To conjure much ; and then to lose its reason

Amid the hideous phantoms it has formed.

Young.

One of the many things which now convinced me that

Edmund's feelings were not likely to become, as he had hoped

they would, those only of friendship, was his excessive proneness

to be hurt by every trifle which, by any possibility, he

could construe into a slight or an unkindness from me.

Thus did he become to me a subject of continual disquiet.

I really loved horn as a friend, as a brother ; but not, as he

did me, with that sort of idolatry which hangs upon its

object for every comfort, every pleasure, that could make life

not only happy, but supportable. I neither did nor could

hope to love bim in this manner, and therefore was I constantly

giving horn pain, when to do so was most distant from

my thoughts — and all this arose from the simple cause that

he took his own feelings for me as the measure of what mine

ought to be for him.

Alas ! Edmund had yet to learn that he had changed his

feelings only in name ; and that love lurked in his bosom,

though he put on the disguise of friendship ; and that I had

no change to make, as I was still the friend I had ever been

and a forbearing one too, not to be shaken by the trials to

which he now so constantly subjected my patience ; since to

act in a manner to satisfy his morbid feelings required that I

should keep a constant watch over every word and action :

for not the least that referred to horn but had its weight and

its importance.

And now did I feel the painful responsibility I had incurred

in thus, as it were, taking upon myself the charge of

the happiness of another, under the name of friendship. I

felt that I was as much bound to horn by the tie I had admitted

between us, as if I had been his by a regular betrothment,

yet without the feelings and the hopes that render such

a tie at once desirable and natural.

One day, when I was suffering from a reproach on the part

of Edmund for which I had given no real cause, and, in truth,

did not deserve, I was very suddenly summoned into the presence

of my stepmother. The moment I saw her I felt

assured, by the stateliness of her manner, the displeasure in

her countenance, and the air with which she said " I wanted

to see you in my own chamber," that she had something to

break to me in which her own authority was to be more consulted

than my feelings. To increase, if possible, my vexation,

Dorothea was present.

Colonel Holborne will be here to-day," she added, in an

abrupt manner; " and I wished to speak to you before he

arrives, as your father has directed me to make known to

you on what account he comes hither, that you may be prepared

to receive horn as you ought."

I started with astonishment — "Colonel Holborne, madam!"

I said ; " and what is he to me, that my reception of horn

should now be different to what it has hitherto been at any

other time ? What need of my being prepared to receive

horn ? "

Because," replied Lady Moorenn, colouring highly, as if

her very veins were impatient to show her anger before she

could express it in her words — " because, Elizabeth, your

father designs horn for your husband ; that is all."

"It is an all, madam, that concerns the happiness of my

future life," said I, trembling with alarm. " And I hope my

father will not force upon me a marriage for which I have

no inclination. Colonel Holborne is a person I should never

even have conjectured he would have thought of as my

future husband. He is at least forty ; an old man for one

of my age. Indeed, I should be miserable but to think of

him. Ido not wish to marry at all."

That excuse will not avail," said Lady Moorenn ; " but wc

are not blind, though you think us so ; wc can see what is

going on around us ; and that you and Mr. Edmund Oxen-ham

seem to understand each other very well. But I can

assure you that your father will never give his consent in

that quarter. And so I advise you to be dutiful in time ;

and not to encourage a young man's hanging about yon who

is only tolerated here by the v family because they cannot

altogether withdraw their favour from one who did some

services to my poor son ; though, I must say, such services

have already been repaid in a thousand ways."

Shocked as I felt, I was not altogether surprised to hear

my stepmother speak thus of Edmund ; because I knew

that, in her estimation, fortune was worth ; and that merit

in poverty was, as it always is with common minds, a subject

for contempt. Yet there had been moments in which I had

seen his patient spirit overcome even her prejudices ; when,

in spite of herself, she had been pleased. I remembered

this, and ventured now to say a word in Edmund's behalf,

and to remind her ladyship of how much attention he had

always shown to herself.

Oh, yes," she replied ; "no great thanks for that ; Mr.

Edmund Oxenham is the same to everybody. I really cannot

feel very much obliged by a civility which makes no

distinction ; and is nothing more than a habit. I do not

know that I have any reason to feel I owe these attentions

you talk about either to the gratitude or the friendship of

Mr. Edmund."

After another taunt or two about poor Edmund, my

stepmother resumed the affair of Colonel Holborne ; and

now told me, that, for some time, by her advice, my father

had been bent on the match ; that he had given his word to

the Colonel, and had gone so far that not even the political

differences, which break so many family contracts, could

interfere to alter his intentions ; and, let what would come,

I should wed horn before Christmas.

I am surprised, indeed, madam," I said, "at hearing

this. I could not have imagined that my father, for a moment,

would think himself bound by any such promise to

Colonel Holborne, when all men say, should the war, as it is

feared, come into the West, the Colonel will certainly espouse

the Parliamentary party, though he originally received

his commission from the King."

"No matter for that, child," replied Lady Moorenn ;

Colonel Holborne is your father's friend ; and, though he

may be a Parliamentarian, he is not amongst the worst of

that party : and, if things go wrong with the Royalists, it

will be very desirable to have a friend on the opposite side ;

wc may save our estate by it, as other Royalists have done,

if it comes to a matter of fine and sequestration."

Yes," said Dorothea ; " it may be the saving of all our

heads. You surely will not be the means of our losing our

lives, and your own father his estates, on account of your

obstinacy."

My obstinacy," I replied, " has nothing whatever to do

with it. And I do not see wherefore I should be made

miserable in order to save you from a danger which is only

chimerical. I might marry Colonel Holborne ; and yet my

father might be made to forfeit his estates, without any

remission, if the King fails altogether."

You talk like a silly girl," said Lady Moorenn. " But this

is not the only point. I recommended the match ; and

Colonel Holbornes merit was my principal object in so

doing ; though I should have been justified in doing so for

the good of the family alone."

"At my cost, madam," said I ; " but indeed I cannot wed

Colonel Holborne."

Tell your father so, if you dare," said Lady Moorenn, in

high wrath ; " and see if he will allow you to argue the

matter thus with him. For myself, Ido assure you I shall

hear no more of it, and desire that you will treat Colonel

Holborne with all due respect when he comes, as your

father's friend and as your future husband. And I hope wc

shall see something less of Mr. Edmund Oxenham seeking

after you, and sitting and walking with you alone. You

cannot deceive me, though you may the rest of your family.

I will have no answer — go to your chamber. Ponder on

these things, and learn that the duty of a child is best shown

in obedience."

I was dismissed with that wave of the hand, and that

haughty air, which in my stepmother indicated, I well knew,

that she would hear not a word more, and all discussion

must cease. To try to reason or to prevail with her, I felt

would be useless ; I therefore retired in silence to the solitude

of my own apartment. But there I could not rest ; and

I hastened to seck my father, in the hope to move horn in my

behalf. But, alas ! it was the custom of Sir Arthur, in all

our family contentions, always to avoid the argument which

he could not satisfactorily refute.

My father shunned all conference with me on this occasion

: and I was compelled to receive Colonel Holborne with

that polite attention which I confess his character and

station entitled horn to expect; for nothing could be said

against horn in any other than a political view. But his

known purpose to league with the Parliamentarians was

quite enough to disgust me, even had no other motive existed

for my disinclination towards horn ; for I was young, zealous,

and devotedly attached to the Royal cause.

Not knowing what to do, or where to turn for help ; fearing,

every moment, that something would arise to make

known to Edmund Colonel Holbornes pretensions towards

myself ; the project, wild and perilous as it might appear,

suddenly occurred to me that I would endeavour to wm the

good will of the Colonel himself, in such a manner that I

might trust horn with a knowledge of the truth ; and implore

horn not to hold my father to an engagement for which I

had no inclination myself.

With this view I attempted to study the character of

Colonel Holborne, in order that I might learn how to act

for the best. From all I had heard, and from my own observations,

I was induced to believe he was not an ungenerous

man. Yet there was something about horn forbidding — I

knew not in what it consisted ; but it arose principally, I apprehend,

from his being one of those men who hold themselves

so much aloof from the ordinary intercourse with

mankind, that at last they lose the very appearance of possessing

social feelings. Such, indeed, was the severity of

Colonel Holbornes manners, that it kept almost every one

at a distance ; and, for myself, I could hardly smile in his

presence, so much did his gloomy brow and his haughty air

depress the naturally buoyant spirits of my youth. Yet I

was not unjust to horn ; though his brooding and melancholy

disposition seemed, in my mid, to prepare horn for becoming

the companion and leader of the stern and fanatical Parliamentarians.

I once ventured to make some observations of

this nature respecting the Colonel to my father ; nor did he

altogether deny their truth. " Yet, Elizabeth," said he,

under that cold and rigid exterior there lies deep feeling

and a strong and active power of imagination. And so influential

is his character, so persuasive his eloquence, when

he chooses to call it forth, and so great his disinterestedness,

that, could he but be won over, he would be a host in the

King's cause."

Would you believe it, Paulina, so young and enthusiastic

was I at this period, that, had it not been for the fear of exciting

the jealousy of Edmund, I believe, on hearing this, I

should have entertained the project of gaining over Colonel

Holborne for the service of King Charles. But I shuddered

when I thought at what a price he must be gained. And

poor Edmund ! I had, indeed, a difficult part to act ; and no

one to whom I dared unbosom my anxious thoughts or to

whom I might apply for advice. I had then none to counsel

with but my own sad heart.

For myself, Colonel Holborne treated me much as a good

but not a fond father treats a child he loves ; one who is perfectly

amenable to his authority ; and so orderly in her obedience

that it is never suspected she could entertain even the

wish to do other than obey him. The Colonel paid me no

very marked attention ; fortunately, there was little time for

it, for the affair at Launceston, about Sir Ralph Horton and

the Committee, taking place just at this period, and a hope

that a peace might be effected in the West, caused both the

Colonel and my father to be called away from home.*

On their return, however, the Colonel had an opportunity

of being with me in company with my father ; and the latter

presenting horn, more particularly than ever he had yet done

to me, as the friend to whom he had long promised his

daughter, I knew not what to do. The crisis was at hand :

I felt I must now act, or I should give, by my silence, a tacit

consent to the engagement made for me by my parent. With

this conviction I determined on a great effort — that I would

speak to Colonel Holborne alone ; tell horn the truth ; and

throw myself on his generosity — his magnanimity.

On that day, after dinner, wc were all in the great parlour

at Moortown. Mr. Sydney Godolphin and many strange gentlemen

were there likewise. I was seated by the virginals,

on which I had been playing to accompany a song, at the re-this

attempt between the Royalists of the West and the Parliamentary

Committee to bring about a peace altogether failed.

quest of Colonel Holborne, who hung over my chair listening

with a softened air, and an interest I had never before seen

horn take in music. He asked me to play and sing to horn

again. I arose to fetch a book from another part of the

room ; he followed and assisted me in turning over my music :

a great condescension from such a man. This trifling seemed

new to himself as well as to me, for he dropped first one

book and then another in helping me in my search after a

song, and said with a smile (a smile from Colonel Holborne,

my dear Paulina, think of that !), "I do these matters awkwardly

; I am not used to them." I availed myself of this

little opportunity, this tete-astute in a room full of company,

to whisper the Colonel that I begged he would take the opportunity

to go into the garden with me, as I wished to speak

with him.

He looked surprised, but of course consented. I cannot

repeat to you our conference. I was so much agitated I

scarcely knew what I said. But I shall never forget the air

of gloom, mingled with offended pride, with which, after

hearing me stammer through my tale of distress (without

making one effort to help me on, without uttering one word

to relieve my embarrassment), he asked me, "If I loved

another, or if I was engaged to another ? "

I told horn " No."

He said, " that was all he wished to learn ; that, as my

heart was free, he saw no ostensible reason for his giving up

his claim to my hand, which, in the first instance, bad been

promised to horn by my father ; for the rest, he considered

that I was too young to be able to judge for myself, and he

would hope all from time, and his own assiduity, to engage

my affections." So saying, ho bowed with an offended air,

and left mc.

At this moment wc quitted an arbour where the conversation

had been held ; nor did I suspect, till then, that Edmund

had seen us engaged in talking together, as he had rapidly

crossed a path at the end of the laurel-hedge. He gave a

hurried and an agonized look towards us ; be was white as

death.

Alarmed for his state of mid, I followed with the utmost

speed, and, taking the same path to the house, saw horn (by

a small door that opened into the garden) enter an apartment

that was mine — it was my study. In another minute

I entered it also. How shall I speak what were my feelings

when I saw Edmund seated on a couch, whereon he had

thrown himself, pale, trembling, his eyes fixed on mine, with

a look of such unutterable agony, that I became most seriously

alarmed. His power of speech was for the moment gone.

Shall I call for help P* I exclaimed. " Good God 1 what

is this ?" In my fright I moved towards the door. He

caught me by the hand and detained mc. Again did he fix

his eyes on mc. There was, I thought, a look of frenzy in

their expression. He was cold, and a convulsive shudder-seemed

to steal over all his frame, as the words, uttered ina

low deep voice — " You have then engaged yourself to

Colonel Holborne," passed his lips.

I essayed to speak ; but he would not let mc. " I see it,"

he continued, distractedly — " I see it all. Confirm my

misery — say that it is with your own consent ; say that you

love him. Speak the truth at once ; fear not for me — this

night I quit your house, and for ever. My presence shall no

more distress you. Heed not what becomes of mc. I go, I

know not whither — care not whither. What matters it

what becomes of me ! — of such a wretch as I am ; as you

have made me !"

He started from his seat as he concluded this emphatic

burst of feeling; it had been spoken so rapidly, so vehemently,

it was impossible to interrupt him. He started up ;

he would have sprung past me to the door that led into the

garden, but I prevented his purpose ; I caught hold of both

his hands, and held them in mine, conjuring horn to hear mc.

The fright I sustained gave me courage, and indeed strength

to struggle with and detain him. My terrors had now risen

beyond all control, for horror was in his looks ; and I feared

even for his life did he quit me in these moments of excited

feeling — of agonized and almost frenzied apprehension.

At length he freed his hands from my grasp, and exclaimed

" Do not, do not trifle with me ! Tell me truly, as there is

a God above who looks on us both — tell me : do you love

Colonel Holborne ?"

"I do not — indeed, Ido not ! Calm yourself : I cannot

bear to see you thus ; you must not, you shall not leave

me !

On hearing these words, spoken with all that earnestness

of feeling, rendered strong by apprehension, he seemed, in an

instant, to pass from the lowest depths of misery to a sense

of hope and joy. He threw his arms around me, burst into

a flood of tears, and exclaimed : " Then you do love me more

than as a brother — you will not wed Colonel Holborne — you

will bid me hope and live."

There are moments when, carried, as it were, out of ourselves,

beyond ourselves, wc say the very thing wc would

not; which, at any other tune, wc would pause upon — nay,

altogether condemn. This was such a moment. I felt the

unconquerable force, the appalling ascendancy that a strong

paroxysm of suffering gives another over our whole heart

and frame, when wc know ourselves to be the cause of such

suffering. I was overpowered — I had no strength for any

further efforts ; all inferior motives, all other considerations

sank before the one great feeling of fear. My acquiescence

was, as it were, compelled by the terror of my own mid,

and I answered what awe compelled me to answer, without

the possibility of a moments reflection on what I did.

Need I tell what followed ? That hour saw our hands

plighted to each other, and not till that hour, perhaps, did I

know the state of my own heart, and the power Edmund had

gained over its affections. A moment of terror is often a

moment of conviction. I was no longer self-deceived; no

longer as I had delighted to call myself — his sister.

CHAPTER VI.

From early youth, War hath my mistress been ;

And, though a rugged one, I'll constant prove,

And not forsake her now. There may be joys

Which, to the strange o'erwhelming of the soul,

Visit the lover's breast beyond all others :

E'en now, how dearly do I feel there may !

Joanna Baillie.

And now came the most painful trial of all — the necessity,

as I imagined, of concealing for the present from the family

what had so lately passed between Edmund and myself. My

doing so was not a dereliction of my duty for the first time ;

since, alas ! I never had confided in my parents. The natural

frankness and openness of my disposition, as I have before

stated, had been chilled in the bud.

I knew my own deficiencies, and felt the want of the guiding

hand — the directing principle. I sighed for the counsel

of the friends I dared not seek, and the result of this new

load of responsibility which I had taken on myself was, that

I became oppressed with a secret which destroyed my peace,

and left me doubtful and perplexed how to act. I had a

thousand self-reproaches, and a thousand scruples of conscience

to combat every day, and all because I was prohibited

by my habitual fears from calling in the help of my natural

protector — my father — to lead my devious steps into the

paths of duty and of peace. I felt I was acting a disingenuous

part, and more than once did I resolve, at all hazards,

to renounce it ; to tell my father the truth, and trust to

his affection, satisfied that the natural generosity of his character

would not allow [horn to drive his only daughter to

despair.

I was aware that a great effort, or the encounter of a painful

scene, though terrific when pictured to the imagination,

if wc but screw our courage to the sticking-place, is often

got over more easily than wc are apt to believe when wc contemplate

it afar off. Like objects viewed through a mist,

our apprehensions gain magnitude by distance. I determined,

then, I would be bold, in order to be honest — yes, I would

speak out. I often hardened myself, as I may say, to make

the effort ; and more than once sought my father for the

pur-pose of confession. But, as if the spirit of evil lurked

in the way, in order to prevent me, whenever I had wrought

my courage to the degree necessary for the encounter, something

always stepped in to delay it.

Once or twice, when my father was alone, I approached

horn for the purpose of revealing the truth ; but he received

me with so little fondness, with so stern and stately an air,

that my coward heart seemed to die within mc. In one of

these interviews I did venture to speak two or three sentences

by way of preface. But I looked up in his face, and,

seeing there the cold indications of indifference, the vacant

eye, the rigid and compressed mouth, whilst the ear seemed

scarcely to listen to what was said, I felt abashed, chilled, as

if a palsied hand were upon mc. I paused crc I could proceed.



At that moment, one of our blue-coated serving-men came

into the room with a letter to my father. He read it, and

gave a verbal answer. I dreaded to see the varlet retire ;

for his presence had for awhile suspended the fearful moment,

and I felt as if I had lost a protector when the man

closed the door. But some other interruption succeeded ;

and this, like every former opportunity, passed, with nothing

done ; and after-wards my father's gloomy looks, reserved

manner, and anxious meditations came again, and still I was

overawed.

Alas ! I did not reflect that these melancholy moods — these

stern reveries and anxious brooding — were not intended to

repulse me from his heart; but that the state of the country —

the welfare, the honour', the very life of the King were at

stake ; that both day and night was my father labouring for

the service of his beloved master; and, were it possible, to

bring about a peace, to spare the shedding of human blood,

and to end this unnatural quarrel among ourselves.

I must not here omit stating, as it is essential to my narrative,

that about this time the growing suspicions of my stepmother

and Dorothea towards Edmund, in respect to me, so

frequently occasioned his meeting unkind treatment at their

hands, that it roused in my breast a more than usual feeling

of indignation. I was shocked at their ingratitude and injustice

; and in order, in some measure, to make amends for

this cruelty, I behaved towards horn with yet greater kindness

than I had ever done before; so that, for my sake, he

was tempted to bear with many indignities to which he would

not otherwise have submitted, whilst such conduct on their

part had the injurious effect of justifying, in his own eyes,

his still keeping secret the unhappy engagement into which

wc had both so rashly plunged.

At this period, Colonel Holborne was so often absent on

political matters that I saw very little of him. He was still

one of the Parliamentary Committee of the West, and still

was for a peace, which, however, from their unreasonable

demands, he and his fellow-committee men were doing all

they could to render more difficult to bring about. Whenever

he came to Moortown, he treated me with the highest

marks of respect, and of a calm and dignified affection, but

not of passionate love. He never urged his suit ; it was nota

time, my father had said, for marrying or giving in marriage

; and the Colonel seemed, by his patience and forbearance,

to acquiesce in the opinion. But, though he forbore to

press his suit, he equally forbore to resign it.

You will here exclaim, that I ought to have insisted on

undeceiving him. That I never deceived horn wilfully maybe,

perhaps, a poor excuse, yet it is a just one. For think

how I was situated ! What could I do ? Where was Ito

turn for direction or advice ? I had no one to confide in ;

and in the unfortunate Edmund I had an injured, a devoted

heart, with an almost distracted mid, to manage. With the

Colonel I had no easy task to accomplish, for I knew not

how I could now tell horn of an engagement with Edmund,

which was not only unknown to my father, but which the

Colonel himself would never believe could have been so

wholly unexpected on my part at the time of our interview

in the garden, when he bad declared his resolution to persevere

in his suit on learning that my hand was free. I knew

he was a man of strong passions, though of cool temper, and

I felt certain, did I now reveal the truth, that a rencontre

would inevitably follow between horn and Edmund. A hope

to prevent a meeting, which would probably terminate in

bloodshed, kept mo as effectually silent towards Colonel

Holborne as fear, on a different account, had towards my

father ; and now again did I experience, even in a greater

degree than before, the danger, the perplexity, to which the

youthful heart is exposed when it keeps secret its most vital

concerns, and renounces the guiding counsel of its natural

protector.

Great was my fault, so likewise was its punishment : for,

as if all I had to suffer was not enough, I had to encounter,

on the part of Edmund, the most groundless jealousy, occasioned

by that spirit of self-torment which allowed horn no

rest in all that referred to his love for me. His apprehensions

of losing me ; his dread lest I should have mistaken my

feelings, or, from strong circumstances, might be led to tear

horn from my bosom, were all fears that served to keep alive

his doubts and his never-ending suspicions. These ever-festering

wounds much irritated horn, and at length affected his

once placid temper; so that he was perpetually quarrelling

with me, or finding fault for trifles ; in something or other

I was ever to blame.

All this proceeded not from an arbitrary disposition, but

from a depth of affection so engrossing that it aimed at a

unity of soul between us which was scarcely consistent with

human nature in the present order of things. Thus, if in the

least I differed from horn in opinion, his love instantly magnified

it into a serious opposition which indicated difference

in principle; and I was reproved with an earnestness, an

anxiety of feeling, the most distressing; so that I began to

P

doubt whether I was the woman really calculated to render

a mid so susceptible as Edmund's happy. For I was too

sincere to dissemble with horn, and too much accustomed to

act from reason and reflection to say I was convinced of an

error simply because he wished I should be so.

Hcnco had he become to me, though a dear, yet a tormenting

lover; and in this respect Colonel Holborne stood in

painful yet (for himself) advantageous opposition to him.

He never found fault with me, and, from being a calmer and

less prejudiced observer, often did me that justice which

Edmund denied to mc. Yet, on this very account, was he

jealous also, and would frequently say the Colonel flattered,

if he did but oven moderately commend mc. I felt this.

I felt that in most things the Colonel better understood me —

shall I say it ? — more justly appreciated my character than

did his more favoured rival.

Women, more especially if they have any pretensions to

feeling and imagination, are, generally speaking, very nice on

the point of appreciation, and seldom love long the friend

who, they are convinced, undervalues them; for such a friend

is constantly wounding their feelings and mortifying their

self-esteem. Emulation is damped and endeavour checked.

But how different is it with the man who understands a

woman's merit, and pays it the homage due ! He raises her

in her own esteem, and in that of others ; whilst he bestows

on conscious merit that praise which fosters its efforts, and

becomes its best reward ; since nothing to a debate mid "is

so cheering or so sweet as commendation from the lips of one

truly loved. The friend who is ever finding fault, without

sufficient reason, reminds one too much of the envious and

dissatisfied; wc suspect the motive of such disapprobation;

and, if he classes all praise indiscriminately under the name

of flattery, he shows he has no right sense of justice; for,

though it is base to flatter, it is dishonest to withhold swells

commendation.

These, and many similar reflections, would force themselves

on me, when I thought upon the strange humour that now

possessed the unhappy Edmund, and of the more courteous

demeanour of Colonel Holborne. I felt that, with the former,

this perpetual finding fault and bickering was injurious to

our mutual affection ; whilst he was giving an advantage to

his more temperate rival which he would have been the last

to desire should be given.

But, though I candidly avow I thought Colonel Holborne

more just, more uniformly kind to me than Edmund, I never

for a moment wilfully encouraged his addresses. I thought

that, as I had not yet found either courage or opportunity to

confess my unhappy engagement to my father, the Colonel

had no right to know it; and although I saw plainly wherein

he had the advantage, in respect to temper and carriage, yet

I felt his cool and somewhat selfish love would bear no comparison

with the deep and devoted passion of the tender and

sensitive Edmund.

Would his affection meet the approval of my father, when

the time came to make known to horn the truth ? In what

way should I get rid of the pretensions of the Colonel ? When

should I take courage to make my confession? These were

questions that pressed themselves on my mid. But my

fatal irresolution still prevailed, and the moment for answering

them firmly was, alas ! delayed.

CHAPTER VII.

I rather tell thee what is to be feared

Than what I fear.

Give horn all kindness: I had rather have

Such men my friends than enemies.

Shakspere.

It was about this time that the war which had long been

raging in other parts of the kingdom made its appearance in

the West, and that in a very formidable manner. Many who

till now had been waverers, or had confined their politics to

opinions only, having more to do with words than deeds, at

length took a decided part, being compelled to do so by the

circumstances of the times, which would no longer allow of neutrality.

But as you, Paulina, are almost as well acquainted

as myself with the pubbe affairs of the West of England

at the period to which I allude, I will not say one word more

of war or politics than I am compelled to do by the nature of

the narrative I have undertaken to relate. I shall here,

therefore, merely state in what way these public feelings and

events affected us at Moortown.

I pass over the gradual steps and little circumstances by

p 2

which it became apparent that a coolness had sprung up

between my father and Colonel Holborne. I was not long in

doubt respecting the cause, as I could collect enough by the

few words I heard dropped in one or two of their conversations

to lean that the Colonel decided on retaining his commission

in the regiment under his command, in which all the

officers (except two who had quitted it) and nearly all the

men had declared for the Parliament. This regiment, it appeared,

was now to bo numbered with those which were

under the Earl of Stamford, as general of the Republican

forces in the West.

Offensive as it could not fail to be to my father that

Colonel Holborne should thus decide on retaining his command

of a regiment to serve against the Kmg — in fact, ho

did not dissemble his feelings on the occasion to the Colonel

himself — it was most unaccountable to me, when each so

plainly knew the other's mid, knew such a barrier as this

existed to separate them, that they did not at once break their

friendship, that all intercourse did not immediately cease.

As to myself, knowing how devoted my father was in his

loyalty to the King, I could not for an instant suppose he

would hold himself bound in honour to one who was prepared

to act the part of a rebel against him. I took it for granted,

therefore, that my father would not urge upon me, either

now, or at any future time, an alliance with the avowed

enemy of the King.

Yet, with a full knowledge of Colonel Holbornes sentiments,

and expecting that every day he would be called from

our neighbourhood to active service, my father still suffered

horn to come to our house. And although the growing coolness

between them became more and more marked almost

every time they met, yet, as if by mutual consent, they

avoided, as much as possible, the subject of politics, and

seemed determined that, let what would arise to separate

them in public, in their private intercourse, at least, there

should be no absolute breach. My father's manner to the

colonel, however, had lost all its accustomed cordiality :

there was something of constraint, I fancied, even in his

most ordinary civilities. Colonel Holborne was by far the

less embarrassed of the two. Yet, even with horn, there was

often an obvious effort to keep up conversation on the most

indifferent topics of discourse ; and that certain note of decaying

love, a strict observance of ceremony, was apparent

with each towards the other. I could not help fancying

they were like enemies, who, for mutual convenience, have

for awhile agreed upon a truce, but without anything like

feelings of satisfaction on either side.

At length the time arrived when it was intimated to us

that the Colonel was about leaving the neighbourhood on

matters of public duty. Wc well knew what that meant: he

was about to march under the orders of the Earl of Stamford.

There was one week's delay ; and in that brief space, as the

event proved, how much happened of vital import to us all !

You may readily believe, my dear friend, that my father's

manner did not escape the observation of Edmund ; and,

deeply as he was interested in all that could affect Sir

Arthurss views about myself, he began to build hopes upon

what he saw ; hopes that this displeasure, so apparent towards

his rival, would cause my father to change his purpose,

and to withdraw from Colonel Holborne not only his esteem

but all countenance of his suit.

Edmund was not slow to communicate his thoughts on the

subject to me; and though, from a closer observation than ho

had found opportunity to make, I was not so sanguine as himself,

yet I was not altogether devoid of hope. And now did

I more than ever feel I must not let the Colonel take his

farewell of me without setting horn right in respect to the

engagement which, by my father's will and not mine, he had

persisted in believing existed between us. I felt he ought to

know that I was now indeed engaged to another, both in

heart and hand. Yet the recollection of my father, and the

awe which ever accompanied the thoughts of confiding to

horn the truth, still pressed deeply, painfully on my mid;

and I verily believe, from mere irresolution, I should have

suffered the Colonel to depart still self-deceived had not fortune,

whilst I was yet wavering, given me the opportunity I

desired of coming to something like an understanding with

my father, and that in a most unexpected way. It was thus.

There was a charming lawn situated at the back of the

house and within the surrounding walls. There I often indulged

in my solitary thoughts and painful reveries. One

day, about the period I have named, I was strolling along

this lawn thoughtful and melancholy, my mid intent on the

most anxious subjects, when, to my surprise, my father, who

had seen mo from his closet (a small room within a tower

that faced the garden), descended and joined mc.

I was indeed surprised, as I had seldom if ever known my

father leave his study to come to me in my.solitary walks.

There was a seriousness, a settled solemnity, a thoughtfulness

about his countenance, with a slight embarrassment of

manner, when ho first spoke to me, that made me feel convinced

ho had come to speak on some matter of which he

doubted whether it would be agreeable to my feelings. This

conviction, added to my accustomed awe of his presence, so

agitated me that I felt my heart sink within me ; and, before

he began his discourse, all my assumed courage died away,

and I found I had none to support me in any struggle that

might ensue.

Wc took two or three turns upon the lawn without a word

being spoken, till, anxious to say something to break this

embarrassing silence, and scarcely knowing what I said, my

eye glancing at the moment on some woods that-were beyond

tbc walls, I made some remark about a gap which I thought

should bo filled by planting some young trees.

"Ay," said my father, "it is truly a perpetual offence to

the eye, but a still greater offence to the feelings ; at least,

to my feelings, as it is a memorial of the folly — ay, worse

than the folly — of my own father. That gap is a remembrance

of woods felled to satisfy the cravings of the law."

I was astonished at hearing this, as I bad never before

heard my father allude to my grandfather by a word of

reproach ; and, as to our family affairs, Sir Arthur managed

them all himself, and thought them so entirely removed from

the province of a woman that it was only by accident I had

ever heard the least circumstance about his estates, his

tenants, or his possessions of any kind. The ease in which

wc had hitherto lived, with all the accommodations and

elegancies of life by which wc were surrounded, had come tome,

like the sun and air, as blessings unsought, that seemed

to flow in upon me in the natural order of things. But it is

only the poor (who know difficulty and have to toil for their

support) that can truly appreciate the blessings which those

enjoy who have their daily bread set before them without a

struggle or the fear of want.

My father paused after making this remark ; his feelings

seemed touched and softened by some train of thinking to

which it had given birth ; and, seeing his looks were of a

gentler kind than for some days past, 1 felt encouraged ; now

I thought was the time to speak— now that his feelings were

moved by recollecting that his own father had left horn so

much cause for regret. I fancied, therefore, the remembrance

of it might make horn fear lest he too should give his

child occasion to reflect on his memory hereafter with the

same saddening feeling.

Emboldened by these considerations, I ventured to tell horn

how disagreeable to me were the addresses of Colonel Osborne,

how painful his obstinate persistence in choosing to

consider me engaged to horn, and how impossible it was I

could ever be his without becoming completely wretched. I

even touched on his political principles as a cause of dislike,

which I hoped would operate with my father himself in his

disfavour, and finally conjured Sir Arthur to feel for me asa

parent, and not to suffer his naturally generous nature to

be influenced against his own child ; and begged horn to allow

me formally to dismiss the Colonel, or that be would himself

put an end to his pretensions.

I was astonished at what followed. Instead of that authoritative

tone and manner in which my father had been wont

to address me on all points relating to this affair, he paused

only for a moment, and, with a look of distress, not as if he

were now pained for himself, but for me, he fixed his eyes,

that were filled with tears, upon me, and took my hand affectionately,

as he said, " O, my child, you know not what I

suffer at this moment on your account. But I will confide

all to you. I will put myself and all that I possess into your

power, to save or to destroy me as you will ; I will trust all

to your affection. If Colonel Holborne is dismissed lam a

ruined man. You are the only link between us — the only

claim I have on his forbearance — yet he is a generous man."

It would be impossible for me to describe what were my

feelings at the sight of my father's deep distress. He was in

tears. Tears in a man are always painful. But to see a

mid naturally so firm as his thus moved struck me with a

sense of sympathy not unallied to fear. I felt at that moment

I not only could have resigned all my own hopes of happiness

for his sake, but, could the sacrifice of my life have served

horn, it should have been made. Why had my stepmother or

her daughter ever stepped in between my father and myself

to block up the way to that tender confidence which, if but

encouraged by a word or a look, I should have delighted to

repose in a father's bosom ?

I answered I scarcely knew how, so much was I surprised

and affected by what passed ; but I gave my father the

fondest assurances of duty and obedience, and begged horn

eagerly to tell me all.

All will soon be told, my child," he said ; "my father

was imprudent in his affairs, and unwise in his efforts to

repair the inroads which his thoughtless expenditure had

made in his estate, and rash, even to folly, in his political

career. To spare you all unnecessary details concerning his

lawsuits, his mortgages, and numerous other difficulties of a

like nature, here is the result : by fines in the Star Chamber

he lost much, by extravagance still more, and by the law

nearly all that remained ; till at long-th his whole estate

became embarrassed and completely within the power of

Colonel Holbornes father. He, however, did not long survive

my unhappy parent. Colonel Holborne stepped into his

place, and succeeded to all his rights over my ruined fortunes.

I expected that, in giving the law its course, he

would render my ruin complete ; he had it in his power todo

so ; and any man of a less noble nature would not have

scrupled ; as in seizing on all that I possessed the world

would not have condemned horn ; he would but have taken

what ho was entitled to call his own. But, oh ! how differently

did Colonel Holborne act ! He pitied me — pitied

the sorrows and distresses of my aged and widowed mother,

who was then alive, and came to me-with his attorney at his

side — not to enforce the penalty of the law, and to close on

the ruined heir by seizing all the lands forfeited by his

father* — but rather to learn if some means might not be

adopted to save the inheritance of an ancient family ; to

spare me the cruel process of the law, and to arrange for the

payment, by an annual instalment and a moderate rato of

interest, of far less than his father had required, till, in the

course of years, the whole debt should be discharged. Overcome

by such an instance of generosity, I thankfully acceded

to his proposals, and all was speedily arranged between us.

The original parchments, however, were neither cancelled

nor destroyed ; so that all my estate still lies within the

power of Colonel Holborne ; for, though years have rolled

The form of mortgages at the date of this narrative was not like the

present. There was generally a day stated, called a set day, for the payment

of the principal ; when, if that were passed over, all the estate, or

whatever it might be that had been mortgaged, became absolutely forfeited

to the mortgagee.

on, and I have never hitherto failed in the payment of the

annual portion of the debt, yet so heavy was it when my

father died, that it came to me as a burden enough to crush

the spirit of a son. It is not even yet half paid. And at this

hour, did Colonel Holborne choose but to be vindictive, on

account of my adherence to the King, he need not seek the

assistance of Committee-men and Sequestrated to ruin me ;

he could do it himself, by the simple process of the law.

The very roof that now covers my head would not be mine.

He might at once crush mc."

But he would not do so ; I am sure he would not," I

exclaimed.

I think he would not," said my father ; " but you have

not heard all ! So much was I overcome by my deep sense

of gratitude for the manner in which Colonel Holborne had

stepped forward to save me from ruin, that, in the warmth of

my feelings, I vowed neither public or private dissentions —

for even then wc were beginning to differ in opinion concerning

politics, which made his generosity the greater — should

ever, on my part, cause a breach between us. And, should

it be the will of Heaven to afford me the opportunity in anyway

to requite horn for so much generosity, I solemnly vowed

that I would do it at any sacrifice, and that not my own life

should be spared to serve him. Elizabeth, need I tell the

rest ? the occasion came — I did requite Colonel Holborne

with the promise of your hand. Your father's word must

not be broken."

"0, do not say it ! Do not thus pronounce my doom, my

dear, dear father ! " I exclaimed, as I threw my arms around

his neck, clinging to him. " You do not know "

He stopped mc. " I neither know, nor wish to know, any

cause that might make my purpose even yet more painful

than it is to myself, now that I lean how adverse you are to

the match, and find that he has become an avowed rebel to

the King. But to know your sseereift — if you have a secret —

could not shako my resolution to fulfil my word. Elizabeth.

I have preserved nothing entire that belonged to our ancient

family and to a gentleman but my honour ; I cannot, therefore,

break my promise given to Colonel Holborne, that you

should be his. Ho is a generous man, but not a weak one ;

a girls reluctance to wed with one who has been the preserver

of her father and his fortunes will not weigh with

horn to give you up ; and, as I should hold any intimations

given by you — any attempts made, however indirectly — to

lead horn to renounce you, of his owu free will, dishonourable

as an evasion of my contract — I charge you, on your duty

to me, to make none.'

I shudder-ed as the word contract met my ear. To think

with what determination my father could speak of an engagement

so all-important to mc. The contract ! the very

word seemed to my young heart to mean only law settlements

and parchments, but not love — not the freedom of an

unrestrained choice. I could not speak my feelings — I could

not say to my father, whom I so much loved, and for whose

distress I felt so keenly at this moment — I could not say to

horn that I would at once disappoint all his reliance on my

duty, my affection, ruin all his hopes, and even tempt Colonel

Holborne- — could the generosity of his nature be assailed by

such temptation — to act vindictively, by calling up his resentment

towards that father. With such a prospect of our

family distress before me — of my father's ruin — the thought

of my secret engagement to Edmund presented itself as an

act of such guilt to my mid that, were it possible, I-would

have concealed it not only from the knowledge of all the

world but even from my own heart. Did I but glance an

eye that way, all was difficulty and danger. I shuddered, as

I gave but a passing thought to the subject, and shrunk

from it with a sickening of the soul that so affected me I

nearly sunk at my father's feet, yet I dared not avow the

truth.

He supported me kindly ; he thought that my distress

proceeded alone from my dislike to Colonel Holborne ; and,

in the most earnest manner, implored me to endeavour to

overcome it — at least, not to give the Colonel (more especially

at this crisis, when ho was yet unprepared, and had

the worst to fear from the Republican party) any cause to

suspect. Sir Arthur concluded with drawing from me a

promise that I would continue to receive the Colonel with

every mark of kindness during the short time he remained

in our neighbourhood, and that I would on no occasion refuse

horn my company.

My father commended and kissed me as I gave horn the

promise he required. These were such unusual marks of his

favour that I doubly felt their value. He again assured me

of his affection, and that nothing but the circumstances in

which he stood would compel horn to ask of me that which

he saw, with regret, gave me so much pain.

Thus wc parted. But no sooner was I alone than a full

sense of all the difficulties of my situation recurred to my

mid in a manner the most distracting. I felt I had done

wrong — that my indecision had been carried to a criminal

extent. I felt I was playing an unworthy part, and that

even the gratification I had so lately experienced in obliging

my father was anything but praiseworthy ; as my compliance

with his request had been disingenuous, and was therefore

allied to falsehood ; for had I not concealed from horn the

truth ?

Thus with horn again was I thrown back on the old position

; fresh resolutions were formed but never fulfilled ; a

deep sense of remorse followed, and another determination

to part-with Edmund ; but all ended, as it must ever end

with the weak and the irresolute, in letting what was-wrong

remain to right itself, and in referring to time and chance

that which a more vigorous resolution should have at once

decided.

CHAPTER VIII.

Base envy withers at another's joy,

And hates that excellence it cannot reach.

Thomson.

With that malignant envy which turns pale

And sickens if a friend prevail ;

Which merit and success pursues with hate,

And blasts the worth it cannot imitate.

Churchill.

It was during these days of anxiety and doubt that a

neighbour of ours, Lady Millard, with that far-sighted policy

which so many timid persons adopted at this crisis, but

which so seldom answered the desired end of keeping well

with both parties, determined on giving a ball to the leading

families around her, who were known to have espoused

opposite sides in the political contests of the time. You will

observe, that, at this juncture, the war, though coming

towards the West with a very formidable aspect, had not

yot actually reached us; so that, although Royalist and

Parliamentarian now met with a very ill grace, and frequent

quarrels and duels took place between them, yet they occasionally

did meet, and generally at the house of some common

friend, who, like Lady Millard, wished to the last, and

by every possible means, to establish a character of neutrality.

Some even canned this precautionary conduct sofar

as to divide their sons, nephews, wards, or dependants,

and to cause one or more to serve the King, and the rest the

Parliament.*

Acting on this supposed principle of prudence, Lady Millard

had invited to her ball, amongst the Royalists, our

family ; and among the Roundheads, Colonel Holborne ; but

she had omitted Edmund Oxenham, though he was at this

period known to be most intimate at Moortown. How this

happened none of us could conjecture ; in all probability, it

arose from her ladyship not being aware he was then with

us as my father's guest. Edmund was a favourite with

Lady Millard ; the omission, therefore, could not have been

designed. My stepmother might have taken horn with us,

without the ceremony of invitation, but she would not hear

of his going, though her daughter seemed displeased at her

denial — I could not think wherefore, as Dorothea could not

have forgotten Edmund's former proofs of indifference towards

her. But, perhaps, as she had certainly once loved

horn, she might now have raised her hopes anew, on the supposition

that any partiality he might entertain towards me

would be effectually cured by my expected alliance with

Colonel Holborne, and Edmund might be won for herself.

Be this as it may, as Edmund was not to go, she made

some excuse — indisposition, I believe, and would stay at

home likewise ; and my father, who held in contempt-what

he termed the mean and shallow policy of Lady Millard,

refused his company. But, as Colonel Holborne told us he

had accepted the invitation, my stepmother proposed (and

my father seemed to approve her plan) that the Colonel

should conduct her and myself to this ball. I could not say

A modern writer, Mr. D' israeli, who has thrown so inch valuable

light on the domestic manners and feelings, as « ell as on the more public

history of the times of Charles 1., has noticed the worldly-minded conduct

of persons who acted exactly as is here represented in respect to Lady

Millard, and has given many curious instances of families dividing their

sons and kindred into Royalists and Parliamentarians.

a word in contradiction. Indeed, after the promise I had

given to my father, I felt I was bound to go. But, so well

did I know the jealousy, the distrust, the misery such an

arrangement would occasion in Edmund (who was not present

when Lady Moorenn proposed the plan), that I dared

not speak of it. I knew not how to act, and I ventured to

hope that he might not know anything about it till the day

came, when it would be obvious to horn, by the attendance

of the Colonel, that the scheme was solely one of my stepmother's,

for which I was not answerable. My greatest fear

was that, not knowing what had passed between my father

and myself, should he previously hear of the engagement,

Edmund would vehemently insist on my refusing to be of a

party where Colonel Holborne was to be our sole conductor ;

since, situated as I was with horn, such a step would proclaim

myself engaged to the Colonel in the sight of all the

world, and my stepmother would be sure to do all she could

to confirm the impression. It now wanted only two days to

the ball. I endeavoured, as much as possible, during the

interval, to avoid seeing Edmund alone, to shun any private

conversation with hir n; he perceived it, and was greatly

hurt.

On the evening of the day preceding this party of pleasure

(the most miserable that was ever formed for me) Edmund

found an opportunity to speak to me alone. In those hurried

moments he let me know that he had heard the report of my

being about to go to the ball with the man who made such

insolent pretensions to mc. But he (Edmund) did not make

himself unhappy about it because he knew that I could not

that I would not — nay, that I dare not accompany Colonel

Holborne to such a meeting without horn ; well knowing how

offensive it would to his feelings did I go.

This was spoken with a want of temper, with a bitterness,

and indeed an arrogance of manner, that, in a moment, fired

my quick feelings (too quick, perhaps) to a sense of injury.

I thought it great injustice towards myself that Edmund

would never give me credit for wishing to act rightly towards

him. I felt it also to be cruel on his part, that, knowing ashe

did our engagement was but conditional, and a secret

between ourselves, he should now call on me to act precisely

as he would have a right to do were such engagement public,

arid confirmed by the sanction of my father. Without knowing,

also, what might have passed between my father and myself

to render my compliance with the present arrangement

absolutely necessary, what right, thought I, had Edmund

thus to take me to task ?

Irritated, and I think justly, by such conduct on his part,

and such considerations on my own, I believe I answered

pettishly ; for I felt, in every point, since my unhappy secret

compact with Edmund, that if there was to be peace preserved

between us I must invariably yield ; I must conciliate, and

he must control. Yet, notwithstanding all my pride, I submitted

to this ; not merely from the fear with which he had

inspired me, from tho apprehension of the dreadful effects

that, in all probability, his own violence of feeling would

have upon himself, but because I was so thoroughly convinced

of his sincerity, and of tho depth and ardour of that love,

which was, in fact, the origin of all his jealousy and all his

faults and fears.

An ardent attachment has an almost irresistible power over

the heart of a woman; oven her pride yields to it, when she

feels no positive aversion to tho man in whose bosom she has

kindled such a flame. This was the cause, possibly the sole

cause, why, though I now and then felt offended with Edmund,

and even resisted the unreasonable demands of his jealous

love, yet, however provoked, I never seriously thought of

breaking with hir n; as I felt convinced no other human

being ever had loved or ever could love mo as he did. I-was

to horn the life of life, without which all the rest of the world

would be to horn as nothing: he had often said this, and I felt

it to be truth. Colonel Holborne (who had been forced on

my endurance) loved me ; but he did not, he could not love

me so well ; for his character was neither of so tender nor

though serious, of so melancholy a nature, as Edmund's.

Colonel Holborne, I believed, would leave me for ever with a

wounded heart, but Edmund with a broken one.

It is strange, whilst these convictions weighed strongly

on my mid, that, in the present instance, I suffered my resentments

to take a deeper hold upon me than they had ever

done before ; so that I was not sorry in my heart I had the

conscious support of the duty I owed my father, to make me

resolve on going to the ball, whether Edmund liked it or not.

Yet not, however, wishing to irritate horn, I said nothing

about it, but continued some little preparations I was making

for the occasion, as if nothing more than common had occurred.

The evening previous to the day so anxiously expected I was

employed in some needlework assisted by Dorothea, who

seemed so much to anticipate that this ball, in some way or

other, would be attended with painful and mortifying consequences

to me, that she insisted on helping me in my preparations

for it.

Whilst thus engaged, Edmund, who looked calmer than

when I had last seen horn, came in and seated himself by my

side. Dorothea took pains to tell horn for what purpose wc

were working so intently. Edmund answered not one word ;

but, on her rising to fetch some silk from the lower end of the

room, whilst her back was turned towards us, fixing a look

of tender melancholy on me, he said, in a low, firm, and impressive

voice, " You must not — I feel you cannot go, after

what passed at our last meeting. I care not, then, bow you

are employed — since I feel you cannot go."

Dorothea returned to her seat, which stood near us, before

I could reply, so that nothing more passed on the subject,

and the conversation reverted to general topics. But yet it

was forced ; it did not flow easily ; it was evident wc all were

more engaged with our own thoughts than with each other.

At last, Dorothea asked Edmund if he had seen the beautiful

doves which had lately been sent as a present to her mother

by the Lady Millard ; observing there was one of there now

flying across the lawn. " I thought that you, Mr. Oxenham,"

continued Dorothea, " would feel a peculiar interest in white-breasted

birds."

Perhaps I ought to do so," said Edmund, with a sigh,

and in a manner so peculiar that I involuntarily looked up

in his face, and inquired what he meant.

Have you never heard," he replied, " that with an Oxen-ham,

during many generations, a white-breasted bird has

been considered ominous ?"

No," I said ; " I never heard it. To what do you

allude ?"

To an idle tale, I believe," said Dorothea, answering the

question I had put to Edmund. " I have only in part heard

it myself," she continued. " But I will venture to say, you

would like to hear Mr. Oxenham 's family connection with the

white-breasted bird related to you by himself.

I should, indeed," I replied ; " do, Edmund, tell us this

tradition. Wc will work on, and listen the while."

Edmund drew another deep sigh ; but, without further

preface, thus began.

CHAPTER IX.

THt White-breasted BIRD OF OXENUAM.

Behold, our infancies in tales delight.

WaIaCOT.

They spake not a word ;

But, like dumb statues, or breathless stones,

Stared on each other, and look'd deadly pale.

Shakspere.

In the record of an ancient chronicler of tho West, long

preserved in our family, will bo found some remarkable

particulars respecting tho house of Oxenham — a house no

less distinguished for honour than for gentle blood, from a

younger branch of which lam descended. This record makes

mention of a singular history, connected with the first appearance

of that white-breasted bird, whose sudden and

mysterious visitation is ever deemed to be the herald of

approaching death or woe to man or woman of the race of

Oxenham.

The chronicler relates that, towards the middle of the fourteenth

century, Sir Reginald Oxenham, a brave and gallant

knight, who lived in great splendour, exercising all the

virtues of loyalty to the King, piety to the Church, and

hospitality no less to the stranger and the wayfarer than to

his own friends and neighbours, was the happy father of

three fair children, a son and two daughters. The youngest

of these, the son, was to horn, however, a dear-bought pledge

of conjugal affection ; for his birth cost Sir Reginald the life

of a beloved spouse, whose place he never filled by any second

marriage.

After his death, Sir Reginald, more, it was believed to

divert his grief than from any other cause, gave up his time

to the most strenuous exertions, in order to increase the

honours and the wealth of a family, of whose blood and

descent he had always been but too proud — it was his weakness,

but, as he strove to add to his possessions by none but

the most honourable means, it could hardly be called his

fault. His attachment to the Church was sincere ; and,

thinking it would be making a sacrifice acceptable to Heaven

and at the same time would enable horn at his death to give

all his worldly wealth for the aggrandizement of his only son,

he proposed to devote his two daughters as nuns to the cell

as soon as they should be of sufficient age to take on them

the veil of the novice, preparatory to that of the professed

sister.

Though neither of the daughters, Hilda and Maud, felt

any desire for the life of a recluse, yet they dared not

mvrmvr against the will of their father, who speedily made

all the necessary arrangements for their future destination ;

and the abbess of St. Bennet's in Cornwall consented to

receive them as the daughters of her house, at an appointed

time. Before, however, the time arrived, the hopes of Sir

Reginald received a bitter blow, and all his plans were

changed by the sudden death of that young and promising

son, for the sake of whose worldly aggrandizement he had

shown himself so willing to sacrifice both his daughters.

He now determined on retaining them near his own person ;

to marry them nobly, and, at his death, divide his lands and

all that he possessed in equal shares between them, as co-heiresses

of the ancient house of Oxenham.

Hilda, however, the elder daughter, who was now grown

to woman's estate, and was of strong passions, deep designs,

and grasping views, liked not this proposal of partitioning

between herself and her sister the whole estate ; and, as she

was the elder born, conceived the ambitious and selfish project

of stepping into her deceased brothers place, and of becoming

the sole heiress of the house of Oxenham, chiefly coveting,

and with an eager eye, the gold and lands.

With this view, assisted by the confessor of Sir Reginald,

to whom she promised a large reward for the good of his

monastery, she actually persuaded her father that, after

having designed to give both his daughters to God, as nuns,

should he now entirely withdraw the gift he would stand

within the peril of the law of the Church, and would be liable

to the penalty perhaps of death. She also prevailed with

the confessor to say that, as Sir Reginald had lost his only

son, he would be justified in retaining near his person, and

to succeed to the rights of that son, his elder daughter Hilda ;

but Maud the younger, already designed for Heaven and

the cell, must not be withheld to become secular here on

earth.

Sir Reginald, who truly loved the gentle Maud, was grieved

to the soul, as he listened to these arguments and counsels so

artfully urged upon horn, not only by the monk, but by Hilda,

who did all she could to ingratiate herself into his favour, and

to prejudice horn against her sister.

Q

At length the unhappy parent complied with the wishes

and persuasions of his crafty confessor and his elder and

selfish daughter; but, fearing to trust his resolution in the

presence of Maud, who was lovely in person, of the gayest

spirits, and most captivating manners, he caused her to be

very suddenly conveyed away from his dwelling-without

even seeing her, to bid her a last farewell, or to give her a

father's blessing. Maud, greatly distressed by this cruelty,

and well knowing, from all that had passed, she was indebted

to the envy, the avarice, and the ambition of her sister Hilda,

for being thus forced into a nunnery, for some time after her

arrival at St. Bennet's gave herself up to despair, and behaved

with almost frantic violence, so determined was she, if possible,

to escape from the life-enduring imprisonment of the cell.

But it was all in vain ; as far as this world was concerned,

the gate of Hope had closed upon her with the convent doors.

She had a stern abbess to deal with, a superstitious sisterhood,

and a determined priest. Proper means, as they termed

them, were taken to break the spirit of the unhappy and

refractory novice. What those means were no one ever

knew, for the walls and the cells of St. Bennet told no tales ;

and, after awhile, by the time Maud was allowed to see a

friend now and then through the iron grating of the locutory,

she was herself disposed to reveal nothing ; for her spirit was

in one sense broken and her whole heart changed. At first

she had called on the help of Heaven as a refuge from despair ;

the call (so the abbess reported to Sir Reginald) had been

graciously answered by the appearance of St. Bridget herself

in a vision, who preached to her on patience, and from that

hour of visitation Maud complained no more. Not only did

she become resigned but cheerful in her resignation, obedient

to the lady abbess, affectionate to all the nuns, and so exemplary

in her piety, and in her works of love and charity, that,

after the expiration of a year from the time she took the

veil, she was allowed to become one of those nuns whose duty

it was to attend upon the poor, the sick, and the dying in the

neighbourhood.

In a short time she was so universally revered and beloved

that she was known the country round as the good St. Maud;

thus adding another and a living sant to the already numberless

catalogue of such holy personages in Cornwall.

Hilda, who had thus far succeeded in all her views, now

ruled like a petty tyrant in her father's halls ; for he, goodman,

sunk down with age and disappointment, and thinking

how cruelly he had parted with the worthiest of his daughters,

and in how stern a manner he had forced upon her the veil,

against her will, cared little for what remained to horn in

this world, and, like a second Lear, lived to find, in a very

great degree, the favour he had shown to Hilda requited only

by her unkindness and neglect. So artfully had she contrived

to manage his household, and to dismiss his old pages and

varlet, on one pretence or another, that at last she had left

the old man but one esquire about horn, who was fondly

attached to his master; and she, like another Began, was

preparing to say, "Wherefore one?" when Heaven decreed a

complete change in her affairs, and vindicated its own insulted

justice.

Hilda, not content with having been the cause of her sister

Maud being forced into a convent, to become a nun against

her will, felt so angered at the fare she had acquired in

Cornwall, for her acts of love and charity by her title of

sant, and by the comparison both rich and poor would often

draw between herself, as the haughty heiress of a noble house,

and her humble and pious sister, that she determined on a

visit to the abbess of the convent in which Maud was vowed.

By privately offering to pay a large sum of money annually

for the benefit of the house, provided the abbess would

henceforth keep Maud strictly and severely within her cell,

and would not suffer 1 ' her to go forth on such charitable

missions, she endeavoured to put a stop to her being talked

of as an object of praise or admiration, or being herself compared

with the recluse in so disparaging a manner.

According to the custom of the time, Hilda set off on horseback

to perform this journey to St. Bennet's. But, for obvious

reasons, not wishing that the object of her journey should be

known, she took with her not more than two or three armed

and mounted followers, by way of guard. They were faithful,

but their numbers were insufficient ; they were attacked

on their way near the convent gates by a band of robbers,

who fancied such a noble lady as Hilda must be journeying

with some rich offering to the shrine of St. Bennet.

Hilda (who was not wanting in some noble qualities, had

she followed their dictates only, without listening to those

of her passions, and her selfish ambition) was of a brave

spirit. She encouraged her handful of men to a bold and

determined resistance, by making one herself. The robbers,

Q. 2

unused to such resolution in a woman, and one so slightly

attended, at length took to flight ; but not till a blow, accidentally

falling on her head, had stunned and brought her

to the ground. She was taken up senseless and carried into

the convent, where she lay for many days grievously hurt.

No sooner did Maud know the dangerous condition in which

her sister was brought to the house than she hastened to her,

and, with the most affectionate care, never for a moment

quitted her side. Hilda, from the effects of her wound in the

head, remained in so delirious and wandering a state that

she knew no one till within a few hours of her decease.

Then, and not till then, did she recognise Maud. Struck to

the heart by the affectionate care her sister now displayed

for one who had been to her so cruel an enemy, whose very

mission to that house had alone been prompted by hatred

and envy towards her, the fear of dying when engaged in an

act that showed all the bitterness of her unreconciled feelings,

altogether filled her soul with such horror that no language

could describe her agony either of body or of mid.

The sight of Hilda whilst labouring under frenzy or delirium

was less painful to the tender-hearted Maud than to

see her now that her senses were restored to her. Another

cause seemed likewise to prey on her mid with unmitigated

bitterness — the love of the world and of all the vast wealth

of which till this hour she had been the proud and triumphant

possessor. All this was yet strong in her heart, nevertheless

she-wished to subdue it. The world and all its vain

riches were about to leave her, and for ever ; she now, therefore,

would first leave them. She wished earnestly to repent.

She struggled sore to obtain a right frame of mid even at

this, the last hour. But it was no easy task, for all within

her soul was horror, difficulty, and confusion.

Maud, in the gentlest manner, and with the truest piety,

said all she could to comfort her, and to lead the thoughts of

Hilda to a better and a calmer state, whilst she awaited but

the return of the priest, then absent from the convent, to

convey to the dying woman the hopes of Heaven and the

forgiveness of the Church. But Heaven had been trifled

with too long, and, crc these last consolations could reach the

afflicted sinner, Hilda died, neither in peace with God norman.



Maud was greatly distressed at the decease of her sister,

but principally on account of her souls health in that unseen

and mysterious state to which she had been consigned in so

sudden and wretched a manner, from the want of time for

repentance. Long and deeply did she deplore this great

calamity, and that her sister had not sufficient warning to

prepare herself for death. From the hour she had witnessed

Hilda's terrible departure she made it her earnest and her

daily prayer, not only for herself but for every member of

the house of Oxenham, that, so long as one of their race

should remain, there might be granted to each individual a

sufficient warning to prepare for the great and awful change

that awaits every human being. The prayers of the salts

are never made in vain.

About five years after the death of Hilda and Sir Reginald

(for he had survived his elder daughter only a few months),

Maud, exhausted by her arduous labours in midnight prayers

and daily charities, declined fast in health, and at length

became grievously sick. One day whilst she was engaged in

offering up with more than her usual energy this very petition,

that a warning might be given to herself and her house

before death, a bird of a beautiful and dove-like form (yet

not so decided that its lineage could with certainty be known),

the plumage of whose breast was white as the drifted snow,

having something of brightness about it, as if it were illumined

by rays of light purer than even those of the sun,

came fluttering around her window, with outspread and agitated

wings.

Holy Mary, I thank thee ! my prayer is heard ! " exclaimed

Maud. " Yonder bird comes as a winged messenger

of Heaven to warn me that I shall soon depart this world.

And now do I prophesy that henceforth, to the end of time,

no member of the house of Oxenham shall ever see death

without a white-breasted bird appearing as a signal of such

approaching fate."

So spoke Sant Maud, in the inspiration of a spirit so good

and pious. Shortly after she died in the odour of sanctity,

and was buried within the convent-chapel of St. Bennet. A

stone, with a dove carved upon it, her name, and the date of

her decease, marked the spot where she was laid to her last

rest ; and from that time to the present, if the record of our

ancient chronicler and the constant tale of tradition speak

true, no member of the house of Oxenham ever departs this

life without the previous warning visitation of this white-breasted

and mysterious bird, that comes not only to the

individual himself but even sometimes to some one near or

dear to horn for whom the warning is designed. The last of

our family — so have I been assured by my mother — to whom

this intimation of approaching fate was given was my own

infant brother, on the day previous to his death, when there

was seen fluttering around his pillow, as the child lay in the

cradle, the white-breasted bird of Oxenham.

CHAPTER X.

What sudden angers this 1 how have I reap'd it ?

He parted frowning from me, as if ruin

Leap'd from his eyes.

I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,

To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield.

Shakspere.

Soon after Edmund had finished this tale, Dorothea was

called out of the room. Edmund availed himself of the few-short

minutes her absence afforded for private discourse to

implore me, in terms the most vehement, not to think of

going to the ball in company with his rival, unless I wished

to drive horn to frenzy and despair ; for to such a state of

mid did he feel himself approximating that there were

moments when he could not answer for what might be the

consequence to himself did I go. He assured me he said

this not to terrify me, but to warn me of the peril in which

I stood, that I might be spared the bitter pangs 'of an unavailing

regret when such would come too late.

Inexpressibly shocked at his words, I was about to reply —

about to endeavour to convince horn how utterly impossible

it was I could have a choice in the matter, and that I must

accompany, not the Colonel merely, but my stepmother, who

was going to the ball, — but, crc I could give this explanation

as fully as I could wish, I heard the rustle of my sister's

gown as she approached the door, and was compelled to remain

silent. I endeavoured, however, by my looks, and two

or three words, as I said, " I dare not disobey," to make horn

understand the subject of my thoughts. But with what

feelings did my eyes encounter those of Edmund, when I

read in every line of his pale and agitated countenance the

traces of passions that were at once wild and deep !

All that evening I watched for an opportunity to speak to

Edmund unobserved, but none offered. I knew it would be

vain to write any remonstrance, even could I find an occasion

to write unsuspected, and to convey it to his hands, since he

was so predetermined I ought not to go.

That night I retired to bed, but not to sleep ; and, after a

thousand vague suggestions what to do, I at last resolved on

speaking to my father, and imploring horn to let me remain

at home, and to send Dorothea with Lady Moorenn, pleading

that, as I really never could decide on giving my hand to

Colonel Holborne, I ought not thus publicly to countenance

his pretensions. I did speak to my father, but he grew impatient,

and would not listen, insisting on my absolute obedience

to his commands, and, suddenly leaving me, I sank

down in the seat I had but just before quitted on his entrance

into my apartment. With a heavy heart I took up some

work to distract my thoughts, and, as I was thus engaged,

not knowing what I did, Edmund stole upon me so softly, by

a side door which my father had left open in his retreat,

that I did not perceive his approach till his sudden appearance

made me start, and the few words he spoke gave me so

great a shock I was ready to sink down at his feet with

affright.

"You are preparing for this ball," he said. " You will go,

then, with Colonel Holborne ? Beware — beware what you

do ! you are playing a dangerous part — trifling with your

own honour, and with my life ! Oh, Elizabeth, you have

driven me to madness ! I can endure no longer these

torments — I may not live to upbraid you if you go ! I will

not answer for myself — for I am no longer myself."

Steps were heard without the chamber ; and Edmund,

wishing to avoid observation, instantly left me, and retreated

through the side door where he had entered.

To describe the state of my mid from that hour till the

one approached in which wc were to set out for this unhappy

ball would be impossible. I was no longer distracted

; I was stupefied with my feelings and my fears. I

did not even attempt any conjectures as to the steps I should

take ; I could think of none — decide on none. I spent the

rest of that day in wandering from room to room in listless

idleness, in the most wretched state of irresolution ; sometimes

fixed at my window, vainly watching for the return of

Edmund, who I learnt from one of the servants had been

observed to leave the house. Could I have seen Colonel

Holborne, in the utter want of all counsel in my distress, I

would have thrown myself on his generosity, and implored

horn not to ask me wherefore, but to go to Lady Millard's

ball without coming to Moortown in the evening for either

my stepmother or myself. But I saw neither Edmund nor

the Colonel ; and the hours, that will not delay their pace

to prolong the day to the happy, nor yet speed it on to

shorten it for the miserable, at last brought with them the

evening, and all its train of wretchedness to mc.

My maid came and warned me that it was time to dress ;

and that I should be late if I longer delayed. I suffered

her to dress me ; for I could not do the slightest thing for

myself. My toilet was just finished when I heard something

stir near my chamber-door, which opened on the long

gallery, near the head of the great staircase. I bade my

maid go and see who it was. She just opened the door,

looked out, and then shut it, saying, she believed it was Mr.

Edmund Oxenham.

Stay here," I said, " and wait for me." I then rushed

hastily from the chamber. Edmund stood on the landing,

at the head of the great staircase, on that very spot where

he had once before thrown himself in my way, in so agitated

a manner, when he gave me the letter which first made

known to me his most disastrous love. His looks were then

alarming; but now they were terrible. I had often seen

Edmund look wretched ; but never till now had I seen horn

look lost — lost to himself, to reason ; to all but a high-wrought

impulse of despair. His face was pale as death,

the eye upraised but dim, the lips ashy white, every feature

agitated as if convulsed, yet there was a rigidity in the attitude

in which he stood (for he never moved a step to meet

me, whilst the limbs appeared shaken with tremor) as if a

deadening touch of palsy had passed over his whole frame.

I was dressed in my ball attire. He looked upon me with

an expression that seemed to speak his wonder, as he uttered

but a few words, twice repeated ; but O, Heaven ! with

what a tone ! They came like the knell of death upon my

ear, for that tone spoke despair. " You will go, then," he

said., " you will go, then ! " — and, rushing down the stairs,

instantly left mc.

Alarmed for Edmund's life ; to preserve that from injury

the worst of all injuries (for indeed I feared it), all other

fears, all other considerations now sunk into nothing before

this. I was no longer irresolute ; I was determined to act.

Not even the awe of my father's presence, nor the terrors of

his anger, crossed my mid. Nothing seemed, even for a

moment, worth weighing in opposition to Edmund's safety.

Let the sacrifice be what it would, I cared not — I would save

him. All the thousand terrors which had for months overawed

and caused me to act so irresolutely, so clandestinely,

now sunk into insignificance ; they were not worth a moments

thought. My mid was made up for any avowal,

any hazard, so that I might preserve horn from the consequences

of such impassioned frenzy.

With this resolution I rushed down the great stairs. I

scarcely felt the ground as I crossed the hall ; not a tear

was in my eye, not a timid feeling in my bosom. I was all

courage ; and, though I drew my breath quickly, I was yet

calm, because my purpose was determined. I was raised by

the strength of my own resolution above all fear.

I never paused till I reached the chamber called the

Paradise chamber. There, leaning against the wainscot near

the door, noticing no one, and being noticed by no one, stood

Edmund ; evidently waiting the result with the fixed purpose

of a mid in despair, maddened by a spirit of the most

fearful jealousy. To what extremities of cruelty, of dire

distress, will not the passions lead, when they throw off the

restraints that reason and religion would oppose to their

headlong career ! There stood Edmund, the pale image of

despair.

Remote from horn, and at the further extremity of the

apartment, were assembled round the fire my father, my

stepmother, and Dorothea. Colonel Holborne stood near the

virginals from which Dorothea had just risen ; she had been

playing to pass the time till I was dressed. On seeing me

enter the Colonel advanced some steps, and with a pleased

and smiling countenance was about to greet me when my

stepmother looked at me sternly, and said, " You are late,

Elizabeth, in dressing; wc have all waited." My father also

said something, I know not what it was, to the same effect,

in a tone of displeasure.

I heard a sigh of agony burst as from the very heart of

Edmund as my father spoke ; no ear but mine, I believe,

caught it. But to me, whose every faculty was alive and

watchful for the least sign of that distress which seemed to

have unsettled the very brain of Edmund, that sigh was not

lost. It fell clear and distinct upon my ear, as if to warn meno

longer to delay giving relief to the unhappy being whose

very life, perhaps, hung on my next word. I hastened to

speak it. "I am not going to the ball," I said, in a clear,

firm, and even raised voice, turning slightly towards Edmund,

that I might be sure he would hear and understand

what I said without the fear of misapprehension. " I am not

going to the ball," I repeated.

Even amidst the surprise, the anger, the confusion, the

many voices which my plain-spoken declaration called out

against me, I could catch the sound of a second sigh that

burst from the bosom of Edmund, as if to give relief to his

overburdened breast, on hearing my words. I cannot repeat,

for I was scarcely capable of understanding, the reproaches,

the rage, the commands that were poured out upon

me by all but Colonel Holborne. He stood looking at me

with astonishment, and seeming by his air to ask an explanation,

not as a favour, but as a right.

Speaking at hazard, I said I was ill, and could not go ;

and sat down upon a chair that was near, for indeed I could

hardly stand.

Bl ! " exclaimed my stepmother. " Very sudden, truly,

is this illness ! Pray how long have you been ill ? It has

not prevented your dressing, I see. What ails you ?"

She is not too ill to go, and shall go," said my father,

bluntly, and in an angry tone ; " Colonel Holborne shall not

be thus played with. Elizabeth, I command you to accompany

Lady Moorenn and Colonel Holborne to this ball. What

bas caused this strange caprice? what has caused you to

alter your intentions since you came into this chamber ? "

I did not intend to go before I came into this chamber,"

I replied. " Indeed, I cannot go."

For what purpose did you dress, then ? " said my step-sister,

with a sneer.

I must beg some explanation," said Colonel Holborne.

Have I been so unfortunate as to give you any offence, or

to endanger that long-continued favour on which I have

ventured to build the fondest hope ? "

Colonel Holborne," said my father, " do not you trouble

yourself about my daughter. The affair is now between her

and myself — between father and daughter — obedience or disobedience.

She shall go, for I command it."

Sir Arthur advanced, as if to raise me from my seat, and

lead me to Colonel Holborne. I started up, and, not knowing

what to do or where to turn at this crisis, I said to Dorothea,

who was near me, "0, sister, sister ! if you have the

feelings of a sister, or of a friend for one of your own sex,

who is lost unless you will help her, follow me, and speak

with me alone." I snatched up a taper that burnt on a side-table,

and led the way. Dorothea followed in silence, with

looks more of wonder than of maliceatthis moment in her face.

Dorothea was the last person in whom, under any less

desperate circumstances, I should have chosen to place confidence

; or from whom I should have sought counsel, at such

a crisis. But I was driven to my last shift ; I knew not

which way to turn ; and my despair and not my choice made

me turn to her, even as a distressed vessel steers towards

an enemy's port when threatened with shipwreck. If fear

often makes us cowards, it as often perhaps makes us bold.

I, who, but an hour before, should have viewed the possibility

of Dorothea knowing the fatal engagement that existed

between Edmund and myself with indescribable dread, as a

thing fraught with ruin to us both, was now about to make

her acquainted with it myself, and that in the most fearful

light, surrounded by all its circumstances of error, of apprehension,

and of dread.

But, having resolved on this, I could not stay to ponder on

the means. The fact of the confession was enough. I cared

not to give with the confession any attempts at mitigation,

any softening of the truth.

I led the way to a small adjoining apartment. No sooner

was the door closed than, turning to the astonished Dorothea,

before she could say one word, I exclaimed, as calmly as I

could compel myself to speak, whilst my heart throbbed as

if it would burst my bosom, " Dorothea, if you would save

the life of a fellow-creature, if you would save Edmund from

destruction, give me your assistance g o, instead of me, to

this ball. If Igo with Colonel Holborne, under present circumstances,

Edmund Oxenham, I fear, will not live to see

our return. He loves me ; wc are engaged to each other ;

and his feelings, long tortured by anxiety, doubt, and suspense,

have at length wrought his mid to a frenzy of jealous

passion. If I go, death follows — I am convinced it will be so ;

it will then be too late for regrets : — reasoning, reproaches,

remonstrance are of no avail in moments such as these. I

am determined no earthly power shall compel me to move

one step to this ball. Save me then, dear Dorothea ; pity

me ; save me from the consequences of my own folly ; from

my father's indignation; from your mother's anger — save

Edmund, and may God bless you for the good deed ! Plead

for me ; speak to your mother ; go yourself, instead of me,

and all will be well."

As I spoke this with the most rapid utterance, Dorothea

stood lost in wonder and amazement. Anger, disappointment,

envy, jealousy — all those evil passions which it maybe

supposed one of her disposition would feel for a step-sister

she had never regarded, and who she found had won the

heart of, and had pledged her hand to, the man she had herself

loved and who had slighted her, now took possession of

her bosom. The few words she addressed to me spoke the

gall and bitterness such a discovery of the truth was to a

mid so prejudiced and so disposed.

Yet, in the midst of all this, the confidence I had placed in

her pleased her ; for she was very proud and self-opinionated,

and delighted in being called in to settle all the family

affairs. She did, also, feel sufficient interest for Edmund,

notwithstanding bis previous slights, to wish to preserve horn

from the danger in which he now stood from his own disturbed

and almost frantic state of feeling. She let me know

that she had observed, for the last three or four days, his

demeanour and his looks, and had herself entertained fears

for his reason. She avowed, also, that she had long suspected

his love for me, but had not suspected mine for horn ;

and never even imagined his affection had dared venture on a

declaration ; far less, then, did she dream of an engagement.

On the whole, however, though she treated me, even in these

moments, with little feeling or sympathy, and could not help

throwing out some of her habitual sneers, she behaved better

than I expected ; and undertook to speak both to her mother

and my father, to prevent my going to Lady Millard 's unfortunate

ball ; for that purpose she left me, and returned

to the Paradise parlour.

How little did I foresee the manner in which she would

there conduct herself ! It appeared that, without the slightest

sense of delicacy for the feelings, either of poor Edmund

or Colonel Holborne, she at once boldly repeated to there

what had just passed between her and myself, in all points

except my fears for Edmund's life. You may readily conjecture

what followed. I could not describe it. In the midst

of such an outbreak of stormy passions, I was neither calm

nor collected enough to be capable of very minutely observing

all that passed.

All I can distinctly tell you is that, after Dorothea had

left me to myself and had returned to the adjoining chamber,

I heard voices high and loud, as if engaged in angry discussion

; and then I could distinguish a low, continued utterance,

as if some one in deep sorrow spoke. I was convinced

that Edmund was the last sorrowful speaker. I was at

length summoned to attend in the Paradise apartment, and

prepared to obey the command.

CHAPTER XI

She is peevish, sullen, froward,

Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty ;

Neither regarding that she is my child,

Nor fearing me, as if I were her father.

Shakspere.

On entering, the most extraordinary scene presented itself

to my view. My father — surprised, vexed, yet still feeling,

in the midst of all his anger, that to break for ever with

Edmund was a thing not to be thought of, even in these

moments — was variously swayed, and seemed sorely and

grievously perplexed. Yet, as on no consideration would he

give his sanction to Edmund's pretensions, so likewise would

he on no account suffer that at his command I should deny

my company to Colonel Holborne, and remain at home. It

seemed that, before I was summoned, my father had declared

his disapprobation of the one, and his favour towards the

other, in respect to me ; whilst my stepmother had burst

upon Edmund in a strain of inveterate reproach for having

availed himself of my father's friendship to the injury of his

.child in regard to her duty.

For myself, I was so severely taken to task that, conscious

as I was how irresolutely, if not cruelly, I had acted, I could

do nothing but weep ; whilst the little that Edmund was

permitted to say was aimed at excusing me, and taking all

the blame upon himself. As for Colonel Holborne, he stood

with folded arms, leaning against the wall, looking proudly

composed, and only said, "I am glad of it. lam glad it has

come to this. There must now be an end to irresolution.

Let to-night decide the question ; Mr. Oxenham or myself

must give place. Let it then be seen whose will this lady

will obey — her father's or this gentleman's. I will not interfere

till I know I have an accredited authority to do so,

till I feel I have a right to do so, but not one gained

clandestinely. Mine shall be an open and direct course.

Madam," continued the Colonel, speaking with some asperity

to me, " pray do not consider me — do not say I influence you.

Act under a more legitimate direction than I can at present

have the honour, in any way, to plead in relation to yourself.

I only beg decision."

I stood like a statue, still weeping, but incapable of action,

not knowing where to turn, what to say, or what to do. For

how could I resolve on doing that which would drive Edmund

to despair ? And yet how impossible was it I could tell

Colonel Holborne the confidential communication my father

had made to me about himself, the Colonel, and his affairs !

Dorothea saw my dreadful state of embarrassment, my

irresolution. I am sure she saw it, and, as if to make

matters even yet more difficult for me at this crisis, on

hearing my father say to Colonel Holborne, by way of excuse

for me, " that I was but a young and foolish girl, who had

been led into an engagement which he would never sanction,

and therefore it must end," she added : " that she could not

help thinking Edmund was quite in the right in one respect.

Certainly, whilst I was under an engagement to horn he had

a right to mist I should not give my company to a rival

suitor ; but she hoped I should be excused, seeing how young

I was, and how thoughtless."

Dorothea apology for me was artfully malicious, and

served only to call up in my bosom a feeling of indignant

resentment, instead of thankfulness and gratitude ; and bitterly

did I repent the rash and injudicious confidence I had

reposed in her. I saw the extreme folly there was in my

having fancied that any circumstances could make a selfish,

arrogant, and ungenerous character act contrary to its

nature.

I could not help glancing an indignant look on Dorothea,

yet was I too much distressed and overcome by a sense of

fear and awe to utter a word that might provoke her. On

the contrary — as she chose, a minute or two afterwards, to

come up to me and ask me what she could do to prevent

further mischief — (the Colonel and Edmund were exchanging

angry looks and short words that were of no good augury)

I said to her softly, " Beg my father to speak kindly to

Edmund, to show some pity to his feelings, for, indeed) I am

most to blame. If the Colonel and Edmund are suffered to

continue this angry discourse, there may be bloodshed "

There may be bloodshed, indeed," she replied.

Oh, prevent it ! " cried I, "interfere for peace, for only

you can. I can do nothing."

I will," she said, in atone that indicated a better feeling;

for a love of power, and the admission that she could alone

exercise it with effect, acted on her spirit even as oil upon

the stormy waves around the tempest-tossed vessel, for

awhile allaying their fury.

Dorothea spoke apart earnestly with my father, and then

led both horn and Edmund out of the room. During this

absence, how often did my eye wander to the broad dial-plate

of the old clock that stood on the opposite side of the room,

whilst I was kept in such an agony of suspense ! In about

half an hour my father and Edmund returned. In the

countenance of my father there was a composed air — grave,

resolute, but not anxious ; and when he spoke there was

something in the accents of his voice that told of softened

feelings. Some conversation had passed, I thought, that had

recalled to my father's remembrance his deceased son ; how

Edmund had served horn, and that remembrance had touched

his heart. In Edmund, though deep dejection and wounded

feeling were evident in every line of his expressive countenance

— though it was still pale as death — yet was it composed

; all agitation had ceased. I felt reassured on his

account, and internally blessed God for this reassurance.

Wc were all silent, and all present turned to my father, to

hear what doom he would pronounce on the child and the

friend who had so offended.

Colonel Holborne," he said, " I first address myself to

you, because I feel an explanation is due to you in every

way, both as my friend and as a gentleman whose pretensions

to my daughter have met with my sanction. Under

the present circumstances of the times I would not press for

her decision, since, whilst the country is plunged into this

state of civil strife, it is not a time for giving or taking in

marriage. To you, therefore, I promise nothing more than I

have already promised — my sanction to your union with

Elizabeth, if at a future period you can prevail with her to

confirm it, when I trust no public quarrels may divide us.

In the interval, the cause you have espoused, the opposition

of our principles as well as parties, must, in a very short

time, separate us, but I trust not for ever. Nor is it fitting

with my sense of duty to tho King, and yours to the Parliament,

now in open rebellion against horn, that wc should any

longer hold such frequent intercourse as our private f feelings

and affections would make welcome to both. But of this,

Colonel Holborne, be assured : if present or absent, if my

private friend or my public foe, if peace or if war prevail, I

never can forget tho debt of gratitude by which I am for ever

bound to you. I here most solemnly avow it, before God

and this company ; by me it shall never be forgotten, to you

my word shall never be broken, you know what I mean, and

all I mean. My word is pledged, and with no man but yourself

shall my daughter ever wed, with my consent."

Ho grasped the Colonel's hand as he spoke, who seemed

deeply moved by these assurances. There was a pause ; and

my father, addressing Edmund, continued : " Mr. Oxenham,

I will neither pain you nor myself by here repeating what

has just passed between us. I hope wc have heard each

other with temper, certainly with good will, and I bless God

wc are friends." He wrung Edmund's hand as he spoke.

Colonel Holborne," said my father, "this gentleman has

dealt by me with much candour ; he has confessed all ; his

error has been one of the judgment. He formed an early and

imprudent attachment for Elizabeth, and was so injudicious

as to conceal it from me, with the intention to declare it

hereafter, when circumstances should be more favourable to

his worldly fortunes. He has inconsiderately led my daughter

into an engagement with him. But, I rejoice to say, by

his own candid avowal, such betrothal is conditional, as it

extended not to any claim upon her, unless sanctioned by

myself. I can release her ; I have, therefore, this night set

her free by refusing my consent to Mr. Oxenham. For the

rest, though I cannot look on Edmund as my son, in that

view he would most desire I should, yet in my affections he

is as a second son to me ; for I can neither forget the services

he has rendered to the living, nor the dead, in my family.

Yet am I most unfortunate. To both of you am I bound by

ties of gratitude, of affection ; lam willing to requite tho

debt I owe to both, yet I can fully satisfy neither."

My father seemed so much overcome by his feelings that

Colonel Holborne and Edmund were both sensibly moved,

and assured horn how much they felt for the painful situation

in which he stood, and how convinced they were of his

earnest desire to act justly and kindly to both.

Edmund," said my father, " has also another claim upon

me, to which you, Colonel Holborne, cannot be a stranger ;

he is united with me in the cause of loyalty to the King.

This is a bond which no circumstances can ever break between

us, and wc must strive in it together ; if all hopes of

peace fail, wc may fall in it together. You, Colonel Osborne,

may be the victor, and wc no more. Should such bethe

case, I know you will become as the father, the husband,

the friend, to these who now surround me : they will need a

friend."

Colonel Holborne, never slow in answering any call on his

generosity of spirit, assured my father that, if he survived

horn, he would never, under any circumstances, disappoint

the confidence now reposed in him.

I believe it," said my father, " for you are a brave man ;

I wish you had a better cause, and that in matters of public

opinion wc were as agreed as wc are in those of a more private

nature. I have, however, an earnest request to make

that is very near my heart, and you shall not deny it mc.

It is, though the cause you have espoused may compel you

to be the enemy of Edmund in the field, yet that in private,

you will forbear all quarrel with him. And for you, Edmund,

let me entreat you to remember that the friendship you have

so long entertained for me and mine is best proved in its

sincerity by respecting my will towards my child, and by

forbearing all occasion of private quarrel between you and

Colonel Holborne. You may meet hereafter in the field, yet

may Heaven avert it by once more restoring Charles in peace

to the throne, and this unhappy country to unity with itself !

And remember your duty to the King must shortly take

place of all other obligations. Wc shall find, alas ! but too

many causes of public strife ; let us not, then, quarrel among

ourselves, for scarcely as a people, or as a family, can our

prospects be more unhappy than they now are. Come, gens



tlcman, give me the satisfaction to see you bear no enmity to

each other. Let me join your hands."

Colonel Holborne and Edmund did shake hands, yet I saw

the action on both sides was but constrained, mechanical,

and that no cordiality of feeling accompanied it.

My father turned to mc. " Elizabeth," he said, " I expect

front you the obedience of a daughter. And, as a proof that

I shall expect it, and that I will allow no one, however dear

to me in friendship, to usurp my authority as a father, I

command you to accompany this night Lady Moorenn and

Colonel Holborne to this foolish woman, Lady Millard's,

foolish ball. Do not start, Mr. Oxenham : my daughter goes

now in obedience to mc. The coach waits."

Thus ended this distressful scene, certainly, in one respect,

more happily than I had anticipated ; for my father's anger

had been more easily soothed than I had dared to hope it

would be ; and Edmund saw me depart for the ball (fully

satisfied I could not avoid going with his rival) with a

melancholy calmness that spoke a mid resigned, at least for

the present, to what was inevitable. Yet I knew well, by

the look of earnest entreaty, almost of tender reproach,

which ho gave me, as I ventured to bid horn kindly a Good

even, that, in his heart, he had no more resigned all hope

for the future than ho had laid aside his tenacious jealousy

of the Colonel, to whom he bowed haughtily, in return to

his more cordial farewell, as wc quitted the room. Edmund

would not follow, but turned to Dorothea, as if he were disposed

to welcome, in the very despair of the hour, the kindness

she was evidently rejoiced to have horn thus compelled

to receive from herself alone.

Wc arrived at Lady Millard's in safety. Notwithstanding

the aspect of the times, and the difference of opinion

entertained by the many who were present, all was brilliant,

all was gay ; for, though many who had a strong leaning to

the Parliament had been invited, not one of the rigid Sectarians

of the day would accept the invitation to such an

assembly. But, O ! vrith what a heart of misery do the

children of pleasure sometimes enter on its scenes ! That

night was to me one of torture. The hours that sped away

60 swiftly with all but my unhappy self seemed with me to

hang on leaden wings, as if they would never take their

flight to usher in the morning.

I know not how to behave towards Colonel Holborne. I

dared not suffer horn to suspect the truth, because, in doing

so, I must have betrayed the confidence of my father. I

must have let horn know the motives which induced Sir

Arthur so earnestly to desire to keep alive his hopes. And

yet, as I never meant hereafter to confirm them, by the gift

of my hand, I dared not be so disingenuous now as to encourage

his pretensions. Judge of my embarrassment, of the

difficult part I had to sustain. It was more, however, in

reference to the future than the present that I felt the

difficulty. The company, the friends, the acquaintances,

who came to me and talked to me, or danced with me (for

tho Colonel never danced), the gaiety, the music, altogether,

without my sedulously seeking it, served to keep me a good

deal aloof from the Colonel, and from any very particular

attentions during the whole of that miser-able evening. My

mid, however, was so preoccupied, that, although at Lady

Millard's ball in person, I was still at Moortown in spirit,

and I seemed to see nothing present so vividly as the party

arid all the painful circumstances I had just left there.

Above all, did the pale and distracted countenance of the

impassioned Edmund still haunt mc. Turn where I would,

I seemed to meet his tender and melancholy eye fixed on me

with a mournful expression, as if to upbraid me for having

suffered love, such as his, to grow to such a height, and now

to meditate its destruction ! It seemed to ask me what I

(who had encouraged and responded to his affection) did

there, in that scene of gaiety, with his too happy rival,

leaving horn to experience all the agonies of doubt and fear

for the future.

At length, to my great relief, the hour of departure came.

My stepmother was almost as much wearied with the evening's

amusements, and its painful vicissitudes, as myself;

neither of us could talk ; and Colonel Holborne, who was

grave and thoughtful, seemed as little disposed to converse

as ourselves. In silence, therefore, wc arrived at Moortown

and immediately after retired to rest.

It was, though a matter of surprise, yet one of great comfort

to me, on entering the breakfast-room tho next morning,

to find the Colonel was gone. It appeared that, whilst wo

were absent on the previous evening, a messenger had arrived

with letters from tho Earl of Stamford, directing tho Colonel

r 2

to attend horn forthwith at Exeter. In consequence of these

orders, before any of the family, except my father, was

stirring, Colonel Holborne had bidden horn a hasty but

kindly farewell. He had quitted Moortown, very doubtful

as to when his public duties would allow horn to return to it.

As on all occasions, he behaved with generosity, feeling

deeply himself, but willing, as far as he could do so, to spare

the feelings of others ; on being asked by my father whether

he would wish to see me, Colonel Holborne only waved his

hand in silence, and departed. That day I had an opportunity

of seeing Edmund in the garden unobserved. I found

horn so far resigned to circumstances, for the present, that

ho was content things should remain as they were ; because,

from what my father and himself had that morning heard,

he doubted not the war would soon break out in the West,

in such a manner as to render all private affairs of a very

secondary import, and any immediate settlement of there

inconsistent not only with public duty but with common

prudence. Knowing, as he did, my avowed objections to his

rival, that I had wilfully given horn no encouragement, that

all which had passed had been forced on me by circumstances,

whilst my heart and my promise had alone been

his, he still persisted that, if he lived, he would never resign

his hopes of me ; and he doubted not but, some time hence,

a change in affairs might befriend horn, and my father might

bo brought to alter his present purpose, and give his consent

to our union, when he found our hearts could never be

estranged. In reply to this, I said all which duty to my

father, reason, and probability could suggest, to show how

vain were such expectations and such hopes. But he would

scarcely hear me out, and rashly and passionately, but most

solemnly, vowed that nothing but his death, or my own

change of feeling in favour of another, should ever induce

horn to resign his hopes.

I have only to add to this part of my narrative that the

war soon after broke out with great fury in the West. My

father and Edmund, with the Royalist gentlemen around us,

acted in concert : and, what with the zealous watchfulness

of my stepmother and Dorothea, and the incessant hurry of

public affairs, I had no opportunity for any further remonstrance

or conversation with Edmund.

I pass in silence all those disastrous events, those scenes

of war and misery, which the quarrel between Charles and

his Parliament at this time brought into Cornwall and Devon,

since they are as well known to you as to myself. For nearly

six months, Sir Arthur Moorenn and Edmund Oxenham were

engaged together in the duties of the field ; where, by their

undaunted courage and their devoted loyalty, both achieved

an honourable fame. They were both wounded, though not

dangerously ; and at the battle of Broadway Down my father

saved Edmund's life during the heat of the action. Edmund

was looked upon as a young man full of enterprise and spirit.

My father, though equally brave, was of far more coolness

and deliberation in matters of counsel and debate, so that he

was speedily raised to the rank of a colonel ; whilst Edmund

remained in that which he originally held, as captain in one

of the volunteer regiments. During their absence, Lady

Moorenn, Dorothea, and myself, were at Moortown, attended

by a sufficient number of armed servants and followers ; but

no attack was yet made, or even apprehended, on our house.

CHAPTER XII.

I'll do whate'er thou wilt ; I will be silent ;

But, O ! a reined tongue and bursting heart

Are hard at once to bear.

Joanna Baillie.

All comfort go with thee,

For none abides with me ; my joy is— death.

Shakspere.

Many houses had been stormed and taken by the Roundheads

in our immediate vicinity ; and wo soon perfectly well

understood that wc were indebted for our safety not only to

the forbearance of Colonel Holborne, but to his powerful

influence in our behalf in some high quarter ; for wc learnt,

from private intelligence, that our house was named with a

few others to be spared, as being inhabited by women only,

who could do no harm to the Parliamentary forces, nor bo

any let to their cause.

Had my father and Edmund stayed away from home, or

continued to act only in the field, Colonel Holborne (as he

afterwards assured us himself) would still have been able to

protect us. But my father, feeling the effects of his hard

service, and Edmund being in a weak state from the quantity

of blood he had lost at the time he received his wound, they

both imprudently returned to Moor-town, in the hope such

return would be unsuspected by the enemy, and that, by staying

at home for two or three weeks to recruit their strength,

they could also, whilst there, find leisure to complete some

secret plans and negociations they were carrying on for the

service of tho King, with Prince Rupert and other Royalists,

then at Bristol ; principally with the view of retaking the

city of Exeter for King Charles. Moortown, though walled

and capable of defence, from the circumstances I have mentioned,

was not well prepared for it ; so that when the news

came that, by the express command of the Earl of Stamford,

a body of Parliamentarians was coming against us, wc were

not only surprised but vexed beyond measure, that, relying

on the known favour of Colonel Holborne, wc had been so

imprudent as not fully to prepare for our defence.

Still my father and Edmund resolved to hold out the old

house, as well as they could, to the last, though they knew,

unless wo could make terms, that necessity would compel a

surrender in the course of a very few days, as wc had neither

arms, ammunition, nor food sufficient to sustain a prolonged

siege. To complete our dismay, wc speedily found that the

leader of this formidable array against us was Colonel Osborne

himself ! — Colonel Holborne, who knew, as perfectly

as wc did, the real state of things, and that wc must yield to

horn, do what wc could to make a show of resistance. It

soon, however, appeared Colonel Holborne came resolved to

make the most generous use he could of the knowledge he

possessed of our affairs, consistent with the duty he owed to

the cause he had espoused.

Not to detain you with any unnecessary details, suffice it

to say that our attempts at defence were as futile as wc expected,

and that, had wc to deal with a less friendly foe,

Moortown House, in all probability, would have been taken

crc the close of the third day — burned, pillaged, and its

wretched inhabitants put to tbc sword. But not such was

its fate under our most generous victor. Finding, by the

gradual decrease of our discharge of musketry, and of a

couple of minion drakes wc had mounted on our walls, that

our ammunition was nearly spent, Colonel Holborne sent to

our gates a flag of truce and a trumpet, demanding a parley.

It is needless to add that it was instantly granted, and the

Colonel himself came to propose and negotiate the terms of

our surrender. Sir Arthur and Edmund were closeted with

horn alone.

Soon after, my father came to us women, who were

anxiously awaiting the result of the negotiation in the Paradise

parlour. He told us that Colonel Holborne had proved

himself to be the most generous of conquerors ; and that the

terms he had proposed were at once merciful and honourable ;

and as lenient as the duty he owed to the Parliament would

admit. All the arms of our men were to be surrendered ;

and a certain number of the enemy's troop quartered in our

house. No injury was to be offered to our persons or our

property, of any kind ; wc women were to be at liberty to

stay where wc were, or to go where wc pleased. My father

and Edmund were to be held prisoners of war, on their

parole, till the pleasure of the Earl of Stamford, under whose

orders Colonel Holborne had acted, could be known respecting

them. The Colonel intimated that he believed his influence

was not inconsiderable with the Earl of Stamford,

and that he hoped to get them off on the payment of a fine

for their malignancy. For the present, and till such time ashe

could hear from the Earl, he should take up his quarters

at Moortown, for the double purpose of protecting us, and of

watching the movements of some Royalists, who were likely

to intercept the progress of a body of the Parliamentary

forces now on their way for the reinforcement of Exeter, at

that time threatened with assault for the purpose of retaking

it for the King.

You may suppose, Paulina, with what feelings wc heard

Colonel Holborne say in the evening that he was glad neither

Sir Arthur Moorenn nor Captain Oxenham, had meddled in

that affair, as, if they had, it would be no easy task to procure

mitigation of their punishment. All wc could hope was

that the correspondence my father and Edmund had carried

on, in furtherance of the plan for the deliverance of Exeter

to the King, might pass undetected. Some days elapsed, and

Colonel Holborne received no answer ; a thing that a good

deal alarmed us, as it looked like delay for the purpose of

investigation and inquiry.

During this painful interval, in all points (save those

which immediately touched on his duty), Colonel Holborne

insisted on my father still living and acting as master of his

own house, and once more made himself his guest. So much

was there of true delicacy in his truly generous mid, that

now, when wc dared refuse horn nothing, he would not so

much as hint at his suit to me ; nor did he pay me any more

than ordinary marks of attention ; except that now and then

a look or a word dropped, as it were, unbidden from his lips,

spoke his still unchanged and ardent love. Noble in his conduct

towards his rival, now his prisoner, he always connected

himself towards horn with the most disinterested magnanimity

; forbearing even his very looks of kindness to me, in

Edmund's presence, because ho was too generous to triumph

over or insult tho feelings of one who was so completely

within his power.

Would that Edmund could have seen his generosity in the

same light that I did ! But his judgment and his sense of

justice were alike clouded by the dark mists which doubt

and jealousy had cast over his mid ; so that even the very

virtues of Colonel Holborne were changed, when viewed

through the gloom of his most unconquerable prejudices.

The Colonel's generosity, he affirmed, was the result of artifice

to work on my feelings for his own ends; and the warm

expression of thankfulness which his conduct drew forth, as

gratitude filled my whole heart, was deemed as an indication

of altered feelings in myself, and as an encouragement of his

rival's hopes and views.

But, though I pitied Edmund's errors, and very greatly

excused them, knowing well his character, his deep passions,

the rash conclusions, and the tortures of fear and doubt that

gave them birth, yet was I determined that he should neither

make me unjust nor ungrateful ; and as long as Colonel Osborne

preserved such a true magnanimity of spirit, and of

conduct in respect to us all, so long would I let the Colonel

see I felt its value and knew how to respect it.

On the fourth day after our capture, in the midst of a

somewhat angry dialogue on this subject between Edmund

and myself (when for a few minutes he found the opportunity

to speak to me unobserved), I was called out of the room by

my old and faithful servant. She put a letter into my hand.

I broke the seal hastily : the contents were a few lines from

Colonel Holborne. He requested roe to do horn the favour to

allow horn a short and private audience, in my own closet, ashe

had something to communicate of the highest importance,

which it was absolutely necessary should be told to me alone.

Much alarmed by this paper, I bade my maid tell the Colonel

I would on the instant attend hir n; and I bade her bring

horn as privately as possible to the apartment he had named.

The Colonel came ; I bade my maid (whom I knew I could

trust) watch without, that no one might interrupt us. The

Colonel closed the door, and wc were alone.

The moment I looked up in his countenance I was convinced

that something very unusual had occurred, as there

was in it an expression of agitated feeling, most unusual with

Colonel Holborne, who was remarkable for preserving a calm

demeanour under almost any circumstances of doubt or pain.

I knew nothing had happened concerning myself to vex hir n;

the thought then at once flashed across my mind — it must be

some distressing intelligence about my father that he had to

communicate. A messenger, who not an hour before had

been with the Colonel, must have been the bearer of it.

Alarmed in the extreme by this idea, I spoke my fears by a

few words, exclaiming — " 0 ! Colonel Holborne, what is it

you would tell me ? I fear the worst for my father !"

Indeed," he replied, " I grieve to say it, you have but too

just cause : I am distressed at the news I have to communicate

to him."

He does not yet know it, then ?" I said.

No," answered the Colonel ; " I would not tell horn until

I had first consulted with you, because — I will be frank with

you — time presses ; lam compelled to be thus abrupt, and

to dispense with all ceremony, because I first wish to consult

with you, as I think that, should you now give your sanction

to the only means by which it appears possible that I can

interfere to save your father, he may yet be saved. For O,

Elizabeth ! I must not conceal from you the truth, the Earl

of Stamford demands nothing less than your father's life !

He demands that I should send to horn forthwith your father

and Captain Oxenham as prisoners, and if I do so the death

of both is certain, for strange discoveries have come to

light."

"O, heavens ! " I exclaimed ; and, overcome by the shock

of this sudden and terrible communication, I sank down on

a chair, nearly fainting. The Colonel, alarmed at my condition,

took my hand within his, and said, " I am too rough,

too abrupt. Yet, believe me, not for all this world could

offer would I distress you did I know how to avoid it. But

endeavour to compose yourself and all may yet be well.

Did you not say," I replied, as soon as I could sufficiently

recover myself for speech, " did you not say that I could

save my father ? I will do anything, sanction anything, so

I may but preserve his life. And Edmund Oxenham — did

you not say that he too was in danger ? "

Yes, their danger is equal, for their guilt is so. Pardon

me tho word, it was unwittingly spoken, but you know what

is virtue with the Royalists is not held to bo such with those

who are unhappily opposed to them. Thus the matter stands.

I have this day received the commands of my General, the

Earl of Stamford, to give up my prisoners without delay to

hir n; as it appears that some false friend to the Royal cause

who has lately fallen into the Earl's power, to save himself,

has betrayed a most important secret, and put into Stamford's

hands papers of the utmost consequence, with which

he was entrusted in order to convey them to Prince Rupert,

now at Bristol. Among these wore found letters from your

father arid Edmund Oxenham, clearly showing that they

were the originators of the plot, and about to become the

leaders of an enterprise to retake Exeter for the King. The

Earl of Stamford, who feels much respect both for Sir Arthur

Moorenn and Captain Oxenham, as brave men and gentlemen

of honour, adds, that it deeply grieves horn to think he must,

to strike others with awe, make these gentlemen an example ;

that he must, by the power vested in horn, condemn them to

death for having been detected in these practices — treasonable

practices to tho Parliament. lam called on to yield

them up this very day ; the Earl of Stamford is now stationed

within eighteen miles of Moortown. I fear, if once in his

hands, that neither your father nor Captain Oxenham will

live to see tomorrow's sun."

But you will not yield them up ; you will not ! " I said

frantically.

You know not what you require of me," replied Colonel

Holborne. "I am under the command of the Earl of Stamford,

and I have no choice. Did I refuse them I could not

save them."

"O ! what, what is to be done ? " I said. " You talked of

saving them but now — of saving them would I but consent

to some plan. Tell me what it is — tell me ! I would consent,

and gladly, to forfeit my own life to preserve theirs."

I will tell you," he said, " frankly, plainly tell you. But,

for your own sake, for theirs, endeavour to hear me with less

emotion, or this extreme agitation will unfit you Hot only to

hear, but to do what must be done, would you preserve their

lives."

I promised I would endeavour to be calm ; I made the

effort to be so, and I became sufficiently collected to listen

with attention, and to interrupt the Colonel as little as possible

in all he had to propose. The substance of it was as

follows : —

Colonel Holborne began by assuring me that there was, ashe

had already shown me, no alternative on his part ; and, if

he should now propose to me what would seem to involve in

it his own interest, he begged me to believe that it proceeded

from no wish to take advantage of the perilous situation in

which I stood, but simply because there were no other means

within his power ; none by which he could have any possible

claims on the Earl of Stamford, so as to prevail with horn to

give up his fatal purpose. Even what he had to propose

might fail, but there was no other attempt to be made, no

other way for hope. He paused.

Tell me what it is," I said — ■" I conjure you, tell me

without further pause. lam convinced all you say is truth.

I know you to be too generous to be selfish, and that the

simplest assertion made by you is always true. I need no

more assurances of the honour and the disinterestedness of

your soul."

Colonel Holborne seemed touched by my words. " I thank

you, madam," he said ; " I thank you. I hope I may prove

myself not altogether unworthy your generous trust in my

honour. I know what I have to propose is replete with difficulty.

I fear it must be offensive to your feelings ; yet, let

what may be the fate of Edmund Oxenham, if you comply, I

think I can save your father — for his friend I cannot feel so

assured."

Oh, do not say it," I exclaimed ; "do not speak of Edmund's

death !" And, forgetful of all else but his immediate

danger, carried away by that strong impulse which sometimes

prompts us to reveal a hidden truth before wc can

consult onr judgment, in the agony of my fears for his life, I

threw myself on my knees before Colonel Holborne, seized

his hand, and, as the tears gushed from my eyes, exclaimed,

with the passionate accents of distress, " Oh, do not give up

the hope that you may save horn ! Do not — do not give up

his cause ! Do not doom Edmund to death, and me with

horn !"

Colonel Holborne started, his countenance changed, and

he looked on me for a moment with an expression of displeasure

and surprise. " How !" he said ; " what is this ?

Edmund, then, is dear to you, and you do love horn ?"

No longer capable of concealment — indeed, no longer desiring

it — I replied, " I love horn more than life !"

Colonel Holborne was so startled, so overcome by this

plain avowal of my affection for his rival, that for some

moments he could not speak. He evidently struggled to

keep down his rising indignation. After a strong effort at

self-command, he at length said, " Have my feelings then

been played with — have they been your sport ? And am I

only now to know the truth when I can be made the instrument

to serve Captain Oxenham ? Why have I been thus

trifled with, and why thus deceived ?"

You have never wilfully been deceived by me," I said ;

"you know my father gave me no choice. I have ever

honoured and respected you too much to wish you should be

deceived on my account."

Colonel Holborne paced the apartment in evident agitation.

" What am I to think ?" he said ; " what am Ito

think ? Your father, your stepmother, your sister, all bade

me hope for your affection. What am Ito think ?"

"Do not speak of others," I replied ; " think only such

thoughts as your own candid, mid would suggest to you,

and lot the honourable feelings which animate your own

bosom teach you to place some reliance ur mine, and to believe

that, as far as I am concerned in this unhappy affair —

though I have acted weakly and irresolutely — I have, at

least, never wilfully misled you."

I will believe it," he replied ; " I will believe you are incapable

of falsehood — to think other would be too painful.

There is consolation in confiding in your truth, Elizabeth ; I

will not lose it. And, oh, that face, now pale with alarm,

and bathed in tears for the safety of a rival in your affections

— those affections I have been taught to believe would

one day be my own ; that face does not look capable of

deception, nor of wilfully wounding the heart that at this

moment would prefer death to the loss of its dearest hope."

Believe me, Colonel Holborne," I said, " could I avoid it,

I would never give you a moments pain."

I believe you would not," he replied, and sighed deeply.

Again he took a turn or two across the room. " Mine is a

painful, most painful position. Elizabeth, I will not deceive

you ; it is not without its temptations. I am called on to

give up my rival — the only man who stands in the way of

my dearest hope — to the Earl of Stamford. Without the

violation of any principle of right — indeed, by the very fulfilment

of my duty — I could at once sweep this envied rival

from my path ; and not even your sense of justice could condemn

me, for you could not blame a man who was true to

the cause to which he is sworn. But, instead of this, you

call on me to incur all hazards to my own safety — you call

on me to save horn !"

It is worthy the spirit of Colonel Holborne," I replied.

To achieve a victory over his own heart is one, I grant, of

difficulty, but not one above his magnanimity. You will not

give up Edmund to death ?"

Certainly not, if I can save him."

But you spoke but now, though doubtfully, about some

effort, some plan you had to propose to save "

"I no longer doubt on that point," he said. " Your confession

of preference for my rival compels me, as a man

having in me any generosity of feeling, for your sake to try

to save hir n; the effort shall be made, but you must assist in

it." There was a raised, a noble, almost an enthusiastic

expression in the countenance of the Colonel as he thus spoke ;

but generosity, indeed, was so inherent in horn, that it inspired

every look and word.

May God bless you !" I exclaimed. " I will do all you

may command me, for your soul is the soul of honour, and

I am convinced would require nothing from me but what

was right."

You may possibly think otherwise when you hear what

it is. But I have no other means within my power, no

alternative ; this attempt, or certain death for the two beings

most beloved by you on earth. Hear my plan. The Earl of

Stamford has heard from me that my affections are deeply

engaged to the daughter of a Royalist gentleman that I one

day hope to make my wife. He does not, however, yet know

the lady is the child of Sir Farther Moorenn. What I have

now to propose is, that I should forthwith write and acquaint

horn with this truth ; adding that, if he insists on my giving

up Sir Arthur and Captain Edmund Oxenham, I must lose

all hope of you for ever, for that you will, in such a case,

consider me as the principal instrument of your father's fate.

I propose then to remind horn that, when I had the good fortune

to bring up my regiment to his rescue and to save his

life, at the head of his troop he returned thanks to me for

what I had done to save horn and his people from certain

destruction, and promised, before God and those brave men,

that if hereafter, on any emergency, I had aught to ask of

horn that might serve myself, he would, if it lay in his power,

grant it, let the peril of it be what it might to him. I will

then tell Stamford that the hour is now come when, from

force of circumstances, I am compelled to remind horn of this,

and that to spare these Royalist gentlemen, who are my prisoners,

and to place the fate of Sir Arthur Moorenn and Captain

Edmund Oxenham in my hands, is the service I must implore

horn to do for me in acquittal of that solemn promise. So

much for my part in this affair ; yours, I fear, will cost you

a more painful effort."

Colonel Holborne paused ; he seemed much moved, and it

was not without an effort he thus resumed : — " The Earl of

Stamford, I believe, esteems me ; but the circumstances of

the times, and his having been on two or three occasions

grievously deceived in doing acts of mercy, have made horn

somewhat suspicious ; and when he finds that it is for the

father and friend of the woman I love that I now plead to

horn, I fear he may be more than usually alive to his suspicious

fears. He may suspect some exaggerated view of

the circumstances on my part, in order to cover the offences

of two persons so obnoxious to the Parliament as the discovery

of the late plot must render them. A letter from you, therefore,

is absolutely necessary to satisfy his doubts."

How can I address the Earl of Stamford ?" I said ; " what

can I say to horn ? "

When you shall have heard all," replied the Colonel,

you will yourself admit that, unless you would ran the risk

of bringing ruin on me, who interpose to save your father

and Edmund Oxenham, you must write. Did I refuse my

prisoners, without giving the Earl of Stamford the strongest

and most convincing proofs that all my hopes of happiness

in relation to yourself depend on their safety, the Committee-men

of the West, who are already jealous of my influence

with their masters, would not be slow to make the Earl believe

that I was desirous to save them from some motive of

private interest. It becomes me, as a man of honour, not to

suffer the possibility of a suspicion such as this to be raised

against my character. I must, therefore, entreat you to write

to the Earl, and to let your letter accompany mine."

There needs no other reason than the last you have

assigned, Colonel Holborne," I said, " to induce me at once

to give my consent to write. Tell me, what must I say to

the Earl ? lam bound in gratitude, as well as inclination,

to endeavour to requite your generosity, poor as are my

means to show myself grateful, by the most ready fulfilment

of your wishes. Say on, then. I will write as you dictate."

I turned to my escritoire and prepared to do so.

Write," he proceeded, " that you feel sensible the Earl of

Stamford, as a brave man, though an enemy to your father's

cause, will receive with generous concern a daughter's supplication

to save the life of a father, and of a young gentleman

who is that father's dearest friend, and has been for

many years esteemed by herself as a brother. You can have

no objection to say this ? "

None," I answered ; "it is the truth." And I wrote ashe

had dictated.

Add," continued Colonel Holborne, " that you are betrothed

" I paused, held the pen over the paper, but

did not write.

Nay," said Colonel Holborne, " you must say it ; there is

no choice ; and, by your father's will, you know it is truth.

If that engagement be ever fulfilled hereafter is another

thing. It concerns not the Earl of Stamford ; I would I could

add, it concerns not mc. But you must write it. It is the

only ground on which I can prefer my application. I will

spare you (though they would be powerful pleas in behalf of

those you would save) — yet I will spare your sincerity and

your delicacy the pain of all strong professions in my favour.

Yet you must add, for it is absolutely necessary, that you

have told me, unless the lives of your father and Captain

Oxenham are spared, at my request, you will never be

mine."

I cannot write this," I said ; " indeed, I cannot."

My father, I well knew, would not have been displeased,

had I given such an assurance. But Edmund — his mid

har-assod by tho long anxieties of a passion, which even yet

he hoped (though I could not hope it) my father might one

day be brought to approve — harassed by the tortures of

doubt and jealousy, what would be his sufferings should he

chance to learn that I had written such a letter to the Earl

of Stamford ! I felt convinced that he would rather his life

should be risked, by his person being surrendered to his

enemies, than owe his preservation to such a declaration on

my part, in favour of his rival ; and so I told tho Colonel.

Then, there is no other way left for safety," said he.

"My letter, without yours, I fear 1 , will not avail. If you

refuse, not only will the man who is thus jealous — unreasonably

so, at such a moment — lose his life, but your father will,

in all probability, perish. Can you so sacrifice horn ? "

"No! " I exclaimed ; " no, I will not ! Come what may, I

will do my duty to my father. But at what a price ! "

I took up the pen, and wrote hastily what I had been

desired to write : the effort was hurried, because I would not

trust myself to think what I was doing. I would not suffer

my mid to place before me, in all its terrible consequences,

the thing in which I was about to witness against myself,

and with my own hand ! After having written the letter, I

gave it to Colonel Holborne.

This will not do," said he : " your hand is so tremulous,

that the writing in some parts is almost illegible. You must

write it over again. I will leave you. Compose yourself.

Make a fair transcript, and then send it to mo by your waiting

damsel ; she will find me in my chamber. lam now

going thither, to write my own letter to tho Earl of Stain,

ford : yours must bear it company."

I said I would do all that he desired ; and I arose from my

seat to bid horn farewell, and once more to thank horn for all

he was about to do to save my father and his friend. In

doing so, I could not hide my agitation ; my sorrows would

speak ; the tears stole down my cheeks : he saw and pitied

my distress ; and, throwing himself at my feet, as he pressed

my hand to his lips, said, "Do not, let me implore you, do

not thus distress yourself at what you are about to write.

Set your heart at rest on that account. Elizabeth, I will not

say that I can ever be indifferent to you ; weak would be

my affection for you could I thus resign all its fond and

long cherished hopes. You know how much I was favoured

by your father, long crc these troubles began, and how

greatly he disapproves the pretensions of Edmund. Never,

till this day, did I know how deep was the interest he

possessed in your heart. Had I known it sooner — but it is

now too late to look back — had I known it sooner — Yet, believe

me, though I cannot promise to resign all my hopes of

you for ever — for who shall say what time and circumstance

may bring forth ? — yet, I promise you, on the word of a

gentleman, that no personal consideration, not even the

affections of my own heart, shall ever tempt me to make an

ungenerous use of the letter you are now about to despatch

to the Earl of Stamford ; and that never hereafter will

I receive your hand, though I should prize the gift as the

greatest of all earthly blessings — never will I receive it unless

it is given me by yourself. Can this assurance satisfy

you ? Is your mid now at ease ? "

I assured Colonel Holborne it was, on that ground ; and

again and again did I thank horn for the generous manner in

which he had acted towards me and mine.

And now," he added, " I must, in return for my promise,

claim one from you — it is, that what has this day passed

between us, and the means I have adopted to save the lives

of these two persons so dear to you, shall rest a secret in your

bosom. Believe me, I have the strongest reason for making

the request. To Edmund, above all, you must observe the

strictest secresy : he must never know by what steps I have

saved him. Will you give me this promise ? "

Most freely," I replied ; "and I thank you for requiring

it of me ; as, by so doing, you have relieved me from much

embarrassment. Farewell, Colonel Holborne, you need not

fear me: even could I forget the sacred nature of a promise,

my own fears would make me silent. Farewell."

At tho very moment tho Colonel was about to leave me,

whilst I was drying my eyes with my handkerchief irr

one hand, as he held the other within his, the letter just

written open before us, and each with the evident marks of

B

the agitating scene that had so recently passed strong upon

us, the door suddenly opened, and in came Dorothea. She

looked astonished, wc confused, not knowing what to say in

explanation or excuse of what must appear to her so extraordinary.

Dorothea saw our confusion ; but, instead of giving

us time to recover, or to help us out of our difficulty, she

added to it by saying, on no account would she have intruded

had she known wc were closeted in secret conference,

begged pardon, retired instantly, and shut the door.

111-natured woman," said the Colonel : " she will so

handle this circumstance as to wind the weak, the passionate,

and jealous Edmund, pardon me that I speak thus of horn,

but indeed he does not deserve your affection, to wind horn to

her purpose, and to gratify her own malignant feelings, by

inciting horn against you. I will endeavour to disappoint

her, however ; for I will myself tell Edmund that I have been

with you, to inform you I entertain hopes the Earl of Stamford

may be induced to act with clemency towards your

father ; though I shall not tell horn by what means."

How generous you are, Colonel Holborne," I said, " on

all occasions where true generosity of heart is called forth !

But I fear Dorothea will sow the seeds of mischief before

you can prevent it ; for see — she is at this moment crossing

the lawn, yonder, to join Edmund in the Paradise garden."

Well, then, there he must listen to her tales, if he is

weak enough to give ear to there," said the Colonel ; " for I

must no longer delay my letter to the Earl of Stamford.

Send me yours the moment it is finished."

I promised I would do so, and he left mc.

I then proceeded to write ; and, after having fulfilled my

task, I addressed the letter to the Earl ; but I did not seal it,

as Colonel Holborne had desired me not to do so, because he

wished to inclose it open in his own, as he designed telling

the Earl he knew the contents. I then wrote on the rough

draft : " A copy of my letter to the most noble the Earl of

Stamford," with the date of the same. This I locked up in

my escritoire. I next inclosed the letter that was to be forwarded

in a fair cover, and wrote upon it, " For Colonel Sol-home,

these." I then called my maid, thinking she was at

hand, in order to send it by her, as agreed. But she was not

in the way ; and my sister's maid, seeing me with a letter in

my hand, asked me if there was anything she could do forme,

as my own servant had been called to my stepmother.



Not choosing to send for her when engaged with Lady

Moorenn, I was obliged (though vexed by this trifling circumstance)

to beg my sister's maid to give the letter I had in my

to Colonel Holborne, whom she would find in his own chamber.

I then returned to mine, and shut the door.

In about an hour after I saw from my window Colonel

Holborne in conference with his messenger. They crossed

the lawn, to go round to the front of the house. I had no

doubt the man was about to depart on his secret mission to

the Earl of Stamford. I then went to an apartment that

overlooked the inner court, impelled to do so by an undefined

spirit of curiosity, mingled with dread. I saw a horse

brought round to the hall-door. The messenger, armed and

accoutred for a journey, came forth ; he mounted, and then

Colonel Holborne delivered to horn a packet, which he deposited

carefully in his bosom. In another moment the man

waved his hand, struck the spurs into his horse's sides, and,

as I heard the tramp of his feet over the pavement of the

court, I felt my heart sink within me, as if I had despatched

with the messenger who bore my letter the missive of my

own ruin, to which I had set my hand and seal.

In a short time all was changed : my father and Edmund

were assured of their lives, of safety, and Colonel Holborne

was once more in quarters at Moortown, but for a few days

only, till he could receive from Sir Arthur Moorenn a surrender

of all arms, ammunition, &c, and place a certain

number of his own followers in our house, who were to keep

it nominally for the Parliament.

My father was now perfectly free, for it had been arranged,

by the influence of the Colonel, that two Parliamentarians of

rank in the army and prisoners to Prince Rupert were to be

restored to their party by way of exchange for the liberty

granted to Sir Arthur Moorenn and his friend. But, though

thus free, he had not decided how he should aet at this

crisis ; and Edmund had been so candid as to tell Colonel

Holborne that, as the Earl of Stamford had been contented

with exchange, and had not required of horn any promise not

to serve again in the Royal cause, he should certainly do soif

he saw occasion, by any new outbreak in the West.

s 2

CHAPTER XIII.

The bard has sung, God never formed a soul,

Without its own peculiar mate, to meet

Its wandering half, when ripe, to crown the whole

Bright plan of bliss, most heavenly, most complete.

But thousand evil things there are that hate

To look on happiness ; these hurt, impede ;

And, leagued with time, space, circumstance, and fate,

Keep kindred heart from heart, to pine, and pant, and bleed.

Mrs. Brooke's iZophiel.

Shortly after these occurrences, a friend of ours, Mistress

Margaret Pengelly (of Partridge House, situated not far

from Moortown), being very sick and confined to her chamber,

so earnestly entreated me to come to her, that I complied

with her request, notwithstanding that the disturbances

in the town of Tavistock, hard by, then made it

dangerous to cross the country even for the short distance

between the two houses. I was detained by the sickness of

my friend for nearly a fortnight. On my return home, I

found Colonel Holborne still at our house ; but I was convinced,

by the gravity of his aspect, as he saluted me, that

something unpleasant had happened during my absence.

I was not long left in doubt, as my step sister, who

always took a lively pleasure in telling me anything she

knew would grieve or mortify me, seized on the first moment

wc were alone together to inform me that things were in a

very painful and singular position between Colonel Holborne

and Edmund Oxenham. That, soon after my departure, the

latter had evinced a very ill feeling towards the Colonel, and

on more occasions than one had treated horn with a haughtiness

of manner that amounted almost to insult. That the

Colonel had shown great forbearance towards his irritable

rival, and, it was evident, had purposely shunned horn as

much as possible, from no feeling of unkindness but in order

to avoid occasion of quarrel.

My distress on hearing this was great, as I had not the

slightest doubt that some new jealousy on the part of Edmund

respecting myself was the cause ; and that, unless I treated

Colonel Holborne with a coldness and distance which, under

present circumstances, would amount to ingratitude, he would

not feel satisfied. This I could never do. To Colonel Hoi-borne

I was indebted for the life of my father — for the life

of the very man who was (as the Colonel well knew) his

favoured rival, and who now requited his generosity with

jealousy, insult, and suspicion. True it was, that Edmund

did not know, to the full extent, the generous part the Colonel

had taken for his and Sir Arthurss preservation ; and I was

bound by a promise the most solemn to keep it secret. I

could read but too plainly, by Edmund's looks, that he was

on the watch for an opportunity to speak to me alone ; possibly

to demand some explanations. I endeavoured to avoid

the encounter, as I could tell horn nothing to satisfy his

jealous doubts, or to account for my more than ordinarily

kind and grateful demeanour towards the Colonel.

All I could hope was that Edmund, at last, might be

wrought upon to place some confidence in me, without calling

on me to explain every circumstance which he chose to imagine

was an injury or an offence to himself. With this view, I

resolved to trust to his generosity — his native candour ; and

accident one day affording me an opportunity, I endeavoured

to act on the resolution I had formed. But, alas ! how little

did I foresee to what my attempt would lead ! — too little did

I consider that prejudice, when allied to love, is of all enemies

the most difficult to subdue — tho most determined neither to

listen to reason, nor to see clearly the simplest truth. It is

like a mist, which, whilst wc are enveloped in it, obscures

alike the nearest valley or the most distant mountain ; everything

loses its just proportion ; and the most insignificant

objects become magnified and rise into importance, by being

viewed through so deceptive a veil.

So was it now. Edmund received all my attempts to convince

horn that his late conduct was unreasonable, with

angry impatience. I appealed to horn as a man, and asked

horn if, as a victor, Colonel Holborne had not treated horn,

and all of us, with the utmost generosity, after the surrender

of our arms and mansion. I bade horn look around, and

consider in how different a manner other Royalist families

had been used after their capture by a Cromwell or an

Ireton. To the truth of these remarks he could not but

assent, yet I perceived there was still something that hung

upon his mind — he was not satisfied. Some deep and hidden

cause of apprehension seemed to make horn mistrust all I

said.

I saw this. I felt deeply hurt, and charged horn with injustice,

saying, " If you will not be plain with me, I will set

you an example of candour, and tell you what I think of

your conduct towards "

I wish you would," he said, bitterly ; " I wish you would

be candid with mc. You should find me not slow to answer

it."

"In what do I want candour ?" I replied. " Have I not

always confided in you ? Who has been the person to

indulge suspicion, you or myself ? Edmund, I cannot but

tell you that you have led me into a neglect of duty — into

secrecy and difficulty, and have not treated me generously

whilst labouring under their effects."

I said this, I believe, with passion. I confess it was unwise.

His mid was already irritated by the working of his

own thoughts that had for weeks been preying on horn unspoken.

To soothe, and not to reproach, would have been

the best, the safest course, at this moment. But my pride

was touched and wounded by his want of confidence in mc.

I fancied he had shown no consideration for my feelings, or

for the difficulties of my situation, and I was determined he

should not see, by the pain he now gave me, not only how

little I had deserved such treatment but how dear he still

was to my heart.

On hearing my last reproach, Edmund reddened. " What !"

he exclaimed ; " accuse me of indulging suspicion, and tell

me I have no cause for it ! Talk of my want of confidence,

and — but tell me one thing — only one thing — and I will be

satisfied. I will put your confidence in me to the proof.

Tell me, is there no secret — nothing of which I am kept in

ignorance — between yourself and this very generous Colonel

Holborne ?"

The tone of anger, of irony, in which the last words were

spoken, was to me most irritating. It was now my turn to

take offence, and I said with spirit, " Suppose there should

be, what cause have you to feel injured by it ? Are you so

favoured by my father that, of necessity, nothing must

pass between my father's friend and myself, but it must

concern you to know it ? Rest satisfied with my assurances

and with my actions, and, believe me, they merit the confidence

I require till I prove myself unworthy. But do not

arraign me on your surmises ; for on such alone I will not

be questioned. Rest satisfied."

This is not the way to make me so," said Edmund,

bitterly ; yet, as if a sudden revulsion of feeling had at once

overcome him — as if my words had too deeply wounded horn

to let pride be any longer his support, ho exclaimed, as he

turned pale, and the tears started into his eyes, " 0, Elizabeth

! how can you thus wound me ? Have I not confided

in you ? Can you — who are dearer to me than life — without

whom life has no charm — can you, who like myself, from

the very days of infancy, have known little else than sorrow

and misfortune — can you thus reproach me ! I thought

your love was given to me as a blessing of Providence to

console me for every care. But what has it proved ! a

source of suffering so great that, forgive me, if I say it, the

few moments of joy I have known for many past months

have been counterbalanced by such days of anguish, by a

prospect so hopeless, that well, perhaps, had it been for

both had wc never met."

Yet I scarcely expected to hear as much from you," I

replied — " from you, after all I have done and suffered for

you — after having offended even my own father for your

sake."

Believe me," he said, " I never meant to regret our

meeting. You mistake mc. I regret only, when wc have

had so many evils to encounter, which wc could not avoid,

that wo should have raised any between ourselves, or should

suffer them to exist, when a few words of confidence would

remove all that is painful. You reproach me with your

want of obedience to a father. I never wished to gain you

without the sanction of Sir Arthur Moorenn. But you know

well that fortune and these wretched times have yet been

my enemy, and that I waited but for a brighter prospect to

seek you, as you deserve to be sought, in the way of duty

and of honour. That time may yet come, if there is but

constancy on your part and patience on mine. But if, in

the interval, I see you giving a willing ear to the address of

another, and that other, in ignorance of the true state of

your feelings, is favoured, by your father, who may hereafter

persuade you to confirm his choice, what am 1 to think ?

What have I not to fear ? You may change ; I fear that, in

some degree, you have changed."

Indeed, you have no cause to think so," I replied.

Why, then, continue to countenance, as you do, Colonel

Holborne ? His affection for you is evident — most evident ;

ho could not conceal it if he would. His looks, his words,

his every action, speak a love at once fixed and devoted to

you. Elizabeth, you never check it. If ho asks you to walk

with horn, you give horn, with a smile, a willing hand. Do

you think I do not observe these things ? And in those

thousand gentle and kind words and attentions which woman

alone, and a woman of delicate feeling, knows how to bestow,

you do all you can to convince the Colonel how much

you study to gratify him — how desirous you are to please

him. Does not this look like change ? — and this from

you!"

All is true, Edmund," I replied ; " and yet I am not

changed."

Then your conduct is no less weak than unjust," said he.

"Do you think Colonel Holborne does not feel all this ? Do

you think he does not build on it hopes and expectations for

the future ? He would be more than man did he do other.

In common honesty, you ought not to treat horn with such

distinction, if you intend to disappoint and deceive horn at

the last."

I do not intend to disappoint or to deceive Colonel Osborne

at the last, Edmund," I replied ; " I do neither now.

Believe me or not, as you may, yet I tell you once again,

Colonel Holborne is not deceived. He perfectly understands

me, and wc understand each other."

I have no doubt you do," said Edmund, again relapsing

into jealousy, and speaking in a tone of the utmost bitterness

; and thus did pride and mistrust with the one, — irresolution

and rashness with the other, occasion a deepening

of the angry feelings with which wc had commenced this

unhappy meeting.

Not to dwell on circumstances that it would be painful forme

to repeat, and tedious for you to read, let me say, all my

entreaty that Edmund would confide in me proved unavailing.

At length, he dwelt so much on the fear of my changing

in favour of his rival, that he drew from me a promise,

which I gave more with a view to calm his mid and soothe

his distress than from any other motive, that, if my affections

did change, I would candidly acquaint bim with the

truth. But, no sooner had I given this promise, than (ever

alive to self-torment, where his feelings for me were in

question) he fancied the very readiness with which I had

given it, in order to satisfy horn, was an admission I might

change ; and that it would be followed by my bestowing

both hand and heart on the Colonel, as soon as the circumstances

of the times would admit. This apprehension distracted

horn ; and before I could calm his fears our distressing

conference, thus continued without satisfaction to either,

was suddenly ended by my being summoned to attend on

Lady Moorenn.

Before I quitted horn Edmund told me that he was about

to leave Moortown for some days to attend his uncle, now

very old and infirm, whom, in consequence of the late disturbances,

he had not seen for many weeks. One of our servants

was to ride forth with him. I begged horn to write tome

on his arrival at his uncle's, but tho man returned and

brought me no letter.

CHAPTER XIV.

Onr passions always fatal counsels give ;

Through a fallacious glass our wrongs appear

Still greater than they are.

HIGGAN.

Let's not unnerve each other— part at once !

All farewells should be sudden, when for ever.

Byiion.

One evening, not more than two or three days after Edmund's

departure, when I had retired to my closet, there to

indulge my own thoughts unobserved, my maid came to mein

great trepidation, and said abruptly, " O, madam ! let me

bog of you to go to the window of the gallery that looks out

on the garden. Mr. Edmund Oxenham is waiting below it

to speak to you. He is in the garden ; and in such a state

that I fear he will go distracted unless he sees you. Poor

young gentleman ! it grieved my heart to see horn, when he

begged mo to tell you, and entreat you to speak to him.

He waits there. Madam, I say nothing, for I love you ; but

I see much."

I ran instantly to the little gallery she had named. It

overhung the Paradise garden.* It was situated in a part of

the house near my own chamber, not at all frequented by

any of tho family except myself and my servant. I opened

softly tho window, and, by the light of the moon, which had

risen above the tops of the neighbouring woods, perceived

Edmund leaning on the back of a seat that stood on the turf

beneath. I could not see distinctly by the feeble light which

gleamed around. It might, therefore, be only fancy, but I

thought there was something very pale and ghastly in his

countenance, as ho looked up at me on my coming to the

window.

Edmund !" I exclaimed, " for God's sake, what is the

matter ? Where have you been ? How did yon return ?

What does all this mean ?"

That lam wretched — most wretched ; beyond all power

of expressing my wretchedness. Oh, Elizabeth ! Elizabeth,

what have you not said ? — what do I not fear ? My brain

seems on fire when I think of it." He pressed his band to

his head. " I should think death a release to what I feel."

For heaven's sake," I said, "do not talk thus ! What is

it you require ? What can Ido to calm this distress ?"

"Are you not changed ?" he said. "Oh ! tell me, tell me;

are you not changed ? — are not your affections Colonel

Holbornes ? And is it not from motives of pity and fear

for me that you do not tell me so at once ? But I want no

pity. I will accept none from you. Tell me, Elizabeth —

tell me the worst ; are you not changed ?"

No, indeed," I said ; " why these suspicions ? You know

what I feel, yet you little heed my feelings. Why did you

not write to me to satisfy me of your welfare by the servant

who returned on Saturday?"

I write !" he exclaimed; "how could I write? What

could I write? Nothing to satisfy myself; nothing coherent,

I believe. Yet I commenced a letter. But such was the

agony of my mid, I could not remain where I was. I

determined, therefore, at all hazards, to return and endeavour

to see you."

Have you what you wrote to me about you ?" I inquired.



A Paradise garden and a Paradise chamber were found in almost

every old house of the date of this tale.

I have," he replied ; " here it is." He took from his

bosom a paper, and, standing on the garden-seat, reached

forth his arm, so that I could take it from him. At that

moment I heard a step.

I must leave you," I said, " indeed, I must, for I hear

some one stir in the gallery."

"Do not go," he said, " till you promise me one thing.

You will not refuse it me, unless you would drive me to distraction."



What would you have me do ? " I replied : " Speak

quickly, or wc may be discovered. Surely that is the voice

of Dorothea ; I hear her in the hall, she is coming to the

gallery."

Meet me tomorrow evening in the Pleasance," he

answered, "at eight o'clock meet mc. The family will then

be engaged. Till then I will keep close at a friend's house

hard by ; so that none here will know that lam returned, or

will suspect our meeting. Oh, Elizabeth ! do not refuse this.

Life or death depends upon it. You will come ? "

I will," I said, " at eight in the evening."

"Ay, at eight," he replied. " Farewell ! God bless you ! "

On my return to my chamber I hastily opened the unfinished

letter which Edmund had given mc.

The Letter.

My dearest Love, —

For thus, as long as I live, must I call you, for are you

not the dearest, the only Love my heart can ever know ? —

you have desired me to write to you. Willingly do I obey

you ; though, I fear, in doing so, I can convey no pleasure to

you, for a cheerful mid is to me a greater stranger than

ever. Were I sufficiently at ease to choose a subject now, I

would recall that which I thought would most powerfully

bring to your remembrance the happy hours wc have passed

together ; those hours during which, in your dear presence,

I have received from you the tenderest marks of affection.

If possible, I would fly from myself ; from my own thoughts,

that incessantly torment mc. Everything I see around me

reminds me of what I was once, of what I have since been,

and of what lam now. I can find no rest. Sleep gives me

none, for you haunt mo in my dreams ; and present the most

dreadful images to my mid. I awake feverish and unrefreshed.

I scarcely remember or can believe what you have

said, but fear something to come. My ring tells me — that

ring which was your gift — you ought never to forget mc.

Tho first three words I have written tell me you cannot — yet

you are free if it is your wish. I scarcely know what I

write. I know you will forgive mo if I do you injustice.

And indeed lam more an object of pity than of anger. You

would think so if you felt, but for a moment, the pains that

I endure. But, perhaps, I needlessly torment myself. You

bade me write. What but my distracted thoughts could you

expect me to write now ? Could you imagine I could write

with composure after our last conversation ? Yet I am

aware I may bo doing you great injustice. But what a wide

field for a half-frantic imagination has your lips opened !

Our miseries too frequently arise from our happiness. I can

know nothing, but must remain the victim of a thousand

doubts till I can see you. One thing I do know ; and have

learnt it since I saw you last ; I know the strength of the

chains that bind me to this world, and, by what life is to an

existence so miserable as mine, how welcome would be its

close ! But I will see you — yes, see you — and then I may be

made to forget that dreadful word — change! How can I

bear to write it in reference to yourself ? flow could it ever

pass your lips ? — Change, it cannot be ! But I will see you

and know the truth from yourself. You alone shall pronounce

the fate of the unhappy

Edmund."

Tho perusal of a letter so distracted as this filled me with

fear, with terror ; I resolved that on the morrow evening I

would do all I could to calm the anxious spirit. But crc the

time arrived for our meeting, by some means or other, my

sister Dorothea found out that Edmund was returned, and

had kept himself private in the neighbourhood, without

coming to our house. This intelligence somewhat offended

my father, because, during his visit to his uncle, Edmund had

undertaken to be the bearer of some papers of import to a

Royalist of note, who lived near his kinsman, and Sir Arthur

was anxiously awaiting an answer.

As the hour drew near in which I had consented to meet

Edmund in the Pleasance, when I recollected the miserable

state of mid in which he had last parted from me, you may

judge what were my feelings. But Dorothea, who failed

not to be suspicious, watched me so closely, and induced her

mother to do the same, that I found it impossible to keep

my appointment ; I could neither go to horn to soothe his

wounded feelings, nor make horn acquainted with the cause

of my absence. In the interval, impatient at my not coming

to fulfil my appointment, lost to all self-control, that very

night Edmund himself suddenly appeared among us. He

looked wildly around as he came into the room ; and though

he apologised to Sir Arthur for not having fully executed

the mission he had promised to undertake, yet he neither

explained wherefore he had failed in doing so nor what was

the cause of his thus suddenly and strangely coming among

us at so unusual an hour.

Dorothea, who had been absent for a short time, now

returned into the room ; and I fancied there was a triumphant

expression in her countenance, as she glanced her eye

first on Edmund and then on mc. Edmund hardly spoke —

hardly looked at me ; and at the very moment I was about

addressing to horn a few kind words of explanation, he suddenly

arose, complained of indisposition, and, telling my

father that he would not fail on the morrow executing his

commission, bowed to us, and retired. I was somewhat surprised

by observing that Dorothea arose likewise at the

same instant, and contrived some frivolous excuse for leaving

the room immediately after. I was seated not very far from

the door, which, in her hasty retreat, Dorothea had not

firmly closed. I rose up to shut it, and in doing so, I caught

a sight of her leaning over the rail of the corridor that

looked into the hall, and heard her say distinctly, as if she

would recall Edmund, " Stay, Mr. Oxenham ; a moment

stay, a word with you."

I was so distressed, fearing, yet not knowing what to

fear, that I took the first opportunity of retiring early to my

closet for the rest of the evening. My closet, or study,

opened on the gallery so often named. I was frequently in

tbc habit of reading or writing there till a late hour, the

family in general going to rest before myself. I ought to

mention that the room was in the oldest and most neglected

part of the house ; it was small, gloomy, and ill-furnished —

hence had it been deemed good enough for me. Fortunately,

it stood remote from the more elegant and commodious

apartments of Lady Moorenn and her daughter. This solitariness

was to me a source of great comfort, as, without

some especial motive for the intrusion, neither my stepmother

nor Dorothea ever sought me in my retreat, which

to mo was also my refuge.

In happier times, Edmund had often found his way unobserved

to my closet ; but, since his late angry and jealous

moods, he had rather shunned than sought it. On the evening

of which I am now speaking, as I sat pensively musing

on my unhappy lot, o thought I heard steps in the gallery,

and listened : judge of my astonishment — my door was suddenly

opened ; I looked up, and never shall I forget the

thrilling sense of surprise and emotion with which I beheld

Edmund stand before mo, accoutred for riding ; his cloak

thrown carelessly over his shoulders, his borne on his head,

and an expression of horror and distraction in every line of

his countenance ! He was white as death ; and so great the

grief that swelled within his bosom he could scarcely speak.

He struggled for utterance, and at length found it. "0,

Elizabeth ! " he said, " I am come to take my leave of you

for ever — yes, for ever ! Wc must part ; though my breaking

heart will hardly let me speak it, wo must part forever

! "

Good heavens ! " I exclaimed, " what is this ? what has

happened ? "

"0, do not, do not ask me," he said ; " I cannot answer

you — I am not at liberty to answer you ! Elizabeth ! I

have my secrets as well as you have yours ; but mine are

most unwilling ones — not so yours ! "

Again I implored horn to tell me the cause of all this — of

so much distraction in his words and looks.

"Ask mo nothing; seek to know nothing," he replied;

"would I had been as wise ! Elizabeth, do you know what I

am come for ? I am come to bless you ; yes, to bless you !

You have broken my heart, but still will I bless you ! Fear

nothing from me ; I have no resentments that shall injure

you ! No ! false, cruel, unkind as you have been to me, I

would not injure you ! I will neither disturb your peace nor

thwart your happiness ; yet "

"O, Edmund ! " I said, " what words are these you have

spoken ? What does all this mean ? You talk to me of

falsehood, of cruelty — what have I done that you should thus

wound my feelings ? What new cause of jealousy is this ?

Would you make me wretched ? Would you be my ruin ?"

You have ruined me," he replied, in a tone that indicated

a sense of high and indignant emotion. " Elizabeth ! do not

attempt again to deceive me ; do not ! I believe you feel forme

— I can believe that ! And O ! what a heart would be

yours did you not feel for the wreck you have made of mine !

My peace, my hopes, are for ever blasted ! "

I have never injured you wilfully," I said. " Would you

but hear me, all might yet be well. But I see how it is ;

Dorothea is my enemy, and she has worked on your mid to

keep alive this most unreasonable jealousy."

You are mistaken," he replied ; " Dorothea, it is true, is

not your friend, but no enemy could injure you with me had

not you yourself confirmed my just suspicions."

To convince you, I see, is vain," I said, " for you will not

be convinced ! Yet, God knows my heart, and how deeply

I pity a distress which you will not suffer me to alleviate ! "

I do not want your pity," he replied, proudly ; " I wantonly

to tell you that I am no longer either the dupe of my

own feelings or of your ill-judged compassion, and that, cost

mo what it may, I can and will leave you. I will no longer

be a barrier to your hopes. Be happy ; think no more of the

wretch you have made in me ! Farewell — may God bless

you!"

I caught horn by the cloak and, crc he tore it from my

hand, implored horn not to leave me in this distracted manner,

and with circumstances so unexplained between us. But

this only seemed to irritate horn the more ; and he told me

that, in refusing a full explanation, he did but follow my example

— that I had preferred another to horn, inasmuch as I

had refused to give Colonel Holborne up as the sacrifice to

his peace.

This conduct, I confess, somewhat roused my feelings of

pride ; and I could not but think in these repeated quarrels I

was ill used by his want of confidence in my integrity of

purpose. I doubted not, also, that the angry fit would pass

away, as it had often done before, and that a short time

would again bring horn to me as a penitent. That night,

however, after once more solemnly blessing me, and at the

very moment of returning tender-ness, as if he feared its influence

on himself, he rushed from me, descended the stairs

at the end of the gallery like the flight of an arrow, passed

out, mounted his horse that stood in readiness, and rode wit]

frantic violence from the house.

CHAPTER XV.

Have not all past human beings parted ?

And must not all the present one day part ?

Byron.

For many weeks wo heard nothing of Edmund. My father

expressed himself much surprised at his continued absence

and at length took measures to gain some intelligence of a

young man in whoso welfare, notwithstanding the offence he

had committed in regard to myself, he felt a deep interest.

After a while, by means of an agent of Colonel Holborne, wc

learnt the following particulars.

On leaving Moortown, Edmund had gone direct to Bristol,

and there had joined the forces of Prince Rupert. Tho siege

of that place by tho Parliamentary army had commenced a

sow days after. Edmund conducted himself in the most

gallant manner during the vigorous resistance made by the

Royalists. Till the last he stood by the side of Sir Nicholas

Planning, a Devonshire gentlemen who was killed in the

siege, lie had fought, not merely bravely, but desperately,

as if he courted rather than shunned death. He had not,

however, fallen in the action ; and on Prince Rupert surrendering

tho city (so much against the wishes of the Royalists),

not choosing to become a prisoner to the Parliament, Edmund,

with a few other spirited young men like himself, fled, and,

taking advantage of an opportunity that presented itself,

made their way to join a vessel then about to sail for

America, proposing for ever to bid adieu to their native

land.

A few days after these occurrences became known to us,

Colonel Holborne asked to be allowed to see mc. He came,

and for some minutes wc both remained silent ; my tears

alone spoke my feelings. He seemed deeply affected. After

a pause he took my hand, and thus addressed me with a

candour and consideration for my sufferings, that, if possible,

added to my esteem for his worth.

"Madam," he said, " I am this day about to take my leave

of you. In a short time my duty would have called nre from

Moortown. But my now going, I confess, is on your account,

or rather on my own ; to spare my own feelings am I about

to depart so abruptly. I would not say as much in the presence

of your father for fear I should excite his displeasure

towards you. But you know my resolution — that I would

never avail myself of any promise, nor of what you have

written in my favour, against your will. It is true Edmund

has for ever bidden you adieu, and, though I should still

consider the most distant hope of gaining your hand as the

greatest of earthly blessings, yet I here most solemnly repeat

that assurance which I gave in the moments of your distress,

that, without your own consent, I will never press you to

bestow it on mc."

You are generous, Colonel Holborne," I said, " most

generous."

Indeed I am not, madam," he replied ; "I do but serve

myself in acting thus, for without your esteem I could not

support life, and you would not esteem a man who, to secure

his own wishes, destroyed your peace. No, if lam so unfortunate

as never to gain your affection let me at least

deserve your esteem, and in that I shall endeavour to be

happy. For your sake I will endeavour to be so, that you

may be spared all regrets for having destroyed the peace of

one who loves you but too well. Elizabeth, you have neither

importunity nor reproaches to fear from me. I am the

creature of your will ; my first object is your happiness ;

tell me only how I can act so as best to secure that, and you

shall find I can forget myself in you."

I was struck to the heart by this generous conduct of

Colonel Holborne ; so opposite, alas ! to the fiery and frantic

demeanour of Edmund, yet with a feeling not less sincere in

all that related to the affections. There was ardent passion

in the hearts of both ; but, coloured and governed by

the character of the individual, how differently did it influence

the conduct of each ! Pained as I was to confess

it, oven to my own thoughts, yet I could not but acknowledge

that in Edmund it was selfish and exacting, in Colonel

Holborne self-sacrificing and generous. But, though my

reason taught me thus to judge between them, my heart was

still rebellious against my better sense ; and I still loved

T

and regretted the man who had destroyed my peace, and had

abandoned me in jealous passion. But, whatever were my

thoughts, I could not have the cruelty to make the Colonel

acquainted with them anew at this moment. His humility

and mistrust of himself taught horn ever to be content-with

any the least mark of favour he received from me, and to

think it more than his desert. He thanked me fervently for

the assurance I now gave horn of my esteem, and, when I

talked of gratitude, declared that all the debt which deserved

that name was on his side.

He then prepared to take leave of me, asking me only for

one promise, which, under existing circumstances, I felt it

was impossible to deny him. The promise was this : That

if, at any future period, either a change of circumstances or

of feeling should induce me to believe, without injuring my

own happiness, I could ratify the contract my father had

made for me with the gift of my hand, I would frankly let

horn know it ; for, as he was resolved never to be the means

of my being importuned by my family to accept horn, he

should be compelled never to renew his claims upon me

unless I previously intimated that such a renewal on his

part would no longer give me pain. With this understanding

wc parted.

I pass in silence my repeated struggles to obtain outward

composure, and, if possible, inward peace.

And, though I could not but feel I had been unreasonably

and indeed cruelly treated by Edmund, yet, knowing as I

did that his love for me was the original cause of all his

faults and failings, and that it had much embittered his

naturally irritable and defective temper, I could not help

remembering horn with an interest much too powerful for my

own repose. But I felt it was my duty to forget one who

had so evidently discarded me, and I hoped that the pride of

woman — the injured feelings of doubted and misprised affection

— would do the rest, and complete, though tardily, my

eure. But this I put off, even in thought, to a very distant

day, not dreaming what was at hand, and that a new and

severe trial was still in store for me.

CHAPTER XVI.

Wedded love is founded on esteem,

Which the fair merits of the mid engage,

For those are charms that never can decay ;

But Time, which gives new whiteness to the swan,

Improves their lustre.

Fenton.

Absence, with all its pains.

Is by this charming moment wip'd away.

ROWE.

Rapid as unforeseen were the changes that a time of civil

war brought to pass in a comparatively very short period.

Tho friend of to-day was often the enemy of tomorrow ;

political frenzy the cause of the change. Sometimes, from

popular fury or factious rage, a man of character and courage

would at one time side with the Parliament ; and, on some

remorse of conscience springing up, or on some concession

being made on the part of the King, he would, within a day,

become a Royalist again, and a zealous one in his duty.

Suspicion never slept, and neither the friend nor the foe was

always relied upon to be in one mid, or to remain constant

to the party which either had espoused ; whilst the least cause

of mistrust (more especially in any man of rank in the army)

was speedily magnified into one big with danger, and fraught

with all the hidden mischiefs of treachery and change.

Dorothea, whose visits to my little solitary closet were, as

I have before noticed, rare, had of late discontinued them,

unless when she might have gained any intelligence that she

fancied would pain me in the recital ; so that I now never

saw her open my door with a smile on her lips but I expected

to receive either vexation or mortification.

One day (about six months after the interview I have

related with Colonel Holborne) she came to me not smiling,

but with a look of grave concern.

What has happened, Dorothea ?" I said. " For Heaven's

sake, tell me, and relieve me from this suspense ! "

"0, sister !" she continued, " your conduct, wc fear, has

destroyed Colonel Holborne, and will cost horn his life."

"What do you mean? His life! impossible!" exclaimed.

Not impossible, nor improbable, if what Sir Arthur Moorenn

t 2

has this day heard be true. It is true, as far as you are concerned,

for there is no doubt about the Colonel's danger."

What have you heard ? " I said. " Tell me, I beseech

you ! You know how easily, of late, lam overcome by these

sudden shocks."

But you will have a greater, by and by, if Colonel Osborne

loses his head, by order of the Earl of Stamford, and

by your means."

What do you mean ? " I replied, aghast with terror at

my own fears.

Only this," said Dorothea, readily enough. " Sir Arthur

Moorenn has this day received information that Colonel Osborne

saved his life and Edmund's by letting the Earl of

Stamford know that he dearly valued you ; that you were

betrothed to horn, before these unhappy wars broke out in the

West ; and that you would never confirm the contract between

you, by giving horn your hand, unless he saved the life of

your father, by his influence with his own party. Colonel

Holborne, therefore, implored the Earl to spare the lives of

his prisoners ; and he did so, though they were condemned

for the Bristol plot. It seems that you, Elizabeth, wrote to

the General yourself, to confirm the Colonel's letter. Is this

true ? " added Dorothea, fixing her quick and inquiring glance

upon me, till she made me blush with her searching and unfriendly

eye. "Is this true ? " she repeated.

What if it is ? " I replied. "I do not deny it ; it is true."

"Well, then, hear the mischief you have done," said Dorothea,

" to the man who so generously saved your father's life

and the life of Edmund. The Earl of Stamford, not choosing,

in an affair of so much moment, to act on his own unsupported

authority, sent Colonel Holbornes letter and yours to the

Parliamentary Committee of the West. It seems they were

suspicious of the truth of these statements ; but they would

not thwart the Earl of Stamford's wish to oblige his friend.

Now, it appears, some months having elapsed, and nothing

more being said of the Colonel's contract with you, and he

having given in no account of the money, plate, or jewels

found in this house, at the time of its surrender, and having

some enemies also busy for his ruin, the Committee have

chosen to take up the affair very seriously, and to mist that

Colonel Holbornes plea about your contract with horn, and

all that matter, was alike idle and fictitious ; that no such

engagement ever existed ; and so they have at once arrested

Colonel Holborne on suspicion, now converted into a positive

charge of treason to the State ; and, as he has many enemies,

in consequence of his always showing a wish to restore the

King, when he should have better counsellors, to the throne,

your father says it will go hard with horn, unless you can

disprove the falsehood of such a charge, and save him."

"What charge can I disprove? — bow save horn?" I exclaimed.



The contract pleaded by Colonel Holborne as existing

between you they consider as feigned — an artifice of his own

devising to carry his point. Your father thinks, therefore,

that the only way in which Colonel Holborne can be delivered

from his present peril is by your writing forthwith to the

Earl of Stamford such a letter as he may lay before the Committee,

confirming the truth of all the Colonel's former statements

; and expressing your earnest desire to fulfil the contract."



And does my father really think that, by such a step, I

could save horn ? — save Colonel Holborne, who must otherwise

die for his generosity to us ? Dorothea, can you, as you

shall answer it to God, can you say that our father truly

thinks this?"

"He does," she replied ; "he has no doubt of it. In doing

so, Elizabeth, he bade me say you would do no more than

you are already in common honesty bound to do for the

Colonel."

Leave me, Dorothea," I said ; " leave me — I will try todo

right. But I must first consider the consequences of such

an act. Leave mc." I waved my hand as I spoke, desirous

to be rid of her. I will not say it was in order to gain time

for deliberation that I wished her to leave me ; because, in

such a crisis as this, all deliberation was unnecessary. My

own heart told me at once what to do, and I determined to

follow its dictates. But in doing right, in opposition to the

dictates of my own strong affections, I felt there was magnanimity;

and, as I knew but too well how incapable was

Dorothea of all noble thoughts or feelings, I could not bear

that she should witness what I then felt — the mingled emotions

of generosity, and weakness — the struggle with which I

was about to make the Sacrifice. I knew, in order to save

Colonel Holborne, it must be complete ; since, did he suspect it

would cost me but one pang to yield the hand I was about to

give horn, nay, to offer horn, such was the generosity of his

nature I felt convinced he would rather meet death on the

scaffold than me at the altar.

Not wishing to pause an instant in doing what I knew to

be right, I did but ejaculate a few words, imploring God's

assistance through this most anxious task ; and (carried on

by an enthusiasm, an elevation of purpose, which, for the

time, seemed to raise me above the weakness of my own heart,

above every selfish feeling) I sat down in the very chair in

which I had been seated, and at the same escritoire whereby

the dictation of the Colonel, I had written to the Earl of

Stamford to save my father's life ; and now wrote to the

Earl myself, to save the life of the man who had been the

preserver of that father and his friend.

A more difficult task yet remained for me ; the letter that

I must write to the Colonel himself. I could not be insincere

to such a man. I entertained so much respect, such

a veneration for his worth, for his most generous conduct tome,

that I should have felt it as an insult to the magnanimity

of his spirit to write what might be considered

even to border on falsehood ; yet I could not, I dared not, tell

horn all the truth — that my heart was still weak, still loved,

and fondly loved, Edmund.

Thus perplexed, I determined to-write as candidly as I

could under such painful circumstances ; and, as I felt a

cheerfulness, an elevation of soul, in doing what I knew to

be right, I rejoiced I could assure horn of the sincerity of my

feelings. This, then, was my letter.

14 Moortown, Wednesday night.

Colonel Holborne,

If I were about to address me to any but yourself on

the subject of this letter, I should feel abashed, and greatly

apprehensive ; I should fear censure. But with you, sir, I

have no fears ; your own nature is no noble that you will

judge me by yourself, and credit what I say as truth.

I have learnt, with much concern, your danger. For

whose sake it was incurred I well know ; and under what

circumstances I never can forget. Well do I also know

that, not to save your own life would you desire to preserve

it at the cost of my peace. Sir, I have never wilfully deceived

you. You knew the weakness of my heart, in respect

to another, and, knowing, pitied it. That other is unfortunate,

and I shall never see horn more. I forbear, therefore,

to blame hir n; as there is something in misfortune that

should move our charity, even where wc cannot altogether

think either the suffering or the misfortune undeserved.

Whatever injury he did me, I forgive him — may he be

happy !

Sir, 1 have not forgotten what you required of me, nor

what I promised ; and now is the time for the fulfilment of

the same. I rejoice I can so fulfil my word that neither

your delicacy nor your generous care for my happiness need

suffer. It becomes not the dignity of a woman, and more

especially of a young woman, to deviate from those rules

which custom and education have made natural to her and

to her sex. I hope, therefore, you will do me the justice to

attribute to this cause, and not to any want of feeling for

you, my silence on many points that I know you would

desire to be acquainted with. Be satisfied, noblest and most

generous of men, when I say that, in the letter which goes

with this to confirm the truth of our contract to the Earl of

Stamford, and to assure horn I am not averse to its fulfilment,

I have spoken as my own feelings led me to speak —

truly, sincerely ; and that, in giving you my hand, in confirmation

thereof, you will receive with it a heart filled with

gratitude towards you, which I humbly hope, through God's

assistance, you may never find wanting in its duty to you,

and that in due course it may become all you could wish in

Elizabeth Moorenn."

The Earl of Stamford and the Committee of the West

were so perfectly satisfied that the Colonel had dealt sincerely

with them, and had obtained nothing from Sir Arthur

Moorenn but the promise of his daughter for a wife, that, in

order, as they said, to clear both gentlemen in the sight of

all honest men, they fined them both, and my father so

heavily, for what they called his old malignancy, that he

was obliged to part with all the money he had saved, and no

inconsiderable portion of his land, to pay the fine, and avoid

an imprisonment in Rougemont Castle.

CHAPTER XVII.

Thy sister's naught. O, Began, she hath tied

Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here.

Shakspere.

Do not fancy, Paulina, that I was so weak as wilfully to

indulge in vain regrets. I was married — married to a goodman,

whom I honoured and esteemed, and who loved me

but too well. I had done right. But now, alas ! did I feel,

that to do right and to feel right is not always the same

thing. My mid, no longer raised by the enthusiasm which

carries us through all difficulties attendant on an act that wc

consider a sacrifice to virtue — no longer alarmed for the life

of the man who had saved my father — no longer struggling,

or called on for exertion — I sank into the calm of certainty :

I had leisure for retrospection.

Then the thought of Edmund (who, in spite of all he had

done, I felt assured loved me, even at the very moment he

quitted me for ever) would force itself uponme. The thoughts

of what would be his sufferings when he heard I was another's

came with fearful presage to my mid. Bitter was the

struggle to suppress such thoughts — bitter as vain. And

then the difficulty of concealing my inward and cankering

care from the observation of my most affectionate husband,

who, kind and considerate as he was, having wished that

I should do no violence to my own feelings, whilst I was the

mistress of my own fate, I feared would deem it culpable

(however involuntary) in his wife did she suffer her thoughts

to look back with any regretful recollections of the past.

The circumstances of the times, however, favoured my

attempts at concealing from observation the deep melancholy

that preyed upon my heart, as the renewed disturbances of

the West called my husband much away from me. But with

my friends, and even with common acquaintances, I had no

easy part to sustain ; for though there was now neither secret

agitation nor suspense to disturb my outward frame, as well

as to affect my inward soul, there was, I felt conscious, that

dullness, that dead weight upon the spirits, which could

scarcely be roused into action in the course of ordinary life.

I felt as if weighed down to the earth by that calm but deep

despondency which tells the tale of hope extinct, of blighted

affection. I was occasionally startled from this lethargy of

existence by trifles that gave me the severest shocks at the

moment, if they came unexpectedly upon mc. I could compare

them to nothing but the sudden stings and throes of

some mortal disease, by which the torpor of the sufferer or

the dying is alone roused into consciousness. With what a

sickening of the heart did I now hear each smiling friend who

approached me wish me joy, when all joy was dead to me !

The way of duty was before me ; I had entered upon that

narrow track. But oh, how dark and wretched did it look

to me !

Yet, notwithstanding this, I can truly say I never wilfully

indulged these morbid and most distressing feelings. Though

they were frequently too much for me, they were strongly

combated : the struggle was lengthened, but never abandoned ;

and prayer to God that he would help me in it, and finally

enable me to conquer my own sad thoughts, was daily offered

up. All the little tokens I possessed of Edmund's affection

that could call up a tear or a softening recollection of horn,

were carefully put out of sight, with something of the same

feeling with which wc consign to the earth and bid a last

farewell to the remains of one beloved, on whom wc can no

longer look but with unspeakable sorrow.

Even the very books Edmund and I had read together were

put aside ; for the memory of horn who had given such a

charm to there, by the tone of his voice and the feeling with

which he read, would have revived emotions it was now my

duty to suppress. The songs that I had sung with horn were

also put away : I could not bear them. Nothing can so instantaneously

awake the slumbering feelings, or strike upon the

deepest chord of the heart, as music. One note of a dearly

remembered air will upset all the resignation, the philosophy

of months. I dared not expose my feelings to such a trial.

One day, when I was more than usually calm and composed,

and had begun to hope that a contented fulfilment of

my duty was yet reserved for me, I met with a circumstance

the most unexpected and the most unfortunate to which

I could, at such a time, be exposed.

I wanted to speak with my step sister on some common matter

of household concernment (for I was still at Moortown),

and not finding her where I expected, in the withdrawing-room,

I passed on to her closet, thinking she was there. It

seemed as if she had been suddenly called off whilst arranging

some of her papers ; for several lay scattered on the table,

and two or three drawers of her cabinet were partially open.

In passing near it, my eye by chance rested on one of the

half-open drawers. With what strange and mingled feelings

did I perceive, lying on the top of some loose papers, a

miniature of Edmund ! I looked and shuddered. I was

indeed surprised, as I did not know, till that moment, that a

miniature which had been painted of Edmund for his beloved

friend, my late brother, whilst they were abroad, was in the

possession of Dorothea. I concluded it must have been taken

by her from my brothers effects, which were forwarded to

England after his death.

Though, as I have said, I had carefully put aside even the

veriest trifle that could remind me of horn, and had his picture

belonged to me I should never have dared to look upon it,

yet, now that it came so unexpectedly before me, there was

a fascination in it which riveted me to the spot ; I could not

withdraw my eyes from it ; and I welcomed the accident that

had thus given me the sight of a long-lost friend.

I snatched the picture from the drawer. I gazed upon it

with deep feeling, till, blinded by my tears, I could no longer

see the lineaments of that face, once so dear to me, and all

the thoughts of the many happy days and hours wc had passed

together, all the thousand circumstances of the past crowded

on my mid in a manner the most overpowering. I forgot

where I was ; and sinking into a chair, still holding in my

hand the picture, I gave way to a burst of sorrow it was

impossible to combat or control. Long, however, I did not

indulge in it ; the thought how wrong was all this soon came

to my mid, and caused me to make a great effort to recover

my self-possession. I rose to return the miniature to its

place, with a determination never to look on it again. As I

was about to do so, a paper that lay in the same drawer, in

my own handwriting, caught my eye. Being in my own hand,

I was not restrained by the thought that I had no right to

touch it, as it was obvious nothing could be a secret to me

which was written by myself. I almost unconsciously took

it up.

O, Heaven ! how shall I speak my feelings when I looked

at it ! Had a viper suddenly started up and stung me, I

could not have received a greater shock. A sudden pang of

horror, like the stroke of death, struck my heart, when I

beheld in that paper my own copy of the letter I had written

to the Earl of Stamford (at the time I wished to save my

father and Edmund), by the desire of Colonel Holborne —

the letter wherein I had declared my engagement to the

Colonel, and my wish to fulfil it. I had locked this copy in

my own cabinet ; it must have been stolen thence by Dorothea

in one of the many visits of curiosity which, about that time,

she paid to mc. On one occasion, I had complained to her of

something being the matter with the key of my cabinet,

when, to my surprise, I had found it unlocked.

No sooner did I now find the copy of my own letter in her

possession than the conviction flashed across my mid that

she had shown it, under the seal of secrecy, to Edmund.

Hence all his strange conduct towards mc. He had been

persuaded, by the sight of my own letter to the Earl of Stamford,

that I really desired and purposed to be the wife of

Colonel Holborne ; that I was false to himself, had cruelly

played with his feelings, and altogether deceived him. Yet,

bound by the promise Dorothea had drawn from horn, he

could not tell me by what means he had come to this most

fatal conclusion, on the strength of which he had abandoned

me for ever.

The recollection of his half-frantic conduct, his bitter reproaches,

his last farewell, all crowded on my mid. I felt

certain that I had been cruelly, wilfully misrepresented and

betrayed by Dorothea ; betrayed with a view to separate me

for ever from the heart and hopes of Edmund ; so that, when

time should have softened the wound, she might wm horn for

herself ; for I had long seen she secretly loved horn with a

passion as selfish as it was mean ; since she scrupled not to

desire to possess the hand of the man whose heart she well

knew had been denied her.

Whilst I held in my hand the very letter which had thus

been used to bring about the ruin of Edmund and all my

dearest hopes ; agonized beyond all expression at the thought

of his having so unjustly deemed me false ; agitated, trembling,

my mid bordering on distraction, when I also

thought, now that I was the wife of another, how impossible

it was I could, in this particular, do even common justice to

myself, my cruel enemy, Dorothea, unexpectedly entered the

room. She looked surprised, but, glancing her eye on me,

then on the paper I held, and on the open drawer — that

seldom slow accuser, Conscience, in an instant, told her all

the truth ; there was no need of words between us to speak

the feelings, the confusion, either of the betrayer or the betrayed

; our looks spoke all wc felt.

But, in spite of her vexation to think that, by her own

negligence, she had exposed herself to me, malice was at this

moment the predominating feeling expressed in the countenance

of Dorothea ; shame or remorse had no part in it.

How careless was I to leave yonder drawer open ! " she

said, quickly ; and, as if she would turn the current of those

just reproaches I was about to cast upon her by endeavouring

to throw blame on me, she added, sneeringly, " I see you

have been handling Edmund's portrait. Colonel Holborne

would not much thank his wife for the tears she has been

dropping upon the picture of a former lover — see, they are

still wet upon the glass."

Unfeeling, cruel woman !" I said — " for I will not call

you sister — you, who have brought about so much ruin — you

do well to .scoff at me. 0, Dorothea ! think you that the

justice of Heaven will slumber at this ? In what did I ever

injure you, that you should be my enemy ? I know you have

been my enemy.' She was about to speak. " Nay," I continued,

" do not add the sin of falsehood to all that is gone

before ;do not contradict it — I can see it all, know it all ;

your curiosity was excited as to what passed between Colonel

Holborne and myself the day he was with me in my closet.

I refused to tell you — you watched me ; and, when the opportunity

occurred, you stole from my cabinet this copy of my

letter to the Earl of Stamford, and, to work my ruin, you

showed it to Edmund. You made horn believe it was a proof

of my falsehood ; you succeeded in your work. Rejoice,

Dorothea, rejoice — nothing is wanting to your wishes — all

has prospered ; you are no unskilful contriver. Edmund

left me — left me for ever ; and I am the wife of another !

Now, Dorothea, now rejoice ; see the wronged sister — look

on the betrayed friend ! See the wretch you have made in me !"

Again did I sink into a seat, and burst into an agony of

tears ; so strong was my grief that the very chair in which

I sat shook with the convulsive movement of my whole

frame.

There is something in the sight of deep grief that is overawing.

Strong wicked characters at once brave the share

that guilt has brought upon them ; timid ones quail before

it, and require time and thought to bring their spirit up to

the point of defiance. Dorothea was of the latter class. She

now, therefore, felt fear when she beheld the state of almost

frantic grief to which I was driven by the discovery of her

artifice. She had recourse to the usual shift of an unprincipled

mind — the shift of sophistry to excuse what she had

done, since she saw how vain it would be to deny it.

She affected to believe that, at the time she had by chance

seen my letter in my escritoire (even, she said, as I had now

by chance seen it in the drawer of her cabinet), I really did

not regard Edmund, and preferred Colonel Holborne ; that I

had grown tired of my simple pledge to the former, which

had been contrary to my father's will ; and she fancied she

was doing me a service when she endeavoured, by showing it

to Edmund in secret, to prevail with horn to give me up ; and

was also doing no less a service to horn, when she tried to

cure horn of an unhappy and hopeless affection. She was,

she said, much grieved by it ; but how could she know, if I

really preferred Edmund, that I would be prevailed on by

Colonel Holborne to resort to artifice, even to preserve tho

lives of my nearest and dearest ; and to write to the Earl of

Stamford what I knew was not truth. For her part, she had

always thought I prided myself so much on being above all

subterfuge, that she had not suspected I would have used it

on any occasion ; more especially in favour of a man I did

not wish to wed."

You do well, Dorothea," I said, "to reproach me thus.

It is too true ; artifice is always a snare to those who condescend

to use it, be it for a good or an ill purpose ; and wc

are expressly taught that wc are not to do evil that good

may come of it. I am indeed caught in my own net ;

I was prevailed on to write what I felt to be insincere ;

and see the result ! My own letter has been used as a snare

to betray me — to ruin the unhappy Edmund ; and Colonel

Holborne, who prevailed with me to write it, has gained

by it what he would never have desired to possess, could

he have known it — a wife whose hand was pledged to horn

without her heart ! Such is the end of artifice ; it makes

its own chastisement; such is my Sacrifice. But this,

Dorothea, cannot excuse you — you knew the truth ; nay, yon

did know it ; all you say cannot remove that conviction from

my mid; and, though you might condemn me for what I

did, yet you, Dorothea, as a sister, though but a sister in

name, should at least have excused it, and not have turned

my fault, like the edge of a sword, against my own bosom,

when you knew I had erred in the hope to save a father's

life."

It is useless to recriminate," said Dorothea.

"It is so, indeed," I replied ; " but, 0, Dorothea, what

must be that heart which could thus betray a sister and a

friend ! "

Dorothea was one of those persons who, even on the most

glaring conviction, never admit they can do wrong. Contradiction,

denial, provocation, were the usual weapons with

which she rebutted any charge ; and, when unable to make

any one of these tell, she would at once turn round upon her

adversary, drag in some subject foreign to the matter of

complaint, and become the accuser instead of the accused.

Even so did she now.

At this very moment," she said, " when you are reproaching

me, lam thinking how to do you service ; thinking how

much it is necessary that not you alone, but that I should be

upon my guard to conceal from Colonel Holborne the fact

that his wife is giving her thoughts, with the bitterness of

regret, to another. A husband, Elizabeth, would hardly

brook the knowledge of such regrets, or deem his wife guiltless

who entertained them. But do not fear mc. Reproach

me as you will ; I can forgive — I will not betray you."

This last speech was made with an air of affected superiority,

with such pretension to a generous forgiveness, as if

I had been the sole offender and she the injured party, that,

notwithstanding all my experience of the character of Dorothea,

I was astonished at the daring spirit she now displayed

in doing wrong. Yet, knowing how vain it was to reason

with one who would not be convinced, I only said, " Dorothea,

lam shocked at the hardness of heart you now betray. Talk

of forgiveness to me ! But it is vain to argue with you.

May God forgive you, and teach you a better spirit ! that is

all the ill I wish you. For myself, I have not, I cannot forget

lam a wife — by your means, a most unhappy wife. Yet

I trust, with the help of a good Providence, that I shall be

enabled to observe my duty to Colonel Holborne as a husband

better than you have observed yours to me as a sister.

I will no longer stay, either to reproach you or to be reproached

by you. Farewell. May God soften your heart

before it is too late ! May he bring you to a better mid ! "

So saying, I left her.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Great souls forgive not injuries till time

Has put their enemies into their power.

That they may show forgiveness is their own.

Dryden.

There's nothing in this world can make me joy :

Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale,

Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man.

Shakspeare.

Before I made this dreadful discovery of the treachery of

Dorothea, my spirits and my health had both been weakened

by a long and anxious state of suffering. No wonder, therefore,

on receiving so sudden and violent a shock, I was wholly

unequal to the task of a renewed struggle. The result was,

I became so ill that I entertained the serious belief that I

should be released by death from all my earthly cares.

In this state, and not knowing but I might be called to

my account before Colonel Holborne could return to see me,

unwilling to quit the world whilst the slightest circumstance

that could affect horn remained untold (worthy as he was of

all my confidence), I determined to leave in writing a full

statement of every particular respecting Edmund ; all my

early feelings for horn ; the manner in which he had quitted

me, and my discovery of Dorothea treachery.

Having written this confession, I concluded with humbly

and fervently begging God's pardon and my husband's pardon

for all that had been wrong either in my conduct or my

heart ; and assured horn that, but for the previous unhappy

engagement of my affections, so deep was my reverence for

his character, so strong my sense of the gratitude I felt for

his kindness towards me, I should have chosen horn in preference

to all the world. As it was I hoped my sufferings and

repentance for my faults and errors might in some degree

plead my excuse, and that he would remember me when I

was dead with no other feelings than those of pity and compassion.

This task accomplished, I sealed my letter, and,

addressing the envelope to Colonel Holborne, I deposited it

in a private drawer that opened with a spring, in a cabinet

that stood in my bedroom. Then, no longer called upon for

exertion, I sank under the pressure of so many accumulated

trials ; the fever, which had hitherto been low, became acute,

and I was delirious for many days. My father, Lady Moorenn,

and even the cruel Dorothea, were alarmed, and thought I

could not possibly survive many days. Colonel Holborne

(then far away, engaged on public matters with the great

Committee of Westminster, and anxious if his suggestions

could prevail to bring about a peace) was sent for with all

speed, to hasten down to the West and attend upon a dying

wife.

Before his arrival, however, the crisis came on, my senses

returned ; yet, such was my weakness, the case was still

deemed by all, and more especially by myself, hopeless.

Thinking I had but a few hours, perhaps, to live — for, so

great was my weakness, I could not raise my head from the

pillow without assistance, and could speak only a few sentences

in the lowest voice — no sooner did I see my husband

enter the room, with looks of unutterable distress painted in

every feature of his face, than I begged all present might

leave us, as I had something to say to horn alone, something

that would not let me die in peace if it were unspoken. I

was obeyed.

With a look of anxious curiosity, yet mingled with the

tenderest consideration for my sufferings, my husband came

to the bedside, took my hand in his, and implored me not to

disturb myself on his account with the recital of anything

that could distress mc. He knew my heart, he said ; he

should be satisfied even with anything that might be unexplained,

because he knew that in all things 1 was worthy.

Generosity such as this made me but feel the more deeply

how guilty it was in me to conceal the least thought from

such a man. Yet was I so overcome with weakness and

sorrow that I could only speak a few words. I repeated that

I could not die in peace till he knew all, and had forgiven

me ; that the secret was in the cabinet, in writing ; and I

asked horn to take out and read the manuscript.

He did so. I sank back on my pillow, and, with a calmness

which seemed to me at the moment as the forerunner of

death, but probably was the result of feeling that I had now

done all I could do in the wish to act right towards horn, I

watched every change, every look of my beloved husband's

face, as he drew forth and read, and with painful emotion,

the paper which revealed to horn so much.

At first he seemed shocked — overpowered, and, as if the

agitation of his mid had extended itself to his whole frame,

he sank into a seat after he had read but a few lines, and

went on to the close without uttering one word. He then cast

on me a took — oh ! what a look ! I can see it now ; never can

the recollection of it be effaced from my mid! It was a

look of tenderness — of reproach, but, oh ! how mingled with

pity ! Fearful to distress me, I saw he made a strong effort

to try to speak without betraying his emotion, but he could

not. He folded his hands together, closed his eyes, his lips

moved, and he seemed engaged in mental prayer. He then arose,

paced up and down the room in great agitation ; some contest,

some struggle, seemed to shake his inmost soul. Some

slight tokens of indecision appeared also in his manner, for

he would now approach the bed as if he would speak to me,

then retreat, and then again advance, whilst once or twice

his lips moved, but no voice came. At length, whatever

might be his internal struggles, they were subdued, and an

air of calm determination once more restored to those hitherto

disturbed features a look of composure and of peace. He

now softly approached me, seated himself by my bedside,

leaned gently forward, and again took my cold and trembling

hand within his, as he said —

"Be composed, my Elizabeth, be composed ; you have

done right ; you have been ingenuous ; let the consciousness of

that support you. You ask my forgiveness ; you have done

me no wrong. I have nothing to forgive. But yet, if the

fear of what, on your part, was, I am persuaded, an involuntary

offence, and one never wilfully indulged in, can still

distress you — and if to hear me say (as in the sight of God

and of my own heart I can with perfect truth say) that I

forgive it — if that can be any relief to your mid, know, my

dearest Elizabeth, I as freely pardon you as I hope God will

u

Pardon me for my many offences. May He bless my wife,

my dear Elizabeth !"

"O, this is too much — too much !" I said. " How can I

support generosity such as this, knowing how ill I have

deserved it !"

"No more of self-reproach," he said ; " no more of that.

By reproaching yourself you deprive me of my reward, the

thought that I have restored peace to your heart. And now,"

he added, " I have some intelligence to communicate to you

that will deeply interest you ; but, for my sake, you must

endeavour to hear it with composure, for I will believe, my

beloved wife, my Elizabeth, that you love mc." And a sweet

smile played on his lips as he endeavoured to reassure and

to raise my sinking heart.

I will believe," he continued, " you wish to live, to make

me happy. You must not, then, disturb the calm, that I

bless Heaven for having restored to you, by any fresh alarms.

Can you hear news, good news, of poor Edmund Oxenham

with composure ? If so, I have somewhat to tell you about

him."

So great was my weakness, from recent illness and agitation,

that I could not help bursting into tears, as I thanked horn

again and again for his kindness, his consideration, and

assured horn I would endeavour to listen with composure.

Well, then," said Colonel Holborne, " Edmund has not

gone to America. How or wherefore he was detained I do

not know. But certain it is he is still in England ; and is

at this time not very far from this house ; having been appointed

to negotiate with the Royalists some business

respecting an exchange of prisoners. He is safe, though in

the midst of his enemies, being as an envoy protected by a

flag of truce."

I heard this with much emotion ; and now, having no

feelings that I would wish to hide from my husband, I did

not hesitate expressing my thankfulness to God, on hearing

that Edmund was still alive.

It was not, however, merely to let you know of his safety

that I mentioned horn," continued the Colonel. " I have

another purpose. Tell me, dearest Elizabeth, and do not

fear to tell me all the truth — for, indeed, you have no cause

to fear — tell me, was it the thought that Edmund believed

you to be false, that you had wilfully broken your plighted

faith with horn to marry me, was it this which preyed on

your heart in secret, and has all but destroyed your life ?

Tell me, 0, tell me, was it this ? "

"It was, indeed," I said ; " I cannot deceive you — can you

pardon me ? "

I have pardoned all — do not talk of me," replied Colonel

Holborne ; " answer me but this — would you wish Edmund

to know the truth ? all the truth — the cause of your writing

that letter to the Earl of Stamford ; and by what base means

Dorothea obtained the copy of it, to betray both you and

himself — would you be happier did Edmund know this, and

that you have never wilfully deceived horn ? "

I should be happier," I said, " did he know the truth ;

then would my heart be at peace."

He shall know it, then," said Colonel Holborne, " and

from me. Cost what it may to my own feelings, he shall

know it. Elizabeth, I will do you justice. My testimony

cannot be questioned when given thus against myself. I

will seek horn to tell horn that you became my wife under no

circumstances of falsehood to hir n; but under those which

reflect the highest credit on the goodness of your heart, that

in giving yourself to me, after he had for ever resigned you,

you were guilty of no dishonour ; for he was in truth preferred

to mc."

The tears started to Colonel Holbornes eyes at this

moment, his breast seemed to swell, and his lips to quiver

with emotion.

Yes, Elizabeth," he continued, "to do you justice I can

say all this Only support yourself; take comfort to your

heart ; live for my sake ; and I will do it."

"O ! how can I speak my feelings," I exclaimed ; " how

requite a generosity so exalted as this ! But where are you

going ? " I added, seeing he arose and was about to quit the

room. " Where are you going ? "

"Do not ask," he replied, " till I know the result. Be

composed, my dearest wife. Live, and wc may yet be

happy. Farewell ! "

Colonel Holborne waved his hand and left mc. He was

not absent more than a few hours. His goodness, I am

convinced, more than all else, gave a favourable turn to my

disease ; for that night I became better, calmer ; the pulse

abated, and there was the hope of life renewed. In the

u 2

evening my husband returned. He entered my chamber

with a serenity spread over every feature of his most open

and expressive face, yet with an air of melancholy too

marked to escape observation. I longed to hear what had

passed ; yet I could not summon resolution enough to ask

the question ; my stepmother was in the room.

Colonel Holborne came up to the bedside, took my hand

in his, pressed it warmly, and said softly as he stooped his

head to kiss me : " To-morrow I will tell you all. I have

seen Edmund ; he is satisfied — he sends his blessing to you ;

tomorrow you will hear from hir n; he will write to you —

Good night."

He left the room. The few words he had spoken were asa

balm to my wounded mid. I slept; and awoke so refreshed

in the morning that the hopes of my recovery were

confirmed. I did not see Colonel Holborne till noon. With

the utmost kindness he told me briefly (for he confessed the

subject was too painful for horn to dwell upon it) that, on

the previous evening, he had obtained a private interview

with Edmund ; those about horn supposing that the Colonel

came on public affairs. He begged me to spare horn the

detail of all that had passed, and assured me he had done

me ample justice. All was explained, and Edmund convinced

of my truth ; he was deeply affected, but satisfied.

And I," added Colonel Holborne, " I was unmanned ; for

0 ! Elizabeth, I could not tell horn unmoved that you had

loved horn more than me, and that, had I known the truth,

1 would have sacrificed myself to secure your happiness."

I was about to speak.

"Do not speak," he continued. " Edmund was deeply

affected. He has written to you, and enclosed the letter in

one to mc. Here are both letters."

I took the paper, unfolded the first, and read as follows : —

Colonel Holborne,

I inclose you a letter, and you will know to whom to

deliver it. I have to ask of you that its contents be not known

to any one, nor that such a letter hath been sent. You know

my feelings on the subject, and the motive I have in sending

it. Shall I say it ? There is but one being in the world to

whom I would send it. I add no more, but that you have

ever the best wishes of yours, in all sincerity,

Edmund Oxenham."

(Copy of the letter inclosed.)

You will not be more surprised at receiving a letter from

me than lam at writing it. But the cause of my breaking

this long silence is one which I conceive to be an act of justice

to you and to myself. Time has softened down the harshness

of passionate resentment, and the conversation of last night has

affected me more than I would wish to say. What I did, though

in anger, was natural, when so cruelly misled and deceived by

Dorothea, and my deception confirmed by the sight of your

own letter. Judge me impartially, as a human being born

with strong passions and frailties, and you will acquit mc.

But my resentments, for what I conceived to be a wilful breach

of faith in you, have long since died away. Persecuted as

I have been in this sad world, with now neither hopes nor

prospects but such as hang on a better, I would fain make

my peace with all, and, retiring into myself, forget that such

things were. The time, I hope, may come, when I shall be

able to look on the past with a steadier eye ; at present

I would avoid it, lest it should throw a darker shadow overall

the future.

But I feel that it gives me some consolation to assure you

how freely I forgive you for all the share you have had in it.

I am ready to believe that the letter you wrote to the Earl of

Stamford arose from the necessity of the case— your father's

danger; that you did not act wilfully from a wrong motive

towards mc. Be assured no unkind feeling exists towards

you in my breast. No, Elizabeth ; this is most likely the last

time you will ever hear from me. From the bottom of my

soul do I forgive you all the bitter, bitter hours I have passed.

Misfortune and disappointment have ever marked my days ;

this was the keystone to the whole, and has marred all chance

of future happiness. May you be happier than I have been,

as happy as your own wishes would make you ! Be at ease

with regard to me ; whatever aro my feelings they are not

such as would injure you ; no, not even in thought. Again

I say, be happy. That the God of all Mercy may bless you

and keep you is the sincere prayer of the unfortunate — unfortunate



Edmund Oxenham."

It would be impossible for me to describe what were my

feelings on reading this letter. For some time I let my tears

flow without control. My husband spoke with regret of the

resolution which he told me Edmund had taken, and communicated

to horn, never again to quit the field of active service

so long as a man remained in arms for the King, should the

war be renewed, as both parties believed it would be, on the

expiration of the present truce in the West.

Deeply as I was affected by the sufferings of Edmund, I

was no less so by the generous manner in which my husband

had conducted himself, from the promptings of his own heart,

throughout the whole of these most disastrous events. His

magnanimity worked a great change in my mid, and my

bodily health speedily partook of its salutary effects. It

raised me from the bed of death to renewed life — to renewed

hope. I felt I had a duty paramount to all others to perform,

and my very sense of the necessity of its fulfilment

did me service, for nothing less than the devotion of my

whole life to the affectionate cares of a wife could, I felt, in

any way requite the debt I owed to my noble-minded husband.

Yes ! I felt that the only return adequate to his merit

was to love horn, and I determined, with all the energy of

my soul, to endeavour to effect that object, so that Duty and

Love might go hand in hand. Never could I think of what

he had done for me without a feeling of admiration for his

virtue, for the greatness and disinterestedness of mid, that

carried with it a fervour and enthusiasm of itself sufficient to

kindle in my heart the liveliest gratitude. What motives

were these to enforce a sense of duty ! I soon found that

duty, based on what is right in the eye of God, when once

resolutely entered upon, was more easy of performance than

wc are apt to think, if, at the first, it happens not altogether

to harmonise with our own feelings. To fulfil any duty is

obedience to God ; it has in it all that is good and reasonable

to recommend it, and with humble confidence wc may rely

on the Divine grace to aid us in the work.

CHAPTER XIX.

I know not how it is ;

But a foreboding presses on my heart,

At times, until I sicken. I have heard —

And from men learned — that before the touch

(The common, coarser touch) of good or ill,

That oftentimes a subtler sense informs

Some spirits of the approach of " things to be."

Proctor.

'Tis credible on record that good men

Have awful warnings.

Hunt.

One day, during my convalescence, but before I had quitted

my chamber, as I was reclining in an easy chair to which I

had been moved from my bed, I sat opposite a window,

contemplating the setting sun, that slowly and with great

majesty and beauty was sinking below the distant hills.

After I had ceased to see the globe of fire which had been so

dazzling in its decline, I still perceived a mass of clouds, that

retained on their edges a tinge of red and gold, though the

shades of twilight were falling fast around, and involving

every object in their obscurity.

As I thus sat contemplating the scene without, something

suddenly and violently dashed itself against the glass of the

window without. I looked and beheld a bird (but of what

kind I could not tell), with outspread and agitated wings,

whose breast was of the purest white. It fluttered a few

moments before the window, and then disappeared. I did

not see in what direction it flew. The nurse, also, on hearing

the fluttering, looked up, and exclaimed, as she did so, in a

voice that made me shudder, " It is the white-breasted bird

of Oxenham. I have seen that bird once before, on the night

when Mr. Edmund's mother died, for I was then living in

the family ; that bird is never seen but one of the house of

Oxenham dies. Yet it is strange it should flutter before your

window ; though, I have heard say, it will sometimes appear

to the friend best beloved by horn who is about to depart this

world, as well as to the individual himself for whom the

warning comes."

I heard no more ; for, weakened as I was in spirits as well

as body, I fainted, as a cold sense of fear ran through my

veins, and seemed to chill my very heart, at the thought

that rushed on my mind — for whose death the warning was

thus given ! It was some time before I was restored to consciousness.



Not many days after, about the same hour at which I had

seen the bird so mysteriously fluttering around my window,

whilst I was seated in the same place, and again contemplating

the same scene, my husband entered the room with

a noiseless step. Ho approached me with a silence and

solemnity of manner and of aspect that was alarming. He

looked at me with tender pity, and seemed as if collecting

himself crc he commenced a subject which he knew would

give me pain. But, before he could utter a single word, my

feelings told me all. I could not speak. I could but clasp

my hands together and look up in his face, as, at length, I

found words to say — " You come to tell me that Edmund is

dead."

Indeed, I do," he replied : " but how could it be known

to you ? The messenger who brought the fatal news has but

this moment arrived."

No messenger of earth conveyed the tidings to me," I

said ; " but a winged messenger, permitted, I doubt not, of

Heaven to warn mc. You have heard the old tale of the

house of Oxenham ? "

I have," said my husband with agitation. " Have you,

then, seen the white-breasted bird ? "

Two nights ago," I replied, " about this time, that messenger

of fate came to yonder window."

It was, then, on the very day, and about the very hour,

he died," said my husband. " Elizabeth, can you bear to

hear it all ? Speak."

Tell me all ! " I exclaimed ; " God, who permitted the

mysterious warning to be given, will enable me to bear this

trial ; let me, then, know all the truth. Hide nothing from

mc. Where did he fall ? In battle, and for the King ? "

"He fell in battle, and gloriously. It appears that after

he had despatched the farewell letter he wrote to you, no

longer detained by any duty here, he mounted his horse, and,

having heard that the King was about to take the field in

person, hastened to join him. The name, the zeal, the loyalty

of Edmund Oxenham were well known to the unfortunate

Charles. He granted at once Edmund's request that he

might have the honour to be stationed near the Royal presence

in the field. The battle took place near Newbury. The

King was in the heart of the action. But his Majesty's

cause failed, and a decisive victory was achieved by the Parliament.

Edmund fought with the most daring courage in

defence of his Royal master. He never quitted his sovereign's

side till the last moment before the unhappy Charles

was compelled to retreat from the field. Edmund received a

blow from a sword and was borne bleeding from the ground

by some of his men, who rallied round him. Fortunately

there was a farmhouse not very far distant from the spot.

Thither was he carried, his wound examined, and pronounced

mortal.

Edmund, though sinking from the loss of blood, desired

some friend near horn to search in a pocket of the coat he had

worn. He said a letter would be found in it which he had

written on the previous night to Sir Arthur Moorenn, as he

knew he should die in this battle, for he had received a warning

of his death which, by one of his house, could never be

mistaken. He paused, and added something which, he was

so faint, could scarcely be understood. But the words, ' white-breasted

bird ' were distinctly spoken. The letter was to request

he might be buried in the church where he had been

accustomed to attend divine service with Sir Arthur and his

family. He then prayed fervently, though inarticulately,

and in a few minutes expired. So fled the best, the bravest

spirit that ever animated, a human breast. O ! Elizabeth, if

I feel this, what must be your sorrow ! "

The remains of Edmund were committed to their last 

as he had desired ; my father attending as chief

mourner, and a true mourner was he indeed. He had dearly

loved the unhappy Edmund, and now more than ever estimated

his worth. I recovered, though slowly, from my severe

illness ; for I was young, and was endowed with a naturally

good constitution ; and the kindness of my husband, my deep

sense of gratitude and duty towards horn for all his generous

care, with the consolations of a religious trust, altogether supported

me through the repeated trials and shocks to which I

was exposed.

I recovered ; but there was one in our family who never did,

and that one was — Dorothea. She had resolved to pay Edmund's

remains the last tribute of respect by following them

to the grave. My father combated her purpose ; but she

would go. The day proved unfavourable ; it was wet, and

the church damp and cold. So much had Dorothea been

absorbed by her own sad thoughts and feelings that she took

not even the commonest precautions against the inclemency

of the day. She returned home, felt chilled, but complained

to no one, grew worse, and at length confessed her state of

suffering, both in body and mid.

Stung to the very soul by a late but deep sense of remorse,

she seemed wholly careless of the result of her illness. Soon

did it become serious. Fever came on with rapid strides ;

and in less than ten days, after asking and receiving my forgiveness,

tho unhappy Dorothea yielded her last breath, perfectly

sensible, and deploring, to the latest moment of her

existence, the cruel manner in which she had deceived Edmund

about myself. She died penitent, but unconsoled ; for

she never could forgive herself, though, I doubt not, her true

repentance had obtained for her God's mercy and forgiveness.



I remained so weak, and my spirits were so much affected,

that it was proposed I should be removed to the house of my

husband's sister on the sea-coast, for the benefit of the change.

Paulina, to you I need relate none of the events which there

occurred.

Some years have intervened since I there made you the

promise, which I have here, with a sacred regard to truth,

fulfilled. You know not how many causes, duties, and cares

have arisen to occasion this delay in the execution of my most

painful task. Among these have been the cruel circumstances

which attended the close of the Civil War ; that war in which

I lost my dear father in the last great battle fought by the

Royalists. My dear husband also was a sufferer. For, though

he had served but too faithfully the Parliament party he had

espoused, he was at last most ungratefully requited by his

rebel and disloyal masters. In consequence of his having

absolutely refused to accede to the measures adopted to secure

the King s person (which were followed by his imprisonment

and death), Colonel Holborne was not only discarded but

persecuted by Cromwell and the Republicans. Compelled by

the circumstances of the times and the ill-usage he received

to leave the country for some years, I bore horn company ;

nor did wc return to England till after the restoration of the

monarchy.

Then was it, I rejoice to say, that I was enabled in some

measure to repay my debt of gratitude to my dear husband.

The daughter of the known and gallant Royalist, Sir Arthur

Moorenn, who had lost his life for the late King, was heard

with respect and attention when she pleaded for the pardon

of her husband, and proved how he had suffered by his resolute

endeavour, unavailing though it was, to save the life 'and

crown of the unhappy Charles. Colonel Holbornes character

as a brave and honourable man had ever been respected, even

by his enemies : he was ultimately pardoned.

Lady Moorenn having died during our residence abroad, and

no heir being left but myself to the lands and old mansion of

Moortown, thither wc retired ; and there wc have lived for

more than ten years, as you know, in great privacy ; Colonel

Holborne taking no part in public affairs, but exercising in

private life, as a husband, a father, a friend, and a benefactor

to his tenants and to the poor, those great and generous

qualities by which he has ever been distinguished. This,

Paulina, you may know ; but it is impossible you should know

the extent of his kindness, his tenderness, his goodness to me,

his most grateful and, I hope I may with truth add, his affectionate

wife ; so that not a day passes over my head but I

bless horn, and bless God for all he has done for me. Neither

my past sorrows nor the dead are forgotten, but they are now

remembered by us both with the calm of a religious resignation

and the hope of a Christian.

How often do I now think with devout submission on the

goodness of Providence, which for so long a time conducted

me in safety through all the trying circumstances of my past

life ! How mercifully have they been overruled and governed,

when all my own attempts to guide my course were alike vain

and fruitless — God ordering them as he thought fit, though

contrary to my own expectations, and in a manner quite beyond

my own power either to foresee or to project : now turning

aside by the veriest trifles of his Providence plans of a

long and anxious deliberation that seemed ripe for fruition,

now raising up blessings and opening havens for hope and

safety amidst the apparent ruin of those schemes of happiness

that were the work of my own imagination alone. How

did these thoughts teach me to adore that wondrous power

which, with infinite and never-failing mercy, orders all things

for the best for those who trust Horn and confide in His marvellous

and inscrutable wisdom !

Note. — The little episode or tradition mentioned in this story arose

from the following circumstance, which is thus alluded to by Prince, in

his " Worthies of Devon" :— " There is a family of considerable standing

of this name [Oxenham J at South Tawton, near Southampton, in the

county of Devon, of which is this strange and wonderful thing recorded,

that at the deaths of any of there a bird with a white breast is seen for

awhile fluttering about their beds, and then suddenly to vanish away. Mr.

James Hotel (in his celebrated Letters) tells us that, in a lapidary's shop

in London, he saw a largo marble stone, to be sent into Devonshire, with

an inscription, that John Oxenham, Mary Oxenham, his sister, James, his

son, and Elizabeth, his mother, had each the appearance of such a bird

flattering about their beds as they were dying."

THE END.

Westminster : Printed by Nichols and Son, £6, Parliament Street.

ir, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, W.C.

plate 193, Piccadilly, W.) ■

June, 1884.

CATALOGUE OF BOOKS

PUBLISHED BY

CHAPMAN & HALL,

LIMITED,

INCLUDING

DRAWING EXAMPLES, DIAGRAMS, MODELS,

INSTRUMENTS, ETC.

ISSUED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OP

THE SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT,

SOUTH KENSINGTON,

FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS AND ART AND SCIENCE CLASSES.

MILITARY BIOGRAPHIES.

Messrs. CHAPMAN & HALL are preparing

for publication a Series of Volumes

dedicated to the Lives of Great Military

Commanders.

The volumes are designed to form a set

of critical Biographies, illustrative of the

operations and the art of war, by writers of

distinction in the profession of arms, whose

competence to weigh the military qualities

and deeds of the Chiefs can be accepted.

Maps-will, when necessary, accompany the

volumes, for the convenience of students.

The aim of these volumes is to be both

popular and scientific, combining the narrative

of the most romantic and instructive

of human lives with a clear examination of

the genius of the soldier.

"FREDERICK THE GREAT," by

Col. C. B. Brandenburg, containing Maps,

is now ready, price 4s.

"MARSHAL LOU DON," by Col.

Galleon, C.5.1., will follow it; the two

Lives presenting the opposing aspects of

the Seven Years' War.

BOOKS

PUBLISHED BY

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED.

ABBOTT edwin), formerly Head Master of the Philological School—

A CONCORDANCE OF THE ORIGINAL POETICAL

WORKS OF ALEXANDER POPE. Medium Bvo, 21s.

ADAMS (FRANCIS)—

HISTORY OF THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL Contest

IN ENGLAND. Demy Bvo, 6s.

BADEN-POWELL (GEORGE)—

STATE AID AND STATE INTERFERENCE. Illustrated

by Results in Commerce and Industry. Crown Bvo, 9s.

Barley (G. C. T.)—

A HANDY BOOK FOR GUARDIANS OF THE POOR.

Crown Bvo, cloth, 3s.

THE PARISH NET: HOW IT'S DRAGGED AND

WHAT IT CATCHES. Crown Bvo, cloth, 7 s. 6d.

THE SEVEN AGES OF A VILLAGE PAUPER. Crown

Bvo, cloth, ss.

BAYARD: HISTORY OF THE GOOD CHEVALIER,

SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE. Compiled by the Loyal Serviteur ;

translated into English from the French of Jordan Larches. With over aoo

Illustrations. Royal Bvo, 21s.

Beetles (EDWARD SPENCER)—

CATILINE, Clovis, AND TIBERIUS. Large crown

Bvo, 6s.

BELL (DR. JAMES), Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory—

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic

Illustrations.

Part I. TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR, Etc. Large crown Bvo. 2s. 6d.

Part 11. MILK, BUTTER, CEREALS, PREPARED STARCHES, Etc.

Large Crown Bvo, 3s.

BEN NET (WILLIAM) The Late—

KING OF THE PEAK: a Romance. With Portrait.

Crown Bvo, 6s.

BENSON (W.)—

MANUAL OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Coloured

Frontispiece and Illustrations. imo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

PRINCIPLES OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Small

4to, cloth, 15s.

BINGHAM (CAPT. THE HON. D.)—

A SELECTION FROM THE LETTERS AND

DESPATCHES OF THE FIRST NAPOLEON. With Explanatory Notes.

3 vols. demy Bvo. [/« the Press.

BIRD WOOD (SIR GEORGE C. M.), C.S.I.—

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. With Map and

174 Illustrations. New Edition. Demy Bvo, 14s.

Black (JOHN STUART) F.R.S.E.—

ALTAVONA : FACT AND FICTION FROM MV LIFE

IN THE HIGHLANDS. Third Edition. Crown Bvo, 6s.

BLAKE (EDITH OS BORNE)—

THE REALITIES OF FREEMASONRY. Demy Bvo, 9 s.

A. z

BLA THER WICK (Dr)—

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF PETER Stentor,

Esq. With Illustrations by James Guthrie and A. S. Boyd. Large crown Bvo, 6s.

BOYLE (FREDERICK)—

ON THE BORDERLAND-betwixt THE REALMS

OF FACT AND FANCY. Crown Bvo, ios. 6d.

BRADLEY (THOMAS), of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich—

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two

Parts, with Sixty Plates. Oblong folio, half bound, each Part 16s.

Brave (Mrs)—

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF (born 1789, died 1883).

Author of the "Life of Thomas Stothard, R.a," "The White Hoods," &c.

Edited by John A. Kempe. With Portraits. Crown Bvo, ios. 6d.

MRS. BRAY'S NOVELS AND ROMANCES.

New and Revised Editions, with Frontispieces. 3/. 6d. each.

THE WHITE HOODS; a Romance of I THE Tala ; or, The Moor of Portugal.

Flanders. THE PROTESTANT; aTaleof the Times

DE Fix ; a Romance of Beam. of Queen Mary.

NOVELS FOUNDED ON TRADITIONS OF DEVON AND

CORNWALL.

Fits OF FITZFORD; a Tale of Destiny.

HENRY DE Poverty. [/« the Press.

TRELAWNY OF TRELAWNE. [/» the

Harleigh ; or, The Fatal Oak.

COURTENAY OF WALREDDON. [In

the Press.

Garland FOREST AND ROSE-press.



League. [In the Press.

MISCELLANEOUS TALES.

A FATHER'S CURSE AND A DAUGHTER'S SACRIFICE. [Hi the Press.

TRIALS OF THE HEART. [In the Press.

Bradley (A.'M.)—

HOW WE DEFENDED Arabs AND HIS FRIENDS.

A Story of Egypt and the Egyptians. Illustrated by Frederick Villiers.

Second Edition. Demy Bvo. 12s.

Auckland [FRANK)—

Log-book OF A FISHERMAN AND ZOOLOGIST.

Fourth Thousand. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Bvo, ss.

Burnett (R.)—

DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. New Edition. 2 4 m0,

cloth, sd.

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE, for the Use of Schools of Art.

Twenty-first Thousand. With Illustrations. Post Bvo, cloth, 7s.

PRACTICAL GEOMETRY : The Course of Construction

of Plane Geometrical Figures. With 137 Diagrams. Eighteenth Edition. Post

Bvo, cloth, ss.

Brand (F. C), sa., Trin. Coll. Came.—

THE "A. D. C. ;" being Personal Reminiscences of the

University Amateur Dramatic Club, Cambridge. Second Edition. Demy Bvo, 12s.

CAMPION (J. S.).—

ON THE FRONTIER. Reminiscences of Wild Sports,

Personal Adventures, and Strange Scenes. With Illustrations. Second Edition.

Demy Bvo, 16s.

ON FOOT IN SPAIN. With Illustrations. Second Edition.

Demy Bvo, t6s.

CARL Ile ( THOMAS)— See pages 18 and 19.

CARLYLE BIRTHDAY BOOK (THE). Prepared by

Permission of Mr. Thomas Carlyle. Small crown, 3s.

Chapeau (ALFRED)—

TAPESTRY. With Woodcuts. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

CHRISTIANITY AND COMMON SENSE. A Plea for the

Worship of our Heavenly Father, and also for the Opening of Museums and

Galleries on Sundays. By a Barrister. Demy Bvo, 7s. 6d.

CHURCH [A. H), M.A., Oxon.—

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. Illustrated. Large

crown Bvo, sewed, 6d.

FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents,

and Uses of Food. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 3s.

PRECIOUS STONES : considered in their Scientific and

Artistic Relations. With Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

CLINTON (R. H.)—

A COMPENDIUM OF ENGLISH HISTORY, from the

Earliest Times to a.d. 1872. With Copious Quotations on the Leading Events and

the Constitutional History, together with Appendices. Post Bvo, 7s. 6d.

COBDEN, RICHARD, LIFE OF. By John Morley. With Portrait.

In 2 vols., demy Bvo, 325.

New Edition. Portrait. Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

Popular Edition, with Portrait, sewed, is.; cloth, 2s.

CHAPMAN & HALLS SERIES OF Popular NOVELS.

New and Cheaper Editions 0/ Popular Novels. Crown %vo.

THE RIGHT SORT. A Romance of the Shires. By Mrs. Edward Renard.

Illustrated, 6s.

FAUCIT OF BALLIOL. By Herman Derivable. 6s.

AN AUSTRALIAN HEROINE. By Mrs. Campbell Prayed. 6s.

HARD LINES. By Hawley Smart. 6s.

STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM. By Ralph Iron. ss.

NADINE. A Study of a Woman. By Mrs. Campbell Prayed. ss.

TO LEEWARD. By F. Marion Crawford. New Edition. s s.

Coles (FRANCES E.)—

HISTORY OF THE ZULU WAR AND ITS ORIGIN.

Assisted in those portions of the work which touch upon Military Matters by

Lieut-colonel Edward Dartford. Demy Bvo, 18s.

COOKERY—

OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOR THE NATIONAL

TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Containing Lessons on Cookery;

forming the Course of Instruction in the School. Compiled by "R. O. C."

Twelfth Thousand. Large crown Bvo, 8s

HOW TO COOK FISH. A Series of Lessons in Cookery,

from the Official Handbook to the National Training School for Cookery, South

Kensington. Compiled by ,( R. O. C." Crown Bvo, sewed 3d,

Sick-room COOKERY. From the Official Handbook

for the National School for Cookery, South Kensington. Compiled by "R. O. C."

Crown Bvo, sewed, 6d.

Craig [GEORGE L/LL/E)—

ENGLISH OF SHAKESPEARE. Illustrated in a Philological

Commentary on his Julius Caesar. Sixth Edition. Post Bvo, cloth, ss.

OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH

LANGUAGE. Ninth Edition. Post Bvo, cloth, as. 6d.

CRA Word (F. MARION)—

TO LEEWARD. New Edition. Crown Bvo, ss.

CRIPPS ( WILFRED)—

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. With

numerous Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

DAME TROT AND HER PIG (The Wonderful History of).

With Coloured Illustrations. Crown 4to, 3s. 6d.

Faubourg (E.)—

INTERIOR ARCHITECTURE. Doors, Vestibules, Staircases,

Anterooms, Drawing, Dining, and Bed Rooms, Y.Vovar«^, > fc^Y^ , s^"^wi'^-

paper Offices, Shop Fronts and Interiors. HttttaßQM&iV&sflß&i £.** vis».*A

DAVIDSON (ELLIS A.)—

PRETTY ARTS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF

LEISURE HOURS. A Book for Ladies. With Illustrations. Demy Bvo, 6s.

THE AMATEUR HOUSE CARPENTER: a Guide in

Building, Making, and Repairing. With numerous Illustrations, drawn on Wood

by the Author. Royal Bvo, ios. 6d.

DA VISON ( THE MISSES)—

TRIQUETI MARBLES in the ALBERT MEMORIAL

CHAPEL, WINDSOR. A Series of Photographs. Dedicated by express permission

to Her Majesty the Queen. The Work consists of 117 Photographs, with

descriptive Letterpress, mounted on 49 sheets of cardboard, half-imperial. ,610 ios.

DA V ( WILLIAM)—

THE RACEHORSE IN TRAINING, with Hints on

Racing and Racing Reform, to which is added a Chapter on Shoeing. Fourth

Edition. Demy Bvo, 12s.

UHAUSSONVILLE [VICOMTE)—

SALON OF MADAME NECKER. Translated by H. M.

Trollope. a vols. Crown Bvo, 18s.

DE KONINCK(L. L.) and DIE TZ (unpractical

MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING,

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. Edited, with notes, by Robert Mallet.

Post Bvo, cloth, 6s.

DICKENS (CHARLES)— See pages 20-24.

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS. Edited

by his Sister-in-law and his Eldest Daughter. Two vols. uniform with " The

Charles Dickens Edition "of his Works. Crown Bvo, Bs.

THE CHARLES DICKENS BIRTHDAY BOOK.

Compiled and Edited by his Eldest Daughter. With Five Illustrations by his

Youngest Daughter. In a handsome cap. 4to volume, 12s.

DIXON ( W. HEP WOR TH)—

BRITISH CYPRUS. With Frontispiece. Demy Bvo, 15s.

DRA Son (Lieut-COL. A. W.)—

THE CAUSE OF THE SUPPOSED PROPER MOTION

OF THE FIXED STARS. Demy Bvo, cloth, ios.

THE CAUSE, DATE, AND DURATION OF THE

LAST GLACIAL EPOCH OF GEOLOGY. Demy Bvo, cloth, ios.

PRACTICAL MILITARY SURVEYING AND

SKETCHING. Fifth Edition. Post Bvo, cloth, 4s. 6d.

DYCE's COLLECTION. A Catalogue of Printed Books and Manuscripts

bequeathed by the Rev. Alexander Duce to the South Kensington Museum.

2 vols. Royal Bvo, half-morocco, 14s.

A Collection of Paintings, Miniatures, Drawings, Engravings,

Rings, and Miscellaneous Objects, bequeathed by the Rev. Alexander Dice

to the South Kensington Museum. Royal Bvo, half-morocco, 6s. 6d.

DYCE ( WILLIAM), R.A.—

Drawing-book OF THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL

OF DESIGN ; OR, ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. Fifty

selected Plates. Folio, sewed, 55. ; mounted, 18s.

Text to Ditto. Sewed, 6d.

EGYPTIAN ART—

A HISTORY OF ART IN ANCIENT EGYPT. By

G. Perrot and C. Chipiez. Translated by Walter Armstrong. With, over

600 Illustrations. 2 vols. Royal Svo, ,£2 ss.

Elles captain A. B.)—

THE LAND OF ¥E.TIS&. TteßGi%c&, vxl

ENGEL (CARL)—

A DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF THE MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS in the SOUTH KENSINGTON

MUSEUM, preceded by an Essay on the History of Musical Instruments. Second

Edition. Royal Bvo, half-morocco, 12s.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. With numerous Woodcuts.

Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Escort (T. H. S.)—

PILLARS OF THE EMPIRE : Short Biographical

Sketches. Demy Bvo, ios. 6d.

EWALD (ALEXANDER CHARLES), Misrepresentation

STATESMEN: Political Studies.

2 vols. Large crown Bvo, £1 4s.

SIR ROBERT WALPOLE. A Political Biography,

1676-1745. Demy Bvo, 18s.

FANE (VIOLET)—

QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES (A Village Story), and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 6s.

ANTHONY Barrington : a Drama. Crown Bvo, 6s.

Darnley (W.)—

LESSONS IN HORSE JUDGING, AND THE Summering

OF HUNTERS. With Illustrations. Crown Bvo, 4s.

FI TZ-PA TRICK (W. J.)—

LIFE OF CHARLES LEVER. 2 vols. Demy Bvo, sos.

FLEMING (GEORGE), F.R.C.S.—

ANIMAL PLAGUES: THEIR HISTORY, NATURE,

AND PREVENTION. Bvo, cloth, 15s.

PRACTICAL HORSE-SHOEING. With 37 Illustrations.

Second Edition, enlarged. Bvo, sewed, 2s.

RABIES AND HYDROPHOBIA : THEIR HISTORY,

NATURE, CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND PREVENTION. With 8 Illustrations.

Bvo, cloth, 15s.

A MANUAL OF VETERINARY SANITARY SCIENCE

AND POLICE. With 33 Illustrations. 2 vols. Demy Bvo, 365.

FORSTER (JOHN). M.P. for Berwick—

THE CHRONICLE of JAMES 1., KING of ARAGON,

SURNAMED THE CONQUEROR. Written by Himself. Translated from

the Catalan by the late John Forster, M.P. for Berwick. With an Historical

Introduction by Don Pascal de Gayangos. 2 vols. Royal Bvo, 28s.

FORSTER (JOHN)—

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. With Portraits

and other Illustrations. 15th Thousand. 3 vols. Bvo, cloth, £2 2s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Illustrated Library Edition of Dickens's Works. 2 vols. Demy Bvo, £1 Bs.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Library Edition. Post Svo, ios. 6d.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the "C D." Edition. With Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 7s.

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with

the Household Edition. With Illustrations by F. Barnard. Crown 4to, cloth, ss.

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR : a Biography, 1775-1864.

With Portrait. A New and Revised Edition. Demy Bvo % tab

FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW—

FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.— First Series, May, 1865, to

Dec. 1866. 6 vols. Cloth, 13s. each.

New Series, 1867 to 1872. In Half-yearly Volumes. Cloth,

13s. each.

From January, 1873, t 0 tn e present time, in Half-yearly

Volumes. Cloth, 16s. each.

CONTENTS OF FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW. From

the commencement to end of 1878. Sewed, 2s.

Forum (C. D. £.)—

A DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF THE BRONZES OF EUROPEAN ORIGIN in the SOUTH Kensington

MUSEUM, with an Introductory Notice. Royal Bvo, half-morocco,

£1 rosa

DESCRIPTIVE and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE

OF MAIOLICA, HISPANO-MORESCO, PERSIAN, DAMASCUS, AND

RHODIAN WARES in the SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. Royal

Bvo, half-morocco, £2.

MAIOLICA. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown

Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

BRONZES. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown

Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

FRANCA TELL! (C. £.}—

ROYAL CONFECTIONER: English and Foreign. A

Practical Treatise. New and Cheap Edition. With Illustrations. Crown Bvo, ss.

FRANKS (A. Way—

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report. Numerous

Illustrations and Marks. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Galling (ANTONIO)—

IBERIAN REMINISCENCES. Fifteen Years' Travelling

Impressions of Spain and Portugal. With a Map. 2 vols. Demy Bvo, 325.

A SUMMER TOUR IN RUSSIA. With a Map.

Demy Bvo, 14s.

Worst (J. E.), Q.C M.P.—

An ELECTION MANUAL. Containing the Parliamentary

Elections (Corrupt and Illegal Practices) Act, 1883, with Notes. New Edition.

Crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

GRIFFIN (SIR Level HENRY), K.C.S.I.—

THE GREAT REPUBLIC. Crown Bvo. [in the Press.

GRIFFITHS (MAJOR ARTHUR), Hem. Inspector of Prisons—

CHRONICLES OF NEWGATE. Illustrated. New

Edition. Demy Bvo, 16s.

MEMORIALS OF MILLBANK. With Illustrations. New

Edition. Demy Bvo. [In the Press.

HALL (SIDNEY)—

A TRAVELLING ATLAS OF THE ENGLISH Counties.

Fifty Maps, coloured. New Edition, including the Railways, corrected

up to the present date. Demy Bvo, in roan tuck, ios. 6d.

HARDY (LADY Diffusion

SOUTH. Demy Bvo. 14s.

THROUGH CITIES and PRAIRIE LANDS. Sketches

of an American Tour. Demy Bvo, 14s.

HATTON [JOSEPH) and HARVEY (REV. 71/.)—

NEWFOUNDLAND. The Oldest British Colony. Its

History, Past and Present, and its Prospects in the Future. Illustrated from

Photographs and Sketches specially made for this work. Demy Svo, 18s.

TO-DAY IN AMERICA. Studies for the Old World and

the New. 2 vols. Crown Bvo, 18s.

Heathy (Misgave)—

GLIMPSES AND GLYAWS. Cwktv ?>nq, «ju

HILDEBRAND (HANS)—

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF SCANDINAVIA IN THE

PAGAN TIME. Illustrated. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

HILL (MISS G.)—

THE PLEASURES AND PROFITS OF OUR LITTLE

POULTRY FARM. Small crown Bvo, 3s.

Watchman (FRANCIS)—

THE PUBLIC LIFE OF THE EARL OF Beaconsfield.

2 vols. Demy Bvo, jCi 12s.

HOLBEIN-twelve

HEADS AFTER HOLBEIN. Selected from

Drawings in Her Majesty's Collection at Windsor. Reproduced in Autotype, in

portfolio, £1 16s.

HOLLINGSHEAD (JOHN) —

FOOTLIGHTS. Crown Bvo. 7s. 6d.

Lovelace (ABEL)—

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE: Linguistic,

PHILOLOGY, AND ETYMOLOGY. With Maps. Large crown Bvo, cloth, s s.

HOW I BECAME A SPORTSMAN. By "Avon." Crown Svo. 6s.

Humphrey (H. D.)—

PRINCIPLES OF PERSPECTIVE. Illustrated in a

Series of Examples. Oblong folio, half-bound, and Text Bvo, cloth, £i is.

HUNT-ROOM STORIES AND YACHTING YARNS. By

"Wanderer," the Author of "Across Country," "Fair Diana," &c. With

Illustrations by Edgar Libere. Demy Svo. 12s.

iron [RALPH)—

THE STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM. New Edition.

Crown Bvo, ss.

JAMES 1., KING OF ARAGON (THE CHRONICLE OF),

SURNAMED THE CONQUEROR. Written by Himself. Translated from

the Catalan by the late John Foster, M.P. for Berwick. With an Historical

Introduction by Don Pascal de Gavangos. 2 vols. Royal Bvo. 28s.

Tarry (GENERAL)—

OUTPOST DUTY. Translated, with TREATISES ON

MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON ROAD-MAKING. By Major-gen.

W. C. E. Napier. Third Edition. Crown Bvo, ss.

JEANS (W. T.)—

CREATORS OF THE AGE OF STEEL. Memoirs of

Sir W. Siemens, Sir H. Bessemer, Sir J. Wentworth, Sir J. Brown, and other

Inventors. Crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

JOHNSON (DR. SAMUEL)—

LIFE AND CONVERSATIONS. By A. Main. Crown

Bvo, 10s. 6d.

JONES (CAPTAIN DOUGLAS), R.A.—

NOTES ON MILITARY LAW. Crown Svo, 4s.

JONES COLLECTION (HANDBOOK OF THE) IN THE SOUTH

KENSINGTON MUSEUM. Illustrated. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

KEMPIS (THOMAS A)—

OF THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. Four Books.

Beautifully Illustrated Edition. Demy Bvo, 16s.

KENT (CHARLES)—

HUMOUR AND PATHOS OF CHARLES DICKENS,

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS OF HIS MASTERY OF THE TERRIBLE

AND PICTURESQUE. Portrait. Crown Bvo. 6s.

KLACZKO (M. JULIAN) —

TWO CHANCELLORS : PRINCE GORTCHAKOF *.w>

PRINCE BISMARCK. TrtuisUued.Vs'M.BS.'Y.KYY &«»itV<iy»^S»^

LACORDAIRE's CONFERENCES. JESUS CHRIST, GOD,

AND GOD AND MAN. New Edition in i vol. Crown Bvo, 6s.

LA Vale VE (EMILE DE)—

THE ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY.

Translated by W. Pollard sa., St. John's College, Oxford. Crown Bvo, 6s.

LEFEVRE (ANDRE)—

PHILOSOPHY, Historical and Critical. Translated, with

an Introduction, by A. W. Keene, Bea. Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

LETOURNEAU [DR. CHARLES)—

SOCIOLOGY. Based upon Ethnology. Translated by

Henry M. Trollope. Large crown Bvo, ios.

BIOLOGY. Translated by William Miscall. With Illustrations.

Large crown Bvo, 6s.

Will V ( W. S. )—

ANCIENT RELIGION AND MODERN THOUGHT.

One vol. demy Bvo, 12s.

LOW (C. R.)—

SOLDIERS OF THE VICTORIAN AGE. 2 vols. Demy

Bvo, £1 ios.

LUCAS (CAPTAIN)—

THE ZULUS AND THE BRITISH FRONTIER.

Demy Bvo, 16s.

CAMP LIFE AND SPORT IN SOUTH AFRICA.

With Episodes in Kaffir Warfare. With Illustrations. Demy Bvo. 12s.

LYTTON (ROBERT, EARL)—

POETICAL WORKS-fables

IN SONG. 2 vols. Cap. Bvo, 12s.

THE WANDERER. Cap. Bvo, 6s.

POEMS, HISTORICAL AND CHARACTERISTIC. Cap. 6s.

Macedon (CONSTANCE)—

ROUGH DIAMONDS : OR, SKETCHES FROM REAL

LIFE. Crown Bvo, 3s. 6d.

MALLET (DR. J. W.)—

COTTON : THE CHEMICAL, &c, CONDITIONS OF

ITS SUCCESSFUL CULTIVATION. Post Bvo, cloth, 7 s. 6d.

MALLET (ROBERT)—

PRACTICAL MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING,

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. By L. L. De Koninck and E. Dihtz.

Edited, with notes, by Robert Mallet. Post Bvo, cloth, 6s.

GREAT NEAPOLITAN EARTHQUAKE OF 1857.

First Principles of Observational Etymology, as developed in the Report to the

Royal Society of London. Maps and numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. Royal Bvo,

cloth, £■$ 3s.

Masked [ WILLIAM)—

A DESCRIPTION OF THE IVORIES, ANCIENT AND

MEDIÆVAL, in the SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM, with a Preface.

With numerous Photographs and Woodcuts. Royal Bvo, half-morocco, £t is.

IVORIES : ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTER Collections.

With Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, doth, 2S. 6d.

McCOAN (J. Carlisle)—

OUR NEW PROTECTORATE. Turkey in Asia: Its

Geography, Races, Resources, and Government. With Map. 2 vols.

Large crown Bvo, £i 4s.

MEREDITH (GEORGE)—

MODERN LOVE AND POEMS OF THE ENGLISH

ROADSIDE, WITH POEMS AND BALLADS. Cap. cloth, 6s.

Derivable (HERMAN CHARLES)—

Bingo's BLUES. A Tale for Children of all Growths

Illustrated by Edgar Libere, Small crown Bvo, ss.

THE WHITE PILGRIM, and other Poems. Crown Bvo, 9s.

FAUCIT OF BALLIOL. Crown Bvo, 6s.

MILITARY BIOGRAPHIES.

FREDERICK THE GREAT. By Col.C.B.Brackenbury;

containing Maps and Portrait Crown Bvo, 4s.

MARSHAL London. By Col. Galleon, C.5.1., will

follow it, the two Lives presenting the opposing aspects of the Seven Years' War.

[/» the Press.

MOLES WORTH ( W. Massa U)—

HISTORY OF ENGLAND FROM THE YEAR 1830

TO THE RESIGNATION OF THE GLADSTONE MINISTRY, 1874. 3 vols

Crown Bvo, 185.

ABRIDGED EDITION. Large crown, 7s. 6d.

MORLEY (HENRY)—

ENGLISH WRITERS. Vol. I. Part I. THE CELTS

AND Anglo-saxons. With an Introductory Sketch of the Four Periods of

English Literature. Part 11. FROM THE CONQUEST TO CHAUCER.

(Making 2 vols.) Bvo, cloth, £1 2S.

Vol. 11. Part I. FROM CHAUCER TO DUNBAR.

Bvo, cloth, 12s.

TABLES OF ENGLISH LITERATURE. Containing

20 Charts. Second Edition, with Index. Royal 4to, cloth, 12s.

In Three Parts. Parts I. and 11., containing Three Charts, each is. 6d.

Part 111., containing 14 Charts, 7s. Part 111. also kept in Sections, 1, 2, and 5.

is. 6d. each ; 3 and 4 together. 3s. *J i The Charts sold separately.

MORLEY (JOHN)—

LIFE OF RICHARD COBDEN. With Portrait. Popular

Edition. 410, sewed, is. Bound in cloth, as.

LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF RICHARD

COBDEN. Fourth Thousand, 2 vols. Demy Bvo, £1 12s.

DIDEROT AND THE Encyclopedia. 2 vols.

Demy Bvo, £1 6s.

NEW UNIFORM Edition.

LIFE of RICHARD COBDEN. With Portrait. Large

crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

VOLTAIRE. Large crown Bvo, 6s.

ROUSSEAU. Large crown Bvo, 9s.

DIDEROT AND THE Encyclopedia. Large

crown Bvo, has.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. First Series. Large crown

Bvo, 6s.

CRITICAL MISCELLANIES. Second Series. [interest.

ON COMPROMISE. New Edition. Large crown Bvo, 3s. 6d.

STRUGGLE FOR NATIONAL EDUCATION. Third

Edition. Demy Bvo, cloth, 3s.

MUNTZ (EUGENE), From the French oj—

RAPHAEL : HIS LIFE, WORKS, AND TIMES.

Edited by W: Armstrong. Illustrated with 155 Wood Engravings, and a^'J?^-

page Plates. Imperial Bvo, 365.

MURPHY (J. M.)—

RAMBLES IN NORTH-WEST AMERICA. With

Frontispiece and Map. Bvo, 16s.

MURRAY (ANDREW), F.L.S.—

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. Altera. With numerous

Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

NAPIER (MAJ. GEN. W.C.E.)—

TRANSLATION OF GEN. Tarry's OUTPOST DUTY.

With TREATISES ON MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON

ROAD-MAKING. Third Edition. Crown Bvo, ss.

NAPOLEON. A Selection from the Letters and Despatches of

the First Napoleon. With Explanatory Notes by Captain the Hon. D. Bingham.

3 vols. demy Bvo. [In the Press.

NECKER (MADAME)—

THE SALON OF MADAME NECKER. By Vicomte

d'Haussonvillr. Translated by H. M. Trollope. 2 vols. Crown Bvo, 18s.

NESBITT (ALEXANDER)—

GLASS. Illustrated. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

NEVINSON (Her V)—

A SKETCH OF HERDER AND HIS TIMES. With

a Portrait. Demy Bvo, 14s.

NEWTON (E. Tully), F.G.S.—

THE TYPICAL PARTS IN THE SKELETONS OF

A CAT, DUCK, AND CODFISH, being a Catalogue with Comparative

Description arranged in a Tabular form. Demy Bvo, cloth, 3s.

NORMAN (C. B.), late of the goth Light Infantry and Bengal Staff Corps —

TONKIN; or, FRANCE IN THE FAR EAST. Demy

Bvo, with Maps, 14s.

OLIVER (PROFESSOR), F.R.S., &>c—

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL NATURAL

ORDERS OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM, PREPARED FOR THE

SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON. With

log Plates. Oblong? Svo, plain, 165. ; coloured, £1 6s.

OXENHAM (REV. H. N.)—

SHORT STUDIES IN ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY

AND Biography. Demy Bvo. [May i s th.

Parrot (GEORGES) and Chipped (CHARLES)—

Chaldea AND ASSYRIA, A HISTORY OF ART IN.

Translated by Walter Armstrong, Bea. Oxon. With 452 Illustrations. 3 vols.

Demy Bvo. Uniform with " Ancient Egyptian Art." 425.

ANCIENT EGYPT, A HISTORY OF ART IN. Translated

from the French by W. Armstrong. With over 600 Illustrations, a vols.

Imperial Bvo, 425.

rit-TAYLOR (FRANK)—

THE CANTERBURY TALES. Being Selections from

the Tales of Geoffrey Chaucer rendered into Modern English, with close

adherence to the language of the Poet. With Frontispiece. Crown Bvo, 6s.

POLLEN [J. H.)—

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND

WOODWORK IN THE SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With an

Introduction, and Illustrated with numerous Coloured Photographs and Woodcuts.

Royal Bvo, half-morocco, £1 is.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITHS WORK. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, cloth, 2s. fid.

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND

WOODWORK. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. fid.

Pollock lieut-COLONEL)—

SPORT IN BRITISH Burma, ASSAM, AND THE

Cassia AND JYNTIAH HILLS. With Notes of Sport in the Hilly Districts

of the Northern Division, Madras Presidency. With Illustrations and 2

Maps. 2 vols. Demy Bvo, j£i 45,.

Pointer (E. J.), R.A.—

TEN LECTURES ON ART. Second Edition. Large

crown Bvo, os.

Prayed (MRS. CAMPBELL)—

AN AUSTRALIAN HEROINE. Cheap Edition. Crown

Bvo, 6s.

NADINE. Cheap Edition. Crown Bvo, ss.

MOLOCH. Cheap Edition. [In the Press

Prince ( HAL), A.R.A.—

IMPERIAL INDIA. Containing numerous Illustrations

and Maps made during a Tour to the Courts of the Principal Rajahs and Princes

of India. Second Edition. Demy Bvo, £z is.

Pickets (R. CAMPBELL), Ph.D., Bonn University—

Biography ; or, Radial Projection of Shadows. Third

Edition. Crown Bvo, cloth, 6s.

RAMSDEN (LADY GWENDOLEN)—

A BIRTHDAY BOOK. Illustrated. Containing 46 illustrations

from Original Drawings, and numerous other Illustrations. Royal Bvo, 21s.

REDGRAVE (GILBERT)—

OUTLINES OF HISTORIC ORNAMENT. Translated

from the German and edited by. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Bvo. 4s.

REDGRA VE (GILBERT R.)—

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and

Addresses of Richard Redgrave, R. A. With Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, cloth,

2S. 6d.

REDGRAVE (RICHARD)—

MANUAL AND CATECHISM ON COLOUR. 2 4 m0,

cloth, od.

REDGRA VE (SAMUEL)—

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE Historical

COLLECTION OF Water-colour PAINTINGS IN THE

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With numerous Chromo-lithographs and

other Illustrations. Royal Bvo, £1 is.

Renal (ERNEST)—

RECOLLECTIONS OF MV YOUTH. Translated from

the original French by C. B. Pitman, and revised by Madame Renal. Crown

Bvo, Bs.

Piano (JUAN F.)—

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. Illustrated. Large

crown Bvo, cloth, 4s.

ROBINSON (JAMES F.)—

BRITISH BEE FARMING. Its Profits and Pleasures.

Large crown Bvo, ss.

ROBINSON (J. C.)—

ITALIAN SCULPTURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES

AND PERIOD OF THE REVIVAL OF ART. With 20 Engravings. Royal

Bvo, cloth, 7s. 6d.

ROBSON (GEORGE)—

ELEMENTARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Illustrated

by a Design for an Entrance Lodge and Gate. 15 Plates. Oblong folio,

sewed, Bs.

ROBSON (REV. J. H.), M.A., Leman

ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON ALGEBRA.

Post Bvo, 6s.

ROCK (THE VERY REV. CANON), Dad.—

ON TEXTILE FABRICS. A Descriptive and Illustrated

Catalogue of the Collection of Church Vestments, Dresses, Silk Stuffs, Needlework,

and Tapestries in the South Kensington Museum. Royal Svo., halC-w\av^R».

£l us. 6d.

ROCK (THE VERY REV. CANON), Dad.—

TEXTILE FABRICS. With numerous Woodcuts. Large

crown Bvo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

ROLAND (ARTHUR)—

FARMING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT. Edited

by William Ablest. 8 vols. Large crown Bvo, ss. each.

DAIRY-FARMING, MANAGEMENT OF COWS, &c

POULTRY-KEEPING.

TREE-PLANTING, FOR ORNAMENTATION OR PROFIT.

STOCK-KEEPING AND CATTLE-REARING.

DRAINAGE OF LAND, IRRIGATION, MANURES, &c

ROOT-GROWING, HOPS, &c.

MANAGEMENT OF GRASS LANDS.

MARKET GARDENING.

Ramsden (G. W.), for many years Clerk of the Parliament in Victoria —

A HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA. With a Coloured Map.

3 Vols. Demy Bvo, 50s.

A HISTORY OF NEW ZEALAND. 3 vols. Demy Bvo.

with Maps, 50s.

SALUSBUR V (PHILIP H. B. )—

TWO MONTHS WITH TCHERNAIEFF IN SERVIA.

Large crown Bvo, 9s.

SCOTT-STEVENSON (Mrs)—

ON SUMMER SEAS. Including the Mediterranean, the

Ægean, the ionian, and the Euxine, and a voyage down the Danube, With a

Map. Demy Bvo, 16s.

OUR HOME IN CYPRUS. With a Map and Illustrations.

Third Edition. Demy Bvo, 14s.

OUR RIDE THROUGH ASIA MINOR. With Map.

Demy Bvo, 18s.

SHEPHERD (MAJOR), Ree.—

PRAIRIE EXPERIENCES. With Illustrations. DemyBvo.

Simon DS (T. L.)— [In the Press.

ANIMAL PRODUCTS: their Preparation, Commercial

Uses, and Value. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

SMART (HA Whey)—

Salvage. A Collection ot Stories. Crown Svo, ios. 6d

HARD LINES, i vol. Crown Bvo, 6s.

SMITH (MAJOR R. Murdoch), Ree.—

PERSIAN ART. Second Edition, with additional Illustrations.

Large crown Bvo, 2S.

ST. CLAIR (S. G. B. )-

TWELVE YEARS' RESIDENCE IN BULGARIA.

Revised Edition. Crown Bvo, 9s.

STORY [W. W.)—

Rosa DI ROMA. Seventh Edition, with Additions and

Portrait. Crown Bvo, cloth, ios. fid.

CASTLE ST. ANGELO. With Illustrations. Crown

Bvo, ios. 6d.

SUTCLIFFE (JOHN)—

THE SCULPTOR AND ART STUDENT'S GUIDE

to the Proportions of the Human Form, with Measurements in feet and inches of

Full-Grown Figures of Both Sexes and of Various Ages. By Dr. G. Shadow,

Member of the Academies, Stockholm, Dresden, Rome, &c. &c. Translated by

J. J. Wright. Plates reproduced by J. Sutcliffe. Oblong folio, 31s. fid.

TANNER [PROFESSOR), F.C.S.—

HOLT CASTLE; or, Threefold Interest in Land. Crown

Bvo. 4s. fid.

JACKS EDUCATION; OR, HOW HE LEARNT

FARMING. Second Edition. Ctovjiv Bvo-js. 6d.

TOPINARD (DR. PA UL)—

ANTHROPOLOGY. With a Preface by Professor Paul

Broca. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

Trail (H. D.)—

THE NEW LUCIAN. Being a Series of Dialogues of the

Dead. Demy Bvo, 12s.

TROLLOPS (ANTHONY)—

AYALA's ANGEL. Crown Bvo. 6s.

LIFE OF CICERO. 2 vols. Bvo. £1 4s.

THE CHRONICLES OF BARSETSHIRE. A Uniform

Edition, in 8 vols., large crown Bvo, handsomely printed, each vol. containing

Frontispiece. 6s. each.

THE WARDEN and Barchester

TOWERS, vols.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT

Arlington. 2 vols.

DR. THORNE.

LAST CHRONICLE OF

Basset. 2 vols.

Frame PARSONAGE.

UNIVERSAL—

UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART.

Compiled for the use of the National Art Library, and the Schools of Art in the

United Kingdom. In 2 vols. Crown 4to, half-morocco, £2 2s.

Supplemental Volume to Ditto.

Vernon (EUGENE)-^

ÆSTHETICS. Translated by W. H. Armstrong. Large

crown Bvo, 7s. 6d.

WALE (REV. HENRY JOHN), M.A.—

MV GRANDFATHER'S POCKET BOOK, from 1701 to

1796. Author of " Sword and Surplice." Demy Bvo, 12s.

WATSON (ALFRED E. T.)

SKETCHES IN THE HUNTING FIELD. Illustrated

by John Stress. Cheap Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

WESTWOOD (J. O.), M.A., F.L.S., &c —

CATALOGUE OF THE FICTILE IVORIES IN THE

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With an Account of the Continental

Collections of Classical and Medieval Ivories. Royal Bvo, half-morocco, £1 4s.

WHEELER (G. P.)—

VISIT OF THE PRINCE OF WALES. A Chronicle of

H.R.H.'s Journeyings in India, Ceylon, Spain, and Portugal. Large crown Bvo, 12s.

WHIST—

THE HANDS AT WHIST. By Aquarius. 321110, cloth

EASY' WHIST. 32m0, cloth gilt, is.

ADVANCED What. 321110, cloth gilt, is.

WHITE ( WALTER)—

HOLIDAYS IN TYROL: Kufstein, Klobenstein, and

Paneveggio. Large crown Bvo, 14s.

A MONTH IN YORKSHIRE. Post Bvo. With a Map.

Fifth Edition. 4s.

A LONDONERS WALK TO THE LANDS END, AND

ATRIPTOTHESCILLYISLES. Post Bvo. With 4 Maps. Third Edition. 4s.

WILDFO WLER—

SHOOTING, YACHTING, AND SEA-FISHING TRIPS,

at Home and on the Continent. Second Series. By " Wildfowl," " Snapshot."

2 vols. Crown Bvo, £z is.

SHOOTING AND FISHING TRIPS IN ENGLAND,

FRANCE, ALSACE, BELGIUM, HOLLAND, AND BAVARIA. Ne*

Edition, with Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, Bs.

WILL-O'-THE-WISPS, THE. Translated from the German

of Marie Petersen by Charlotte J. Hart. With Illustrations. Crown £to,

7s. 6d.

WORNUM(R. N.)—

ANALYSIS OF ORNAMENT: THE Characteristics

OF STYLES. An Introduction to the Study of the History of Ornamental

Art. With many Illustrations. Ninth Edition. Royal Bvo, cloth, Bs.

Worse (J. J. A.)—

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK. FROM THE

EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DANISH CONQUEST OF ENGLAND.

With Maps and Illustrations. Crown Bvo, 3s. 6d.

Wilde (A Thereon)—

MV CHIEF AND I; OR, SIX MONTHS IN NATAL

AFTER THE LANGALIBALELE OUTBREAK. With Portrait of Colonel

Dartford. and Illustrations. Demy Bvo, 141.

YEO (DR. J. BURNEY)—

HEALTH RESORTS AND THEIR USES: BEING

Vacation Studies in various Health Resorts. Crown Bvo, Bs.

Younger. D.)—

PARALLEL LIVES OF ANCIENT AND MODERN

HEROES. New Edition, uno, cloth, 4s. 61.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM DESCRIPTIVE AND

ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.

Royal Svo, half-bound.

BRONZES OF EUROPEAN ORIGIN. By C. D. E. Forum.

£l lOS.

DYCE's COLLECTION OF PRINTED BOOKS AND

MANUSCRIPTS. 2 vols. 14s.

DYCE's COLLECTION OF PAINTINGS, ENGRAVINGS,

&c. 6s. 6d.

FURNITURE AND WOODWORK, ANCIENT AND

MODERN. By J. H. Pollen. £1 is.

GLASS VESSELS. By A. Nesbitt. iBs.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITHS WORK. By J. G. Pollen.

£1 6s.

IVORIES, ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL. By W. Masked.

dis.

IVORIES, FICTILE. By J. O. Westwood. £i 4 s.

MAIOLICA, HISPANO-MORESCO, PERSIAN, Damascus

AND RHODIAN WARES. Bv C. D. E. Fortnum. £2.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By C. Engel. 12s.

SCULPTURE, ITALIAN SCULPTURE OF THE MIDDLE

AGES. By J. C. Robinson. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

SWISS COINS. By R. S. Poole. £2 ios.

TEXTILE FABRICS. By Rev. D. Rock. £1 us. 6d.

Water-colour PAINTING. By S. Redgrave. ,£1 is.

UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART. 2 vols.

Small 4to, £i is. each.

UNIVERSAL CATALOGUE OF BOOKS ON ART. Supplementary

vol.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE AND ART

HANDBOOKS.

Published for the Committee of the Council on Education.

.vRT IN RUSSIA. Forming a New Volume of the South Kensington

Art Handbooks. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Bvo. [In the Press.

FRENCH POTTERY. Forming a New Volume of the South

Kensington Art Handbooks. With Illustrations. Crown Bvo. [In the Press.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK. From the Earliest

Times to the Danish Conquest of England. By J. J. A. Worsaah, Hon. F.S.A.,

M.R.1.A., &c. &c. With Map and Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 3s. fid.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF SCANDINAVIA IN THE PAGAN

TIME. By Hans Hildebrand, Royal Antiquary of Sweden. Woodcuts. Large

crown Svo, 2s. fid.

PRECIOUS STONES. By Professor Church. With Illustrations.

Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. By Sir George C. M.

Firewood, C.S.L With Map and 174 Illustrations. Demy Bvo, 14s.

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTER Collections.

By W. Masked. With Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. By Jan F. Piano.

Illustrated. Large crown Bvo, 4s.

GLASS. By Alexander Nesbitt. Illustrated. Large crown

Bvo, 2s. 6d.

GOLD AND SILVER SMITHS WORK. By John Hunger-ford

Pollen. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

TAPESTRY. By Alfred Chapeau. With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d.

Bronzes. By C. Drury E. Fortnum, F.S.A. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. By A. H. Church, M.A.,

Oxon. Illustrated. Large crown Bvo, sewed, fid.

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial Uses,

and Value. By T. L. Simmonds. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown

Bvo, 7s. fid.

FOOD : A Short Account of the Sources, Constituents, and Uses

of Food ; intended chiefly as a Guide to the Food Collection in the Retinal Green

Museum. By A. H. Church, M.A., Oxon. Large crown Bvo, 3s.

SCIENCE CONFERENCES. Delivered at the South Kensington

Museum. 2 vols. Crown Bvo, 6s. each.

Vol. I. — Physics and Mechanics.

Vol. II. — Chemistry, Biology, Physical Geography, Geology, Mineralogy, and

Meteorology.

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY. By Andrew Murray, F.L.S.

Altera. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 7s. fid.

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report. Edited by

A. W. Franks. Numerous Illustrations and Marks. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

HANDBOOK TO THE SPECIAL LOAN COLLECTION

of Scientific Apparatus. Large crown Bvo, 3s.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS: Historical Sketches. With 242

Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 3s.

TEXTILE FABRICS. By the Very Rev. Daniel Rock, Dad.

With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. fid.

JONES COLLECTION IN THE SOUTH KENSINGTON

MUSEUM. With Portrait and Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE & ART HANDBOOKS— Continued.

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. By Wilfred

Cripps. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, cloth, as. 6d.

IVORIES: ANCIENT AND MEDIÆVAL. By William

Masked. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND Woodwork.

By John Hungered Pollen. With numerous Woodcuts. Large

crown Bvo, 2S. fid.

MAIOLICA. ByC. Drury E. Fortnum, F.S.A. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic Illustrations.

By James Bell, Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory.

Part i. — Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Sugar, &c. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

Part n. — Milk, Butter, Cereals, Prepared Starches, &c. Large crown Bvo, 2s. 6d.

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By Carl Engel. With numerous

Woodcuts. Large crown Bvo, 2s. fid.

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and

Addresses of Richard Redgrave, R.A. By Gilbert R. Redgrave. With

Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, 2s. fid.

PERSIAN ART. By Major R. Murdoch Smith, Ree. Second

Edition, with additional Illustrations. Large crown Bvo, 2s.

FREE EVENING LECTURES. Delivered in connection with

the Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus, 1876. Large crown Bvo, Bs.

CARLYLE'S

(THOMAS)

WORKS.

CHEAP AND UNIFORM Edition.

In 23 vols., Crown Bvo, cloth, £f js.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION: | Latter-day PAMPHLETS.

A History* 2 vols., 12s. 1 vol., 6s.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Let CHARTISM AND PAST AND

Tears AND SPEECHES, with Eluci- PRESENT, i vol., 6s.

Nations, &c. 3 vols., 18s. TRANSLATIONS FROM THE

LIVES OF SCHILLER AND ?M R 1 N i A ,S t O F , D Must 1 us ' TIECK,

JOHN STERLING, i vol., 6s. ,„ T RICHTER. i vol., 6s.

PRTTTrAT AND MISCFT LA WILHELM MEISTER, by Goths.

iUViTc %-cilvc MIbULLLA- A Translation 2 vols., zm.

Nous ESSAYS. 4 vols., £, 4 s. HISTORY OF FRIEDRICH THE

SARTOR RESARTUS AND SECOND, called Frederick the Great

LECTURES ON HEROES. iv 01.,65. 7 vols., £2 os.

SIXPENNY EDITION.

SARTOR RESARTUS. Eightieth Thousand.

HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP.

ESSAYS : Bums, Johnson, Scott, The Diamond

Necklace.

The above are also to be had in I vol., in cloth, 2s. 6d.

CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS— Continued.

LIBRARY EDITION COMPLETE.

Handsomely printed in 34 vols., demy Bvo, cloth, £13:

SARTOR RESARTUS. The Life and Opinions of Herr

Teufelsdrockh. With a Portrait, 7s. fid.

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. A History. 3 vols., each 9 s.

LIFE OF FREDERICK SCHILLER AND EXAMINATION

~ OF HIS WORKS. With Supplement os 1872. Portrait and Plates, 9s.

CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. With Portrait.

6 vols., each os.

ON HEROES, HERO WORSHIP, AND THE HEROIC

IN HISTORY. 7s. 6d.

PAST AND PRESENT. 9 s.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS AND SPEECHES. With

Portraits. 5 vols., each 9s.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS. 9s.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING. With Portrait, 9s.

HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE SECOND. 10 vols.,

each 9s.

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN. 3 vols., each 9 s.

EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY; ESSAY ON THE Portraits

OF JOHN KNOX; AND GENERAL INDEX. With Portrait

Illustrations. Bvo, cloth, os.

PEOPLE'S EDITION.

In 77 vols., small Crown Svo. Price 2s. each vol., bound in cloth ;or in sets of

31 vols. in 19, cloth gilt, for £3 14s,

SARTOR RESARTUS.

FRENCH REVOLUTION. 3 vols.

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING.

OLIVER CROMWELL'S Letters

AND SPEECHES. 5 vols.

ON HEROES AND HERO

WORSHIP.

PAST AND PRESENT.

CRITICAL AND Miscellaneous

ESSAYS. 7 vols.

Latter-day PAMPHLETS.

LIFE OF SCHILLER.

FREDERICK THE GREAT.

10 vols.

WILHELM MEISTER. 3 vols.

TRANSLATIONS FROM MU-sous,

TIECK, AND RICHTER.

2 vols.

THE EARLY KINGS OF Norway

; Essay on the Portraits of Knox ;

and General Index.

B 2

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS.

ORIGINAL EDITIONS.

In Demy Svo.

THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD. With Illustrations

by S. L. Files, and a Portrait engraved by Baker. Cloth, 7s. fid.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. With Forty Illustrations by Marcus

Stone. Cloth, £\ is.

THE PICKWICK PAPERS. With Forty-three Illustrations

by Seymour and Phiz. Cloth, £z is.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £l IS.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With Forty Illustrations by George

Cruikshank. Cloth, £1 is.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

DOMBEY AND SON. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz.

Cloth, £1 is.

BLEAK HOUSE. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,

£1 IS.

LITTLE DORRIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth,

£1 IS.

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. With Seventy-five Illustrations

by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. A New Edition. Uniform with

the other volumes, £1 is.

BARNABY RUDGE : a Tale of the Riots of 'Eighty. With

Seventy-eight Illustrations by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. Uniform with

the other volumes, £1 is.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS : Containing— The Christmas Carol ;

The Cricket on the Hearth ; The Chimes ; The Battle of Life ; The Haunted House.

With all the original Illustrations. Cloth, 12s.

OLIVER TWIST and TALE OF TWO CITIES. In one

volume. Cloth, £i is.

OLIVER TWIST. Separately. With Twenty-four Illustrations

by George Cruikshank. Cloth, us.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. Separately. With Sixteen Illustrations

by Phiz. Cloth, 9s.

# * The remainder of Dickens' s Works were not originally printed in Demy Svo.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) Works Continued.

LIBRARY EDITION.

In Post Svo. With the Original Illustrations, 30 vols. , cloth, £12.

s. d.

PICKWICK PAPERS 43 Illusions., 2 vols. 16 o

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 39 „ 2 vols. 16 o

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT 40  2 vols. 16 o

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP & REPRINTED PIECES 36  2 vols. 16 o

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES 36 „ 2 vols. 16 o

BLEAK HOUSE 40  2 vols. 16 o

LITTLE DORRIT 40  2 vols. 16 o

DOMBEY AND SON 38 „ 2 vols. 16 o

DAVID COPPERFIELD 38 „ 2 vols. 16 o

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 40  2 vols. 16 o

SKETCHES BY " BOZ " 39  1 vol. 8 o

OLIVER TWIST 24 „ 1 vol. 8 o

CHRISTMAS BOOKS 17  1 vol. 8 o

A TALE OF TWO CITIES 16  1 vol. 8 o

GREAT EXPECTATIONS 8 „ 1 vol. 8 o

PICTURES FROM ITALY & AMERICAN NOTES 8 „ 1 vol. 8

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER 8 „ 1 vol. 8

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 8  1 vol. 8 o

EDWIN DROOD and MISCELLANIES 12 „ 1 vol. 8 o

CHRISTMAS STORIES from "Household Words," &c. 14  1 vol. 8 o

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By John Foster. With Illustrations.

Uniform with this Edition. 1 vol. ios. 6d.

THE "CHARLES DICKENS" EDITION.

In Crown Svo. In 21 vols. , cloth, with Illustrations, £3 16s.

s. d.

PICKWICK PAPERS 8 Illustrations . 4 o

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT 8 4 o

DOMBEY AND SON 8 4 o

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 8 4 c

DAVID COPPERFIELD 8 4 o

BLEAK HOUSE 8 4 o

LITTLE DORRIT 8 4 o

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 8 „ . 4 o

BARNABY RUDGE 8 3 6

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP 8 „ . 3 6

A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 1 4 3 6

EDWIN DROOD and OTHER STORIES 8 3 6

CHRISTMAS STORIES, from "Household Words" . 8 „ .3 6

SKETCHES BY "BOZ" 8 „ . 3 6

AMERICAN NOTES and REPRINTED PIECES . 8 3 6

CHRISTMAS BOOKS 8 „ . 3 6

OLIVER TWIST 3 „ . 3 6

GREAT EXPECTATIONS 8 3 6

TALE OF TWO CITIES 8 „ . 3 o

HARD TIMES and PICTURES FROM ITALY . 8 3 o

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER 4 3 o

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 7

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS 2 vols. 8

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS-Continued.

THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION.

Complete in 30 Volumes. Demy Svo, ios. each ;or set, £Is.

This Edition is printed on a finer paper and in a larger type than has been

employed in any previous edition. The type has been cast especially for it, and

the page is of a size to admit of the introduction of all the original illustrations.

No such attractive issue has been made of the writings of Mr. Dickens, which,

various as have been the forms of publication adapted to the demands of an ever

widely-increasing popularity, have never yet been worthily presented in a really

handsome library form.

The collection comprises all the minor writings it was Mr. Dickens's wish to

preserve.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With 40 Illustrations by George Cruikshank.

PICKWICK PAPERS. 2 vols. With 42 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLIVER TWIST. With 24 Illustrations by Cruikshank.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols. With Illustrations

by Cattermole, &c.

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES. 2 vols. With Illustrations by

Cattermole, &c.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. With 4 Illustrations by Phiz.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY. 1 vol. With 8

Illustrations.

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. With 16 Illustrations by Phiz.

THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. With 17 Illustrations by Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A,

Machine, R.A., &c. &c.

HISTORY OF ENGLAND. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone.

CHRISTMAS STORIES. (From "Household Words" and "All the Year

Round") With 14 Illustrations.

EDWIN DROOD AND OTHER STORIES. With 12 Illustrations by S. L,

Files.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS— Continued.

HOUSEHOLD EDITION.

Complete in 22 Volumes. Crown iso, cloth, £4 Bs. 6d.

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

DAVID COPPERFIELD, with 60 Illustrations and a Portrait, cloth, ss.

BLEAK HOUSE, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

LITTLE DORRIT, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 56 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

DOMBEY AND SON, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, ss.

EDWIN DROOD ; REPRINTED PIECES ; and other Stories, with 30 Illustrations,

cloth, ss.

THE LIFE OF DICKENS. By John Forster. With 40 Illustrations. Cloth, ss.

BARNABY RUDGE, with 46 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 32 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

CHRISTMAS STORIES, with 23 Illustrations, cloth, 4s.

OLIVER TWIST, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 3s,

SKETCHES BY "BOZ," with 36 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, with 15 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, with 18 Illustrations,

cloth, 3s.

A TALE OF TWO CITIES, with 25 Illustrations, cloth, 3s.

HARD TIMES, with 20 Illustrations, cloth, 2s. 6d.

MR. DICKENS'S READINGS.

Cap. Svo, sewed.

CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE.

STORY OF LITTLE DOMBEY. isis.



POOR TRAVELLER, BOOTS AT

THE HOLLY-TREE INN, and

MRS. GAMP. is.

CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, is.

CHIMES : A GOBLIN STORY, is.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL, with the Original Coloured Plates,

being a reprint of the Original Edition. Small Bvo, red cloth, gilt edges, ss.

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS— Continued.

THE Popular LIBRARY EDITION

OF THE WORKS OF

CHARLES DICKENS,

OF THE WORKS OF

In 30 Vols. , large crown Svo, price £6 ; separate Vols. 4s. each.

An Edition printed on good paper, containing Illustrations selected from

the Household Edition, on Plate Paper. Each Volume has about 450 pages

and 16 full-page Illustrations.

SKETCHES BY "BOZ." OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and

PICKWICK. 2 vols. REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols.

OLIVER TWIST BARNABY RUDGE. 2 vols.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVEL-martin

CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. r "eft. FX p FrT Actions

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols. S?^ r>? T^vT ri?fwQ

DAVID Copperfield 2 vols lALfc, Ur I WU CJ.ll.kb.

Christmas Book CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENG-

RSÆSff^mSnSf' 2V ° IS - EDWINDROOD and Miscall

STORIES. Ladies

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. PICTURES FROM ITALY and

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. AMERICAN NOTES.

The Cheapest and Handiest Edition of

THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

The Pocket-Volume Edition of Charles Dickens's Works.

In 30 Vols. small cap. Svo, £2 ss.

New and Cheap Issue of

THE WORKS OF CHARLES DICKENS.

In pocket volumes.

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, as.

OLIVER TWIST, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is.

SKETCHES BY " BOZ," with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is.

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

BARNABY RUDGE. with 16 Illustrations, cloth, 2s.

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, with 8 Illustrations, cloth,"is.6d.

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 8 Illustrations, cloth, is. 6d.

SIXPENNY REPRINTS.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL and THE

HAUNTED MAN.

Charles Dickens. Illustrated.

(II.)

READINGS FROM THE WORKS OF

CHARLES DICKENS.

As selected and read by himself and now published for the first time. Illustrated.

(HI.)

THE CHIMES: A Goblin Story, and THE

CRICKET ON THE HEARTH.

Illustrated.

List of Books, Drawing Examples, Diagrams, Models,

Instruments, etc.,

INCLUDING

THOSE ISSUED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE SCIENCE

AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUTH KENSINGTON, FOR THE

USE OF SCHOOLS AND ART AND SCIENCE CLASSES.

CATALOGUE OF MODERN WORKS ON SCIENCE

AND TECHNOLOGY. Bvo, sewed, is.

BENSON (W.)—

PRINCIPLES OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR.

Small 410, cloth, 15s.

MANUAL OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Coloured

Frontispiece and Illustrations. 121110, cloth, 2s. 6d.

BRADLEY (THOMAS), of the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich—

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two

Parts, with 60 Plates. Oblong folio, half-bound, each part 16s.

Selections (from the above) of 20 Plates, for the use of the Royal Military

Academy, Woolwich. Oblong folio, half-bound, 16s.

Burnett—

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE. With Illustrations. PostBvo,7s.

PRACTICAL GEOMETRY. Post Bvo, ss.

DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. Third Edition. 24m0,

sewed, sd.

CARROLL (JOHN)—

FREEHAND DRAWING LESSONS FOR THE BLACK

BOARD. 6s.

CUBLEY (W. H.)—

A SYSTEM OF ELEMENTARY DRAWING. With

Illustrations and Examples. Imperial 4to, sewed, 3s. 6d.

DAVISON (ELLIS A.)—

DRAWING FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS. Post

Bto, 3s.

MODEL DRAWING, uno, 3s.

THE AMATEUR HOUSE CARPENTER : A Guide in

Building, Making, and Repairing. With numerous Illustrations, drawn on Wood

by the Author. Demy Svo, ios. 6d.

Melmotte (P. H.)—

PROGRESSIVE Drawing-book FOR BEGINNERS.

imo, 3s. (A.

DYCE—

Drawing-book OF THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL

OF DESIGN : ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. 50 Plates.

Smalt folio, sewed, 55. : mounted, 18s.

INTRODUCTION TO DITTO. Cap. Bvo, 6d.

POSTER (VERS)—

DRAWING-BOOKS :

(a) Twenty-four Numbers, at id. each.

(6) Forty-six Numbers, at 3d. each. The set b includes the subjects in a.

DRAWING-CARDS :

Freehand Drawing : First Grade, Sets 1., 11., 111., is. each.

Second Grade, Set 1., 2s.

HENSLO W (PROFESSOR)—

ILLUSTRATIONS TO BE EMPLOYED IN THE

PRACTICAL LESSONS ON BOTANY. Prepared for South Kensington

Museum. Post Bvo, sewed, 6d.

JACOBSTHAL (£.)—

GRAMMATIK DER Ornaments, in 7 Parts of 20

Plates each. Unmounted, £3 13s. 6d. ; mounted on cardboard, £\\ 4s. The

Parts can be had separately.

J E WITT—

HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL PERSPECTIVE. imo,

cloth, is. 6d.

KENNEDY (JOHN)—

FIRST GRADE PRACTICAL GEOMETRY. i 2 mo, 6d.

FREEHAND Drawing-book. imo, is.

J.INDLEY (JOHN)—

SYMMETRY OF VEGETATION : Principles to be

Observed in the Delineation of Plants, iso, sewed, is.

MARSHALL—

HUMAN BODY. Text and Plates reduced from the large

Diagrams. 2 vols., £1 is.

NEWTON (E. Tully), F.G.S.—

THE TYPICAL PARTS IN THE SKELETONS OF A

CAT, DUCK, AND CODFISH, being a Catalogue with Comparative Descriptions

arranged in a Tabular Form. Demy Bvo, 3s.

oliver (PROFESSOR)—

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM.

109 Plates. Oblong Bvo, cloth. Plain, 165.; coloured, £i 6s.

Enter [E. J.), R.A., issued under the superintendence of—

ELEMENTARY, FREEHAND, ORNAMENT:

Book I. Simple Geometrical Forms, 6d.

„ 11. Conventionalised Floral Forms, &c, 6d,

Pointer (E. J.), R. A. —Continued.

FREEHAND— FIRST GRADE:

Book I. Simple Objects and Ornament, 6d.

11. Various Objects, 6d.

111. Objects and Architectural Ornaments, 6d.

IV. Architectural Ornament, 6d.

V. Objects of Glass and Pottery, 6d.

VI. Common Objects, 6d.

FREEHAND— SECOND GRADE:

Book I. Various Forms of An therein, &c, is.

11. Greek, Roman, and Venetian, is.

111. Italian Renaissance, is.

IV. Roman, Italian, Japanese, &c. is.

THE SOUTH KENSINGTON DRAWING CARDS,

Containing the same examples as the books :

Elementary Freehand Cards. Four packets, gd. each.

First Grade Freehand Cards. Six packets, is. each.

Second Grade Freehand Cards. Four packets, is. 6d. each

REDGRAVE—

MANUAL AND CATECHISM ON COLOUR. Fifth

Edition. 24010, sewed, od.

ROBSON (GEORGE)—

ELEMENTARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Oblong

folio, sewed, Bs.

WALLIS (GEORGE)—

Drawing-book. Oblong, sewed, 3s. 6d.; mounted, Bs.

WORNUM (R. N.)—

THE CHARACTERISTICS OF STYLES: An Introduction

to the Study of the History of Ornamental Art. Royal Bvo, Bs.

DRAWING FOR YOUNG CHILDREN. Containing 150

Copies. imo, cloth, 3s. 6d.

ELEMENTARY DRAWING Copy-books, for the Use of

Children from four years old and upwards, in Schools and Families. Compiled by

a Student certificated by the Science and Art Department as an Art Teacher.

Seven Books in 4to, sewed :

Book I. Letters, Bd. Book IV. Objects, Bd.

„ 11. Ditto, Bd. „ V. Leaves, Bd.

„ 111. Geometrical and Ornamental  VI. Birds, Animals, &c, Bd.

Forms, Bd.  VII. Leaves, Flowers, and Sprays, Bd.

V* Or in Sets of Seven Books, 4s. 6d.

ENGINEER AND MACHINIST Drawing-book, 16 Parts,

71 Plates. Folio, £1 125. ; mounted, £3 4s.

PRINCIPLES OF DECORATIVE ART. Folio, sewed, is.

DIAGRAM OF THE COLOURS OF THE SPECTRUM,

with Explanatory Letterpress, on roller, ios. 6d.

COPIES FOR OUTLINE DRAWING:

LARGE FREEHAND EXAMPLES FOR CLASS TEACHING. Specially

prepared under the authority of the Science and Art Department. Six Sheets.

Size 60 by 40. 9s.

DYCE's ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT, 50 Selected Plates,

mounted back and front, 18s. ; unmounted, sewed, ss.

WEITBRICHT's OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT, reproduced by Herman,

12 Plates, mounted back and front, Bs. 6d. ; unmounted, 2s.

Moriens OUTLINES OF THE HUMAN FIGURE, reproduced by Herman,

20 Plates, mounted back and front, 155. ; unmounted, 3s. 411.

TARSIA, from Grüner, Four Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d., unmounted, -<!.

ALBERTOLLI's FOLIAGE, Four Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d. ; unmounted, s d.

OUTLINE OF TRAJAN FRIEZE, mounted, is.

WALLIS'S Drawing BOOK, mounted, Bs., unmounted, 3s. 6d.

OUTLINE DRAWINGS OF FLOWERS, Eight Plates, mounted, 3s. 6d.

unmounted, Bd.

COPIES FOR SHADED DRAWING:

COURSE OF DESIGN. By Ch. Argue (French), 20 Sheets, £1 9s.

ARCHITECTURAL STUDIES. By J. B. Triton. 10 Plates, £1.

MECHANICAL STUDIES. By J. B. Triton. 15s. per dozen.

FOLIATED SCROLL FROM THE VATICAN, unmounted, sd.; mounted, is. 3d.

TWELVE HEADS after Holbein, selected from his Drawings in Her Majesty's

Collection at Windsor. Reproduced in Autotype. Half imperial, £1 16s.

LESSONS IN SEPIA, 9 s. per dozen.

COLOURED EXAMPLES:

A SMALL DIAGRAM OF COLOUR, mounted, is. 6d.; unmounted, gd

COTMAN's PENCIL LANDSCAPES (set of 9), mounted, 15s.

SEPIA DRAWINGS (set of 5), mounted, £1.

Alone's LANDSCAPES IN CHARCOAL (Six), at 4s. each, or the set, £1 4s.

SOLID MODELS, &c :

*Box of Models, £1 4s.

A Stand with a universal joint, to show the solid rrcdels, &c. t £1 18s.

*One Wire Quadrangle, with a circle and cross within it, and one straight wire. One

solid cube. One Skeleton Wire Cube. One Sphere. One Cone. One Cylinder.

One Hexagonal Prism. £2 2s.

Skeleton Cube in wood, 3s. 6d.

18-inch Skeleton Cube in wood, 12s.

*Three objects of/hrm in Pottery :

Indian Jar, ")

Celadon Jar, > 18s. 6d.

Bottle, )

*Five selected Vases in Majolica Ware, £2 us.

*Three selected Vases in Earthenware, 18s.

Imperial Deal Frames, glazed, without sunk rings, ios. each,

davidson's Smaller Solid Models, in Box, £2, containing —

3 Square Slabs. Octagon Prism,

g Oblong Blocks (steps). Cylinder.

2 Cubes. i Cone.

Square Blocks. Jointed Cross.

Triangular Prism

Pyramid, Equilateral.

Pyramid, Isosceles.

Square Block.

Models, &c, entered as sets, can only be supplied in sets.

SOLID MODELS, &c— Continued.

Davidson's Advanced Drawing Models, £g. — The following is a brief description

of the Models: — An Obelisk — composed of 2 Octagonal Slabs, 26 and 20 inches

across, and each 3 inches high; 1 Cube, 12 inches edge; 1 Monolith (forming

the body of the obelisk) 3 feet high ; 1 Pyramid, 6 inches base ; the complete

object is thus nearly 5 feet high, A Market Cross— composed of 3 Slabs, 24, 18,

and 12 inches across, and each 3 inches high ; 1 Upright, 3 feel high ; 2 Cross Arms,

united by mortise and tenon joints; complete height, 3 feet 9 inches. A Step-ladder,

23 inches high. A Kitchen Table, 14^ inches high. A Chair to correspond.

A Four-legged Stool, with projecting top and cross rails, height 14 inches.

A Tub, with handles and projecting hoops, and the divisions between the staves

plainly marked. A strong Trestle ( 18 inches high. A Hollow Cylinder, 9 inches

in diameter, and 12 inches long, divided lengthwise. A Hollow Sphere, 9 inches

in diameter, divided into semi-spheres, one of which is again divided into quarters ;

the semi-sphere, when placed on the cylinder, gives the form and principles of

shading a dome, whilst one of the quarters placed on half the cylinder forms a

niche.

*Davidson's Apparatus for Teaching Practical Geometry (22 models),

*Inn's Models for Illustrating the Elementary Principles of Orthographie Projection as

applied to Mechanical Drawing, in box, £1 distillers

Class Drawing Models.— These Models are particularly adapted for teaching

large classes; the stand is very strong, and the universal joint will hold the

Models in any position. Wood Models. Square Prism, 12 inches side, 18 inches

high; Hexagonal Prism, 14 inches side, 18 inches high; Cube, 14 inches side:

Cylinder, 13 inches diameter, id inches high ; Hexagon Pyramid, 14 inches

diameter, 22% inches side ; Square Pyramid, 14 inches side, 22^ inches side ;

Cone, 13 inches diameter, 22J4 inches side ; Skeleton Cube, 19 inches solid wood

1% inch square ; Intersecting Circles, 19 inches solid wood 2% by x% inches.

Wire Models : Triangular Prism. 17 inches side, 22 inches high ; Square Prism,

14 inches side, 20 inches high ; Hexagonal Prism, 16 inches diameter, 21 inches

high ; Cylinder, 14 inches diameter, 21 inches high ; Hexagon Pyramid, 18 inches

diameter, 24 inches high ; Square Pyramid. 17 inches side, 24 inches high ; Cone,

17 inches side, 24 inches high ; Skeleton Cube, ig inches side; Intersecting Circles

19 inches side ; Plain Circle, 19 inches side ; Plain Square, 19 inches side. Table,

27 inches by 21^ inches, island. The set complete, 13s.

Vulcanite Set Square, ss.

Large Compasses, with chalk-holder, ss.

*Slip, two set squares and "\ square, ss.

*Parker's Case of Instruments, containing 6-inch compasses with pen and pencil leg, ss.

prize Instrument Case, with 6-inch compasses pen and pencil leg, 2 small compasses,

pen and scale, 18s.

6-inch Compasses, with shifting pen and point, 4s. 6d.

LARGE DIAGRAMS.

ASTRONOMICAL :

TWELVE SHEETS. By John Drew, Ph. Dr., F.R.S.A. Prepared for the Committee

of Council on Education. Sheets, £2 Bs. ; on rollers and varnished, £4 4s.

BOTANICAL :

NINE SHEETS. Illustrating a Practical Method of Teaching Botany. By Professor

Henslowe, F.L.S. £2; on rollers and varnished, £3 3s.

CLASS. DIVISION. Section. DIAGRAM.



I Thalamifloral . . . . 1

Dicotyledon . . ) Angiospermous . v jg£llJtaS " V.'^ 3

J V Incomplete 5

C Gymnospermous . . . . 6





6

Petaloid . . . . f Superior . . . . 7

Monocotyledons . . -j ( Inferior 8

Glumaceous 9





Models, &c, entered as sets, can only be supplied in sets.

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:

TEN SHEETS. By William J. Glennv, Professor of Drawing, King's College.

In sets, £i ii.

Cantons EXAMPLES OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION IN TWO

DIVISIONS, containing 32 Imperial Plates, £1.

Tunbridge's DRAWINGS OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, n Sheets.

2S. 911. Amounted, ss. 6d.

GEOLOGICAL:

DIAGRAM OF BRITISH STRATA. By H. W. Bristol, F.R.S., F.G.S.

A Sheet, 45. ; on roller and varnished, 7s. 6d.

MECHANICAL:

DIAGRAMS OF THE MECHANICAL POWERS, AND THEIR

APPLICATIONS IN MACHINERY AND THE ARTS

GENERALLY. By Dr. John Anderson.

8 Diagrams, highly coloured on stout paper, 3 feet 6 inches by 2

sect 6 inches. Sheets £1 per set ; mounted on rollers, £2.

DIAGRAMS OF THE Steam-engine. By Professor Goodevk

and Professor Shelley. Stout paper, 40 inches by 27 inches,

highly coloured.

Sets of 41 Diagrams (52^ Sheets), £6 6s. ; varnished and

mounted on rollers, ,ell us.

MACHINE DETAILS. By Professor Unwind. 16 Coloured Diagrams. Sheets,

£2 25. ; mounted on rollers and varnished, £3 14s.

SELECTED EXAMPLES OF MACHINES, OF IRON AND WOOD (French).

By Stanislas Petit. 60 Sheets, £3 55. ; 13s. per dozen.

Tunbridge's DRAWINGS OF MACHINE CONSTRUCTION. 50 Sheets,

12s. 6d. Mounted, £1 ss.

PHYSIOLOGICAL :

ELEVEN SHEETS. Illustrating Human Physiology, Life Size and Coloured from

Nature. Prepared underlie direction of John Marshall, F.R.S, F.R.C.S., &c

Each Sheet, 12s. 6d. On canvas and rollers, varnished, £t is.

1. THE SKELETON AND LIGAMENTS.

2. THE MUSCLES, JOINTS, AND ANIMAL MECHANICS.

3. THE VISCERA IN POSITION.— THE STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS.

4. THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION.

5. THE LYMPHATICS OR ABSORBENTS.

6. THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION.

7. THE BRAIN AND Nerves-THE ORGANS OF THE VOICE.

8. THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES.

9. THE ORGANS OF THE SENSES.

10. THE MICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OF THE TEXTURES AND ORGANS.

11. THE MICROSCOPIC STRUCTURE OF THE TEXTURES AND ORGANS.

HUMAN BODY, LIFE SIZE. By John Marshall, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. Each

Sheet, 12s. 6d. ; on canvas and rollers, varnished, £1 is. Explanatory Key, is.

1. THE SKELETON, Front View.

5. THE SKELETON, Side View.

6. THE MUSCLES, Side View.

7. THE FEMALE SKELETON,

2. THE MUSCLES, Front View.

3. THE SKELETON, Back View.

4. THE MUSCLES, Back View

ZOOLOGICAL :

Front View.

TEN SHEETS. Illustrating the Classification of Animals. By Robert Patterson.

£2 1 on canvas and rollers, varnished, £3 ios.

The same, reduced in size on Royal paper, in 9 Sheets, uncoloured, 12s.

PHYSIOLOGY AND ANATOMY OF THE HONEY BEE.

Two Diagrams. 7s. 6d.

By GEORGES Parrot and CHARLES Chipped.

Translated by Walter Armstrong, sa., Oxon. With 452 Illustrations.

2 vols. royal Bvo, £2 2s.

It is profusely illustrated, not merely with representations of the actual remains preserved

in the British Museum, the Louvre, and elsewhere, but also with ingenious conjectural representations

of the principal buildings from which those remains have been taken. To Englishmen

familiar with the magnificent collection of Assyrian antiquities preserved in the British

Museum the volume should be especially welcome. Wc may further mention that an English

translation by Mr. Walter Armstrong, with the numerous illustrations of the original, has

just been published by Messrs. Chapman and Hall." — Times.

"The only dissatisfaction that wc can feel in turning over the two beautiful volumes in

illustration of Chaldean and Assyrian Art, by MM. Perrot and Chipiez, is in the reflection,

that in this, as in so many other publications of a similar scope and nature, it is a foreign name*

that wc see on the title page, and a translation only which wc can lay to our national credit.

The predominance of really important works on Archaeology which have to be translated for the

larger reading public of England, and the comparative scarcity of original English works of a

similar calibre, is a reproach to us which wc would fain see removed . it is most frequently

to French and German writers that wc are indebted for the best light and the most interesting

criticisms on the arts of antiquity. Mr. Armstrong s translation is very well done. ' — Builder.

"Theory is a valuable addition to archaeological literature, and the thanks of the whole

civilised world are due to the authors who have so carefully compiled the history of the arts of two

peoples, often forgotten, but who were in reality the founders of Western civilisation." — Graphic.

Jtßtorj) of %2ptmn JLrt

By GEORGES Parrot and CHARLES Chipped.

Translated from the French by W. Armstrong. Containing 616 Engravings,

drawn after the Original, or from Authentic documents.

2 vols. imperial Bvo, £2. 2s.

"The study of Egyptology is one which grows from day today, and which has now reached

such proportions as to demand arrangement and selection almost more than increased collection

of material. The well-known volumes of MM. Perrot and Chipiez supply this requirement

to an extent which had never hitherto been attempted, and which, before the latest

researches of Marietta and Master, would have been impossible. Without waiting for the

illustrious authors to complete their great undertaking, Mr. W. Armstrong has very properly

seized their first instalment, and has presented to the English public all that has yet appeared

of a most useful and fascinating work. To translate such a book, however, is a task that

needs the revision of a specialist, and this Mr. Armstrong has felt, for he has not sent out his

version to the world without the sanction of Dr. Birch and Mr. Reginald Stuart Poole. The

result is in every way satisfactory to his readers. Mr. Armstrong adds, in an appendix, a

description of that startling discovery which occurred just after the French original of these

volumes left the press — namely, the finding of 38 royal mummies, with their sepulchral furniture,

in a subterranean chamber at Thebes. It forms a brilliant ending to a work of great value

and beauty." — Pall Mall Gazette.

The Saturday Review, speaking of the French edition, says : " To say that this magnificent

work is the best history of Egyptian art that wc possess, is to state one of the least

of its titles to the admiration of all lovers of antiquity, Egyptian or other. No previous

work can be compared with it for method or completeness Not only are the best

engravings from the older authorities utilised, but numerous unpublished designs have been

inserted. M. Chipiez has added greatly to the value of a work, in which the trained eye of

the architect is everywhere visible, by his restorations of various buildings and modes of construction

; and the engravings in colours of the wall paintings are a noticeable feature in a

work which is in every way remarkable. This history of Egyptian art is an invaluable

treasure-house for the student ; and, wc may add, there are few more delightful volumes

for the cultivated idle who live at ease to turn over— every page is full of artistic interest."

THE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW.

Edited by T. H. S. Escort.

'the FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW is published on the list of

every month, and a Volume is completed every Six Months.

The following are among

the Contributors: —

SIR RUTHERFORD ALCOCK.

MATHEW ARNOLD.

T. E. Cliffs LESLIE

SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, M.P.

THE EARL LYTTON.

PROFESSOR BAIN.

SIR SAMUEL BAKER,

PROFESSOR BEESLY.

PAUL BERT.

SIR H. S. MAINE.

DR. Audley.

PROFESSOR MAX MULLER.

G. OSBORNE MORGAN, Q.C., M.P.

PROFESSOR HENRY MORLEY.

WILLIAM MORRIS.

BARON Georgetown BUNSEN.

DR. BRIDGES.

HON. GEORGE C. BRODRICK.

JAMES BRYCE, M.P.

PROFESSOR H. N. MOSELEY.

F. W. H. MYERS.

THOMAS BURT, M.P.

SIR GEORGE CAMPBELL, M.P.

THE EARL OF CARNARVON.

EMILIO Caster.

F. W. NEWMAN.

PROFESSOR JOHN Nichols.

W. G. Palsgrave.

RT. HON. J. CHAMBERLAIN, M.P.

PROFESSOR SIDNEY Colin.

MONTAGUE Cooks, Q.C.

WALTER H. PATER.

RT. HON. LYON Mayfair, M.P.

DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI.

LORD SHERBROOKE.

L. H. COURTNEY, M.P.

G. H. DARWIN.

HERBERT SPENCER.

HON. E. L. STANLEY.

SIR GEORGE W. DASENT.

PROFESSOR A. V. DICEY.

SIR J. FITZJAMES STEPHEN, Q.C.

LESLIE STEPHEN.

J. HUTCHISON STIRLING.

RIGHT HON. H. Facets, M.P.

EDWARD A. FREEMAN.

SIR Battle Free, Bart.

J. A. FROUDE.

A. C. SWINBURNE.

DR. VON Sybil.

J. A. SYMONDS.

MRS. GARRET-ANDERSON.

J. W. L. Laisser, F.R.S.

M. E. GRANT DUFF, M.P.

THOMAS HARE.

THE REV. EDWARD F. TALBOT

(Warden of Keble College).

SIR RICHARD TEMPLE, Bart.

W. T. THORNTON.

F. HARRISON.

LORD HOUGHTON.

PROFESSOR HUXLEY.

PROFESSOR R. C. Webb.

PROFESSOR JEVONS.

ANDREW LANG. .

HON. LIONEL A. TOLLEMACHE.

H. D. Trail.

ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

PROFESSOR TYNDALL.

A. J. WILSON.

EMILE DE LAVELEVE.

THE EDITOR.

Fee

&c.

&c.

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED, it, HENRIETTA STREET,

COVENT GARDEN, W.C.

CHARLH DICKENS AND EVANS,]

[CRYSTAL Palace r-RUS.
