OF ILLINOIS

LIBRARY

Prom the collection of
James Collins,

Drummond, Ireland.
Purchased, 1918.

W


375c

7 Subscription LIBRARY.

'S

D U e U-N-^A ND BELFAST.

m^^-

^M

Chronicles OF CASTLE CLOYNE.

OR,

Pictures OF TEE Munster FEOFLE.

BY

M. W. BREW,

AUTHOR OF "the BURTONS OF DUITBOI

IN Thee VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.

1885.
[All Rights Reserved']

TO THE

LADY Florence DIXIE,

THE TRUE A^^) STEADFAST Friend OF IRELAND AND HER PEOPLE,

'this Irish ^cbfl is "^tbiadti),

WITH SENTIMENTS OF MUCH RESPECT FOR HER TALENTS,
AND Admiration FOR HER CHARACTER,

BY THE Author.

4'3?S98

Encourage by the favourable reception that was
given to my first book, '' The Burton of Dunroe/' by
the Reviewers and the Pubic, I venture to present
myself a second time to their notice, hoping to be
received once more with the same indulgence.

It may be said that I have painted the great Irish
Famine in colours that are too gloomy, and in
language that is too strong. But to this I answer
that the story of the Irish Famine could not be told
with a pen dipped in rose-water, even in a work of
fiction. But there are many still living who remember
that calamitous epoch in Irish history, who will bear
testimony that I have in no way exaggerated its
horrors, or made its details more painful than was
warranted by strict truth. They will say that on the
contrary, I have passed over them as lightly as it was
possible to do, consistently with the proper working
out of the story.

There are two different stories running side by side
through the book, each having but slight connection
with the other. This was to show how universal was
the action of the Famine, and how impartial in its
effects. Peer and peasant, landlord and tenant, the
home of the great, and the cabin of the lowly, all were
alike brought under its terrible influence, and all alike
were compelled to bend beneath the storm. Some
had vitality enough to survive it, and lift their heads
once more above the water, but more — and these last
were the great majority — went down beneath the
waves of utter and hopeless ruin, never to rise again.

With these few words of explanation, which I feel
are necessary, and thanking my readers, and the
gentlemen of the Press, for their former kindness
and indulgence — of which I wish the book were more
worthy — I remain their very grateful and obedient
servant.

THE Author.

CHAPTER I.

BALLYCKOSS PARM 1

CHAPTER II.

ALL-HALLOW EVE 15

CHAPTER III.

THE DUMB CAKE 28

CHAPTER IV.

THE "timbers OE A PRIEST " 41

CHAPTER V.

THE BROOK AND RIVER MEET 54

< CHAPTER VI.

THE " Handwriting " . . . , . . , .74

CHAPTER VII.

DARK Days * 92

CHAPTER VIII. p^^jj.

THE STORM Begins TO Gather 101

CHAPTEE IX.

THE DILLON FAMILY 120

CHAPTEE X.

THE Dillon AT HOME 137

CHAPTEE XL

THE EOSTEE, SISTERS 154

CHAPTEE XII.

OONAGH LOSES HER Father , . 166

CHAPTEE XIII.

AN IRISH COUNTRY WAKE 183

CHAPTEE XIV.

A STORMY DEBATE 204

CHAPTEE XV.

CANVASSING THE COUNTY 217

CHAPTEE XVI.

"over the walnuts and the wine" 231

CHAPTER XVII. y^^^

HOW PAT FLANAGAN CONTRIVED TO GO TO THE ELECTION . 257

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE NOMINATION DAT 269

CHAPTER XIX.

BEECH HILL 288

CHAPTER XX.

A CONTESTED ELECTION 303

Chronicles OF CASTLE Cloy.

CHAPTER I.

BALLYCROSS Farm.

Let not ambition mock their useful toil,
Their homely joys, or destiny obscure.

Gray's " Elegy."

Not a model farm by any means was that of Martin
MacDermott, who was a ^^ strong farmers and a
tenant on the old estate of Castle Cloyne. The farm
of Ballycross had been his father's and his grandfather's,
and all of his family, of whom anything was
known from time immemorial, had drawn their first
breath and breathed out their last sigh under the
shelter of the long, low, thatched roof, that stood in
unpretentious homeliness within a few hundred yards
of the public road. There was some good meadow
and arable land on this farm, which consisted of about
ninety acres, exclusive of bog — a good deal of which

VOL. I. B

had been reclaimed from time to time. This reclaimed
bog was not fit for much except to grow an inferior
sort of potato, which was soapy and watery, and in
truth only fit for cattle. There was no scientific farming
practised at Ballycross, no experiments tried or
novelties introduced, for Martin MacDermott was a
staunch Conservative in many things, and in nothing
more so than in the cultivation of his land. He farmed
it as it had been farmed by his father and grandfather,
and what had been good enough for them was, he
thought, good enough for himself; they did well in
their day, and he could not fail to do well too if he
walked in their footsteps. That was his rule of life,
to which he strictly adhered, and which, up to the
time when this story opens, he had found to answer
tolerably well. His farm was as well cultivated as
those of his neighbours, and in many ways it could be
contrasted with theirs most favourably; it was very
productive, and he got the highest price for everything
that he brought to fair and market. This being
the case, he jogged on in the old beaten track, well
content with himself and the world; and he left newfangled
ways, as he called them, to younger men, more
active in their habits, and more enterprising in their
aims. He was not rich, but neither was he poor.
He was always ready with his rent on " gale days'

and was supposed to have something laid bj as a
provision for that rainy day that comes to most people
sooner or later in their lives. But this proverbial
rainy day had not come to him yet, nor was there
a cloud in the horizon to show that it was coming
at all; and, with peace and abundance in his humble
home, and a cheerful disposition that looked on all
things in their best light, the old age of Martin
MacDermott was very happy and serene.

The cottage in which he had lived since his birth
was a low thatched house, always well whitewashed,
and kept in good substantial repair. The doors and
windows were all sound and tight, and such as faced
the public road were neatly painted ; the thatch was
never allowed to get old or shabby-looking, but was
often renewed, so that it always looked whole and
neat. The house stood on a very slight elevation,
and a pathway well beaten down extended from the
front door to the road below. A stile of two or three
stone steps inserted into the low wall, or rather ditch,
that divided the farm from the road, was the mode of
entrance to the front of the house, and intended for
pedestrians only; but a few yards lower down was
a wooden gate, through which the cattle passed to
and from the out-offices, that were all situated at the
rear.

B 2

On the particular day on wliicli my story opens —
the last day of October — the farm had rather a bleak
and desolate appearance, for the harvest had been all
gathered in, and the fields looked bare and brown.
But this was amply atoned for by the overflowing
abundance of the well-stocked haggard, where the
produce of the crops that had looked so green in
the previous summer was now gathered together
in golden plenty. There were stacks of oats and
barley standing round an immense rick of hay,
that towered above them all. Nearer to the house
was the winter s supply of turf, well built up so as
to be completely impervious to the weather, and
beside it was a goodly stack of bogwood to be
used in giving light to the kitchen through the
long, dark winter evenings. There was no lack of
substantial comfort in the appearance of Bally cross
house or farm, comfort no doubt of a very rude and
primitive kind, but still of that kind that it is so
pleasant to see. A stranger who passed by, and
glanced at the comfortable cottage, with its overflowing
haggard at the back, would conclude — and not be
far wrong in his conclusion — that it was no misnomer
to call the owner of such a homestead a '' strong
farmers ^ who was easy in his circumstances, happy in
his life, and who owed no man anything.

Martin MacDermott had not married until lie was
well advanced in years, and his marriage had been
blessed with but one child. His wife had died about
three years before this time, and since her death, his
house had been managed by his daughter, who was as
dear to the old man as the apple of his eye. All the
love that other fathers diffused among many children
was garnered up by him for this one ewe lamb, who
in his eyes was the perfection of all that was good and
fair in a woman. And to speak the truth, the father's
partiality did not go far astray, for Oonagh* was a
good affectionate daughter, who did her best to make
his old age peaceful and happy, besides being a clever,
sensible housekeeper, who managed everything under
her care well and wisely. It was his boast that her
butter always sold as ^' first quality' and the cattle
she had reared brought the highest prices in the
market. The bacon that was cured under her inspection
had a flavour that he did not find in any bacon
that he ate outside his own house, and the clothes
that were spun by her hands were warmer, and lasted
longer than if they had been broadcloth instead of
frieze. The girl's health was perfect, and her mind so
active, that work with her was not so much a

Oonagh, the Irish for Winifred, pronounced Una.

necessity as a pastime. Whatever she had to do she did
thoroughly and well ; literally fulfilling the Scripture
precept, "What thy hand finder to do, do it with all
thy might." It was this entire thoroughness that had
made her dairy a model of the most perfect neatness,
and her home not only the abode of plenty, but also
the most cheerful and pleasant house in that part of
the country.

It was to be more than usuaQy cheerful and pleasant
this evening, for it was All-Hallow Eve : which
in the south of Ireland is always made a rustic f estivaL
It is spent in eating apples, burning beans, and general
merrymaking, and specially devoted by young people
to tae working of spells and charms, which are believed
by them to have the power of revealing the forms, and
features, of these who in the distant and shadowy
future are fated to become their future spouses.

The farmer had gone to a fair early in the morning,
and before he left Oonagh had made him promise that
when he returned in the evening he would bring with
him Jack Hennessy, the blind piper, if the said Jack
was "over ground'' as she had set her heart on
having a dance, in addition to the other amusements
peculiar to All-Hallow Eve. The men and boys employed
on the farm had also gone to the fair, and no
one remained in the house but Oonaorh and two other

females. One of these was an elderly woman who
helped in doing the house work, though she was
not considered exactly in the light of a servant.
Oonagh would have laughed heartily at the idea of
having a servant, or being thought entitled to have
one either, for she did not pretend to be anything but
just what she was, an honest man's daughter, and a
decent country girl. The third person was a cousin of
Oonagh's, who had come to spend the festival with
her. The trio had had an early dinner, after which
they fed the pigs, the calves, and the poultry ; then
they scalded the milk-pans, milked the cows; and
lastly, they made the kitchen neat and tidy for the
reception of the guests who had been invited to spend
the evening. Many hands make light work, particularly
when the hands are impelled by willing hearts,
and before evening had set in their business was all
done, and the two girls retired to the little room they
occupied in common to wash the dust from their faces
and hands, and exchange their working clothes for
those which were kept exclusively for Sundays and
holidays. Xo fine ladies arraying themselves for a
Court ball ever felt more pleasure in doing so than
these artless country girls felt in donning their simple
finery, and helping each other to display it to the best
advantage. Their dresses in truth were not very

expensive, or elaborate, and were unaccompanied by
any ornaments save those of youth good looks, and
the modesty that is second nature to an Irish maiden.
When their simple toilet had been completed to their
satisfaction, they returned to the kitchen to exhibit
themselves to old Molly, and get her opinion as to its
success.

Now, Molly, tell the truth. Which ov us do you
like the best ? " said Oonagh, with a pleasant smile.

Why, thin, that I may never die in sin if I could
make a choice betune ye ! '' replied Molly, looking
from one to the other with unfeigned admiration.
Oonagh has the latest found, but Shusy's ribbon
bates out all the ribbons ever I seen. It's rale
party, so it is, an suits her colour just as if she
bespoke the making' ov it.'^

And look at the lovely comb I have in my back
hairs'' cried Susie. " Isn't it very party intirely ? "

Faix an' it is so. No wan could fault that comb
that had an eye in his head. Who gave it to you,
Shusy ? ''

My brother Tom gave it to me as a Christmas-box.
I never wear it but ov an odd time, for tis too
2:ood for common use.'^

Your brother Tom is a rale good boy. I wish,
Shusy, that yourself and myself could make a match

betune him an' Oonagh. What a^purty couple they'd
make, an what a roaring' wedding we'd have over em ! ''

Oonagh tossed her pretty head, and told the old
woman that she preferred her old father to the best
husband in the world, and Susie laughed and said
that of all the girls she knew, Oonagh was the one
she would select as a wife for her brother.

^' But, girls, how will it be if Jack Hennessy isn't
able to come ? '^ .said Molly, with a grave face.

This question put a stop to the merriment of the
girls, for the non-arrival of the blind piper would bea
most disastrous ending to all their preparations.

'' What put that into your head, Molly ? '' they
both cried with one voice.

Well, for wan thing, this is November Eve, an'
powers ov people will be at the fair watching' to snap
him up. An' moreover, if he was there, many a wan
was for giving him a thrace, and we all know that
Jack loves the licker, and that when it gets into his
head it takes all sense an' raison out ov it. I'll go
bail if Jack comes to us anyway overtaken, 'tis little
dancing' will be on this flare to-night."

"My father promised me that he'd look out for
Jack the first thing af ther he got into the fair green,"
said Oonagh, " an' what's more, that he'd give him
in charge ov Paddy Bryan, wit strict orders not tolet

him have a taste ov licker for the whole day,
barren' wan noggin ov spirits to keep the could
out ov his stomach. An' when once my father makes
me a promise, it will go hard wit him if he don't
keep if

It is almost time they wor here now," observed
Susie, '' an"* Judy likewise. We may as well go down
to the stile, an' watch for them coming'; sure 'tis as
good for us as to be standing' here."

Now, Molly, I depend on you to have a good fire
whin they come in'' said Oonagh; "they'll be fairly
famished, an' the sight ov a good fire will be a rale
welcome to them after been' out all day. An' Molly
ashore, don't forget to have the potatoes on the fire,
for they'll be hungry as well as cold."

Never fear, you can depend on me the same as
if it was yourself was in it," answered Molly.

The two girls strolled down the path in front of
the house, and when they came to the stile at the end
stood there, watching the people who were returning
from the fair, and exchanging greetings with such of
them as they had any acquaintance with. Though
the short October day was rapidly drawing to a close
there was yet sufficient light to enable them to see
and to be seen, and a very pretty picture they made
as they stood side by side, leaning on the stile. They

were both very pretty girls ; young, fresh, and bright
with health, and good spirits. At first sight Susie
would be considered the handsomer of the two. She
was tall and slender, with bright amber-coloured hair,
and a fair soft face, the chief charm of which was
a pensive innocent expression, that won upon all who
saw it. She had a gentle caressing manner, especially
towards anyone she loved, and a heart too tender
and yielding for the stern discipline that in nine cases
out of ten is sure to be a woman's lot.

The beauty of Oonagh was not inferior to that of
her cousin, though it was altogether of a different
character. She was not so tall, being just the medium
height, nor so slender, but her figure was perfectly
moulded, and her carriage upright and graceful. Her
face was not quite so handsome as Susie's, but it had
a thousand times more character. The lips, though
sweet and flexible, expressed much firmness and determination,
and there was high spirit and no small
share of pride in the finely curved nostril and square
jaw, too square indeed to harmonise with the strict
rules of beauty. But the great attraction of the girl's
face lay in her eyes — the regular Irish eyes — gray,
soft, earnest, and shaded by long lashes so dark as
to be almost black. When she spoke she looked full
in the face of whoever she addressed with those wonderful

eyes, as if she had nothing to fear, and nothing
to conceal. There was an expression of ineffable
candour and sweetness in those clear calm eyes, as
if the soul that looked out through them was truth
and peace — true to itself, and at peace with all the
world. Her hair, like her eyelashes and brows, was
very dark. The general expression of Oonagh^s face
was one of mingled gravity and resolution, which
would have been rather disagreeable but that it was
tempered, and toned down by the exceeding sweetness
of the soft, gray eyes.

Isn't Judy very late ? " remarked Susie.

'' She has a dale to do, an' no wan to help her
or do a hand's turn for her ; her stepmother keeps
her hard at work, an' 'tis seldom she can get out
at all," replied Oonagh.

It would be quare if she couldn't come. We'd
have no fun at all without Judy. She's so pleasant
that the very look ov her brightens up a place when
she comes into it. An' sure if she don't come, how
are we to manage to do the trick of the dumb cake ? "

*' We'd be a dale sorrier that she lost the diver-shun
an' the pleasant night," said unselfish Oonagh,
*' than if we was never to do the charm ov the
dumb cake at all. An' sure if all fails us, we can
make Molly do it along wit us."

'^ Oil ! by your lave, that wouldn't do at all.
The three women that does the charm must be unmarried,
an' poor ould Molly is a wider woman
this many a year."

"I never thought ov that. But if Judy don't
come, we can ask somewhat ov the other girls to stop
wit us for the night. But I won't enjoy myself at
all if poor Judy isn't wit us, for ^^he has a hard
life with her cross stepmother, an' a little fun don't
often fall in her way."

Oh, here she is ! " exclaimed Susie joyfully. " I
see her red shawl a good way off. Now, Oonagh,
we're all right if only Jack Hennessy don't fail us.'^

The two girls ran out on the road to meet the
new comer with many demonstrations of joy. She
was about their own age, a handsome, sparkling-looking
brunette, with a bright complexion, and black
eyes that actually flashed with joy and excitement.

'^ An' I didn't forget the chicken's egg for the
dumb cake," she cried, as soon as the first transports
of the meeting had somewhat subsided. ^^Iwas in
thread that Oonagh had no chicken ready to lay,
so not to have any disappointment I brought the egg
wit me."

Oh ! we have the egg safe enough," said Oonagh,
^^ an' I have the same egg under lock an kav for

the last week, in dread that anything would happen
it. But ran into the fire, Judy, a' regal, for you
must be froze wit the cold, an' we'll folly after
you as soon as ever my father comes. . He ought
to be here by this."

'^ If you only said the words sooner so he would.
But oh, girls ! Jack Hennessy isn't along wit him."

At this dismal announcement all the gladness
faded out of the faces of the three fair girls. Jack
Hennessy was not coming, and consequently there
could be no dance ! Here was a fiasco as unfortunate
as it was unexpected, and all their anticipations
of a pleasant evening were in one moment dashed
rudely to the ground. It was hard on them after
having invited all their friends and neighbours to
come and make merry. The non-arrival of Jack
Hennessy had knocked all their innocent plans about
their ears like a house of cards !

ALL-HALLOW EVE.

O youth ! thou hast a wealth beyond

What careful men do spend their souls to gain.

May Hewitt.

^' Where is Jack Hennessy ? Why didn't you bring
him wit you ? Sure we won't have any fun in life
without the music' were the exclamations of the
three girls as old Martin MacDermott approached the
stile.

'' I didn't bring him, an' there's no more about it,"
he replied gruffly. ^^ Come along, Oonagh, an' get the
supper for I'm fairly starved. It's my supper that's
troubling me now, an' not Jack Hennessy an' his
music."

But did you get sight ov him at all, or did you
send to look for him as you promised me ? Oh, thin
we never thought that you'd lave us in the bog hole
this way ! "

'' Sure I sint Paddy Bryan to hunt for him, an' I
went myself after Paddy, but where was the use ?
He was whipped up this morning, an' carried off to a
wedding' that's to be to-night, a great wedding' intirely
bryant at Bally casey, an' ov course they couldn't do
without Jack an' his chanter, be no manner ov
manes."

sierra, girls, don't mind him," cried Oonagh joyfully,
for though her father tried hard to keep a grave
face, yet the merry twinkle of his eye betrayed him ;
sure he's only making' fun ov us. I'll go bail that
Jack Hennessy is coming' on along wit Paddy."

The old man burst into a hearty laugh.

Wish bad manners to you for an old schemer,"
cried Susie, drawing a long breath of intense relief,
what a fine rise you took out ov us ! "

If you were as well used to his chain' as what
I am, it wouldn't be such a surprise to you," said
Oonagh gaily.

'swell, as Oonagh guessed it, I may as well tell
the truth about it. The piper is surely coming' along
wit Paddy, who had strict orders from me not to
lose sight ov him. But, Oonagh, '<x colleen class, he
alive about the supper, for I'm as hungry as if I
didn't see a male of vittles for a week."

As soon as Molly had heard the farmer's voice

talking to the girls she lost no time in getting the
supper ready, so that it was on the table when they
entered the house. It would be hard to find a happier
set of people than they who sat down to the large
dish of hot potatoes, flanked by higgins of milk, and
plates of butter. It was not often that there were
strangers at Ballycross, and Oonagh would have
liked to have added a rasher of bacon to this ordinary
fare in their honour, but that was not possible as it
was a strict fast-day.

Supper was hardly over when Paddy the farm
servant, with a broad grin on his weather-beaten
face, arrived in triumph, bringing the piper with him.
The three girls broke into a perfect shriek of delight
when they saw the pair, and certainly Jack had no
reason to complain of his welcome. One of them
took his hat, another his stick, while the third took
him by the hand, and guided him to the cosiest corner
of the wide hearth near old Martin, who said to
them, " Its his supper ye ought to be giving the
poor man, instit of making' all this noise an'
botheration."

^ '^ So we will, father, so we wills said the cheerful
voice of his daughter, " but he must get the could
out of his heart first. I put some potatoes down to
roast for him, for they were getting' could, an they^U

VOL. I. c

be nice an' lot by the time lie takes a bate ov the
fire'

When Jack bad eaten bis supper, Oonagb by bar
father's directions brought bim a glass of whiskey to
^' wet bis whistles' and put bim in good humour
for the evening. Then when be bad joined the old
man in '^a blast ov the pipe" be set about tuning
bis instrument, and tbougb the sounds be drew from
it were discordant enough, to the lighthearted girls
they seemed the music of the spheres.

Not less pleasant was the droning of the pipes
in the ears of the invited guests, as they came singly
or in groups up the path that led to the bouse ►
Tbere were pretty modest-looking girls wbo came with
their lovers and brothers, dressed in their best finery,
and ready for any amount of innocent amusement
that might be set on foot. A few elderly people came
to see their children enjoying themselves, as well as
to bave a slianahus with old Martin. Tbere was
John Molloy, the rustic beau and dandy of the district,
wbo was called by the men " Buck Molloy " in derision
because be was always clad in broadcloth " instead
of frieze wbicb they themselves wore, and because be
used long words in speaking, and bad a conceited
swaggering way with bim that they thought supremely
ridiculous. By the women be was called by the

more complimentary sobriquet of " Shawn Sugagli/^
or '' Pleasant Jolin/^ because for them he had always a
bright smile, a cheerful word, and a manner so flattering,
and persuasive, that they thought him perfectly
irresistible. But the popularity of " Pleasant John ''
did not extend from the young girls to their fathers,
who all thought him a good-for-nothing fellow, whose
only property consisted of his fine clothes, and
whose " pleasant ^^ manner was nothing more than
swagger and impudence.

This rustic Adonis was living with an elder
brother, who lived on a good farm — well tilled and
stocked — and who, being a bachelor did not grudge
him a seat at his table, and the shelter of his roof.
Sometimes John did a day's work on the farm, but
this was only at a very busy time such as springtime
and harvest ; but for the greater part of his life he
was perfectly idle, though his brother had to work
very hard to keep the wolf from the door.

Whenever John was reproached for his idleness,
he invariably replied that hard work did not agree
with him ; or, in plain language, he did not care to
work, and disliked it intensely. A small share of
work went very fainted with ^' Pleasant John." But
though he was never known to work more than a
couple of days in the week, and only then under

the spur of most pressing necessity, lie was indefatigable
in his attendance at fair and market, though he
had nothing to buy or sell ; as his brother, for many
good reasons, never entrusted him with the transaction
of his business. John was also most punctual
in giving the light of his countenance to weddings
and wakes, and such other social gatherings as gave
him a chance of meeting his acquaintances, and of
showing off his handsome face and " pleasant " ways
among the young women of the district.

Though the feminine portion of the community
looked on him with much favour, all his own sex,
particularly the seniors, set him down, and with truth
as a professional fortune-hunter. His brother, they
said, would be sure to marry, for he was still a young
man; and, in that case, John's tenure in the house
would rest on a very sandy foundation; for it was
not likely that the new mistress would have much
toleration for such an idle and unprofitable inmate.
Having a shrewd suspicion himself of this awkward
eventuality, John turned his thoughts to
making a rich marriage, as it seemed the only way
by which he could settle himself comfortably in life.
And it was remarked of him that though he flirted
furiously with every pretty girl he met, yet that he
never devoted himself for more than the time being.

to anyone who was not well endowed with worldly
goods.

It is a strange thing, but no less true, that Oonagh
MacDermott, who was a sensible young woman, was
so foolish as not only to receive favourably the admiration
of this idle, worthless fellow, but had learned
to love him with a love that a true woman feels but
once in all her life. She was infatuated by his
handsome face, and plausible tongue, and made a vow
to her own heart that if she were not married to
him she would never marry any other man.

Bat she had a silent disposition, and busied this
love in the depths of her own heart, and not even
to her friends Susie, and Judy, did she give the least
hint that this man was more to her than aU the rest
of the world. "When he should ask her to be his
wife, she would admit how long and well she had
loved him, but never until then.

I have said so much of " Shawn Sugagh" — partly
because he is one of the chief personages of my
story, and exercised an overpowering influence on
the life and fortunes of Oonagh, and partly because
he assumes to himself the first place wherever he is
as his own special right — that I have not left much
space for the description of the other guests. But
it is not necessary, as they were all of the common

type of country men and women, who all came to
enjoy themselves, and contribute to the enjoyment
of the rest.

They were all accustomed to make merry on All-hallow
Eve — literally the Eve of All Saints — and
they were fully determined to do so on the present
occasion. On that night every family, no matter how
poor, has an attempt at merrymaking, even in a small
way, and tries, for a few hours at least, to put grief
and care into the background.

The young people ate apples and burned beans,
as well as going through all manner of weird spells
and charms.

On All-Hallow Eve, the fairies, or the '' good
people's as they were popularly called, were supposed
to be particularly active, and to be endowed with a
power that was not given them at any other time of
the year. On that one night they meddle more with
the affairs of men — a race that they envied because
they had been endowed with souls, and destined for
the eternal happiness of heaven that was denied to
themselves. These tiny people were supposed, to
preside over all the spells of this night, hop over
the girdle on which the young girls burned themselves
with their sweethearts in the form of beans, perch
on the edge of the tea-cup which some experienced

sybil was " tossing '^ for the benefit of the young people,
who with eager faces and earnest eyes were grouped
all round her, waiting for the words that were to them
as the oracles of Fate ; and directed with unerring
accuracy the size and shape that the molten lead was
to assume when thrown into cold water. In short, on
this night the fairies reign supreme all over the south
of Ireland, ready to lend their aid when properly
invoked by the usual mystic words, and ceremonies, to
all who seek "to pierce the unborn years /^ Like
Queen Mab, they haunted dreams, and filled the night
with fantastic visions of the future, that were not to
be expected on any other night of the year. That
was so some fifty years ago ; but in these degenerate
days it would seem that the wee people who were
so sportive, and playful, have been frightened away by
the shriek of the railway engine, and the advance of
that ubiquitous personage "the schoolmaster abroad,"
and the haunts where they played their elfish tricks,
will know them no more.

When the apples had been all eaten, and the beans
all burnt, amid the good-humoured laughter of the
company, the floor of the kitchen was cleared of
chairs and tables, Jack Hennessy struck up the cheerful
strains of " The Fox-hunters' Jig' and old Martin,
in a pleasant voice, told the young men to lose no

time in asking their partners, " to take the flare wit
'em." But not one of those sheepish fellows felt
inclined to be the first, " to take the flare " ; they all
hung back shamefaced and bashful, each waiting for
someone else to begin. It was on an occasion such as
this, that John Molloy showed himself to great advantage.
Now with the native confidence that never
deserted him, he gallantly sprung up, and advancing
where Oonagh sat, put both his heels together, and
making her a low bow, asked her with a smile, that
disclosed a set of teeth as white, and even as those of
a hound, "if she would be pleased to take the flare
wit him."

In answer to this invitation Oonagh stood up, and,
with a deep curtsey in return for his bow, gave him
her hand. Emboldened by the Buck's example, other
young men took heart of grace, and came forward to
secure partners. That indeed was dancing ! The
boys went at it as if they meant business, and would
not admit of any shams. It was amusing to see how
conscientiously they did all their ^' steps ^' both in jigs
and reels ; the pigeon's wing, cover the buckle, the
double shuffle, heel and toe, and then da capo. They
were in earnest — those stalwart young country fellows ^
and no mistake. They snapped their fingers, stamped
on the floor, and withal kept the most perfect time

to the music. The dancing of the girls was of quite
a different description. They had as many " steps " as
the men, but they executed them more neatly, and with
less flourish. Their movements were light,, easy and
exceedingly graceful. The clumsiest and most awk-
ward-looking among them became quite another person
when she stood up to dance. Her motions became
buoyant and graceful, her feet light and elastic. And
if sparkling eyes, pleasant smiles, and blushes that
came and went in quick succession, were true indications
of their feelings, they enjoyed the music and the
dancing quite as much as their partners, although
they were not altogether as demonstrative.

At the end of a couple of hours the piper declared
that he should have a little rest, as well as a glass of
punch to " wet his whistle " once more, and then began
the fun of the snap-apple. An enormous apple was
suspended by a string from the roof, and some lighted
candles were stuck into it all round. The fun consisted
in the young men trying in turn to take a bite out of
the apple, a difficult task — as they were not allowed to
use their hands to steady it as it swung to and fro, and
not a little dangerous, as they ran the risk of burning
their noses or of singeing their whiskers. At each ineffectual
attempt to take a bite, there were peals of
laughter from all the rest, and the apple kept dangling

and the candles burning, as if in mockery of the
desperate efforts made to pull them down. At last
the string took fire, and the apple fell to the
ground, not, however, until it had served the purpose
for which it had been hung up, and being the cause of
provoking much mirth and sly badinage.

While the young people were amusing themselves
after their own fashion, the seniors of the party sat
at the ample hearth blazing with turf and bogwood.
The men smoked their pipes with old Martin at one
side, discussing the price of butter and corn, and other
topics equally interesting to them, while at the other
side of the fire the women watched the dancing with
the critical eyes of persons who had been good dancers
in their own day, and consequently thought themselves
entitled to give their opinions on the subject. They
chatted, and laughed, and enjoyed the passing hour —
those poor toil-worn old people — as if labour and
poverty were not the chief elements of their daily life,
and as if the dreaded ^^ gale day '' were not looming
darkly, but surely, in the distance.

About eleven o^ clock the large kitchen table was
drawn again to its old place in the centre, and soon by
the deft hands of Oonagh and Molly, it was covered
with huge piles of bread and butter, every slice being
fully an inch thick, and an immense tea-pot surrounded

by a formidable array of cups and saucers. Their
exertions during the evening had given the company the
appetite of a London alderman, and they attacked the
good cheer with a vigour that soon disposed of it very
satisfactorily. Then by way of variety, at the close of
the entertainment, some songs were sung, and more
apples were handed round so that the company could
eat while they were listening. But at length the last
song was sung, the last apple eaten, the last pipe
smoked, and the guests all went away with the exception
of the piper, who was to sleep with Paddy
Bryan in the loft over the kitchen. The old farmer,
now completely tired out, retired to his own little
bedroom, and the three girls were left free to enter on
the solemn, and weird mystery of the '^ Dumb Cakes'

THE DUMB CAKE,

With hearts that tremble between hopes and fears,
We seek to pierce the gloom of future years,
And, with irreverent, and daring hand,
Uplift the veil that shrouds th' unseen land.

Making, baking, and eating the "dumb cake" is a form
of spell known only in Ireland, by which, those who
practised it sought to obtain some glimpses of the
destiny that awaited them in after-life. The spell
should only be wrought on All-Hallow Eve, as being
the night of all the year when the '^ good people ^'
had most influence on the fate of human beings, and
by three women, who should all be unmarried, and
on whose maiden fame no evil shadow had ever
rested. Neither a wife, nor a widow, could take any
part in the mysterious rites, for their lot was fixed,
their fortunes had been told long before, and they

had nothing more to learn by diving into the future
hut what they were already well aware of, namely,
that they were mortal , and must one day die.

When all in the house but themselves were asleep,
the three girls proceeded to make the dumb cake-the
ingredients of this magic cake consisted of an
Qggj which should be the first laid by a chicken, the
shell of this full of flour, and another egg-shell full
of salt. Those three were to be mixed by the three
girls, baked by the three, and eaten by the three, in
the most perfect silence. From the moment when
the three put each a hand to work the cake until
they awoke next morning, they were bound to observe
the most rigid silence ; for the utterance of even one
word would have the effect of breaking the spell, and
rendering its power null and void.

It was this strict and necessary silence which
gave it the name of "dumb cake.''^ So while the
three girls were making, baking, and eating it, taking
great care that not even a crumb was left behind,
they never spoke a word, and in the same silence
they retired to rest. It was also de rigiieur that
the three girls should sleep under the same roof, so
that they should see the book of the future unfolded
within reach of each other.

Early next morning the people at the farm were

all astir. The farmer and this man Paddy went off
to early mass ; for the Feast of All Saints is a strict
holy-day in the Catholic Church. Molly and the
three girls were to go to a late mass ; but in the
meantime they were by no means idle, for the cows
had to be milked, the dairy to be attended to, and the
pigs and poultry fed. They were so busy that they
had no time to think of their dreams of the previous
night, or tell each other of the great and wonderful
revelations that had been given to them while
they abode in the solemn, and mysterious land of
sleep.

When the mornings work was done and breakfast
despatched, the farmer and his man went off
to a distant part of the land to look after a sick
cow, and only the women remained in the house.

Though old Molly had left her girlhood far
behind her, she had her full share of the faith in
the spell of the dumb cake, and a good deal of
womanly sympathy with those who, by virtue of
their youth and maidenhood, were privileged to perform
it. She was curious, too, to know what each
and all had to tell her of the working of the charm,
which no doubt she had herself often tried in the
long-past days of her youth.

^^^Tis too soon to go to mass yet,^^ she said to

them ; ^' moreover, we have the place all to yourself ;.
so sit down, girls, by the fire, and let us hear what
luck the dumb cake brought to ye. "tis something
good, or Fm greatly disappointed ; for ye all deserve
good luck, and ye'll get it too, never fear. Come,
Oonagh machine, let you begin, as you're the elder ;
though, for that matter, there's no great differ betune
any ov ye.^'

'' Oh, let Judy begin first, as she's the stranger.
Sure, 'tis only manners to let her tell her story first."

Judy began clearing her throat, and looked
as bashful as possible, while all the others began to
laugh.

'^ Come now, Judy, make a lane breast of it,"
said Molly, entering with good-natured interest into
the spirit of the fun, '^ an' tell us what sort ov a boy
it was that you dreamed ov last night."

'^ Oh, wish, I might as well tell it at want, for
ye never could guess it if ye wor to be guessing' for a
week," with a burst of loud laughter, and a saucy
toss of her head. "The boy that came to me was
a boy that I never would marry, if he had the estate
of Castle Cloyne at his back. It was that mad Dick
Considine that came to me in my thames ; no less, if
ye phase ! "

^' Dick Considine isn't mad at all, whatever people

may say' said Oonagli ; " though I own lie's a little
quare in himself at times. He's a decent, honest boy,
that minds his bisness ; an't signs on, lie lias bisness
to do when other men are wit their bands in their
pockets. Sorra bit ov madness is in the same boy,
but what's in the looks av him ; and, sure, looks don't
signify a thrawneen. I heard my father say that Dick
has a nice spot ov ground hip in the mountains, an'
that he has it well for the value too. So you needn't
turn up your nose at him, Judy."

Well, as ye think so much ov him, you're welcome
to my share ov him. I'll never marry a madman,
for maybe 'tis to kill me he would."

^^But, Judy, it wasn't to me he came last night,
but to yourself."

Well, then, he made a great mistake intirely in
coming' to me ; I wouldn't marry that cracked fellow —
no, not if he was the Queen's eldest son. I tell ye
all that, now, an' ye can remember my words."

There was another burst of mocking laughter
from the other two girls, at which Judy's bright
colour became still more bright, and her black eyes
flashed indignantly.

'^ Who did you thrace ov, Shusy ? " said Molly,
trying to pour oil on the troubled waters by changing
the subject.

Oil, then, botheration to it for a story ! " replied
Sasine, with a pretty pout. '' 1 had no better luck
than Judy, for if she dreamed ov a madman, I
dreamed ov a fool — the biggest fool in the whole
country's

^' An' who was he ergo ? Was it Mike na Lhibe,
for he's the biggest fool in the country ? "

"It wasn't Mike na LUheJ'

An' who was it, then ? "

^' It was Shawn Sugagh ! "

•'An' do you call him a fool, Shusy ? He's the
very handsomest boy in the three baronies, let alone
the pleasantness; an' 'tis because he is so pleasant and
good-humoured, that the name of " Shawn Sugagh "
was put on him. Hould your whisht, little girl, an'
let no one see that you're so foolish. John Molloy
is husband good enough for the first lady in the
land."

'then the first lady in the land may have the
oniadhawTij for all I care," said pretty Susie. *sit
never'll be said ov me, that wit my eyes open I went
to marry the likes ov him."

What is there so foolish about him ? " asked
Oonagh.

'' Well, Oonagh, one would think, to hear you
ask that question, that you hadn't an eye in your

VOL. I. D

head. Why, he's full o£ console an' impudence upto
his very chin. Only look at the swagger ov him,
and listen to his tall English, all the same as if he
was an estate gentleman, an' the aiqual ov Master
Hyacinth Dillon, ov Castle Cloyne, an' instit ov that
he hasn't a majesty to bless himself wit, either good,
silver, or brass, but as his hard-working' brother will
give it to him. The poor ape thinks that all the
girls are dying' about him, an' all the time they're
only making' game ov him''

'' You're as hard to be pleased as Judy, every bit,"
said the old woman, '^'but 'tis no use for either ov ye
to be grumbling'. What's allotted can't be blotted.
Them two boys is marked out for the pair ov yean'
mark my words, if it was in twenty years to come
ye'll be married to them, an' to no one else. So ye
may as well make the best of it, an' be satisfied wit
what's ordained for ye. If ye' re so hard to be
pleased, 'tis the crooked stick ye might get instit of
a husband. Did ye ever hear tell the story of the
crooked stick ? "

'^ Och ! don't be bothering' about it. I'm rale
sorry I had any hand in that dumb cake at all. It's
nothing at all but an ould 2nslierogue.''^

Pisherogue — Superstition.

At this sally they all laughed again.

"Fll tell you this day that you'll marry John Molloy
the fool, the same day that I marry mad Dick
Oonsidine/' cries the incorrigible Judy, hardly able
to speak for laughter.

'^ Folly on, children, folly on ; sure ye'll never
be younger, or heartier, than what ye are to-day, an*
the world is all on before ye,^^ said Molly. 'sit's
time enough for ye to be sorrowful when the sorra
comes in the dure to ye. Now, Oonagh Alien hellish,*
tis your turn. Tell us who was the bachelor that
came to you last night. I hope you won't be as hard
to be pleased as these foolish girls here's

^^No bachelor came to me'' replied Oonagh
quietly.

** Eyeh ! No bachelor came to you after putting
a hand in the dumb cake ? "

'^ Sorry wan at all."

Well, what did you thrace ov thin ? Something
strong, I'll go bail, you're so long in tellin' us.'^

It was worse than strong, Molly, it was frightful
— part ov it, I mane. I dreamt that I was in
chapel hearing mass, an' though the chapel was full
ov people I didn't mind any wan there but the priest

Allies dheeUsh — Dearest daughter.

D 2

that was on the altar. He was a handsome young
man wit fair hair an' blue eyes, an I thought I heard
some one near me say that he was the new coajuther
an that that was his first mass in the parish'

Sure that was no bachelor at all' cried laughing
Lady, ^' no wan could marry a priest

"Well, sure she couldn't be married without a
priest, could she ? " said the old woman. " Go on, and
tell us about the husband, a regal ! You dreamt ov
something else, surely ? "

I did' replied the girl with an expression of
much gravity in her soft gray eyes. "I thought that
I was in bed, not here at home but in a strange place
I never was in before, an' as I was lying' there awake
I thought two men carrying' a coffin betune 'em came
in, an' laid the coffin down by the side ov my bed an'
thin went away. When they were gone I ris upon
my elbow, an' looked on the plate that was on
the cover, an' there was ' Oonagh MacDermott,' my
own name, on it ! When I saw that, I was so frightened
that I awoke, an' my hand to you I had no more
sleep after that."

'the Lord save us! That was a frightful
thrace to have," cried the timid Susie with a
shudder.

^' Eyeh, that I oughtn't die in sin, if I believe in
thames at all ! " exclaimed the good-natured Molly-trying
to cheer them after having heard such a weird
revelation.

^^ They're only ould talk, an' the dumb cake is
only fit for making' fan ov it. Many a time I done it
when I was a colleen oge, full ov fun an' diversion,
an' the man I took wit in the ind wasn't any ov them
I dreamed ov at all, though he was a good husband
to me while the Lord left us together. Och ! sure if
I thought things would turn out so contrary intirely,
I'd set my face against the whole box and dice from
the bignin."

'^ Well, there's no help for spilled milk but to call
the cat," observed Oonagh philosophically. " We mayas
well not be bothering' ourselves about charms and
tricks on All-Hallow Eve, for they're nothing but a
pack ov lies. The clergy is completely again the like,
an' as we went again the clergy, we couldn't expect to
have better luck. For my own part, I'll larn a lesson
by it, an' that's never to make or meddle wit ijishe-
rogues again turin' duration."

>' Wan would think Oonagh has made up her mind
to be an old maid," said Judy, '' but don't ye mind that
at all. That's an intention she won't keep when the

right boy comes to the fores and the joyous-hearted
girl sang the chorus of an old song,

BaUinnamona oro !

The snug little wedding for me."

Here are my father an Paddy coming across the
stiles said Oonagh, starting up from her seat, ^^ an' tis
time for us to be on the road, barren' we want to be
late for masse

'^ Oonagh is in a hurry to see if the priest that says
last mass is like the priest that was in her thrace,"
said Susie

'^ Faith, thin, Fm not so. I know well tis ould
Father Kafferty that will be on the altar, an' won't he
make a fine complaint ov me to Miss Grace, if I'm late
for mass'

When they were at dinner in the afternoon the
farmer made several sly allusions to the spells usually
done by young people on All-Hallow Eve, and ended
by asking the blushing girls what bachelors did they
dream of. There was a good deal of fencing on the
part of the trio, and at last they boldly denied having
done any charms, or dreamed of any one, or any thing
in particular; At this, Martin laughed long and loud,
and continued bantering and teasing them, until at last
Molly came to the rescue, by asking what an old manlike
him knew of such things.

^' Now Molly you may as well let the cat out ov
the bag. Sure I know well that my back wasn't well
turned this morning , when you heard it all from
em."

Well an if I did itself you may as well take it
aise, honest man for I done mane to make you as wise
as myself. Erra ! what can an ould man like you know
what young girls do be thinking ov ? You know tales
is'nt to be told out of schools

^' Wells girls, ye have no call to be so shamefaced
about it/^ said the kind old man. '* Tis only what ye' re
mothers an' grandmothers done before ye wor born,
and what yer own girls will be doing in their turn.
The day will come when ye won't think ov the like at
all, so while ever yer young, and hearty, have the bit
ov diversion, an' give no thanks to any wan o' count
ov it'

When dinner was over the two visitors prepared to
go away. Judy went first, having the fear of her cross
stepmother before her eyes, but Susie stayed longer,
waiting for her brother who was to come for her.
With the shades of evening he came on horseback, with
a pillion behind him for Susie. He was a good-looking
young man, with a frank honest expression of countenance,
that also seemed very shrewd and sensible. He
was very much attached to Susie, who fully returned

his affection, and thought how very happy she would
be if she could succeed in 'making a match" between
this dear brother and her cousin Oonagh. Her efforts
in this direction, however, had up to this not been
been attended with any success. Oonagh was, as
Susie expressed it, " hard to plase,^^ or in other words
she did not see Tom Burke's perfections in the same
rose-coloured light that his sister saw them, and gave
a deaf ear to all the hints that Susie was constantly
throwing out on the subject.

Tom Burke was obliged to dismount, for the
hospitable farmer would not consent to his riding off
until he had taken some refreshment, and his horse
had got a feed of oats. While Tom was eating,
Martin kept the two girls in an agony of bashfulness
and terror, by threatening to tell him who they had
dreamed of on the preceding night — an idle threat on
his part, considering that he did not know it himself,
though he teased them by pretending that Molly had
told him privately. At last Tom, remembering that
he had fifteen miles to ride before they could reach
home, hurried Susie out of the house, and in a few
moments the clatter of his horse's hoofs died away in
the distance.

Ah me ! how weak a thing
The heart of woman is !

Shakespeare.

After their unusual dissipation on All Hallow Eve the
family at Ballycross fell again, as a matter of course,
into the groove of their old quiet monotonous life.
Very quiet indeed that life was, having nothing to
mark the passage of time but the round of weekly
labour, broken only by the rest of the Sunday, and
the duty of hearing mass on that sacred day. The
farm of Martin MacDermott was some miles distant
from any town or even village, so that the life passed
by him and his family was one of almost unbroken
solitude and seclusion from the world. They did not
consider this isolation any hardship, or feel discontented
or lonely because of it, for they had always

been accustomed to it and had never the experience of
any other life. To be ready with the rent on gale
day , as well as when the tax collector was expected on
his round, and to support themselves after all was
paid in tolerable comfort , required so much incessant
labour, and careful thrift, that they had neither time
nor inclination to think of much variety, or amusements.
In attending to their business early and late,
they found an occupation full of the most absorbing
interest, and in ministering to the wants of all the
dumb creatures that were on the farm, and in one way
or another, contributed to make money, and keep the
wheel going round, they found quite as much variety
and pleasure as they cared to have. There was no
ennui ever felt among them, for every hour of the day
was fully occupied by its own allotted task, and every
season brought the work that of right belonged to
itself. The bread that was earned by this continuous
labour had a savour that made it very pleasant, and
the sleep that followed after a long day of restless
activity, was sound and refreshing. If their ideas
were few, and all turned in one narrow groove, their
consciences were at peace with themselves, and the
world; and if their lives were without excitement or
strong emotion they were, on the other hand, very
peaceful and happy.

Very often did Oonagli think of the strange dream
she had had on All-Hallow Eve ; a dream so unlike
anything that she had imagined it would have been.
She was quite sure that the lover who would appear
to her under the magic spell of the dumb cake would
be John Molloy, and yet it was not to her he had
come but to Susie Burke, who not only did not care
for him, but had called him a fool, and thought
herself aggrieved by being put off with such a husband.
Still though she could not prevent her thoughts from
dwelling on it, she did not put much faith in the
prediction that on her coffin would be inscribed
Oonagh MacDermott," though what the young-priest
celebrating his first mass in her presence had
to do with her future life, she could not imagine.
She had joined the two girls as light-hearted, and
joyous as she was herself, in the charm of the dumb
cake, partly for the fun of the thing, and partly
because it was the correct thing for three unmarried
girls to do on All-Hallow Eve. She was the one of
the three the most unlikely to die unmarried, for she
had many lovers, and none of them at all backward
in trying to win her favour. As her father's only
child she was an heiress in a small way, and a good
farm with a long lease, well tilled and stocked, with a
comfortably furnished house on it, constituted a dowry

that heightened her attractions in the eyes of her
rustic admirers very considerably. The Irish peasant
has an insatiable ^^ earth hunger' and a woman who
is the fortunate owner of a ^^ little spot of land' is
sure to be sought after, no matter what her appearance
or disposition may be. But Oonagh's attractions were
not altogether confined to the " spot of land' for
though not what is called beautiful, she was a very
pretty girl, and when youth and good looks were
thrown into the scale, along with the house and farm,
there was not much probability that she would die
unmarried, " that malady most incident to maids."

However, it must be confessed that Oonagh had
not shown her usual good common sense when she
had, out of all her admirers, selected as the one man
to whom only she would give herself away, the idle,
good-for-nothing fellow that Susie had so contemptuously
called "that fool, John Molly'' John,
with his "pleasant" ways and handsome face, had
fairly bewitched the innocent, simple-minded country
girl. His big words, that made up in sound what
they wanted in sense, seemed to her the essence of
fine education, and his impudent swagger the perfection
of ease and good breeding.

He had deluded Oonagh as he had deluded many
another girl, to all of whom he had devoted himself

until they had dismissed Mm, or until lie had discovered
that their portions did not come up to his
expectations. With all his " pleasantness '' he never
lost sight of the main chance, but was fully determined
to sell himself in the matrimonial market for
the very highest price that he could obtain.

Neither youth, nor beauty, nor goodness, possessed
any value inhis eyes, compared with house, and land,
and money. If he ever thought of them at all, it
was as very secondary considerations indeed. They
were all very good things, he admitted, when cast
into the scale with worlds wealth, but when in the
opposite one, were not to be thought of at all. With
him the great point was not the wife, but the fortune ;
and he was indifferent whether the fortune was to
consist of land or money. However, of the two
he preferred the land, as being — provided the lease
was a good one, and the rents all paid up — the most
respectable and substantial.

It was a strange thing that Oonagh should have
given her love to this man — a problem that could not
easily be solved. Love is proverbially blind, and in
this ~ instance there could be no doubt of his defective
vision. Though cheerful, with the gladness of youth
and innocence, Oonagh was naturally grave and reflective,
composed in manner, quiet in conversation,

and collected in thought ; wale he was all impudence
and conceit, with an amazing volubility of language,
and a frivolity of character that always prevented
him from settling down to any permanent or useful
occupation.

In no way was there the least similarity between
the two, except that they were both young, and good-looking.
And yet this poor, simple, credulous girl
loved him with all the might of her affectionate heart,
and all the force of her deep, thoughtful nature ;
while the graceless scamp only cared for the good
house and farm of which she would one day be the
owner.

One of the peculiarities of Shawn Sugagh, and not
the least noticeable, was his extraordinary mode of
speech. He always made use of the longest and
most high-sounding words that he could think of,
what the peasantry call jaw-breakers ; and this without
taking the least thought as to whether they were
correct in themselves, or appropriate to the subject
in hand. As a natural consequence his sentences were
so involved, and his meaning so obscure, that it was
not easy to follow him, particularly if his hearers were
not accustomed to the peculiar style in which he
delighted to indulge.

When quite a child his father had decided that

lie should be a priest, the great object of an Irish
peasant's ambition; and, as the first step to this
desirable consummation, he was sent as soon as he
was capable of learning, to acquire the first rudiments
of education, to what is called a hedge schoolmaster.

In the eyes of Molloy senior, the great qualification
of this man for '' teaching the young idea how
to shoots was the way in which he spoke — or, rather,
murdered — the Queen's English. His language was
nothing but a complete jargon of long, confused
words, jumbled together without propriety, or coherence
of any kind. In this he resembled all of
his class ; for the Irish hedge schoolmasters who lived
in bygone times, considered he study of English
grammar — or, in fact, the study of any English at
all — altogether unnecessary. They knew Latin extremely
well, and, in most instances, had a very
respectable knowledge of Greek. They were first-class
arithmeticians, and possessed an acquaintance
with mathematics, and algebra, that would put many
college-bred men to shame; but their ignorance of
English, and English literature, was as profound, as it
was laughable.

This, however, was not perceptible by the poor
simple country people who sent their children to be
instructed by these pedagogues and with whom

their inflated bombast passed for she most profound
erudition. They were in admiration at the ^' tall
English," though they did not well understand it,
and of the Latin that they did not understand at all ;
and their great ambition was that their children.
should adopt the vocabulary of the master, and in
many instances even exceed it in grotesque absurdity.

Foremost among these enlightened worthies was
old Molloy, and his son fully satisfied his expectations.
The boys ear was so true, or his memory
so retentive, that he found no difficulty in acquiring
the lofty style of language practised at the academy
he attended, which was held in a mud hovel in winter,
and under the shade of a hedge in summer, from
which circumstance the teachers were commonly
called by the name of hedge schoolmasters.

The delight and pride of poor old Molloy, when
his son first began to speak " tall Englishmen knew no
bounds. He used to listen with the greatest attention,
while the young hopeful was holding forth to
the gaping rustics who crowded round the fire on
winter nights, and at every pause would pat him
fondly on the shoulder, crying out exultingly :

M'dnim an Bhia,'^ Johnny ! There's none ov

Wdnim an Dliia-'—'M.j soul to God.

us able to hould a candle wit yoa. Folly on, my
boy, folly on. Faix, you'll bate the master himself
wan OY these days, an you'll be sure to carry all
before you when you go to Maynooth ! '^

When John was old enough and, in the opinion
of ^Hhe masters' fully qualified to enter college,
it was necessary that he should wait on the bishop
of the diocese, to undergo an examination which if
successful would obtain from that dignitary the customary
certificate, without which he could not be
received as a clerical student at the College of
Maynooth.

Great preparations were made to enable him to
appear before the bishop in a respectable manner.
He got a suit of new clothes, not frieze as he had
hitherto worn, but broadcloth of the deepest black ;
a new silk hat, and the best horse in the stable to
make the journey with. It had never once occurred to
either the father, or the son, that the journey would
be a fruitless one, and that the return home would
not be as triumphant as the going forth had
been.

Alas for the vanity of earthly hopes ! The edifice
that had been so long in building, and had been
thought so secure, came down with a crash like a
house of cards. When the candidate for Holy Orders

VOL. I. E

presented himself before the bishop, lie was very much
disappointed by the prelate's cool reception of him. Sofar
from being favourably impressed by his conversation
and manner, the bishop was amazed, and not a
little disgusted by his gross ignorance and vulgar
self-conceit. In language that admitted of no mistakes
he told the crestfallen youth that he was unfit
to enter Maynooth, and that the best thing he could do
on his return home would be to apply himself to learn
some honest calling, by which he could earn his own
living. John pleaded hard for a reversal of this
terrible sentence, the death-blow of all his hopes ;
spoke of his aged father whose heart had been set on
seeing him a priest ; of the long years he had passed
in acquiring a suitable education, and the blight that
would be cast on his whole future life, if he were to
return home without the certificate. But the bishop
was inexorable, and refused point-blank to give it to
him. To use his words on his return home in no
enviable state of mind, 'Hie ould gladiator was
vociferously oblivious ov my merit an conversion wit
the humanities, as well as wit the classical construction
of langwidges.^^

Great was the astonishment in the village of
Castle Cloyne and the neighbourhood, when the Buck
returned home, after having been ignominiously

dismissed by the bishop. Every one made sure that
he would pass muster, not only with success, but great
applause, and obtain his certificate for entering college
entirely as a matter of course. The seniors of the
parish with whom his " tall English ^' passed current
as the most refined and perfect specimens of language,
were amazed especially, by the want of discernment
shown by the bishop in failing to see the great merit
of John, as well as the immense advantage that would
accrue to the Church if he were ordained a priest. It
was a hard nut to crack, and after smoking a great
deal of tobacco, and scratching their heads a great
many times, they could come to no other conclusion
than that the bishop must be ^' near his end '' when he
did so foolish a thing as to reject such a promising
young man, and so suitable a candidate for Holy Orders
as John Molloy !

It must be admitted that those sentiments were in
no degree shared by the younger men, by all of whom
John was more or less disliked. They were by no
means sorry for his discomfiture, which was for a longtime
a standing joke amongst them. One of them
would ' slyly ask him did the bishop invite him to
remain to dinner, and whether it was wine, or punch
that was drunk at his table ? Another would inquire
with much apparent interest, what part of his

E 2

education it was that the bishop found most fault
with, and what part of it met with most commendation
? To all of which questions John replied with his
usual cool impudence, either unconscious of the covert
sarcasm and ridicule conveyed by them, or pretending
to be so.

But the poor old man never got over the great
disgrace of having the son on whom he had placed
such mighty hopes returned on his hands like a
bad shilling. In truth it was his death-blow. At
first he could scarcely believe it, for he had the
most implicit and childlike belief that John's great
learning and ^'' conversion wit the construction
of languages '^ would be at once apparent to the
bishop, who would be only too glad to secure
so promising a scholar for the Church. But when
at last the bitter truth was made plain to him,
the poor old man, disappointed in his dearest
hopes, and mortified by the signal failure of all
his plans, took to his bed and never left it again.
His heart was broken, and he died in a very short
time, with his last breath laying his death at ^ the
door of the 'hard-hearted bishop that had throated
his bright boy so badly."

He had made his will some time before, leaving
all he should die possessed of to his eldest son.

being quite sare that Jolin would pass the examination
for the Church, and consequently would be
well provided for. This will was either forgotten
by the old man in his grievous disappointment
or he felt himself unequal to making another, but
from whatever cause it arose, it was certainly never
revoked. At his father's death, therefore, the Buck
found himself absolutely a pauper, dependent on his
brother for the commonest necessaries of life. However,
this did not seem to weigh very heavily on
his spirits, or abate in any degree his usual careless
effrontery, or gaiety of manner. His brother was
unmarried, and had no objection to his company
for the present, and John himself, quite confident
of his own irresistible attractions, took the world
easy, sure that he would set everything right by
means of marriage with some girl rich, enough
to maintain him in idleness for the rest of his
life.

And this was the man that was beloved 'not
wisely but too well' by the grave and thoughtful
girl in the brightness of her happy youth, and the
unstained purity of her innocent maidenhood ! No
wonder that the greatest master of the human
heart that ever wrote exclaimed, "Alas, how weak
a thing the heart of woman is ! "

THE Book AND Ever MEET.

Standing, with reluctant feet.
Where the brook and river meet —
"Womanhood and childhood fleet.

Longfellow.

Christmas soon came round again to be immediately
followed by the Shrovetide, which last season is that
specially set apart by the Irish peasantry for ^' marrying
and giving in marriage." There are two reasons
for this ; one is that it is the idle time of the year,
and there is nothing to be done but "matchmaking";
and another is, that for the seven weeks of Lent
that succeed it, marriage is not permitted by the
Catholic Church, unless under very peculiar and exceptional
circumstances. Therefore it is that on the
approach of Shrove there is a good deal of stir and
excitement among the young people and a good
deal of hard bargaining among the seniors, who are

the parties that really make the matches. Many
marriages take place daring Shrovetide, and many
more are decided on, and then broken off, and the
persons concerned go elsewhere to look for husbands
and wives, no bad feeling, or ill-will being manifested
on either side.

For a people so imaginative and impressionable
as the Irish, it is extraordinary how prosaic and practical
they are in the matter of marriage. A real
love-match is rare, and in nine cases out of ten the
marriages of the Irish peasantry are downright
Smithfield bargains. The parents of the young
people arrange everything beforehand without any
reference to them, and their motto is "penny for
penny," or, when that is not possible, as near an
approach to it as can be got. They fight and haggle
over every acre and every shilling ; and what involves
the future happiness, or misery, of two human beings
is reduced to a mere matter of pounds, shillings, and
pence.

The author has often known a match, that had
gone on swimmingly for a long time, broken off at
the last moment, because the old father on one side
would not consent to let the calf go with the cow ;
or the mother on the other side demurred to having
the washing-tub, or the clutch of chickens, thrown in

as a make-weight with the rest of her daughter's-portion.
Or it will sometimes happen that one party
.will insist on having the fortune paid in guineas
while the other will sturdily refuse to give more
than pounds.

This stumbling-block of the odd shillings has very
often put a final end to many a matrimonial treaty.
All the time the '^ boy and give are either making-love
in a corner, or listening in profound silence to
the discussion going on among the elders ; and whatever
. is the decision arrived at , they are perfectly
satisfied to abide by it.

Strange to say, these mercenary marriages turnout
extremely well. The newly-wedded couple settle
down in their home, quite satisfied with each other,
and do their duty by each other, and by their children
in the most admirable manner. They have no
divided interest, and they work together in harness
as smoothly, and amicably as if they had married
for love. Conjugal infidelity on either side is almost
unknown ; and when an instance of it unhappily
occurs, which is very rarely indeed, it is looked
upon by the people with the greatest horror, and
disgust.

One evening in the beginning of this particular
Shrovetide, there was a wedding in the neighbourhood,

and Paddy and Molly went to it after their
dayes work was done promising to return without
fail at twelve o'clock. Oonagh did not go, for her
father had been all day in the next town on some
business, and had returned home wet and weary ; so
she remained to give him his supper, a duty that
she never delegated to any other person. At such
times she always managed to have something better
for him than the usual fare, a fried Qggj a rasher of
bacon, or if he was wet, as was the case this evening,
a tumbler of hot punch. When he had eaten his
supper, and settled himself in the chimney corner to
smoke his pipe before going to bed, Oonagh put away
the table, swept up the hearth, threw on the fire an
immense log of bogwood that was to serve for light
for the rest of the night, and then when nothing more
remained to be done, got her knitting, and sat down
at the opposite side of the fire.

It was a wild night out of doors; one of those
nights on which stern Winter, knowing that his reign
is nearly over, makes a vigorous effort to retain his
supremacy. The wind was howling round the farmhouse,
and the rain in frequent gusts beat against
the windows with almost the force of hail. The cold
and darkness outside made the warmth and light of
the kitchen doubly pleasant from the contrast. It

was a picture of comfort taken altogether; homely
a-nd humble, but natural and peaceful, and in harmony
with the two figures that were its most salient
features. The large kitchen, with its simple furniture
as clean as scrubbing could make it, lighted up by
the fitful glare of the bogwood ; the '^ blazing ingle
and the clean hearthstone,^^ at one side of which
sat the silver-haired old man, and at the other his
daughter just entering on womanhood, with a face
that might have been thought too grave, and serious
for her years, only that it was brightened up by a
sweet and pleasant smile. As if to complete the
picture a large dog — a cross between a Newfoundland
and a retriever — lay stretched in luxurious ease on
the hearthstone before the fire. Bran, called after
the famous dog of the Irish hero. Fin McCoul, was
one of the most intelligent of his race, and the
farmer's special favourite and attendant both at home,
and whenever he went abroad.

When Martin had smoked his pipe, and laid it
and his tobacco box in a little niche in the wall that
had been made expressly for that purpose when the
house was built, his daughter knew that he was in
the mood for a little conversation.

You never would guess, Oonagh, who it was that

was married istherday/' lie said ; ^' no, "not if you wor
guessing' for a month ov Sundays."

"I never could guess it, so you may just as well
put me out ov pain an' tell it at want."

I suppose so. Well, then, it was Judy''

Judy ! ! ! ■" Three notes of admiration can scarcely
express the astonishment that was both in the face
and voice of Oonagh.

"Fake an' sure, it is. An' you wouldn't ever
guess who the husband is."

Is it Dick Considine ? He was the boy she
dreamed ov on All-Hallow Eve."

"Well, he's the boy she's married to anyway.
She'll have a good life wit him, for he's a very
decent boy, an' well off."

Oonagh became very thoughtful. Here was the
first of the marriages that had been shadowed forth
by the spell of the dumb cake. Judy had declared
that nothing on earth would make her marry
*' Mad Dick Considine," and now when only four
months had gone by, she had become " Mad Dick's "
wife !

'you're vexed because you won't axed to the
wedding," he said, noticing her silence; "but you
have no call to be vexed, for they had no wedding'

at alL They wit to the priest's house fairly in the
morning's an' as soon as they were married, they win
home to Dick's place up in the mountains, for his father
is dying' an' he didn't think it right to have any
wedding' o' count ov it."

^' Well, Judy might have let me know ov it."

She couldn't do that. The match was made in
the greatest hurry intirely, be Lady's stepmother,
an' she run the poor girl out ov the house before
she could say either yes or no to it. So the neighbours
say, anyhow.

I often heard her say in this very house that
she never would marry that same boy, and hated the
very sight ov him."

^' Well, so itself. It's little ov her talk her father
or stepmother would put up wit. Poor Dick was
ever an' always fond ov her, an' offered to marry
her without a penny, or anything but the clothes she
stood up in; my hand to you her stepmother would
stand no arguing' after that. Dick will be a worse
husband to her than I take him to be, if she isn't
a dale happier wit him, than she was wit her stepmother.
She was a wild slip, but she is very
young, an' living' up there in that lonesome house in
the mountains will tame her a bit."

It was hard to imagine laughing, joyous Judy

in her lonely home ^'up in the mountains." She
was, as it were, buried alive, far away from all who
knew and loved her, and alone with the man that
she herself had called '' Mad Dick' Oonagh wondered
if she should ever again see Judy; or if they did
meet after long years, would they both be greatly
changed. How well for us it is that the future is
hidden from our sight by an impenetrable veil ! Had
the time, and place, and circumstances of her next
meeting with the friends of her youth been then
revealed to Oonagh, the grief and horror of the
terrible vision would go far to deprive her almost
of reason. But it was mercifully withheld from her
view.

There was great matchmaking' in town to-day's
said the old man after a while. "There wasn^fc
a public-house that wasn't choke full of people
matchmaking' for themselves. A good many of
the matches that wor made to-day will be in broken
chases tomorrow morning' ; but that's neither here
nor there. We have a good many days yet before
Shrove Tuesday comes round, an' a power of
matches will be made, an' broke again, betune this
an' then."

There was another pause, this time longer than
the last, for Oonagh had become very grave, and

silent, as she thought how soon the spell of the
dumb cake had begun to work.

"I am glad that Paddy an' Molly went off to
the wedding', and that the both of us are here
together, for, Oonagh ashore, I have something to
say that no wan is to hear barren' your own self."

The girl's face got scarlet at her father's words,
for she had full knowledge of what he was going
to tell her.

^^Why, thin, who do you think came matchmaking
to myself to-day? Well, I may as well tell
you at wants for you're a mighty bad hand at
guessing It was Michael Molly, an' his hopeful
brother the Buck ! Faix, tis the truth that I'm
telling you ! ''

Martin McDermott thought Buck Molloy's comings
to him for a wife was such a good joke, that he
laughed loud and long, and it was only after a
little that he noticed that his daughter did not join
in his mirth, but looked very grave and sad.

^' An' what answer did you give them, father ? '^
she said after a little time.

*' What answer did I give 'rem, is it ? Faix, thin,
a mighty short one intirely. They won't come tome
for a wife an' a fortune again in a hurry; I
promise you that''

Lie bent over her knitting as i£ a stitch, had
dropped, and she was trying to catch it np again,
but in reality to hide her tears which had begun
to flow. Her father watched her for a little time,
and then said in a kind voice, " Lay by that stocking,
alien machine, and come hither, an sit thee down
alongside mee."

She threw aside her work, and taking her stool
sat down near him, laying her hand on his knee
in her usual affectionate manner.

You never told your ould father a lie, Oonagh,"
he said fondly, '^an^ what's more, 'isn't in you to
tell wan. Did you know that the Molloys were to
come to me to-day to ax me for you ? ''

"I did, fathers'

*^' I knew you tell me the truth. An' was
it wit your own consent that they came ? "

"Yes, father; wit my full consists'
" An' do you care for that fool, an' would you
marry him if you had your own will ? "

^^Yes, if I had your consent and blessing', but
not without it."

blessed Saints above ! But this bates all
that I ever heard tell of. Why, child, he is an
Omadliawn, a fool that hasn't got a grain of sense in
his head, an' I'm not the only wan that'll tell you that."^

"He is not an Omadhan'ii, nor anything like
it, but a handsome clever boy, an' if he had anything
to do, he knows how to do it' replied Oonagh
stoutly. "You desired me to tell you the truth,
and you done well, for 'tis always the best. I
am fond of John, an' he's fond of me, and if we
wor married we'd be very happy together wit the
blessing of Grod, an' your blessing', father." And as
she spoke the last words she looked up in his face
with a wistful, pleading expression in her sweet,
earnest eyes.

I'm heart sorry to hear this from you, my child,"
said the old man sfravelv.

Oh, father ! why do you say that ? What raison
have you to mislike poor John ? He's a da cent
couple's son, an' he has great larnin' intirely. He's
a well-behaved honest boy, an' neither a drunkard nora
thief."

"But that's nothing he's an idler an' a shool^-,
going' about from house to house, lookin' for diversion
for himself, instit ov doing a little honest work to help
his brother that has the cost ov feeding', an clothiers
him. The swaggering' fool ! He has delivered you
wit his rocks ov tall English, an' thrown dust in your
eyes. But he isn't able to deluded r,ie ; I'm too
ould a bird to be caught wit all his chaff."

The girl was by this time fairly crying, for her
hopes of gaining the old manes consent to her marriage
with the Buck, were becoming fainter every moment.

I know what you're thinking' ov, child'' he went
on ; " its that I^m very hard, an' cruel to you intirely,
an that's what I wouldn't like my little girl would
be thinking' ov her ould father. I can't help that, an'
I suppose you can't help it yourself. But if you
think it now, the day will surely come to think the
very contrary. Listen hither to me, 'a grew gedl;^
you only know this boy a short time, an' you know
me all your life, an' you know likewise that I'm your
best friend as well as your oldest wan,"

I know that well, father, an' you may be sure
that as I never went again' you before, I'm not going'
to begin now," she sobbed through her tears.

'' My good girl you wor ! Sure I knew I had
only to say the word to you. An' now I'll make it
all plain to you : Shawn Sugagh has no manes ov his
own, an' his brother won't give him anything. If you
married him, he'd walk in here ov course, an' hang
up his hat — he has brass enough for twice as much —
an' very soon he'd make ducks an' drakes ov what is
here, an' give neither ov us any thanks. We're only

'JL grav: gell — My bright love.
VOL. I. F

able to pay what's due ov us, an keep the roof over
our heads by the dint ov hard work ; an how would
it be wit us, if we had him a walking' gentleman on the
flare wit his hands in his pockets all the year round ?
An' will I tell you what would become ov you, poor
child, whin I'd be gone, an' my time here can't be
very long now. The sheriff would be down on you
before you knew where you wor, an' the good farm
that belonged to my father an' to his father before
him, would be taken from you by Mr. Dillon for his
rent. That's what your story will be, child, if you're
so foolish as to marry that idle scamp, that cares for
nothing nor no one in the world but his own four
bones. Oh, Oonagh darling' ! " he continued, laying
his hand tenderly on the head that was bowed on his
knee, '^ don't break your poor ould father's heart !
Don't sind him home to his people before his time ! "

'^Don^t say another word, for God's sake," she
replied, raising her head, and smiling through her
tears. *^ The man was never born for whose sake I'd
break my poor ould father's heart''

^' My own good little girl ! " he cried, stooping
down to kiss her. " My own sensible, wise Oonagh !
But mind, I won't ax any promise from you ; I'll only
ax you to wait for a while, and see for yourself what
sort the boy is."

Father, Fll make you a promise, an' that's that I
never will marry either John Molloy, or any wan else
while you live, without your full consent. I make you
that promise from myself, an' I mane to keep it, wit
the help ov God."

'^'Tis before me how it would all be'' he said softly
as if to himself, '''just the same as if 'twas wrote down
in black an' white. The kind ov life my little girl
would have wit ' Pleasant Jack ' wouldn't be at all
the kind of life that she had wit the ould man; it
wouldn't be ' pleasant ' at all, by no manner ov
manes. That idle shooting' fella would never settle
down to honest work, but to make up for that, he'd
make her a common slave. He'd be at every fair an'
market, sporting' an' spending' my child's manes, and
she'd be all the while breaking' her poor heart at home ;
an' very soon when the rent wouldn't be to the fore,
Mr. Dillon would put the two ov 'em out on the road.
He's a good landlord — no better — an' has great feeling'
for his ould tenants ; but sure it stands to raison that he
wouldn't always take excuses in place ov money. May
God break hard fortune before my little girl's feet ! "

'^ Say no more, father," said Oonagh, " an don't
trouble your mind about what will never happen,
phase God. Sure I gave you hand an' word, an' you
know that I won't go back ov it."

F 2

Tliat^s right, avoiirneen ; an' you may be sure the
day will come when you'll be glad you followed the
advice ov the ould father, an' made the ind of his life
comfortable an' happy."

Wit the help ov God I'll do that, never fear.
You have only myself in the whole world, an' it would
be a quare thing surely if I was to turn again you, or
even to think ov it. Faix it would be the nne young
man indeed that would persuade me to such a
thing ! "

Once more he laid his hand on her head and blessed
her with a blessing that was not the less fervent from
being silent, while he thanked God for having given
him so good and dutiful a child.

I think I'll go to bed now, a villish,^ " he said
rising. '^ I'm very tired after the day, but so itself ;
I have a light heart going', thanks to you, Oonagh. I'm
in thread you'll have a long watch ov it, before Paddy
an' Molly come home from the wedding'. 'Tis fairly yet
in the night."

When old Martin MacDermott went to bed, his
daughter remained sitting by the fire, very wretched
if the truth must be told. When she found herself
alone, the bitter tears she could no longer restrain

A villisli — My sweetest.

gushed forfch, and she wept long and silently over the
destruction of all the bright hopes and beautiful
dreams that had formed all the sunshine of her life.
In no single respect did she agree with her father in
the estimate he had formed of her lover's character
and disposition. She believed that estimate was
founded on prejudice and a rooted dislike, for which
she could in no way account. She still believed that
Pleasant John was all that her fond credulous heart
had imagined him to be — as bright and amiable as he
was handsome, and that when she consented to
renounce him, she put away all happiness from her
future life. But for all that, she was unshaken in her
loyalty to her father, and fully determined that her
duty to him should be paramount to her affection for
her lover. For no lover — though he were handsomer
and brighter than John, though she thought that
hardly possible — could she disobey her only parent, or
by any act of hers help to bring down his good gray
head with sorrow to the grave. He had worked very
hard all his life for her, and to leave her a comfortable
home when he should be taken from her. Now she
remembered her mother's last words to her, ^' Oonagli
dear, when Vm gone take care ov the poor ould man
for my sakes'' Up to this, she had obeyed the last
command of her dead mother to the best of her power,

and her reward had come to her in happy days and
peaceful nights, and in the consciousness that she was
doing her duty, and duty, in the eyes of Oonagh, was a
very sacred thing. Young as she was, she made it her
watchword, and felt that while she followed in the
straight and well-defined path to which it pointed, she
could not go far wrong.

Now, too, she remembered the dream of All-Hallow
Eve. One part of the spell had already come true,
for Judy was married to "Mad Dick Considine!^^
This was complete proof to the mind of the poor
ignorant girl that the two other dreams would also
come true, though when, or by what means, she could
not imagine. And the man that Susie Burke had
dreamed of was John Molloy — her own John ! She
had, at the time, listened to Susie telling them this
with silent incredulity; but now she began to think
that such a marriage would most certainly take place,
that her cousin would supplant her in the heart of
her lover, and be his wife as she herself had one day
hoped to be.

It would be unjust, she thought, to blame Susie
for this, or feel any jealousy or resentment towards
her. It was the fate that had been marked out
for her !

A common Irish maxim is, that "what's allotted

canst be blotted and the truth of this piece of
fatalism was not doubted by Oonagh for a moment.
No Oriental believed in Msmet more devoutly, and
unquestioningly, than did this credulous country-girl
believe in destiny ; from the action of which, and
its effects on her future life, no efforts of her own
could ever struggle against or avoid.

She did not forget her own part in the weird
drama of the dumb cake. She was not destined to
be married to Pleasant John or to anyone else, for
was not " Oonagh MacDermott ^^ inscribed on the
lid of the coffin that had been brought into her
room in the dream, and laid down in silence beside
her bed ?

It had been only a dream, then — the merest shadow;
but she was now as sure as of her own existence
that the dream would come true, and the shadow
would one day assume form, and substance. There
was to be no marriage for her — that she was as
much convinced of as if she were standing, not at
the opening of her life, but at its close, when sh
could look back on all her past years, with their
thoughts, words, and deeds spread out before her
as if on a map. It was decreed that she should die
unmarried, and that the name on her coffin should be
none but her maiden name.

Why she asked herself, had she been so foolish as
to have a hand in that dreadful dumb cake ? It was
wicked sinful, and condemned by the Church, and
yet she had done it, and now she was beginning to
feel some of the punishment due to so great a sin.
God had for His own wise purposes hidden the future
from her eyes, and she with bold irreverence had
sought to know what He had thought fit to conceal.
Never again would she do any spell or charm ; she
had had enough of such wicked practices, and more
than enough. But that could not efface what had
been done, or make sufficient atonement for it. The
sting remained in her heart, and would remain therefor
ever.

After some time the poor girl wiped away her
tears, and knelt down beside the dying embers to
say her evening prayers and recite the Rosary. This
exercise brought her grieving heart much peace;
and when, her prayers over, she once more sat down,
it was not to weep again but to try to brace herself
up for the battle of life that was likely to be a hard
one for her. Henceforth she would have no duty but
to obey her mother's last command, and take care of
the old man, and prove to him that the love and care
he had lavished on her, had not been bestowed on a
thankless child. It was a long and a hard battle

she fought with her own heart — this poor ignorant
girl, not yet twenty years of age — as she sat alone at
midnight in cold and darkness, but in the end she
came off the victor. That hour of lonely self-communion
had wrought in her the work of many
long years. That one hour of serious thought had
transformed her from a child into an earnest and
deep-hearted woman, who should now put away
childish things ; into a responsible being who was to
remember that one day she would have to render an
account of what she had done with the life that had
been bestowed on her.

THE

This was the time when Oonagh
Stole out to meet her barefoot love.

John Pilot Curran.

On the following Sunday which happened to be the
last before Lent, Oonagh was alone in the farmhouse.
It was evening, and that hopeful, gracious time of
the year when we notice that the days are growing
long and bright, and the hedges and wayside bushes
are putting forth their tender green buds, timorously
at jBrst, but soon making vigorous growth, as if they
had taken courage from the few gleams of sunshine
that occasionally lighted up the wintry landscape.
Molly was engaged in the dairy, and the farmer
and his man Paddy had gone to drive the cows home
to their quarters for the night. Although the evening
was fine, there was a frosty feeling in the air that

made the girl draw near to the fire, having first put
down more turf, so as to have a good fire when her
father should come in to supper. A large pot of
potatoes was hanging on the crane over the fire
and the large kitchen table was drawn to the vacant
space before it, in readiness for the evening meal.

Suddenly Oonagh's attention was aroused by the
sound of a well-known voice, that was made more
audible every moment as the owner of it approached
the house. It was a mane's voice, very harsh and
cracked, altogether out of harmony with either time
or tune ; and the owner of this voice was no other
than the parish omadhawn.

If I had a small cot on the ocean to row,

I'd follow my darling' wherever he'd go.

I'd rather have my three love to sport and to play

Than all the red good that's on land or on say.

Before the singer could begin another verse
of this love-song the latch of the door was raised,
and he entered, with the usual salutation of " God
save all heres

"God save you kindly'' answered Oonagh. " Is
that yourself, Thady ? Sit down, an have an air ov
the fire."

This invitation was gladly accepted by the newcomer,

wHo had no settled home, lived no one knew
how, but to whom everyone was kind and forbearing,
except the little boys, who delighted in teasing and
making fun of the poor fool, after the fashion of all
their race from time immemorial. He sat down in
the chimney corner opposite Oonagh, and stretched
out his bare feet and legs, that were hardly protected
from the severity of the weather by the old trousers
that were not half long enough, to the grateful
warmth of the fire.

^^You come in good time,'^ observed Oonagh, "for
the potatoes are down for the supper; an I^m sure
that you're hungry as well as cold.-'^

I do be often cowld,-'^ said the poor fool, looking
ruefully as he spoke at the old rags that served him
for raiment ; '"'■ but sure I wouldn't be so long, if God
would only put it into some good Christian's heart
to gi' me a shut ov clothes'

'* Well, Thady, I'll see tomorrow what I can do
for you'' she said in answer to this broad hint. " I'll
steal the kay ov my father's chest, and who knows
but I may find some ould things in it that would
fit you?"

At the splendid prospect of getting the "new
shut" his face expanded into a broad grin of delight.
Oonagh's little joke of stealing her father's key was

taken by him in a literal sense and lie winked
knowingly, to give lier to understand that lie knew
her secret and would not betray her.

An' what's the best news wit you, Thady ? ''
she said in a little time. ^^ An' what did you do wit
yourself since I saw you last ? ''

'' Och ! I was here, an' there, an' everywhere
like the bad weather, looking out to see where I'd
get a shut ov clothes coming' on the winter, but sorra,
wan ga' me a ha'porth," replied Thady, whose thoughts
seemed to be altogether taken up by the all-important
subject of the clothes.

^' The Shrove is almost over, Thady, an' you're
not married yet. Why is that ? "

Each ! What little concern marriage is given'
me, if you knew but all," he said, with a bashful look
that was very comical. "There's time enough to
think ov them things in another year or so. But
why did you let the Shrove pass you, Oonagh ?
Sure we war all expecting' you'd give us a cousin'
wedding'. Faix 'twas all your own faut, little girl;
sure the world knows that you have bachelors
galore."

'' Well, what good is that when none ov 'em axed
me?"

Lave off your tricks now, Oonagh. Sure, isn't

wan ov 'em waiting for you this very minute down at
the well ? ''

What was that you said, Thady ? "

"Aha, see that now! An' she portended just
now that she hadn't any bachelor at all' cried Thady,
with a burst of foolish laughter. " Go long out
ov that wit you."

'^ Sure, 'tis yourself that's purtendin' now. I
don't believe that any wan at all is at the well""

'^ Isn't there ?" — indignantly. "Fake an' sure, there
is. What will you gi' me now, if I tell you that Buck
Molly is smoking' his pipe alongside the well, waiting'
for you ? An' if you won't believe me, maybe you'll
believe that''

He took a crumpled piece of not too clean paper
out of his ragged pocket, and handed it to her with
a great flourish. This precious billet doux was as
follows :

If you would have the superior contention to
perambulate down towards the well, it would obligate
in the highest degree your adorable lover. If you
don't come, I am determined to put a period to my
existence as the bearer can testify. My own darling',
don't refuse the last dying' speech an' confession ov
yours to command J. Molloy."

^' When did John give you this ? " she asked,

while lie twisted the paper irresolutely round lier
fingers.

"Why thin, just as I was coming' in the horlieen.
An' tell her,' ses he, * that she may as well come out and
spake to me, for I won't lave out the place until I see
her, if I had to stop here till morning,' ses he."

She was for a moment uncertain what to do, but
finally decided on complying with her lover's wish, and
giving him the meeting he asked for so passionately.
On arriving at this conclusion, she by no means intended
any disobedience to her father's commands ; she
merely meant to tell John that all must be over
between them, at least till he came with her father's
sanction and approbation. To tell him this would
come better from herself, she thought, than from
anyone else, and she owed it to his love for her, to give
him a last interview. It should be the very last, she
said to herself, and henceforth when they met, it should
be as friends, not as lovers.

'' Will you watch the potatoes for a start, Thady,
while I run down to the well an' see what bisness
John Molloy has ov me ? " she said ; '' an' when you
think they're done, you can call Molly in from the
dairy, if I'm not back again by that time."

She caught up an old shawl, and drawing it over
her head went out of the house. Though the evening

was cold, lier face was burning at the consciousness
that for the first time in her life, she was doing what
had an underhand, clandestine appearance. But she
felt strong in a sense of rectitude, and though she
dearly loved the man she was going to meet, yet her
loyalty and duty to her father were still greater than
her love.

When the Buck saw her coming, he sprang up to
meet her, to put his arm round her waist and kiss her
cheek in the old tender way that she remembered so
well. She submitted unresisting to his caress,
knowing that it was for the last time.

'^ 'A grain gell, I knew you'd come to me ! '' he
exclaimed, with the passionate ring in his voice that
he could assume at will. " Oh darling' ! if you only
knew how I was excruciating to behold you, an to
communicate to the tenderness ov your sensibility all
the injurious condemnation, that I had to put up wit
from that ould ancient father ov yours'"

Even in his excitement and anger he could not
lay aside what old Martin had contemptuously called
his 'Hall English' it had become so habitual to
him.

I hope, John, that you won't forget in anything
you say ov him that he is my father, an' a good father
too. If you have anything disrespectful to say ov him,

you mustn't say it while I'm to the fore. Mind that,
now, before we go any farther

'^ But did he make any revelation to you ov the
great interview my brother an' myself had wit
him?"

He did, an' I'm very sorry for the way that it
ended, an' I can't say more than that. 'Tis a great pity
intirely that ye didn't all understand wan another
better than what ye did. It was my prayer that all
would be right betune ye, but God did not see fit to
grant that prayer, for His own wise ends, ov course."

''^Wid great submission, Oonagh, I must declare
that your sentiments aren't what I can construe into
either sense or ratiocination. What right has your
father to put his interdiction betune us at all at all ? '>

'^ Because he is my father, John, an' a very good
raison it is. No wan has a better right."

^^ Blood alive ! are you going' to turn conspirator
again me an' confederate wit him ? I must say,
Oonagh, it was not that sort of ambiguousness I
expected from you."

I'm not turning' again you ; but you know, John,
that I must folly my father's advice, an' be said
an' led by him. It's my duty, an' my wish as
well."

You don't care for me, Oonagh, or love me, as

VOL. I. G

you said you did, often an' often. All your pMan-
tliropy an' jocularity are for the ould man, an' not
for me."

"He has the best right, John' she replied meekly.
I am all he has in the wide world, an' it would bea
poor case surely if I was to fail him now when he
wants me most."

An' do I count for nothing in your contemplations
? I'm beginning to think that if you wor stiffer
with him, and held out more persuasion, he wouldn't
be intirely so obdurate an' contumacious."

I did my very best — indeed, indeed, I did ; but
he wouldn't hear to a word I said," and as she spake
her eyes filled with tears.

He actually ground his teeth with rage, but
between her own agitation and the darkness of the
evening she did not perceive how angry he had
become.

Well, Oonagh," trying to control himself
and speak to her in the old caressing way, " as your
father hasn't the proper feeling' for us, an' won't
be subversive to right reason and three love, we
must only take the law into our own hands. If
he won't extenuate his consent an' blessing' to us
an' our marriage, we have only to get married
without 'em."

"No, Jolin; we won't do anything whatever ov
the kinds she said quietly but firmly ; " our marriage
would have uo blessing' from God if my father's
blessed' wasn't on it likewise. If I was to do such
a thing, it would be aiquil to killing' him, an' that
I won't do for you or any other man that ever stud
in shoe-leather. The last words my mother ever
said to me was : ' Take care ov the ould man,
Oonagh, for my sake an' when she said it, an'
looked so pitifully in my face, I fell on my knees
by her bedside, an' promised her that I'd be a
dutiful, loving' child to him for her sake, as well
as his own. An' that promise made her die happy.
When I meet my mother in heaven, John, I'll be
able, wit the help ov God, to look her straight in
the face, an' tell her that I kept faithful the promise
I made her."

Sure, marrying' a handsome boy, that's so jovial
and obsequious wit you, an' that dotes on the very
ground you walk on, won't have any hand in killing'
him. A tough ould man like that won't break his heart
for such a trifle."

He never ga' me a cross word or a sour look,"
she went on, as if to herself, " an' he has no wan to
care for him in his old age but me. It would be a poor
return for all his love to grieve him or break his heart."

G 2

There won't be no broken hearts at all, I tell
you. He'll be highly oblivious of our stolen match
in a few days, and say to himself that what canst
be cured must be endured. Hell sind for us both
wit great rejoicing an contrition an then there
will be nothing at all among us but satisfaction an'
plenty, society an' harmony'

But this glowing picture failed to dazzle the eyes
of Oonagh or change her resolution and for answer
she only shook her head.

You're just as hard-hearted an' obdurate as
your father," he said bitterly.

'' No, John, I am not. My heart is only too soft
where you are concerned ; an' you ought to know
that the girl who begins her married life by disobeying'
her parents can't make a very good wife. There is
no use at all in our remaining' here arguing', for if we
wor at it till morning', I have only the wan answer
for you."

"An' what may that be, might I ask invidiously?"

"It is that we must have patience, an' wait a
little. Who knows but my father will soften to us
an' he will I knows when he sees that we won't
anger or disobey him. An', John, mind this, an'
be full sure ov it, whatever day or night he gives
his consent, I'm ready an' willing' to go wit you

before the priest. I can't say any fairer than
that."

^' ThoJces an Bioul e* for a story ! '' he burst out,
his anger getting the better of his prudence. " Who
do you think is obligated to be dancing' attendance on
him till he's foolish an doting' ? That very superior
dutifulness doesn't shut my ticket at all. Ov course
it doesn't. The queen's eldest daughter would be
well aimed by so tremendous an apprenticeship as
that. 'Tis the truth I'm tellin' you, Oonagh, an' you
may like it, or lump it, whichever phases you best."

The instant after he had made this rude as well
as impolitic speech, he could have bitten his tongue
for his folly. But the mischief had been done, and
he saw that she was seriously and justly offended.
She wiped away the tears that were flowing fast,
and drew back a little, saying with an air and tone of
proud composure :

'^ Very well, John. I'm thankful that you let me
see your mind before it was too late. You are free
to go as you came, for if you remember I didn't sind
for you to come here to-night. An' there's no call
at all for you to dance any attendance on my father,
or on me either. An' wherever you go, or whoever

Chokes an Bioul e — The devil take it.

you go courting to, tis all wan to Oonagh. I'm an
honest man's child, an' I never done nothing that
would make me hide my face, an' there's as good fish
in the say as ever came out ov it. You can go your
way an' welcome, an' I'll go mine, an' that's to folly
my dead mother's commands, an' stick to the poor
ould man that stuck well to her an' me. An' I thank
God that ga' me the grace to put your temptation far
from me, an' kept me from consintin' to what would
lie hard an' heavy on my heart at my dying' day."

'^ Oh, Oonagh, ashore machine ! don't be vexed
wit your own poor John for a few untimeous words.
Sure I never thought you'd impressionable that a way
what I said in a hurry, that didn't come from the
heart at all but only was a slip ov the tongue. Make
friends wit me now, my darling', an' let us be as
harmonious as ever."

He drew her towards him, and kissed her with
much apparent affection, and Oonagh, woman-like,
forgave him. He ceased to press her on the private
marriage, for he saw that on that point she was
inflexible, and that neither his entreaties, nor her own
great love, could move her by as much as a hairbreadth
from the path of duty. While mentally
comparing her to a mule, a pig, and every other
animal whose obstinacy is proverbial, he wisely resolved

on lowering his demands, and trying to get a
part as lie could not obtain the whole.

'^ Well, darlings' he said in his tenderest tone and
most insinuating manner, "as you objectionable so
completely to an instantaneous marriage, well say
no more about it. I wouldn't fret or affectionate you
for the whole world, nor have your party eyes inundated
wit tears. But if we can't be married sure
we can be manifested together. You can't objectionable
to that, surely.''^

"I don't like handfastin^ at all. tis not a thing
for a decent girl to have any call to," she said
dubiously.

"Let me see if I have the sixpence about me,"
he said, affecting not to hear her protest against this
ante-nuptial engagement, which in the south of
Ireland is considered almost as binding and sacred
as marriage itself. He went through the farce of
searching his pockets for the sixpence, although the
schemer had taken very good care to provide himself
with the coin in question before he came, so as to be
prepared for the handwriting, in case she should refuse
to consent to an elopement.

"Now, 'acushla gell, we're all right. You're to
put your right hand into my right hand, an rehearse
all the expressions I propose to you af ther me.''^

She neither gave nor withheld her hand, but he
took it, and grasping it firmly, began to say the
formula of the ^^ handwriting " :

"I promise an' vow in the most solemn manner
to be three an' faithful to you, Oonagh MacDermott,
an' to hold myself bound to you as my future wife
in all things ; an' I promise to marry you as soon
as it is convenient to both ov us, an' whin circumstances
will permit." Having gone through this
form, he told her that now it was her turn to repeat
the words after him.

Oonagh said the words after him mechanically,
but on concluding added, 'provided that my father
gives his consent." And not only that, but she
pronounced them with emphasis and firmness.

^^ You might just as well have left that last partout
rationally," he said, much displeased. " I didn't
rehearse them words to you at all."

^^ But they was in my mind, an' they may as well
be out as in. If I didn't say them, I'd only be
detain' you ; an' no man shall have any call to
charge me wit coin' that. They're said now, an'
I mane to stand by 'em."

"Well, Oonagh, I dealt fairer by you than you
done by me, for I didn't put in any clauses ov surrender.
Now gi' me your hand, an' let us go

through this little bisness again ; for there must be
reciprocity in it, if it is to have any valuation
at all in it/^

*'No, Jolin ; I'll have no more ov it. If you're
not satisfied wit what I said there's no harm done ;
an' my hand to you I'll not keep you to your part
ov it."

He pretended not to hear this but by a dexterous
twist of his forefinger and thumb he broke the sixpence
into two equal parts giving one to her, and
retaining the other for himself. She put her half
into the corner of the handkerchief she wore round
her neck, and knotting it tightly put the knotted
end into her bosom, so that it could not be seen by
anyone.

I'm sure ov you now, 'a colleen chasse' he said
fondly. "I know well that you'll never bate a re-thrace
from them words turin' duration. '^

"I never will, John; you may be sure ov that.
But all the same you wor just as sure ov me before;
for when I say a thing I mane it, an' intend to stand
by it, as if I was book-sworn."

Well, darling', my love for you is so superior
an' ov so intoxication' a character that I thought I
never could make my own ov you intirely until the
sixpence was division between us. An' sure 'isn't

yourself , 'a grain haivn, that will blame me for that
wit your own party mouth ? '^

^'^0, dear; but I feel that somehow I love you
all the more for it. But we must part now, for I
see Bran running down the hill bryant there, an'
that's a sure sign that my father isn't far behind
lira. The poor dog is so glad to be coming' home
that he always runs on first. Indeed I can't stay
longer, for I wouldn't like that for the first time in
his life the ould man would have to say, ' Where is
Oonagh ? ' I'm heart sorry, John, that I can't ax
you to come in an' take pot-luck wit us, but it is
far better for you not to come near the place yet
awhile, till I can manage to make things a little
smoother for both ov us wit my father. He loves
me dearly, an' won't refuse to make me happy when
he knows my heart is in it."

"An' whin are we to confabulate together again,
my darling' girl ? "

I can't tell that, but you may be sure as soon
as I can do it quietly I'll sind for you. But I own
that I don't like these stolen meetings, an' I won't
have no more ov 'em. My father wouldn't like 'em,
nor Father O'Rafferty, nor Miss Grace ; an' they're
not things for a decent girl to have any call to at all.
But we can meet every Sunday after mass, an' I

have no objection that you'd come a part ov the way
home wit me in the face ov day, an' everyday to
see us — yourself, an me, an Molly, for we go together
always to mass on Sundays."

With this permission he was obliged to be
satisfied, and after a very tender parting — for the
simple girl now regarded herself as his betrothed
wife — she went back to the bouse before her father
arrived, and just as Molly was taking the huge pot
of potatoes off the fire. In this she was assisted
by the fool, who, to judge by his wistful looks, and
the eagerness with which he offered his services, was
much in want of a supper, and fully determined on
making good use of the food that was soon to be
placed on the table.

Dark DAYS.

Fathers have flinty hearts.

Shakespeare.

As has been said in the preceding chapter, the
ceremony of '^ handwriting ^' is regarded by the
Munster peasantry as binding and solemn as the
formal betrothal that in Germany, and other Continental
nations precedes marriage, and is considered
as scarcely inferior to the nuptial rite. The broken
sixpence is a tangible evidence of the mutual contract,
and by females is looked upon with almost
as much reverence as the wedding ring, until the
time when that symbol of wedlock shall be placed
on the finger in the ceremony of marriage. It is
considered as a religious promise solemnly made,
and to be kept very strictly by the two contracting
parties. It sometimes happens that the fresh, disinterested

love of youth will give way under the
pressure of parental authority, the temptation of
more attractive or wealthier ties, or the corrosive
influence of time that robs all such romance of
its pristine gloss. Sometimes the day will come
when the "boy" will throw away or give back
his half of the sixpence to his betrothed, or when
she will relegate her half to the bottom of her
chest '^ to forget it, or if she remembers it at all,
with a kind of tender, bashful regret for the pleasant
days of her long-past youth.

In persuading Oonagh to go through the ceremony
of " handwriting " with him, the Buck showed
that he thoroughly understood the simple earnestness
of her character, and the tenacity with which she
would be sure to cling to what in her eyes was a very
sacred promise. He knew that he could rely on her
constancy, not less than on her affection, and that
having entered on so solemn a compact, she would
observe it conscientiously, and be faithful to him at
all risks, and under all circumstances. There wa
not much fear of his fidelity to her, for his own
interest — always the first consideration with him —
would induce him to be faithful to the contract he
had made with her. He was poor and wanted to be
rich, he was idle and wanted to live an indolent,.

comfortable life, without having to work more than
he had a mind to do, and he saw no way to such a
desirable state of things but to marry Oonagh, and
have nothing to do when he came to Ballycross
except, as her father had said, to " hang up his hat'
His brother would in all probability be married next
Shrove, and his wife,, like all the other wives John
knew, would like to have her house to herself, and
her affection for her husband may not be extended
to the brother who was a great burden and gave him
very little help. His brother often found great fault
with him for his idleness; how much more loudly
and constantly then would a sister-in-law do so, who
would be a comparative stranger, and whose interest
would be altogether separate from his ! It was by
no means a pleasant prospect to have to look forward
to, and he saw no escape from it but a wealthy
marriage, or what would be such to a man in his
position of life. The farm of Ballycross was one of
the best on the estate of Castle Cloyne, and besides
this, it was well known that old Martin had something
laid by for the proverbial rainy day. The best
of all was that the heiress of this goodly heritage was
neither old nor ugly, but a very pretty young girl,
who was also greatly attached to the fine, handsome
fellow who honoured her by accepting her

affection. He liked to have everything made
pleasant for him, and it teas pleasant to know that
Oonagh was just what she was, instead of being
a woman that he could not love or be happy with.
But had she been a very Gorgon, he would have
married her all the same, for it was the good farm
and comfortable house that were ever in his mind,
and the heiress thereof was but the necessary adjunct.
A wife was the pill that should be swallowed before
he could enter into possession, and it was a matter
of much self-congratulation with him that it could
be easily swallowed, and was rather agreeable than
otherwise. He was fond of Oonagh, after a fashion
of his own ; her devotion flattered his vanity, which
was commensurate with his avarice, and no doubt of
her constancy ever crossed his mind. He felt quite
confident that with time and some skilful management
on his own part, he would be able to overcome her
scruples, and induce her to consent either to an
elopement, or a private marriage. Once either event
took place, he would be in a position to dictate his
own terms to the old man, and compel him to surrender
unconditionally. He should be made to pay
well for all the trouble and annoyance he was giving
them at present, and the thought of how he would
turn the screw when it would be in his own hands,

was one that gave the Buck unmingled satisfaction.
The house and farm should be made over to himself
at once, and when he was lord and master, the old
man should be satisfied with a seat in the chimney
corner ; or if not content with that inferior place ina
house that till then had been his own, he would
be at perfect liberty to take himself off to the
poor-house !

It was the old story over again of the woman
who had expected great profit from the sale of her
chickens before they had been even hatched. In
making those calculations he did not remember the
strength and firmness of Oonagh^s character, or the
depth of her religious principles. Her love for him
was very great, but her sense of duty was stronger
still. Her heart was very tender and loving, but under
such firm control that they who knew her best often
said ^' she never allowed it to run away with her
heads The only time that her head had lost its
supremacy, and allowed her heart to get the mastery,
was when she had been so foolish as to give the rich
treasure of her love to such a mean, selfish, worthless
fellow as John Molloy.

When Lent was over, and marriage was permitted
once more to be celebrated in the Catholic Church,
the Buck, no way abashed by the ill-success of his

former proposals to Martin MacDermott for the hand
of his daughter renewed them, and again met with
the same cold reply as before. If there was any
difference it was decidedly for the worse, for the old
man not only rejected his proposal, but absolutely
forbade him to come to Ballycross any more.

This contumelious proceeding was so galling to
the vanity of the Buck, that he retorted with more
warmth than wisdom, and words ran so high between
them that Martin declared that though Oonagh was
his only child, he would see her in her coffin rather
than see her the wife of such a thorough blackguard
as John Molloy had that day shown himself to be.
The next time they met the old man stared full in
the young ones face, and passed on his way without
any sign of recognition, for which contemptuous treatment
the Buck felt an insane desire to knock him
down on the spot. But he dared not proceed to such
a length, for he knew that Oonagh would never forgive
him for raising a hostile hand to her father's
gray head. And not Oonagh alone, but all the world
would cry shame on him for it. So he had to content
himself with keeping the peace, and nurse his wrath
to keep it warm, until another and more convenient
time.

■ Oonagh had heard something of this, but not all ;

VOL. I. H

for her father never spoke of it, and what she did
hear was the garbled accounts of people who had not
even been present at "the scrimmage' but related
it merely from hearsay. Since she had promised
never to marry John Molly without his consent,
the old man had never alluded to the subject. She
had given her promise, and he had full confidence
in her truth and strong sense of duty, and saw no
reason why he should worry either her or himself by
keeping up unnecessary agitation. The matter had
been settled in a satisfactory manner, and there was
an end of it. He trusted that time and the course
of events would open her eyes to the true character
of "Pleasant' John, and show her how hollow and
worthless he was, and what a broken reed she
would lean on if she should be so miserably weak
as to place her future happiness in his hands.

But if the day was ever to come when Oonagh''s
eyes were to be opened to the real nature of the man
to whom she had plighted her troth, and whose broken
sixpence rested night and day upon her breast, that
day was yet very far distant. In the opinion of the
innocent girl, whose life was so retired and lonely,
whose knowledge of the world was so limited, he was
everything that a lover or a husband should be.

The dearest wish of her heart was to see him

reconciled to lier father, and to have the two beings
she loved best on earth not only friends, but connected
together by nearer and dearer ties than those of
friendship alone. But this, she well knew, must bethe
work of time.

Meantime, she would be patient and hopeful, and
try to stand between the two, as the peacemaker,
pouring oil upon the troubled waves when she had
the opportunity of doing so, and waiting with good
courage for the happy time that was sure to come
at last.

But through all, she was firmly resolved on keeping
faith with both, and she could not see that there was
anything incompatible in loving one, and fulfilling to
the letter her duty to the other. She would be a good
and dutiful daughter, and keep the promise she had
made her father not to marry John without his
consent, and she would be also faithful to the lover,
to whom she had made another promise just as sacred.
Both these promises had been freely given, and they
should be strictly kept. It was a perilous position
for a woman to be placed in, and one fraught with
difficulty and embarrassment. But Oonagh was young,
and' to youth all things are possible, and the distant
future is seen through a veil of the brightest and

purest rose.

H 2

Alas ! how many tears must be sted, how many
sorrows endured, how many lonely, miserable hours
must be spent, before the strong, sanguine heart of
youth sinks down, all its bright hopes crushed and
withered, and all its glorious illusions melted one by
one into empty air !

THE Storm BEGINS TO GATHER.

Oh ! To what a reed
We bind our destinies when man we love !

Buller Lytton.

The winter in wliicli our story opened had been a
very cold and inclement one, and the spring that had
followed it was one of almost incessant rain. Even
under the *^ dewy skies ^■' of the Green Isle, it was considered
to have been the latest and most ungenial
spring that had been remembered for more than a
decade of years. The rain fell not in showers, butin
torrents, deluging the whole country, and turning
the fertile low-lying lands into perfect swamps.
Farming operations, except on high ground, were at
a standstill, for seed would rot if put into earth so
soaked with moisture, and though time went on, the
dull gray sky overhead showed no sign of fairweather.

The farmers, after the fashion of their tribe,
kept hoping on from day to day for some improvement
in the weather on the approach of summer, and that
though their crops would inevitably be very late, yet
that they might be fairly good in the long run. But
when the summer came at last it was not much to
boast of, and though the seed had been sown as soon
as it was practicable, yet the crops had never ripened
properly for want of sufficient sunshine. Even hay
that should have thriven in so much moisture —
was of very inferior quality, being rank and tough,
coarse in fibre, and so sour that the cattle would
not eat it but when hard pressed by hunger. The
potatoes, upon which all classes — particularly the
very poor — mainly depended for subsistence, were
almost failures ; for they never got dry in the ground,
and were in consequence wet and soapy, as well as
small in size. And, to complete the record of calamity >
the sheep were dying in scores, of the rot, and of a
disease called flukes in the liver, which is generated
by feeding on excessively wet pasture.

In this melancholy state of affairs the estate of
Mr. Dillon of Castle Cloyne had a full share, and
Martin MacDermott fared no better than his neighbours
in the general distress. His crops were very
far below the average of other years, and his sheep

perished one by one in spite of all his care. While
the wet weather continued there was scarcely a
week that he did not bring home on his shoulders
either a dead, or dying sheep. Those infected sheep
were of course valueless, except for the skins, which
sold for very little, as just then there was unhappily
a glut of sheepskins in the market.

To make up for all these losses in some small way,
the MacDermotts redoubled their exertions, and
spared neither time, nor labour to keep things
straight on the farm. The old man was out early
and late, and in all weather ; as far as it was in his
power, leaving nothing to chance. His daughter did
her very best to aid his efforts, and lighten his heavy
burden. She never left the farm for the whole
summer, but to go to mass on Sundays and holy days;
she never thought of any variety or recreation, and
never added even a shillings-worth to her simple stock
of clothes. It was rare to see so young a girl so wise
and thoughtful; but Oonagh was no common girl,
but one whose head and heart were both far in advance
of her years.

When the 25th of March— usually called "Gale
Day '^ in Ireland — came round, Martin was hard set to
pay his half-yearns rent. To put it together he had to
sell his best milch cow, and also a good deal of the

hay that he required for his cattle during the rest of
the spring. He was, however, more fortunate than
most of his neighbours ; some of them could only pay
half their rent, while a great many could pay but a
very small part of it. Mr. Dillon, the landlord, was nota
hard man, and as he lived among his people, and was
in a great degree his own agent, he knew well what a
sea of troubles his poor tenants had to struggle against,
and that it was not through any fault of their own
that their payments were deficient. He was willing to
make every reasonable allowance for them ; partly
through kindness, and partly because he knew that
driving them to utter pauperism was not the best way
to come by the arrears that remained due, as well as
to ensure a more punctual settlement of accounts for
the future.

As may be supposed, the loss of their best cow
made a very serious difference to the MacDermotts.
The supply of butter for the market was far short
of what it used to be, to say nothing of the loss
of the skimmed milk for the use of the family,
and for rearing young cattle. It would be a longtime
before they could hope to have another cow
so good, if indeed they would ever have her like
again. But in one respect kind Nature has been
bountiful to the Irish peasant; she has given

him an elastic spirit and a sanguine temperament.
The cloud over his head must be very black and dense,
through which he cannot see the silver lining that
hangs behind it. He has, happily for himself, the
faculty of working on against the greatest odds, and
of hoping, even while there is hardly room for a hope
to rest upon. The MacDermotts were no exception to
this almost universal law. They were very thankful
that in a season of such severe distress they were able
to meet their landlord with the full amount of what
they owed him, when so many of their neighbours were
defaulters ; thankful that they had another six months
in which to take breath, and to strive by sheer hardwork,
and rigid self-denial, to provide against future
casualties, and recover the ground that they had lost.

But though they worked hard, and contented
themselves with such poor fare as barely sufficed to
support life, yet a tide ran against them that not all
their efforts could enable them to stem. Neither
incessant toil, nor rigid self-denial, can be of much use
to man when Nature herself turns against him ; when
the elements make war on him, and the ungrateful
earth refuses to make any return for the time, and toil,
that have been lavished on it. The summer was just
as wet as the spring had been, and the prospect instead
of brightening, became daily more gloomy and sad.

The old manes health broke down under the pressure
of bodily labour, and mental anxiety, wliicli of course
added very considerably to their distress. He did not
complain, and stoutly assured his daughter that he was
quite well, but her watchful eyes detected in his
appearance many signs of failing health, that one less
affectionate, and less interested, might never see.

The summer — if a season wherein the sun never
shone for five days out of the seven, could be called
summer — was over, and Michaelmas Day, another
Gale Day, came round again as inexorable as Fate.
So far from having the full amount of his rent now,
Martin had only a little more than half of it, and for
the first time in his life he was behindhand. It was
a great mortification to him, for not only was he very
honest, but he was very proud, and his pride was
humbled by being obliged to go to his landlord to
beg for time, instead of being able to claim a receipt
for the full amount of his half-year's rent. He had
strained every nerve, and exhausted all his slender
resources to make up the money, but without success.
One of his heifers had been choked by a raw potato
that she had managed to come by, but could not
manage to swallow. That very heifer was to have
been sold to make up the rent, and now they had
nothing to get for her but the price of the hide.

There remained then nothing to sell but four pigs.
Oonagh had always fattened up four pigs every
summer, and took great pride in their size and
quality; two of them were slaughtered at Christmas
for the use of the house, and the other two were
sold to purchase clothing for the ensuing year. But
the luxury of a meat dinner occasionally, and of
comfortable clothing, could not be thought of now,
nor any other earthly thing but the inevitable rent.
So the pigs were all sold, and the very next day
the tax-collector came to demand payment of the
county taxes, and the price of one of the pigs had
to be handed over to him, for tax-gatherers, as a
rule, are very peremptory persons. This reduced
the sum that was intended for the rent very considerably,
and when Michaelmas Day arrived — as it
did all too soon — the farmer found that he had not
the full amount of his rent.

It was a bad business, but there it was staring
them in the face, and they could neither evade, nor
ignore it. If trouble of mind, or bodily exertion
could have been of any use, there was enough and
to spare of both, but in this case all the effect they
produced was to make the old man so ill, that he was
fit for nothing but to go to his bed. In fact, the
only thing that surprised his daughter was his having

been able to keep up so long. How glad sbe was
now that nothing bad induced ber to desert bim;
that she bad not left bim in bis old age to struggle
on alone with the difficulties that were besetting bim
on every side, and wbicb were as new and strange
to bim, as they were bard to bear ! Continually sbe
raised ber heart in thanksgiving to ber Heavenly
Father, Who bad by His grace enabled ber to do ber
duty by ber earthly one, and to try even in a small
way to be a help and comfort to bim.

On the morning before the dreaded Gale Day,
the poor old man was very ill, and when Oonagh
brought bim bis breakfast into his little bed-room,
be refused to eat it.

^' This is a nice egg that was laid this very
morning ; won't you phase me now by atin^ it ? '^ sbe
said in ber most coaxing way. "The tay is rale
beautiful, for I got a little grain ov it good, a
purpose for yourself.''^

He drank a little of the tea to gratify ber, but
could not eat anything.

'^ Child, this is a bad business," be said, sinking
back on bis pillow.

It is a bad business, father, but sure it might
be worse. Wit the help ov God-tis nothing but
the grief, an hard work, that's latins on your poor

heart, an if want the rent was paid, you'd common
again like a stagger."

But we haven't the rent, Oonagh, an' tomorrow
is Gale Day ! '^

^^We haven't it all, surely, but the master will
take what we have from us, for he is a good man
That's well known ov him far an' near. An' sure he
knows you to be an honest man that never was back
before, an' wouldn't be now either, only for the times
been' so hard. An' my hand to you, when the master
sees how sick an' wake you are, he'll not think ov
pressing' you."

I won't be able to go up to the house to him
wit the little I have, an' tell him my poor cases
! near as Castle Cloyne is to us, I'm in thread
that I could never walk so far."

An' what need you go there, or as much as think
ov it, an' me to the fore ? I can run up to the big
house in no time, an' do the best I can. I'll see Miss
Grace, an' she'll put in a good word for me, never
fear."

It is the best thing that we can do," he said with
a sigh. " Miss Grace has a feeling' heart, an' she never
forgets that you are her own foster sister. 'Tis a fine
thing surely to have a friend in court. Bat listen
hither to me, alannali, I don't like at all the thought

ov your going up to the big house tomorrow. The
place will be full ov men ov every kind , an' I wouldn't
like my little girl, to be elbowing' an' pusbin' ber way
through 'em. Moreover, you'd have no time to spake
to the master, an' in since him into how it is that I
haven't all my rent this Gale, an' that I'm so wake an'
lows that I can't go wit it myself to him. You can go
there to-day fair an' aise, when no wan will be thereat
all, an' you won't be jostled about among a lot ov
strange min. So in the name ov Grod, ashore gell,
count out the money want more, to see if it is all
right, an' then set off wit yourself."

Yes, father, as soon as I help Molly wit the
dairy."

"No, child, you must go at want. 'Tis aise to
look after the dairy now, /oreer / * an' Molly can doit
to-day without you. I'm onaisy till I hear what
the masterly say to me about been' back wit him.
But he's a good man, an' knows well that I'd pay to
the last farthing if I had it, an' Miss Grace will be
sure to give you a lift over the stile, for your mother's
sake that nursed her at her breast. An' Oonagh,
I'd like you'd go fairly, so that you could tell your
story plain an' square to the both ov 'em."

Former .'—Alas !

As soon as she had removed the almost untasted
food from her father's room and eaten her own frugal
breakfast, Oonagh proceeded to obey his instructions
with as little delay as possible. She made her simple
toilet, which was easily done, for her wardrobe, never
very abundant, had lately shrunk to very small proportions,
for clothes lull look shabby and wear out,
when not supplemented by fresh additions. But
clothes must be very bad indeed that will not look
tolerably well when they are whole and neat, and
set off by a good figure, and handsome face. And
as Oonagh cast a parting glance at the little glass
that hung on a nail near her bed, she was well aware
that she made a fair and attractive picture, for the
girl was neither blind nor a fool !

It was a very fine morning when Oonagh set out
to walk to Castle Cloyne, which was about two miles
from her fathers house. There had been a slight
frost on the previous night, just enough to freshen
the air, and send a brighter colour into her cheeks
than they had worn for some time past. The birds
were pouring forth their sweetest music from every
hedge and bush, and the sun, that had been such a
stranger for the spring, and summer, now shed down
its brightest beams as if to make some tardy amends
for its previous defalcations. The meadows along

the road looked fresh, and green, in their rich aftermath.
The bramble-bushes on either side were
covered with clusters of ripe, juicy blackberries, that
were very tempting-looking, and Oonagh was yet
young enough to cast longing eyes on them. At
another time she would have stopped to gather some,
but she knew she had no time for that to-day, so she
hurried on.

It was a delicious day, the first of what is called
the Indian summer, and the heart of the poor
harassed girl grew light, and hopeful, under its
gracious influence.

She had gone about a mile when she was overtaken
by Thady, the omadhaiun, who was on one of
his rounds, and as their way was the same they walked
on together.

'^ An where are you going' wit yourself now,
Oonagh, if a body might ax ? ^^ after they had
exchanged greetings ; for, like all persons of weak
intellect, he was inordinately curious about everyone's
affairs, and was in consequence the general
newsmonger of the whole parish of Castle Cloyne.
'*" Up to the big house, to see Miss Grace''
'''An' have you nary other bisness?"
"I have a message from my father to the
master ? "

I suppose he's sindin' you wit his Gale's rent ?
Faix, Oonagh, 'tis well to be you. There's many
a wan ov the Castle Cloyne tenants, that hasn't
your story to tell this fine morning'. Many a wan
ov 'em will be back this Gale, if what we hear be
three."

She made no answer to this, as she did not choose
to enlighten him on the state of her father's affairs,
nor give him an opportunity of retailing them in the
next house he went to.

'' Eyeh ! did you hear the great news ? " he exclaimed
suddenly. '^ The wonders lest news that
you heard this month ov Sundays."

"No, Thady, I did not."

'^ You didn't, ergo ! Faix, that flogs cockfighting',
so it does. Sure, I thought that every mother's son
in the whole parish heard it."

'^ I wasn't out for some time, barren' to fairly mass
on Sundays ; for my father isn't well in himself, an'
so I had more to do than I had before. But, Thady,
what's your wonders ul news ? "

Well, 'tis that Michael Molloy got a sudden
death ere istherday — God bless the hearers, an' the
place we tell it in."

Michael Molloy got a sudden death ? " she
repeated, as if trying to comprehend what he said.

VOL. I. I

*' Don't you know him, Oonagli ? He's the brother
ov Shawn Sugagh, the fine, handsome, rollicking' boy,
that spaces such grand English intirely, an' that
the people calls buck Molloy,' be way ov a nicknames'


I do know him, Thady ; why wouldn't I ? Anis
John Molloy's brother dead ? "

Sure, I seen him dead an' laid out, for I was
all night at the wake. He went to the fair ere
istherday, an' people say he took a drop too much.
He fell out ov the cart, anyhow, on his way home ;
an' fairly next morning' he was found dead — the Lord
save us ! — wit the cart turned upside down in top
ov him. The mare got loose from the macklin' somehow,
an' she was latin' the grass be the side ov the
road, as fair an' aise as if nothing at all happened
to poor Michael. He was a decent man, poor Michael,
but he was a trifle too fond ov the licker. If he'd
only lave the whisky alone, an' come away from the
fair place wit his seven senses about him, he wouldn't
be a box ov cold mate to-day. People do be saying'
that he was matchmaking' in the Widda Casey's tint
an' took more licker on the head ov it than was good
for him."

^' For who was he matchmaking', Thady ? Which
was it for, himself or his brother ? "

Barra, how div I know ? sure 'tis all aiquil
which ov 'em it was. Sure they wor both ov 'em at
it ever an' always ; it would be Michael to-days an' it
would be John to-morea. There wasn't a girl in the
whole country wit the name ov a little money that wan
or other ov 'em wasn't after. An' so 'tis to pay the
Gale's rent that you are going' up to the big house ? "

The girl was so much absorbed by her own
thoughts that she made no reply to this question, and
the simpleton, careless whether she did or not, went
rambling on after his own peculiar fashion.

'* Begot, if the Buck was pleasant before, 'tis three
times pleasant he'll be from this out. Fake an' sure
'tis now he be Shawn Sugagh in rale earnest. What
rocks ov fine English he'll have now ! The priest
ov the parish will hardly bate him for big words, an'
grandeur. If his English was tall before, 'twill be a
dale taller now that he has the house an' farm all
to himself. Blood alive ! 'tis now all the girls will be
pulling' caps for the same boy, anyway all the rich girls,
for he won't look at any wan else. If he was hard to
be pleased before, he'll be tin times harder now."

'^ 4^n' was he hard to be pleased ? "

Alliloo ! 'Tis himself that was. There isn't a boy
in Castle Cloyne thinks more ov himself than
Shawn Sugagh, an' believe me he won't let himself go

cliape. When next lie goes mat clin akin', tis blood,
bone, an' beauty be must get. The dickens a less will
satisfy him.'^

An does he often go matchmaking' ? ^'

You may say he does, an' tell no lie in it. Sure
'isn't more than three months ago — maybe twas at
last Shrove, but my memory isn't very good — he was
matchmaking', an' was widen that ov been' married " —
snapping his fingers. '*" But he differed wit the girl's
father on the head ov a nice little Kerry cow that he
had a great fancy for, but the ould man wouldn't give
it, and said he was given' his daughter quite enough
without thrown' in the Kerry along wit the rest.
The Buck and his brother wor so vexed that they riz
out ov the match intirely, an' the girl was married
that day week to Tom Scales. Ov course you hard
ov her, Oonagh ? She was a girl ov the Ryan, an' a
nate party girl too, be the same token. She often game
a shirt when I was in black want ov it. But
you're not minding' me, Oonagh."

'^ Fake an' sure I am."

Listen whether to me now. The best thing you
can do is to cock your cap at John Molloy, an' give us
wan pleasant night at your wedding'. 'Tis long
since there was any diversion in the parish, antis
what the people says that they have something

else to trouble em now besides divarsbun. God be
wit the good ould times, Oonagh, *a colleen class,
when there was full and plenty in every house, an' no
talks at all ov poverty an' bad crops ! " Evidently
the poor fool's welcome was not at all what it once was
in the houses where he took up his quarters on going
his rounds.

By this time they had reached a part of the road
that branched off in two parts, one running off to the
nearest town, and the other leading to the house and
demesne of Castle Cloyne. Oonagh was by no means
sorry to part company with the fool, for she was weary
of his talk. He was sometimes amusing enough, and
with all his folly had a certain amount of cunning and
shrewdness, but just now he was too much for her.
She longed to be alone for a short time, to collect
her thoughts, and think over what she had just
heard.

She did not believe a word of the story that her
lover had been matchmaking with "the girl of the
Ryan," or any other girl. She would as soon doubt
of her existence, as doubt his faith, and loyalty.
Whatever he might have done before the " handwriting,"
that ceremony bound him so firmly to her
that in honour he could not think of any other
woman until she had formally released him from

his engagement. Now that lie had got means
sufficient to satisfy her father, he would come forward
once more and renew his proposals. He would settle
down now that he had business to attend to, and
become sensible and industrious, and all that her
fond heart had ever imagined him to be. And as
Oonagh with the hopeful credulity of a loving woman
thought of all this, and pictured the happy future
that was before her, her eye grew brighter and her
step more buoyant. Her mind was more at ease
than it had been for many a long day, and she could
almost have sung out loud in the fulness of her joy.
It was not that she was glad because a neighbour, and
one she had known all her life, had met with a sudden
and awful death, and had been hurried into the
presence of his Maker, while unprepared and probably
in a state of sin. Oonagh had a tender and
pitiful heart, and would be sorry if a lesser evil than
sudden death had befallen anyone she knew. But
now the great importance of this event, and the
great influence it must exercise on the future of her
lover and herself, made her harder and more indifferent
than she would be at another time. She was
young, human, and in love ! What more can I say ?
That must excuse her fault.

In this happy and sanguine mood lie turned
aside from the main road, and entered on a narrow
footpath that led on to the back entrance of Castle
Cloyne.

THE DILLON FAMILY.

Not long our air they breathed,
Not long they fed on venison, in Irish water seethed,
Not often had their children been by Irish mothers nursed.
When from their full and flowing hearts the genial feeliii<

burst.

Thomas Davis.

The Dillon of Castle Cloyne were descended from a
very old Anglo-norman stock that lead been settled
in Ireland for several centuries — so long a time, indeed,
that it had sufficed to obliterate all traces of their
foreign origin, to identify them completely with their
adopted country, and to make them in all respects
^^more Irish than the Irish themselves.''^ They
brought Irish, wives to their homes, were served
by Irish, servants with dog-like fidelity, and each
successive generation of them grew up more intensely
Irish, than that which had gone before.

In ancient times the Dillon were people of much
importance and held a foremost place among the
gentry of the country. Their possessions were ample,
and their right to them indisputable. The world
went well with them, and they went just as well
with the world; for it was characteristic of the
Dillon, that they never made an enemy, and never
lost a friend. This was not because they did not
know how to take their own part, and bear themselves
under all circumstances as men and gentlemen
should do, for they were brave almost to rashness,
and whenever hard knocks were plentiful they always
came well to the front. Even if they won nothing
else from their opponents, they won respect and
admiration ; and though they most frequently took
part with the losing side, neither the purity of
their motives, nor their gallant spirit, could ever be
called in question.

But what had made them so popular with all
classes was their overflowing good - nature, their
lavish hospitality, and a geniality of manner that
placed completely at their ease all with whom they
came into contact.

> They had their faults, no doubt, those Dillon —
for who is faultless ? — but no one cared to draw*
them into undue prominence when there was in the

scale at the other side so much that was good, and
noble, to counterbalance them. So they lived, and
loved, and enjoyed their lives to the full, and no
one envied or hated them, or grudged them their
wealth or popularity, or ever spoke of them but
with kindness and good will.

But the Reformation brought a change to the
Dillon, for as they remained faithful to the creed
of their fathers they had to pay the penalty for
their fidelity that was invariably exacted in Ireland.
When the old faith went down, the prestige and
prosperity of those who adhered to it went down
with it. They lived henceforth under a cloud that
no ray of sunshine was ever allowed to pierce.
They were frowned upon by the ruling powers, excluded
from every office of trust and emolument,
and treated in the land of their birth as an outcast
and alien race.

But the Dillon had a high spirit, and that happy
elasticity of disposition peculiar to Irishmen, and
given by a kind Providence in compensation for
innumerable misfortunes and sorrows. These two
grand gifts stood well to them in the hour of need,
and kept their heads above water when many
others of their co-religionists were swept away.
They struggled manfully against the terrible oppression

of the penal laws, and though they were always
sufferers and losers to a great extent, yet it was
always under loud protest, and after fighting for
every inch, of ground. As the ages went on the
waters became more troubled, and the suffering
borne for conscience' sake was made more grievous
still. Many a gallant vessel went down after a
long and bitter struggle in the breakers of those
evil times, and those that did not had desperate
work to keep afloat.

In 1689, when a few hastily levied, and undisciplined
Irish regiments, had the chivalry or the
Quixotism — it can be called by either name — to
oppose themselves to six times their own number of
the best-trained, and seasoned troops in Europe, there
was not wanting one of the Dillon to fling himself
into the arena. Theobald Dillon raised a regiment
for the service of King James, for they were unlucky
enough to espouse the losing side in politics, as well
as in religion. This fine regiment, destined to become
famous in many a hard-fought field, consisted
originally of the tenants, and adherents of the family,
and was called, sar excellence, ^' Dillon's Regiment of
Horse'' This celebrated regiment distinguished itself
splendidly at the Boyne, at Aughrim, and in the
defence of Limerick. This sturdy Theobald survived

the disastrous Irish campaign, was outlawed, and with
the skeleton of his regiment had to fly to France.
Arthur Dillon, the son of Theobald, was another
gallant soldier, who rose in the French service to
the rank of Mareschal de Gamp and for bravery in
the field was made lieutenant-general. Another
of this fighting family commanded '^ Dillon's ^' at
Fontenoy. When the order to charge was given
to the Irish Brigade at the close of the day, James
Dillon rose in his stirrups, looked round him for an
instant, and then shouting, ^' Irishmen, remember
Limerick ! '' dashed forward, closely followed by his
men, all echoing his cry. He was killed in that
famous charge. His brother Edward, who rode at
his right hand, assumed the command at once, and
well did he, and the regiment he led, avenge that
day the death of their gallant leader. 'dillon's"
was never commanded by anyone but a Dillon, and
the last of those famous colonels, another Arthur
was guillotined at the French Revolution, along with
many another great and noble man.

Another of the family was an officer of " Dillon's ''
at the rescue of Cremona; but this man was not a
Theobald, or a James, but a Hyacinth. He stood
with his men at the gates in their shirts — for they
were roused to fight the cuirassiers of Count Merci

while they were sleeping iu their beds — and though
their loss was very great, yet they stood at last in
the gateway victorious, and naked, in the gloom of
that cold January morning. Their Colonel Hyacinth
Dillon, was desperately wounded, but he recovered,
only to die in battle harness on another battle-field,
as many a Dillon had died before him. There was
scarcely a battle-ground in Europe where those Irish
exiles of every name, and rank, did not prove their
prowess, and shed their blood, for a cause that was
not their own, and for monarchs to whom they owned
no allegiance. But those monarchs had given them
shelter, and pay, when they were outcasts from their
own land. They had been forced by imperious
necessity to become soldiers of fortune, and to give
to foreign countries the energies, the blood, the lives,
that they would gladly have devoted to their own.
It was a most melancholy fate, that of those unfortunate
Irish gentlemen who had suffered so much, and
so severely for conscience' sake. They had no home
but the camp, no property but their good swords,
and nothing to look forward to, but a soldier's death,
and a grave in alien soil. Yet those poor gentlemen
always bore themselves well, and bravely, and without
reproach. There is not a Catholic country in Europe
in whose annals their services are not recorded, and

many of the first families in those countries bear
the names, and are proud of their descent from the
soldiers of the celebrated Irish Brigade.

Although the Dillon who had remained at home
had no opportunities of distinguishing themselves,
and were consequently unknown, and unheard-of
beyond their own district, they had nevertheless their
full share of struggles, and reverses. The grinding
despotism of the cruel penal laws pressed on them
with iron force, such as they found it impossible
either to escape, or evade. Little by little, their
property was wrested from them by fines, and confiscations
for their religious recusancy, but they only
clung all the more to their proscribed faith — partly
from pride, if the truth must be told, and partly from
sincere belief. The faith for which many Dillon
died at the Boyne, and many more at Fontenoy, could
not, they felt, be sold for a mess of pottage, or the
delights of the fresh-pots of Egypt. As long as they
could, they resisted the cruel laws that were so hard,
and grievous, and when they could not resist, they
tried to evade them.

There was one of the family, another Hyacinth,
who was celebrated for the fine horses that were
always in his stable, and which set any of his neighbours
that had equine proclivities half mad with

envy. He was one day eating his dinner at the
public table of the hotel in the county town, during
the week of the assizes. While he was still at dinner,
his carriage, drawn by four magnificent bay horses,
drew up in the street just under the window of the
hotel. When he had dined, and was calling to the
waiter for his bill, an acquaintance of his entered the
room and addressed him :

"Dillon, that is a fine team of yours. I should
like very much to be their owners

^'1 don't intend to sell them,^^ replied Hyacinth
Dillon. "I bred those cattle for my own use, and
as they suit me I don't mean to sell themes

They are mine for all that. You know that bylaw
a Papist is not allowed to have a horse worth
more than five pounds," and with a smile of audacious
triumph the gentleman (!) laid four five-pound notes
down on the table before the astonished Dillon.

"why, they are worth fifty pounds each at the
lowest calculation, and to me, who bred them, a great
deal more. I cannot, and will not sell themes he cried
indignantly.

But, my good fellow, don't you see that the law
is against you ? There is the legal price of the horses,
and you have no option but to accept it. The team
is mine, you understands'

Hyacinth Dillon ground Lis teeth in impotent
rage, for lie knew well what the law on the matter
was, and also that he was utterly without remedy.
He was a ^^ Papists and any Protestant, who chose
to offer him five pounds each for his horses, had the
power to take them from his carriage, and lead them
away before his face.

"Might is right in these days," he said, with
darkening brow, and an eye that flashed fire, " so I
suppose I have no choice but to submit. But though
I must give you my team of horses for less than half
the price of one of them, I know no law that compels
me to give you my carriage, or harness, for what you
may choose to offer for them. I must step down, if
you please, and give directions to my servants about
them''

He left the room, and ran down the stairs in a
state of excitement that bordered on distraction. In
another moment four pistol-shots were heard in rapid
succession. He had killed his splendid horses, sooner
than surrender them to the man who had taken
advantage of a tyrannical law to possess himself of
them !

A cry of anger and indignation broke from all
the gentlemen in. the room who had seen, and heard
the whole of this disgraceful transaction. The Protestants

were quite as much disgusted as the Catholics,
for they were all gentlemen, and men of honour in
the room, and they gave expression to their indignation
in no measured terms. Cries of " Shame,"
'^ disgraceful," 'infamous," '''kick him out," resounded
on every side, and things began to look so
threatening, that the mean wretch who had drawn
so much obloquy on himself, slunk out of the house,
ashamed, and crestfallen. He had lost the fine horses
that he coveted so much, and he lost what was of far
more value, his good name, and the respect of his
fellow-men.

But Hyacinth Dillon had too high a spirit to allow
himself to be extinguished. He continued to drive
his carriage as usual, but instead of horses, it was
drawn by four bullocks ! The law did not authorise
anyone to take them out of the traces, and make them
his own by offering to the recusant possessor a merely
nominal price for them. He had always been popular,
like all the Dillon, but his conduct on this occasion
had made him a perfect hero in the eyes of the people.
He was applauded to the skies by all classes and sects
of his excitable countrymen, by whom a bold, and
spirited action is always appreciated, while the man
who had behaved in a way so contrary to all their ideas
of what was manly, and gentlemanly, became the

VOL. I. K

object of universal scorn and contempt. To the
end of his life Hyacinth Dillon's carriage was always
drawn by four bullocks and be and bis family
occupied it with as much ease and self-possession, as
if it were the splendid bays of the old time that
champed and curvetted out before them.*

Mr. Dominic Dillon, the present owner of the
Castle Cloyne estate, was descended from a younger
branch of this fine old family. The lineal representative
and head of the house had long since conformed
to the established religion, had recovered a good deal
of the forfeited property, and in some way had entitled
himself to a peerage. But the younger branch had
not changed their creed when they had diverged from
the parent stem, and consequently had been obliged
to Hve in comparative obscurity, and to stand aside
while the honours of the world, and the pleasures of
society, were enjoyed by people vastly their inferiors in
birth and fortune. But for this mortifying state of
things there was no remedy, and they had to endure it
with as much philosophy as they could call to their
aid. In the course of time the severity of the penal

This anecdote, exactly as it is set down in the text, is
related of one of the Geoghegans of Westmeath. Numbers
of the Irish Catholic gentry had their carriages drawn by
bullocks during the time of the penal laws : the Wises of
Waterford among the rest.

laws was gradually mitigated, and by the Emancipation
act of 1829 the last remnant of them had been swept
away altogether. But those wicked and cruel penal
laws had done their own work on many an old family ;
driven their children away to foreign lands for
education and subsistence, and made paupers of those
that had remained at home. The fine estates that had
been in possession of the same families for centuries,
were so swamped by fine and confiscation that they
had in most instances passed away into other hands,
and nothing remained of the original owners but the
vague, tender tradition, that lingered in the hearts of
the peasantry.

But the Dillon of Castle Cloyne were not
altogether in such evil case as this. They contrived to
keep their property even in the worst times, chiefly
with the help of some kind Protestant friends, who
from time to time had filed bills of discovery against
them, and by that form of law becoming the real
owners of their estates. This ownership was merely a
nominal one, and intended to cover and protect the
rights of the true possessors. By this means the
Dillon were enabled to keep their property, and
enjoyed the respect and consideration that is invariably
shown in Ireland to people who are well descended, or
as it is expressed, '^ are come of an ould stock''

K 2

Their lands were heavily mortgaged, but they bore
that with as much equanimity as their neighbours who
were similarly circumstanced. If their means of
enjoyment were on a limited scale, they made up
for that by taking all the pleasure out of them that
they could be made to yield. Each of them seemed
as if he had said to himself, '^ Castle Cloyne will last my
time' and acted accordingly, for he rode and hunted,
and made love, and enjoyed life in an easy, careless
sort of way ; and dying regretted by all who knew him
was succeeded by his son, or his nephew, as the case
might be, who as a matter of course was as easy-going
and pleasure-loving as all the rest of them. In the
mean time debts were incurred, and had multiplied so
fast that at the time when this story opens, the property
was mortgaged to its full value, and Mr. Dillon was
less the owner, than the steward thereof. It was a bad
state of things, but by no means uncommon in Ireland,
until the strong hand of the Encumbered Estates
Court ruthlessly swept away all old landmarks,
crushed out many old families, and razed to the
ground many a happy and time-honoured home.

The present owner of Castle Cloyne had always
been one of the most popular men in his native
county. When young he was noted for having a
proud, high spirit like all his race, but which in

him was tempered by great good-nature, and a
manner that combined dignity and self-respect, with
cordiality and courtesy. He lost none of this popularity
when on his father's death he became the
head of the family, for he was generous, genial, and
remarkable for his hospitality, even among a people
with whom hospitality is . considered a duty, and a
failure in it not only a meanness, but a crime. But
this very popularity became his ruin. Many of his
associates were persons who, though not better born,
were more largely endowed with worldly wealth than
he was himself, and to keep up with them, and meet
them on equal terms, made him contract debts that
were not always necessary, and which contributed
little by little, to swell the incumbrances on a
property so heavily weighted as his was. He had
the hereditary love of his family for good horses, and
as the evil times when he could not have legally one
of greater value than five pounds were happily passed
away, he indulged himself in this expensive luxury
until his stables, and the animals they contained, were
the objects of general admiration. His grooms and
trainers cost him a good round sum at the end of
the, year, when all was told. He kept a small but
good pack of hounds, and his kennel was on a par
with his stables, as far as care and money could make

it so. Astor was a faultless stable, and kennel the only
extravagance that his love of horses, and dogs, had
entailed on this impoverished Irish gentleman. When
the meet '' happened to be in his neighbourhood,
there was of course a handsome breakfast, or luncheon
at Castle Cloyne for all who chose to partake of
them, besides numerous dinner-parties, at which no
small amount of port wine, claret, and whiskey punch
was consumed by Mr. Dillon's jovial guests. All
this cost money, which was seldom paid, but saddled
on the property, to be paid at some future time, and
by some indefinite means, that no one could foresee
or understand. But the climax was put on the family
embarrassments, when Mr. Dillon ^^ contested the
county ^^ with one who, though not so well born, or
so popular, was better provided with '^ the sinews of
wars' As an almost inevitable consequence he was
signally defeated. When the money was brought
into play, the good blood, and the popularity were
nowhere, and when the election resulted in his discomfiture,
Mr. Dillon returned to his home a sadder
if not a wiser man. His estate had been burdened
with an additional debt, and he had the mortification
of knowing that he was beaten on his own ground, and
in his native county, by a man whose father had been

an English soap-boiler, and whose grandfather — if he
ever had had a grandfather — had never been even
heard of in Castle Cloyne !

But all this had happened in times past, when
Mr. Dillon had been a young man. Now he was
far advanced in life, and a martyr to those periodical
attacks of gout, that are the certain legacies that
good living, and port wine leave behind them. The
jovial dinners, and the good wine had done their
work thoroughly, and now the greater part of his
life was spent either in bed, or in his arm-chair.
But though the gout had done much to cripple, and
make him a prisoner, yet it could not take away
the cheerfulness, the cordiality, the easy insouciance
that were like second nature to Dominic Dillon.
Though contending with pecuniary difficulties and
much bodily pain, yet in his old age he had the
same natural, spontaneous gaiety, and the same
superb indifference about money matters, with which
he had entered upon manhood. He took all things
easy, his creditors included; and they returned him
the compliment, for they rarely annoyed him about
their money, or pressed him for payment of it,
being apparently quite content with the high interest
that was paid to them with tolerable punctuality.

A different train of thought, and a different course
of action, might have made Dominic Dillon a different
man; more prosperous, more wealthy, and, it maybe,
more churlish and niggardly; but it would not
have made him happier, or more beloved.

THE Dillon AT HOME.

Nous regarding les moeurs de ce peuple comme une
belle fable, et il doit regarder les notes comme un songe
monstrous.

Fenton.

Dominic Dillon had married early in life, and after
a few brief years of wedded happiness, lead been
left a widower with two children. He contracted
no second marriage, but remained faithful to the
memory of the fair young Avise so dearly loved,
and early lost. He was in the flower of his
manhood when she was taken from him ; but
from that hour his heart was closed against the
love of woman, and all the affections of his kind,
and genial nature were reserved for the children she
had left behind her.

The elder of these children. Hyacinth, was the
pride and glory of his father s heart. At this time

he was scarcely more than a boy, having only attained
his majority but one whose bright face, and
superb physique, gave promise of developing into a
perfect specimen of handsome, and vigorous manhood:
He had been well educated; but like most
young men brought up in the country, his tastes
and recreations lay more in field sports, and manly
occupations out of doors, than in the refined pleasures
that arise from the cultivation of the intellectual
faculties.

He was a good horseman, inheriting all the family
love for the equine race, which cost his father a good
round sum every year, but Mr. Dillon could not find
fault with a passion in his son, that he possessed him -
self in no small degree. In truth, he could not bring
himself to find fault with the lad, let him do what he
would. Hyacinth was a true Dillon, or, as the people
used to say, ^^ a chip of the old blocks and never
troubled himself as to how, or where, the money he
required was got, so long as it was forthcoming when
he wanted it. He enjoyed his life immensely after
his own fashion; was always one of the stewards at
the county races, and the steeplechases, that came off
occasionally, and not unfrequently rode one of his
own horses — when the stakes were competed for by
gentlemen — bringing him in triumph up to the winning

post. To his own natural advantages he added all
his fa terms good-nature, and courtesy of manner.
He would ride a steeplechase over a very stiff course
just as readily as he would go to a ball, being 
with the men in the first, and ready for any
amount of flirtation with the women in the second.
It is not surprising, then, that he was as popular with
one sex as with the other, and not more so with his
own class, than with the peasantry, who never spoke
of him but with affectionate respect, for the heart of
the Irish peasant always goes out to a handsome
person, and a gallant, daring spirit. When they spoke
of their landlord's son, it was in language as enthusiastic
as it was sincere. It was invariably,
'*^Masther Hy'cinth is his father's own son'' or,
'^ He's a rale Dillon, every inch ov him'' or it would
be, '^ Master Hy'cinth has a fine spirit, an' an open
hand, an' he didn't stale either ov 'em, but got 'em
from every father that ever came before him."

Mr. Dillon's second child was a daughter, but unlike
his son, for she was not handsome, and slightly deformed.
She was small in person, and though not
actually in ill health, yet she lacked the robust appearance,
and faultless physique, that were so conspicuous
in her brother. She shared with him, however, the
good disposition, and the pleasant, gracious manner

that was so eminently one of the family characteristics.
Her want of personal beauty lead made lier sensitive
and thoughtful beyond lier years, and though lie
bad a fall share of the Dillon pride, yet it did not
manifest itself after the fashion of the Dillon. Sbe
abhorred debt, and considered that all the shifts, and
schemes, and subterfuges that inevitably accompany
debt were unworthy of respectable people, and should
be belt by them to be mean and disgraceful. When
lie came home from the Parisian convent in wbicli
lie bad been educated, and was placed by ber father
at the head of his establishment, she became acquainted
with a state of things for which her life in the peaceful
cloister had in no way prepared her. She came
home, to be sure, at a most awkward time, for it was
just after her father had '^ stood for the county' and
been signally defeated, greatly to his own surprise and
that of his friends. After that, the expenses of the
fruitless contest had to be faced. Day after day the
^' greetings ^' of ^^ Our Sovereign Lady the Queen ^^
in the form of writs and latitats were out against him
and it took some time before his affairs were arranged,
which was done by paying the small sums in cash, and
the large ones by additional mortgages on his estate.
In the interim Mr. Dillon had to be ^^ on his keeping,"
for the bailiffs were lying in wait to arrest him, and

prowling round the demesne, the gates of which were
locked by day as well as by night. The house was
strictly barricaded, except on Sundays, when arrest was
not legal; strong chains were thrown across all the
doors on the ground floor, and the windows all nailed
down. It might have been imagined that the house
was in a state of siege, only that the words of the
poet were reversed, for here the foe did not come
in battalions, but in single spies.

It was at this singularly unpropitious time that
Mr. Dillon brought home his daughter from her
French convent, after an absence of ten years, wholly
unprepared for this strange state of things, and
incapable for a long time of realising it. She was
shocked to find that her father's house was beset
by bailiffs, and guarded like a jail; and that, so far
from being either ashamed or unhappy, he seemed
to look upon it as only a temporary inconvenience;
but which, to the proud, sensitive girl, looked very
much like want of principle, and even common
honesty. In a little time, however, all the debts
consequent on the election were settled somehow;
the doors of Castle Cloyne were no longer shut with
the chain thrown across them. Mr. Dillon was no
longer "a Sunday man,^^ but free to come and go
without fear of having a writ thrust into his hand

as lie went along. He was very soon as jovial as
ever made merry with his numerous friends and
with them had a great many amusing anecdotes of
the election to talk over and laugh at.

This was all great fun to Hyacinth, who enjoyed
it immensely. The angles of his pride had been
blunted long since by an acquaintance with debt and
its attendant satellites, bailiffs and process-servers;
and this of late years had become so frequent as
to be almost a matter of course. But it was far
otherwise with Grace, whose first experience of life
had been so very galling and humiliating. A little
of this experience had sufficed to turn the happy,
light-hearted girl into a grave and silent woman ;
accepting the responsibilities that devolved on her
as mistress of such an establishment as her father's
house with a feeling that was almost sorrow, but
determined to fulfil them in a true, conscientious
spirit. She could not hope to undo what had been
done, but she would try to wake some sort of respectability
and order out of the chaos that had
hitherto reigned supreme. It was a gigantic task
she had set herself, and one that would have made
an older woman shrink back in dismay; but Grace
Dillon had a brave, patient heart enclosed in her frail
body, as well as a share of the large fund of self-denial,

and endurance, with which some women are
endowed, and wMcli is often the only dower that the
poor souls are gifted with. Her father and brother
were much amused by her attempts at retrenchment,
and economy, but they were also glad ; not that they
imagined for a moment that any effort of hers noisily
effect any solid or lasting improvement in the state
of affairs at Castle Cloyne, for they knew well that
the evils she sought to grapple with, were too widely
spread, and of too old a date to be dealt with successfully
by a young, inexperienced girl; but as it
took up her attention, and afforded her pleasure to
think she could be of use, they let her have her own
way in some very minor details that belonged to her
own province as mistress of the house. It was very
disheartening work, but she persevered, and in her
own small way effected a little revolution. The house
that since her mother's death had been the theatre
of reckless extravagance, and untidy waste, began
under her gentle, but firm management to show some
appearance of being a home, and a home, too, that
was presided over by a lady. The chaos soon gave
way to order, and the wasteful expenditure to a
system of economy that was careful, and prudent, without
degenerating into meanness. But this beneficent
change was only in her own peculiar domain, indoors.

There was no improvement outside the house, either
in the stable, or the kennel ; and with regard to the
lavish expenditure in those departments, 'she could
only look on in silent vexation, wondering where, and
how it was all to end.

At this time Mr. Dillon was slowly recovering
from one of his usual attacks of gout. He sat in his
easy chair, with the gouty foot wrapped up in flannels,
and resting on a soft cushion. On one side was a table,
on which lay an open writing-desk at which he was
making up accounts, for he employed no agent, but
transacted all his business with his tenants himself.
This was one of the many reasons why he was so
popular with them, because it brought him face to face
with them, to arrange their affairs, and settle their
differences, without the intervention of any third party.
It was said that this arrangement was a very bad one
for himself, and that his finances would be in a more
flourishing condition, if a paid agent, who would stand
no nonsense, had the management of the estate.
Mr. Dillon^s^s plan did not work well on the whole, but
he said he would not have anyone going between him
and his people, and that as he knew them, and they
knew him, things would be sure to come right in the
end.

The room in which he sat was the dining-room.

and it would Lave looked bare and comfortless only
that a large fire blazed in the grate, shedding warmth
and brightness around it. It was a large lofty room
that had no doubt looked well once on a time , when
the paint was fresh, and the furniture new ; but that
had been a very distant time indeed, so distant that
the date, was altogether lost. Now the paint on the
doors and windows was so defaced, that it would be
hard to tell what might have been its original colour,
and the carpets and hangings, that had once been
handsome and bright, were faded to one uniform dingy
hue. The furniture when bought had been the best
of its kind ; all of the best Honduras mahogany,
solid, substantial, and almost black from age. There
was no veneering in the dining-room of Castle Cloyne
everything in it, though ponderous, and old-fashioned,
was still real and true.

Miss Dillon sat opposite to her father at the other
side of the fire, engaged in some needlework, but
quite silent, lest she should distract his thoughts
from the accounts he was wading through, apparently
with no small trouble. Though not handsome, her
face was very pleasing, with a refined, patrician
expression stamped upon it; an expression that is
born of education, and a habitual dwelling on pure
and ennobling thoughts.

VOL. I. L

She wore a very simple dress of dark merino,
but tliougli it was not expensive it fitted her to
perfection, and a collar and cuffs of plain linen
relieved by their freshness, and whiteness, the sombreness
of the dress. She wore no ornaments but a
watch and chain, that had been her mother's.

While Mr. Dillon was going down a most 
column of figures, with his forefinger
pointing slowly at them, a servant entered
the room, and laid a scrap of dirty-looking paper on
the table before his master.

What is it, Pat ? " asked Mr. Dillon, looking up
pen in hand.

^^Av you phase, sir, Andy Mulhall the farrier
is in the kitchen below, an' he sint me up to you
wit this little bill. He says he can sit be the fire
until 'tis your honour's convenience to sind down the
money."

"Very well, Pat; when I look over his bill, I
will ring the bell for you to come up again."

The servant — a good-looking young fellow who
had been in the family since his childhood, and inconsequence
felt himself quite one of the family —
still lingered by the table. After a moment he
said :

If it isn't convenient to you, sir, to pay this

money, I can give Andy a glass ov spirits, an pack
him off. 1^11 go bail lie can do without it for another
start. Sure, the tenants didn't pay yourself, at all,
till to-morrow'"

sewell, now that you mention it, I think Andy
might have waited until I was paid myself

'^ Faix, then, so I told him, but what's the use ?
You can't get anything out ov a pig but grunts.
I'd as soon be breaking' stones for a paviour, as
thryin' to knock a little decency into a gilloat like
him."

"Well, I'll just look over his bill; the amount
can't be a great deal, for I paid him another bill
not long since. I suppose 'tis all right," and he
took up the scrap of dirty paper, written all over
in an illegible schoolboy hand.

*^ ' Be attindin' the bay mare when she was sick
wit glanders, wan pound.

"' Be given' her two drafts, two an' sixpence.

'^ ' Be turin' the black cow that ^ died, tin
shilling's.

^''Be cutting' a pup's tail an' airs, wan shilling.' "

"I'll tell him to come in a few days, sir,
when you have more time to attend to him," said
Pat.

The poor man may want his money," suggested

L 2

Miss Dillon. ^^ He lives at a great distance and
loses a whole day whenever lie comes here. If you
have the money, papa, don't you think it would be
better to pay him, and let him go home ? "

^' Oh, hang the fellow ! But you are right, Grace,
it is better be done with him at once. Here is his
moneys

Pat took the money and vanished, but before many
minutes he was back again.

'^^Av you phase, sir, Tom Delahunty is below for
the price ov the pup''

'' What pup ? ''

The pup he brought from County Limerick for
Master Hy'cinth, an' a very nate pup he is too, an'
will make a grand sporting' dog intirely in the course
ov a little time, when the trainer is done wit him."

My son is not here now, and I know nothing
about it. Tell him to come when Master Hyacinth
is at home."

I as good as said them very words to him, your
honour, but he says he's in great distress, an' the
wife lying' down in the sickness wit him. I wouldn't
put it past him to tell a lie on the head ov it ; still
an' all, the saver is very bad near his place, an' what
he says may be three, though betune you an' me an'
the wall, I don't believe a word ov it."

But it might be true, and if so, he wants money
for his sick wife. I wouldn't like to refuse him for
her sake. How much is it ? "

"He says the price of the pup is two guineas,
but he'll only ax Master Hy'cinth the two pounds.
Erra ! I wouldn't give the ashes out ov my pipe for
what he says ! ''

Two pounds is a great sum to give for a pup''

Begot it is, sir, there's no denying' it. But sure
if Master Hy'cinth thinks he's worth it, 'tis all
aiqual."

'^ Well, here is thirty shillings, let him settle with
my son about the rest. Now, Pat Flanagan, be off,
and bring me no more dunning messages, for this
day at all events."

Fake an' sure, I won't if I can help it. The
soles ov my shoes is fairly wore out running' back
an' horrid, attindin' all the morning' on every shooter
ov 'em.'^

'' And, Pat."

pass, sir."

'^ Tell my son not to go out until I see him."

'' You just spoke in time, for I hard him tellin'
Toiiy Whigarald to bring his horse round to the hall
door," and Pat ran off to tell Hyacinth that his father
wished to speak to him.

Hyacinth who was going off to the hunt, came ia
to the dining-room when lie got the message. As he
stood by the old gentleman's chair, he was as fine a
specimen of youthful manhood as even a fond father's
heart could desire to see. His handsome face was
glowing with health and pleasurable excitement, and
his tall, well-made figure was set off by the orthodox
hunting costume of scarlet coat, and spotless doeskins.
He held a small silver mounted whip in his hand, and
as he stood there twirling the lash round his fingers
with easy, unconscious grace, Mr. Dillon thought
that he was a son of whom any father might be justly
proud''

I want you to drop this letter at the post-office
on your way ; it won't delay you a moment, as it is
stamped already. It is to that confounded rascal
Jackson, about the interest of his mortgage that fell
due last month."

'''I suppose he has been dunning you for it, the
impudent usurer ! Fd give the best horse I ever rode
for leave to lay my whip on his shoulders for only five
minutes''

'^ Easy, boy, easy. Our hand is in the lion's mouth,
and we must draw it out as gently as we can. We
can hardly blame the man for asking for his money
when it becomes due. I wish to Heaven that someone

owed me a thousand pounds, or even half the
money ! ''

And so would I, for I am very hard up just now.
Could you spare me a few pounds, sir ? That saddler
fellow in town is dunning me for the price of the last
saddle and bridle I got from him."

*' See if you can stop the fellows mouth with this,"
said Mr. Dillon, handing his son a five-pound note.
'^ I shall have more for you in a day or two when the
tenants have paid the rents."

sall right," said careless, handsome Hyacinth,
and now I must be off. You are looking pale, little
one ; you must promise me you will take a drive
before dinners' and he kissed his sister before he went
away, for after a fashion of their own, those two men
dearly loved the fair-haired, delicate girl.

Mr. Dillon went back to his accounts, and the old
weary, harassed look came once more into his face.
But he was not to be left quiet very long, for
Pat Flanagan again opened the door.

What is it now, in the devil's name ? "

'Tis another little bill, sir. Mushaa, bad luck to
the whole pack ov 'em, every day they see a pain'
stone ! "

Didn't I tell you not to bring me any more of
those infernal bills to-dav ? "

'^ Sure enough you did, sir, but sure what good was
that ? The kitchen below is full ov 'em, an' if I said
the yard outside, I wouldn't be going' astray. The
dive a lie in it ! I'm fairly lavished wit the whole ov
'em, an' moreover the cook is dhruv out ov her seven
sinsis wit the way they're all gathered round the fire
discoursing' wan another, an' all their pipes in full
blast."

^^ You should have sent them off one after another
as soon as they came."

''Be the tare of war, sir, that's fisher said than
done ! ' Ye have no call to be annoying' the master
this a way,' ses I, ' an' he only just riz out of bed wit
the gout in his fut. 'Tis enough to thrive it up to
his stomach or into his head,' ses I, ^ the set ye're
making' on the dear gentleman. Can't ye wait for yer
money till he's pet himself ? Samson was a strongman,
be all accounts, but sure he couldn't pay money
when he hadn't it. The tenants will all come in turin'
the week ses I, ' an' there will be no delay in life then
to every mother's son ov ye getting' what's due to ye.'
Oyeh ! let me alone, sir," with a toss of his head — ^' I
might as well be whistling' jigs to a milestone, as to
they to make 'em hear to sense or raison ! "

'^ Well, Pat, you must contrive to get rid of them.
I have not another pound on earth to give to any one.

All the money I lead I gave to my son before lie went
out. Tell them all to come again this day week, and
then they shall be paid in full. I shall have
money then, though I haven't it to-day."

Faix, sir, them was the very words I said to em."
*' Well, go down and say it over again. And be
sure you don't come back with any more such
messages'

'^ I won, sir, if I can help it," and once more exit
Pat Flanagan from the dining-room.

THE FOSTER SISTERS.

Disparity of rank, or birth, goes for little with those who
have been cradled to sleep by the same hand.

There was no further interruption for some time and
Mr. Dillon and Hs daughter began to hope that the
duns had been put to flight, for that day at least.
Determined to make the most of this welcome respite,
they resumed their several occupations, and for sometime
the silence was only broken by the scratching of
Mr. Dillon^s^s pen. However, in about half-an-hour
Pat Flanagan again appeared at the door.

What brings you back again, after all I said
to you ?^' demanded his master, in an angry tone.

'' 'Tis a girl ov the MacDermotts, phase your honour,
hither from Ballycross. She's not a dun at all, sir,
but a decent girl wit a message from her fathers'
replied Pat apologetically.

"It is poor Oonsigh./' cried Miss Dillon, who was
greatly attached to her foster sister. " Tell hers
Pat, to go upstairs ,to my own parlour, and I will
follow her in a few moments.''^

"tis the master himself she wants to see this
time, miss. Her father isn't at all well in himself
an' he sint her up wit his rent. "tis a variation
surely, glory be to goodness ! to have any wan at all
coming' wit money, instead ov coming' for it'' and Pat's
face expanded into a broad grin.

'' I hear, Pat, that you are one of Oonagh's
numerous admirers," said Mr. Dillon, restored to good-humour
by the prospect of receiving money, instead
of. paying it.

You're welcome to your game, sir."

All I can say is, that you have shown very good
taste, for Oonagh is a pretty girl, and will not go
penniless to any husband who is lucky enough to get
her."

*' Polly on, sir, folly on. Sure I'm listening' to you."

Pat, you can bring Oonagh up here," said Grace,
wishing to relieve the embarrassment of the poor
fellow, who was now standing on one leg, and now on
the other, rubbing his hands hard together, and
looking as sheepish, and bashful, as it was possible fora
love sick swain to look.

With great promptitude Pat left the room in
obedience to the desire of his young mistress and
soon returned with Oonagh^ who made a respectful
curtsy when she came inside the door.

'^ Welcome, Oonagh," said Grace, advancing and
kissing her affectionately. "Why I haven't seen
you for an age. You are cold , dear ; come and sit
by the fire until papa is ready to attend to you''

I made bold to bring you a few fresh eggs,
miss' said Oonagh, laying down a little basket behind
the young lady's chair. " Sure I know that there's
plenty ov 'em here, but so itself; don't I often hear
you say that you never ate such good eggs as comes
from Ballycross ? They are fresh an' sweet tasted,
there's no denying' it. Anyhow, you're always good
enough to say so."

And I always think it, as well as say it," said
Grace, with the engaging condescension of a true
lady, for she knew it would make her foster sister
happy to think she was pleased with her little present.
You never, Oonagh, bring me anything that is not
nice."

Yes, miss. An' that's what makes me fret that I
never have anything rale nice to bring you. Nothing
but a few eggs, or a basket ov chickens, ov an odd
time."

'but, Oonagh, I like your eggs and chickens better
than any others and therefore I am always very glad
to get them. But see, papa is now ready to attend to

you."

The girl took the money her father had entrusted
to her care from her bosom, and with much hesitation,
and many apologies explained that he was unavoidably
obliged to be a little in arrear this Gale instead
of paying the full amount of his half-year's rent as
usual.

*'^An' my father desired me says she continued
in earnest tones, " that he hopes your honour will
excuse him this time, as it was the very first he
was ever behindhand on Gale Day, an wit the help
ov God it will be the last. We both ov us would
live on a male a day sooner than be back wit you,
but this time, sir, we couldn't help it, dear knows.
The crop rotted on the ground wit us, an' our best
cow choked herself wit a raw potato, before any ov
us knew it at all. But sure, sir, you know yourself what
a wet saison was in it, an' you hard, moreover, ov all
the bad luck that we had wit our sheep''

'^I did hear it, and was very sorry for it, for I
know that your father is a decent, honest man, who
would pay the last farthing if he could'' said Mr.
Dillon kindly.

Long life to you, Mr. Dillon sir ; in saying' them
words, you said nothing but the tlirutli. We shrubbery
hard to make up the money though we are
short a little, but we knew who we had to dale
wit, an' that your honour wouldn't be putting' keepers
on us, or takin' our cattle to the pound for a trifles

'sit is a great deal, Oonagh, that would make
papa put keepers into Ballycross, or send your
father's cattle to the pound'' said Grace. "He
wouldn't do it for your mother's sake."

My father knew I'd have no call to be onaisy
while you wor to the fore. 'you have a friend in
court,' ses he to me, ' while Miss Grace is there,' an'
sure if he never said it, I knew it my own self."

^^ He, and you, only did me justice, Oonagh."

"An' phase God, sir, we hope to have the rest
for you very soon."

I can't be hard on an old tenant like your father,
for I am well aware that he has had his full share of
the bad times, as we all have had. I am convinced that
he'd pay the full amount if he could, for if there is
an honest man on my estate, that man is Martin
MacDermott."

The eyes of the loving daughter filled with tears
at this tribute to her father's worth, and it was a
moment before she could reply.

He's all that, sir, thanks to you for giviu' him his
merit ; an' why wouldn't he ? Himself, an' all that
ever came before him lived under your honour's
family, an' had pace, an' plenty, when poor tenants on
other estates wor lavished, an' rack-printed, an' ruminated,
horse an' fut. Sure, sir, it only stands to raison,
that good landlords will always have good tenants."

Mr. Dillon laughed very heartily.

My good girl," he said, ^^ you have now in a few
words solved one of the problems of political
economy."

I don't rightly understand you, sir."

I dare say you do not, but it is the case, nevertheless.
Oh damnation ! " This expletive, which burst
forth suddenly, was not addressed to any one in
particular, but wrung from him by a more than usually
sharp twinge of agony in his gouty foot. His face
became almost purple from excessive pain, and large
drops of perspiration stood out on his forehead.

I see you're not well, sir, so I won't be throublin'
you now to write the relate," said Oonagh, with a
woman's ready tact. "It will do any time that's
convenient."

"I am better now, still I will take you at your
word, for I am not fit for any more business to-days
said poor Mr. Dillon faintly.

Come with me, Oonagh, my dear' said Grace,
^^ for my father must go to bed at once, and I will
send Pat to take him to his room. He understands
how to manage him, better than any one else. Come
with me to my own room, for I have some pretty
things my brother gave me to show you. And you
must have something to eat before you walk back to
Ballycross.'''

The two girls, leaving Pat Flanagan to put his
master to bed, went upstairs to a room that Grace
when she returned from school had got fitted up for
her own special use, and which no one but Oonagh,
outside the family, ever entered. It had a southern
aspect, and looked out on the flower garden that
was cultivated by Grace herself, with the help of
Pat, who did all the coarse, hard work of it under
her inspection. It was a sunny, cheerful apartment,
looking just what it was, the sitting-room of a lady.
There was a recess at each side of the chimney-piece ;
in one was a bookcase well stored with the best
authors, and in the other was an easel. There was
another recess, but much deeper, at the opposite side
of the room, and in this hung a crucifix beautifully
carved in ivory. In the centre of the room was a
table with her writing-desk, and a large vase o£
flowers, while in the window was a smaller one, with

her workbox, and the book sbe was reading at the
time. Over the chimney-piece was a good copy of
the Ecce Homo of Hannibal Caracas. This was the
only picture in the room except a portrait of the
late Mrs. Dillon in oils, which was considered by
those who had known her to be an excellent likeness,
and on that account much valued by Grace, though
she did not remember her mother, having been a
mere baby when she died.

It was a plainly-famished, simple room, without
any pretensions to luxury, save a good piano opposite
the window might be considered luxurious, but it
had the look of home. The nameless, subtle grace
that can be given but by a lady's hand, constituted
its only charm. The furniture, with the exception
of the piano, was old and of little value, and the
carpet was faded and much darned. But the window
hangings were of the whitest, daintiest muslin, and
the flowers in the vase were freshly gathered. Books,
and sheets of music, and odds and ends of feminine
work, were all lying about, though without any disorder.
The room and its contents bore distinct
evidence that the genius loci was a woman, and one
of Cultivated, and gentle instincts.

Miss Dillon rang the bell, and ordered the housemaid
who answered her summons, to bring luncheon.

VOL. I. M

162 THE Chronicles OF CASTLE GLOYNE.

She did not think that she stepped in the least
out of her own proper place, when she sat down to
eat with the poor country girl, the daughter of her
father's 'tenant. Oonagh was her foster-sister, the
child of her nurse, and was besides too modest, and
humble, to presume on her condescension, or be
inclined to forget herself because of it. In the
privacy of this, her own peculiar sanctuary, Grace
could be as friendly, and affectionate with Oonagh
as she pleased, and often treated her to many little
dainties that of course she could never have at home.
It was not friendship as the word is understood in
the world, that united those two girls, for there was
too wide a difference between them in alP respects
for that. The great disparity of birth, and rank,
and the incompatibility of thought, and feeling, were
all too broadly defined to permit of friendship, or even
association. But there was the freemasonry of
similar age, and sex, and the natural yearning that
youth always feels for something like itself. The
feeling on one side was that of protecting kindness,
and on the other was profound admiration, and gratitude,
at once affectionate, and respectful. When to
all this was added the fact that they were both
nursed by the same mother — which in Ireland constitutes
a claim that is never honored — and it will

be seen that the bond uniting those two young girls,
so very dissimilar in every respect, was one of no
common character. And it was noticeable, that notwithstanding
their mutual regard, the great difference
that was between them in birth, and social position,
was never once lost sight of by either.

When the good things that had been brought upon
the luncheon tray had been disposed of, Grace
said :

'rit strikes me, Oonagh, that you are getting
careless in the way of your clothes. You never have
anything new now/^

Sure enough, miss, I don't. isn't that is
given' me any trouble. How could I think of
getting' new clothes while we wor back in the
rent ? ''

"You were always good, Oonagh; good, and
sensible. But you are too pretty to be wearing
that shabby old dress for ever. See, here is one I
bought for you when last I was in town;" and she
took from a drawer a quantity of printed calico,
which, though very cheap — for she could not afford
to make expensive presents — was still pretty, and
fresh-looking, and made Oonagh's eyes sparkle with
pleasure.

Thank you ever so much, miss. Faix, it was

M 2

no harm for me to come to Castle Cloyne this
mormn\'^

sand when it is made Oonagh, you must come
again to let me see how you look in it/^

"Fake an' sure I will. Sure that's the haste
I can do, after getting the makings ov such a beautiful
gown. But sure, miss, you won't let me go
without hearing' a song; just one little song," she
pleaded, with all the love for music that seems innate
in the Irish race.

"Oh, certainly. Well, what shall it be'' said
Miss Dillon, sitting down to the piano.

"Well, miss, whatever will be most plain' to
yourself is that'll phase me. Sure all your songs
are so beautiful, 'tis hard to make a choice among
'em''

"Well, then, I shall sing the very last I got.
My brother brought it to me when last he was in
town ; " and selecting a piece of music, she began
to sing :

The life that was mine lies far behind me,

My day is fading to silent eve ;
The glories of noontide no longer blind me,

The gauds of the world no more deceive.
The hopes that once lured me on so gladly,

Lie withered, and dead on a ruined shrine,
And I say to my heart, beating low, and sadly,

What hast thou done with that life of mine ?

What hast thou done with the restless yearning,

That, soaring to heaven, you chained to earth ?
The inward lights that, so purely burning,

You put aside as of little worth ?
The friends that loved me have all departed,

One by one to the shadow land.
And I linger alone, and broken-hearted,

With nothing but ashes in either hand.

Could aught of earth have the power to win thee.

Oh, lonely, sorrowful heart of mine ?
Thou, with the impress of heaven within thee !

Thou that wert fashioned by hands Divine !
What is there left of thy visions splendid,

The love that was true, and the hope that was high ?
Thy dreams are over, thy story ended,

And nothing is left thee, except to die ! "

OONAGH LOSES HER FATHER.

Songez que chaque fleur,
Doit son eclat, doit sa fraicheur,
Et les doux perfume qu'elle exhale
A la piece filial.

Dempster.

The autumn had come and gone, and it had passed
very slowly and sorrowfully to Oonagh. Her father
had not recovered his health, but on the contrary each
day when it came had found him weaker, and more
feeble, than he had been the day before. The
dispensary doctor had been to see him several times
bnt his visits had brought no amendment to the
patient, and finally Oonagh, as a last resource, thought
she would send for the best physician in the neighbouring
town, though she well knew that his visit
should be paid for at a rate that she could but ill
afford. But she said to herself, that whatever the fee

might be, yet it would be well spent if ib gave her
father a chance of life. It was only a chance, her own
sense told her that — but she determined that he
should get that chance, and when she had done all she
could, she would leave the issue in the hands of the
great Arbiter of life and death.

When this celebrated physician — in whom, humanly
speaking, was her last hope — had left her father's
room, Oonagh followed him outside the door where his
horse was waiting for him, and said in a voice that
trembled with anxiety : ^' Oh, sir, have you any
comfort to give me ? ^^

He looked keenly at the quivering lips, at the soft
gray eyes suffused with tears, and though well used to
scenes of misery, his kind heart ached for a creature
that was so young, and fair, and so soon to be left
desolate. He thought it would be cruel to buoy her
up with false hopes, or impart a transient feeling
of security, that would only make her future sorrow
more intense and bitter.

My good girl, your father is very ills he said
gravely.

He is, sir, former ! But sure now that you saw
him, an know what ails him, you'll be able to set
him on his feet again in no time, wit the help ov
God''

Life and death are in God^s hands, and we must
submit to what He wills'

'* Surely, sir. But a grate doctor like yourself,
can do a power ov good''

He smiled at her simplicity, but said no more,
knowing that the truth would come home to her
gradually as time went on.

I must go now,^^ he said, '^ for my time is precious,
and I am wanted elsewhere."

When will you come again, sir ? or will joxi wait
until I sind for you ? "

^' I need not come any more. Whatever can be
done for him, can be done by the dispensary doctor'

I don't mind the money at all, sir," she cried
eagerly. ^' If it was the last pound that was in the
house, I wouldn't begrudge it. An' why would
I ? Sure it is his own, an he has the best right
to it''

The money, my good girl, makes no difference.
If I thought I could do any good by coming again, I'd
do so willingly, but I really scruple taking your money
when I can't do your father any good."

'^ Is that the way ov it ? " she said, comprehending
his meaning for the first time. ^' Oh, my father !
my poor old father ! "

She covered her face with her hands, and the

tears she could no longer restrain, came trickling
down between her fingers.

You must not let him see you like this' said the
physician. " Everything like excitement, or agitation,
must be carefully avoided in his presence. What
you have got to do now, is to keep him as easy, and
peaceful as you can, for he is very ill with heart
disease, and worry or trouble of any kind would be
highly injurious, and might even shorten his life.
So be very careful."

Oh, then, sir, 1^11 go bail that his life won't be
shortened by as much as even a loud word. An' I thank
you for tellin me, for I might break down before him,
wan time or other, if I didn't know how it was.
My poor heart will be breaking' inside ov me, but so
itself ; what hurt ? Oculi marine ! what trouble is
out foment me, an' I was never used to it ! "

She stood aside to let the doctor mount his horse,
and then ran down the path like a hunted creature,
till she came to the well that was at the end of the
field. Here she flung herself down on the damp
grass, and wept, and moaned, with all the passionate
abandonment of the Irish peasant women. Her cries
and sobs could not disturb her father there. She
could ease her bursting heart in that lonely spot, and
no one could see, or hear her, but He who was soon

to be her only father. After some time a hand was
laid gently on her shoulder, and looking up she saw
the old servant bending over hers with looks of
the tenderest compassion.

'^ Whisht now, 'a regal ! Whist now, or you'll
kill yourself intirely, so you will ; an' 'pon my conscience,
you're very nearly kilt as it is''

Oh, Molly, Molly ! how am I to live at all without
my good, loving' father ? '^ and the poor girls tears
burst forth afresh.

'she was a good father, Oonagh, an' you'll miss
him. I'm not going' to deny it, surely ; but killing'
yourself won't do him no good at all. If you're
knocked up, what is the poor ould man to do, I ax
yourself that ? '■*

^^ I'll give you hand an' word, Molly, I won't cry
any more — while I'm out foment him, I mane, for the
doctor said he wasn't to be troubled, or fretted
at all. But how will I be able to hould on, when
I see him dying' before my very eyes ? "

"God will help you, 'a villi, never fear. It
will be hard on you, I own, but we can go through
a dale more than we think. 'Tis often well that we
can't see all the hard fortune that's on before us ; if we
wor to see it, we would lie down an' die at want.
Child, look at me ! I ferric my husband, an' seven

as fine children as ever stud on a poor woman's flare,
an' I had to bear it all. Alien the first ov 'em died,
if I known what was before me, I'd have lifted
myself. But I was ever an' always hoping' that some
ov 'em would be left to me, an' that kept me on
my feet, an' my heart alive in my bosom."

'^ An' when the last ov 'em was taken from you ? "
asked Oonagh, interested in the old woman's sad
history, notwithstanding her own grief; ^'^what did
you do then ? "

"I was used to the trouble be that time, an' it
was not as strange to me as it was at first. An'
when I put the last ov my fine boys in the coffin,
I knelt down alongside it, and thanked Grod that He
left me on my feet to take care ov 'em all, an' that
I was able to have for 'em everything that they
wanted. It would be a different story wit 'em if
they hadn't their mother, an' that thought comforted
me, an' kept me up. An' you see, here I am to-day,
af ther it all, an' I have to get through my day's work,
an' put up wit the rough, an' the smooth, that's sure
to come to every wan that's living' on another person's
flare."
^ " An' do you ever think ov 'em, Molly ? "

In course I do. Many a night I do be awake
thinking' ov 'em all. An' they come to me in my

thames, sometimes wan, an' sometimes another. But
I tlirj to put 'em out ov my head by day, barren'
when I'm in the chapel, or at my prayers, for if I
didn't, I'd never do my bisness rightly. An' though
I do be ever , an' always praying' for them, sure, well
I know that they are all praying' for me in heaven,
my good, honest husband, an' my seven little innocent
children, that never committed a sin."

That ought to comfort your poor heart, Molly."
"An' signs on, it do. Sure, what other comfort
have I, but to think that they are all in heaven
before me ? The first money I ever aimed after I
went out to service, went to put a fine tombstone over
'em all."

An' they're all in the wan grave ? "
Well, 'tis almost the same thing, but 'tis the wan
headstone stands for all. An' after the stone was put
up, I saved a few pounds more, that's in the hands of
Father O'Rafferty, to bury me wit 'em all, when my
own time comes round. Before I'd touch a penny
ov that money, I'd lie down in the ditch, an' die ov
hunger. Sure he knows what I gave him that money
for, an' he'll take care ov it for that."

But all this time, Molly, my father may be
wanting' us, so we may as well go home."

*' Sure enough, he may. But, as there machine,

before you go near him you must wash your eyes, so's
that lie won't see the signs ov crying' on em."

Did you know, Molly, that my poor father was
so bad ? " asked Oonagh, as they walked towards the
house.

Eyeh ! I did, sure ; this long time paste

An' you never told me ? Oh, Molly, that wasn't
kind'

"Wish, what good would it do you to know it ?
What the ear won't hear, the heart won't fret for;
that's an ould saying' in the Irish. Sure, I thought
you'd know it soon enough. If I told you when
first it came into my mind, 'tis lying' alongside
your mother in Kilcarrol churchyard you'd be today,
wit the ninth ov written', instit ov been'
able to take care ov the ould man, now that he wants
care."

Few traces of her recent agitation were visible
in the face, or manner of Oonagh, when she returned
to her father's bedside. She opened the little window
to admit the last rays of the waning sun, and then
she noticed for the first time how wan, and hollow
were his cheeks, and how much, and sadly he was
altered. She wondered at her own blindness, and
stupidity in having gone on from day to day, without
having seen what was so patent to all other eyes.

"1 never thought ov losing him/^ she said to
herself; 'ran' if I did itself, I wouldn't let it come
near me."

She tried to bear up as well as she could, for
her father's sake ; but it is hard work to try to be
cheerful when the heart is breaking. But it was
a brave heart that was in Oonagh's breast; how
brave and true it was, the story of her after-life will
show.

But all too soon the day came round, when she
and her first great sorrow were to stand together,
face to face.

For some days the old man had been gradually
sinking, and being quite sensible of his own condition,
he desired that the priest should be sent
for, to give him the last consolations of his religion.
He had always led a very primitive, simple life, had
never wronged anyone of a shilling, or a shillings
and, like Nathaniel, was a man in whom there
was no guile. He had as few accounts to settle with
his Maker, when it came to the last, as was consistent
with human frailty; and, therefore, his preparation
for death was neither difficult, nor distressing
to him.

It was the eve of Christmas — a dark, bleak day,
the hours of which were marked by frequent showers

of rain, and sleet. The evening came down darker,
and bleaker still, than the day had been, as if in
sympathy with the gloom, and trouble that reigned
within the house. Oonagh and the old woman went
through their usual tasks, for whatever their trouble
was, the machinery of the farm, and household, should
be kept going just as usual. Their business, however,
was not of a nature to task their energies very much,
for there was only one pig to be fed, one cow to be
milked. When the frugal supper of potatoes and
milk was over, and that Molly was engaged in the
dairy, and Paddy smoking his pipe by the fire,
Oonagh proceeded to light the Christmas candle,
which could only be done by the "vanities," or
mistress of the house.

The origin of the-christmas candle in the houses
of the Irish peasantry, is lost in the mists of antiquity,
the custom having been first adopted in the country,
when it was converted to Christianity by St. Patrick.
At all events, this is the account of it most generally
believed and accepted. It is intended to typify, and
commemorate the star that appeared on the first
Christmas night in the heavens, to announce to the
Gentiles the birth of the Divine Infant, who was sent to
redeem the world. It is a holy, and beautiful custom,
transmitted down from one generation to another, with

scrupulous regularity, and is observed by the people
of the south, and west o£ Ireland, with the same
reverent and earnest spirit, with which it was observed
by the first Irish Christians, twelve centuries ago.

The Christmas candle is always the best, and
longest that can be procured, and once lighted it
is never put out, but suffered to burn away to the
end. If it is a more than usually large one, which
is often the case — for those particular candles are
made very large — it often remains lighting, until far
into the evening of Christmas Day. Once lighted
and left in its own place — which is always in the
recess of a window, so that it can be seen from a
distance — it is never touched again, even to be
snuffed, nor is it considered right to make use of
it for ordinary purposes. To prevent this, which
would be considered a sort of desecration, there are
other candles always lighted in the same room. A
very curious superstition is attached to the Christmas
candle, which may probably account for the scrupulous
care with which the people avoid touching it,
or meddling in any way with it after it is lighted,
and set in its place. If it is put out, or dies out of
itself before it comes to the very end, it is considered
most unlucky, as it betokens that a death shall take
place in the house before the next time that a

Christmas candle shall be lighted. It may therefore
be imagined, how cares ally it is watched, and guarded
from the hands of thoughtless children, a gust of
wind, or anything that would tend to upset, or even
shake it in the smallest degree.

When Oonagh had lighted the Christmas candle,
"in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and
of the Holy Ghosts she laid it reverently in its
place in the window, and then went to her father's
room, to sit up with him for the rest of the night.
He was asleep when she went in, so wrapping a
warm shawl round her, for the night was cold, she
sat down by the bed to commence her long, dreary
vigil. There was a candle burning on a small table
at the bed's foot, and it showed her the old man's
face as it was turned towards her. His temples
thinly covered by a few gray hairs were sunken, the
features were pinched and sharp, and over all was
a pained and anxious expression, that even sleep
could not smooth away. As she gazed on him, and
thought of all his care and love for her, she knelt
down beside him, and silently thanked God for the
grace He had given her, of never having wilfully
grieved that aged heart, or added by any disobedience
a single gray hair to that hoary head.

The long winter night wore on slowly, and silently,

VOL. I. N

and still the girl kept lier patient, and solitary watch.
Once or twice, she stole out to the kitchen, partly,
to stretch her limbs that were numbed from being
in the same position for a long time, as well as half
frozen from cold, and partly, to see if the Christmas
candle was still burning in the window. Imbued
with a large share of the superstition of her class,
and country, she was simple enough to think that
if it burned down brightly, and evenly, to the socket
of the candlestick, no one would die in that house
until Christmas Eve came round again. When she
had satisfied herself on this point, she went back
again to her father's room, to resume her watch,
and pray, and weep silently, as before.

About daybreak he awoke, and smiled faintly
when he saw the anxious face that was bent over
him.

^'Oonagh, alien dheelish/^ ^ he said feebly, 'daytime
is getting short, an' there is something on my
mind I must say to you before I go''

"I was within' myself to ax you if you had
any last word to say, or injunction to lay on me,"
she replied in a low, quiet voice. tell me now
whatever it is you'd like I'd do, an' I give you a

Alien hellish — My dearest daughter.

faithful promise, that, if life an health are left tome,
it will be done, wit God^s help''

I was an honest man ever an' always ^ he continued,
^^an^ all that ever came before me wor the
same. No one knows me better than you, Oonagh,
for every thought in my heart I made known to
you. Sure you wor all I had to open my heart to,
an you never ga me cause to be sorry for doing
it. Well, as I lived honest, I wouldn't like to menage
from that now that I'm going' to die, nor lave it to
any wan to say, that he lost by me or miner''

No wan can say that ov you, father. Sure you
don't owe anything, barren' what you owe to your
landlord ? "

Child, that's just what's throublin' me. The
rent that's due ov me is latin' on my heart. Part
ov the Michaelmas rent is due yet, an' March will
be here in no time, an' there is no money, nor
anything we could make it ov."

God will give it to us, father; never fear."

"The master is a good man, an," after a pause,
no wan was ever lavished, or dhruv to beggary
by him, or any man ov his name. That's well known
ov 'em. But that's no raison why the honest man
shouldn't get his own."

I'll do my living' best, father ; I can't say more."

N 2

"I know that, 'a cuslila macliree, but so itself.
You never could work this farm wit the load ov
debt that's hanging' down on it. If you wor a boy,
you might be able to do it by ninth ov hard slavery,
but what can a poor girsha do, but starve, an' starve,
an' break her heart over it ? No, darling', you never
could keep your holt here, unless you wor to
marry some wan that had money enough to clear
off the arrears, an' start fresh again. Is your heart
still set on John Molloy, Oonagh ? "

*^My mind is the same towards him that ever it
was," she replied, ^^an' if I don't marry him, I never
will marry any other man''

'swell, I'll say nothing so again' him. He came
in for good manes lately be the death ov his brother,
an' he may settle down now, an' have sense. I put
no dying' command on you regarding' him, wan way
or the other. Folly your own liken' ; you'll do what's
good an' sensible, an' nothing else. Marry him if
you like, but if his mind is changed to you — an'
I bear a good dale ov his matchmaking', here an' therein
the name ov God let him go. I lave you free
to do as you like; only, child, look well before you,
for want the words are said over you by Father
O'Rafferty, there is no go in' back."

She could only answer by pressing his hand in both

her own, and stroking ifc softly. She could not trust
herself to speak, lest she should utterly break down.

I^m getting drowsy agin/^ he said feebly, " but
before I go to sleep, kiss me want more, my loving'
dutiful child, that never grieved her ould father's
heart. May God reward you, an' mark you to grace,
san' give you loving' children ov your own, in good
time ! ''

He laid his withered hand in benediction on the
bright, young head that was bowed down beside him.
Exhausted by all this unusual excitement, he very
soon fell asleep again.

After some time, Oonagh rose from her knees, and
went out to the kitchen to look once more on the
sacred candle. When she opened the door communicating
with the kitchen, she found herself, to her great
horror, almost in total darkness, for there was no light
whatever but that of the cold, gray dawn struggling
in through the window. The Christmas candle
although not half burned down, was no longer
burning! It had probably been extinguished by a
sudden gust of wind. At this sight of ill omen, the
poor girl's fortitude completely deserted her. She
was weak from anxiety, and her nerves were all
unstrung from long-continued night watching. The
tears that she had hitherto succeeded in restraining,

lest the sight of them should have the effect of
disturbing her father, now burst forth unchecked, and
she wept long, and bitterly, for her heart was full
almost to bursting. With that sudden and unaccountable
extinguishing of the Christmas light, had gone
out her last desperate hope of her father's life.

And this was Christmas morning ! — the morning on
which the angels sang the first carol, and announced
to the world "tidings of great joy'; but to the
weary heart of this poor desolate girl, it had brought
nothing but sorrow, and despair.

AN IRISH COUNTRY WAKE.

Thou art the victor, Death !
Thou comest, and where is that which spoke
From the depths of the eye when the bright soul woke ? —

Gone with the fleeting breath.

Felicia Hemans.

The old man died in that sleep. He never even
moved again, and it might be said that he lead
ceased to exist, rather than that lie died. It was
by the ashen hue that spread gradually over bis face,
that the devoted daughter who knelt beside him
knew that he was gone, and that she was alone in
the world. Her only near relation was a sister of
her father's, who lived with her family at such a
considerable distance, that a meeting between them
was not a thing of frequent occurrence. Although
Oonagh did not know much of this aunt, yet her heart
yearned to her as the sister of her dead father, and

her first care was to send one of the men employed on
the farm, to the house of Mrs. Clancy, to acquaint her
with the fact of her brother's death. She was not
expected to arrive until late in the evening, as
Oonagh's messenger had to ride fully fifteen miles,
before he could reach her house.

The short winters day was spent in making all the
preparations that were considered necessary, for
observing the customary wake of such a decent man
as Martin MacDermott. Oonagh was so prostrated
by her excessive grief, and the fatigue of being for
many nights without sleep and almost without food,
that she was quite passive, but a kind neighbour came
in to do what she could to help her. This woman and
Molly set fco work vigorously, and made such good use
of their time, that long before night had set in,
everything was in readiness for the wake. The body
of the old man was "laid outs on the bed on which
he died, on sheets as white as snow, over which was
a handsome counterpane, borrowed for the occasion
from the housekeeper at Castle Cloyne. The wooden
roof of the bed was draped with white sheets, looped
up with bows of black ribbon, a sort of drapery that
had a weird, and solemn effect, making the dead face,
and rigid form beneath, look more awful than they
would have done if canopied only by the bare wood.

When this, and all the other details had been arranged
to their satisfaction, the two women sat down to rest
for a while, and contemplate the effect of their labours,
old Molly declaring that " the poor ould man was the
finest corp, that she had ever sot her two eyes on'

The next scene of their operations was the kitchen,
which after they had thoroughly cleaned, they
arranged in the manner suitable for such occasions.
Everything portable, with the exception of the chairs
and a couple of tables, was put out to the barn, so as
to make all the room possible for the numerous guests
that were certain to arrive before the night. Chairs
and seats of every description, borrowed from the
nearest neighbours, were ranged along by the walls.
A large table at the extreme end of the kitchen bore
a plentiful supply of cups and saucers, tumblers, and
glasses ; showing that though the cause of meeting
was a melancholy one, yet everything that could
conduce to the comfort of the mourners was near at
hand, and though they might be sad, yet certainly
they should not be either dry or hungry.

When the last sad rites had been rendered to the
dead, a considerable number of persons having by
that time arrived at the house, Oonagh, as being the
female next of kin to the deceased, stood up at the
head of the bed, and raised the first strain of that

most weird, and melancholy of all funeral chants,
the Irish keen! It would have been contrary to
all tradition, and custom, if this was done by any
other woman than the nearest relative, and not even
by her, untiFthe last dismal toilet had been completed,
and the defunct " laid outs Until then the mourners
should weep in silence, for it is a superstition
among the peasantry that loud lamentation has the
effect, not only of disturbing the last moments of
the dying persons, but even of drawing them back
from the heaven] to which their souls have taken
flight. But at the end of three hours, which time is
adopted in honour of the three hours that our Saviour's
body hung upon the cross — the death-cry is raised
by one woman's and all the other women who are
in the house join their voices with hers, to swell the
awful chorus of [the melancholy keen.

There are many circumstances that prove in the
most conclusive manner, the great antiquity, as well as
the Eastern origin of the Celtic family, and among
these, not the least noticeable is the peculiar way in
which they lament, and bury their dead. All the
ancient people of Avhom any knowledge has comedown
to us, bewailed their deceased friends with the
same elaborate ceremony, and passionate vehemence,,
that are practised by the Irish peasant of the present

day. In the sacred writings are numberless examples
of this among the Jews. We read there of "the
mourners going about the street, when man goeth to
his long home " ; of people rending their garments,
and strewing ashes on their heads, to denote the
intensity of their sorrow. When the Lord went to the
house of Jairus the ruler, whose daughter was dead,
He found " the minstrels and the multitude making a
routs' and He told them to give place, for that the
damsel was not dead but sleeping. When He went ta
Bethany to raise Lazarus from the dead, He found
that "many of the Jews had come to Martha and
Mary, to comfort them concerning their brothers
In the book of Jeremiah we read, " Call for the
mourning women, and let them come ; let them hasten,
and take up their lamentations There are many
more texts to the same effect to be found in tho
Scriptures. Later on, we find that the Greeks, who
were the most intellectual, as well as the most
imaginative of the ancients, sung the death-chant for
their lost friends, and doubtless they did so, not
altogether from sorrow, but because such occasions
called forth all the poetic, and graceful character of
their genius, and the majestic construction of their
beautiful language. The Romans employed hired
mourners, who were denominated " Moliere Praeficas,^''

to chant the death-song, which in the Latin was called
Ulnlo, nearly identical with the Irish Ullaloo. The
Irish, and the Scottish Highlanders, the two great
branches of the Celtic family — the most poetical, and
in many respects, the most conservative of modern
peoples — have from the earliest ages bewailed their
dead in the measured cadence, which is called by the
former, the Canine or Keen, and by the latter the
Coronach. The chieftain was borne to his last resting-place,
amid the piercing notes of the death-chant,
pealed forth by a thousand voices, and it was equally
poured forth for the poor peasant, who had died faraway
in his lonely cabin among the hills.

Who that has once heard the Irish keen, can ever
forget it ! There is a world of passionate sorrow, and
despair in the upper notes, and a world of pathetic
sweetness in the lower ones. Xow it swells out with a
sublime, and awful grandeur, piercing to the very
brain with its sharp, thrilling agony, and now it falls
with an infinite softness, and pathos, that go straight
to the heart, and fill the eyes with tears that cannot
be repressed. And all through this wail, wild and
barbaric as it is, there runs an exquisite melody,
a poetical cadence, which though harsh and savage in
the ears of the stranger, and the foreigner, are full of
beantv, and interest, for all who are the children of the

old sod. The deaths chant of the Celtic race is dying
away before the march of civilisation, and the hard
realities of this nineteenth century — morels the pity !
but it is not yet altogether dead. It still lingers in
the Scottish Highlands, and in the remote districts of
the south, and west of Ireland ; and in the latter, many
elderly women are still pointed out, who have obtained
much local celebrity as amateur, or professional
keepers.

Although that Christmas Day was a wet and
stormy one, yet the bad weather did not prevent
people from coming to the wake. Some of them
came from the immediate neighbour 'hood, and others
from a considerable distance. About nightfall they
began to come, dropping in singly, or in groups;
and later on, men came on horseback, with their
womenkind on pillions behind them, while their
clothes, saturated with rain, and splashed with mud,
showed that they had come a long distance. Among
those who came in this fashion, were Mrs. Clancy,
Oonagh^s aunt, and her husband, who had lost no
time in obeying her summons. As soon as they
alighted, the husband led his weary horse off to the
stable, while his wife hurried into the house to take
her part in the keen that would be raised on her
arrival, to do her special honour, as being, with

flie exception of this daughter, the only relative of the
deceased. Once more the wild, piercing wail arose,
and fell in the death-chamber, in mournful and passionate
strains, the leading voices being those of
Oonaofh, and her aunt, while all the other women
joined in the chorus, according to the time-honoured
custom observed on such occasions.

When the keen was over, Mrs. Clancy in the
most matter-of-fact manner, proceeded to the kitchen,
to get some refreshment for her husband, and herself,
which they both required after their long ride in
the wind and rain. As soon as the meal was over,
he sat down by the huge fire to smoke his pipe,
and discuss the latest news with all the other men
assembled there before him, and she went off to
make preparations for tea, and act for that night
as mistress of the house in Oonagh^s place. She
was a very active, bustling woman, who delighted
in making herself busy; and though her sorrow for
her only brother was truly sincere, yet she looked
forward with no little pleasure, to meeting many of
her old friends, and neighbours, that she had not
seen for a long time, and who would be sure to
come to the wake. In this expectation she was not
disappointed ; and between receiving, and conversing
with each new-comer, and dispensing the hospitality

of Ballycross, even though it was only pro tern., her
grief for the dead, and her sympathy with his orphan
daughter, were for a time relegated to the background.


At midnight the house was as full as it could
hold. The old, and the married men, were crowded
round the kitchen fire, smoking by turns, and talking
on whatever subjects most interested them. In the
background were the young men, and girls, talking
too after their own fashion,, and, if the truth must
be told, indulging here, and there, in a little sly
flirtation. In the death-chamber only were observed
the solemnity, and gravity, that were proper and
becoming. Oonagh sat at the head of the bed,
and though the elderly married women who kept
watch with her, spoke at intervals to each other in
drowsy, subdued whispers, she never spoke at all,
but sat wrapped up in her own sad thoughts. When
any one arrived who was either related to, or connected
with the family, the keen was again raised,
as a special compliment to that person. At the
first sound Mrs. Clancy forgot her duty as hostess,
and rushed into the room to take part in the cry,
in which she was assisted by all the other women,
especially by those who were considered good keepers,
and who felt no small share of pride in their proficiency

and skill. When that wild burst of grief
was over, tidings settled down again into the old
groove ; the women in the room with Oonagh began
to talk in the usual monotonous, sleepy tones, and
Mrs. Clancy went back very composedly to superintend
the distribution of innumerable cups of tea,
and glasses of punch, the manufacture of which
afforded her occupation for the rest of the night.

Among the young people at the upper end of the
kitchen were two persons whose conversational powers
were at all times in great request, and just now were
most generously exerted for the amusement of the
company. One of them was John Molloy, whose loud
voice, and extraordinary phraseology, were heard disputing
with every one that would listen to him, as he
tried with his usual impudence, and forwardness, to
engross the whole conversation, and force his own
opinions on the rest of the company, greatly to their
amusement, as was evident by the half-suppressed
laughter that went round after any of his stall
English The other person was Pat Flanagan, who,
being their landlord's " own man's was treated with
great respect, and listened to with more attention
than was paid to Pleasant John, of whom all the rest
got tired very soon.

'^ Come, Pat, tell us a pleasant story that will help

to pass the night for us/^ said one of the young
men.

'^Sorra story have 1" replied Pat; "there's
nothing at all stirring' about the place ; an' the master
is so bad ov late wit that cursed gout that 'tis
seldom I can lave the house'

But you read the newspapers, man, or you hear
the gentlemen upstairs reading', an' talking' about 'em
anyhow ; sure, 'tis all wan. What's the good ov living'
wit quality, if you don't hear some news now and
thin ? an' such a fine scotland, too, as you are ! Why,
twould be enough for the likes ov me, that can't read
or writOj to talk that a way."

'^ Well, I do get a squint at the papers sometimes,
I won't deny it. When they are read in the parlour
they are sint downstairs, an' then I have 'em all to
myself. I do be reading' 'em in the morning' while
I'm waiting for the master's bell, to call for his
clothes, that I'm after brushing', an the hot father
to shave himself."

'sis there any fighting' going' on anywhere?"
inquired an elderly man. " Sure, I remember that
when I was a houhal oge,^ we were always fighting'
'wit that limb ov the dive, ould Boney. 'isn't

"^ Belial Oge — Young boy.
VOL. I.

calling' him out ov his name to say lie was a dive's
limb, an' well I know it to my sad cost. My only
brother was badly throated by a girl he was very fond
ov, an' in a fit ov passion he listed in the Connaught
Rangers, an' he was kilt out there at a place called
Paddy voice,* an' many another decent boy along wit
him."

^^Why, thin, that reminds me ov a funny story
that I saw in a newspaper last week," observed Pat.
'' It was talking' ov the Connaught Rangers that put
me in mind ov it."

Oh ! let us have it, be all manes. 'Tis yourself,
Pat avick, that can tell a story well, an' sure, that's
no sort ov admiration, beau' all your life above at the
court."

'^ Oh ! that's neither here, nor there," replied Pat
modestly. "Howsomever, the story is a rale good
wan, if I can only remember all the ins, an' outs ov
it. Anyway, here goes."

At this there was a profound silence, and all the
company showed, by the attention with which they
listened to him, the great interest they took in the
promised story.

I suppose ye all hard ov a place called Spain ? "

Paddyjoice — Badajoz.

Where is it, ergo, an' what sort ov a place is it
at all ? "

I was never there myself, so I can't tell ye for
certain what sort ov a place it is; but I think it
is at this side ov America, only a dale nearer. The
master was there once, when he was a young man,
an he gives it great commendation intirely. Ah,
sure ye all hard ov it ; tis where we had all the
millia murther wit that ould Boney, the dive's luck
to the villain ! "

"Well, we heard tell ov the places

Well an' good ; if ye did, 'tis all right. We
have no more fighting' wit Boney, for he's dead an'
ferric long ago, an' 'twas rale spite an' madness
that he couldn't have any more fighting' that kilt him.
Sure, 'tis a queen they have now in Spain, instit ov
Boney. 'Tis the fashion now, you persuade, to have
queens instit ov kings."

Oyeh ! " This in a tone of great incredulity.

'^ Begot, 'tis the truth I'm tellin' ye. Sure, 'tis
a queen we have ourselves, for we wouldn't on any
account, be behindhand in the fashions. 'Isn't a
king we have over us at all, but Queen Victoria ;
becase, ye see, we're so genteel we must folly the
fashion."

Ignorant though his auditors were, they knew



that so far lie spoke the truth ; for very few among
the male part of them at all events, that had not
some knowledge of the formula on law papers
containing the words of " Our Sovereign Lady the
Queen's

'swell, the Queen ov Spain wasn't well in
herself at all lately, an she was ordered be her
doctors change ov air. She wasn't at all sorry,
for she had taken a great longing to see fortin
parts. So she got herself ready, an come over
to London to see life, an' get a little diversion out
ov herself. Ov course, she saw all the sights ov
London, an' 'tis there the great sights are, sure
enough. I was there wit the master some time
back, so you see I have a good right to know.

'well, whin the Queen ov Spain saw all that
was to be seen in London, she began to think that
it was almost time for her to pack her boxes, an'
start for home. There was only wan thing she
didn't see, an' that was a review ov the somers, an'
she didn't like to go without seen' that sight. So
she sint for the head man ov the army, an' would
him she had a great longing' intirely to see a review.
This was the Jook ov Cambridge, an' along wit
been' the head man ov the army, he was the Queen's
first cousin.

^ Oh ! wit all the pleasure in life,' ses the Jook.
'Anything at all to phase a lady ses he. 'An'
what day would it shut you to see a review ? '
ses he.

* The sooner the betters ses she, ' for my
trunks is all packed; an', moreover, I'm badly
wanted at home, for a lot ov laggard is making'
great disturbance there

* Would this day week shut you ? ' ses he. 'Or,
if you'd like it betters we could have it the day
after to-morea."

' That's the chalk, an' chalk it down ses she,
quite pleased ; * for my passage is taken for this day
week, an' if I don't go that day, I'll have to forfeit
the money.'

' All right,' ses he ; * we'll have the review
the day after to-morea, to phase you.'

'ran' sure enough, the day after to-morea, there
was a grand review in a part ov London called
Hyde Park; an' the Queen ov Spain was therein
a fine open carriage, wearing' her best clothes,
though the rogue ov the world portended before,
that they wor all packed up. An' the Jook ov
Cambridge was there, alongside the carriage, on
horseback, to show her everything, an' point out
all the manoeuvres an' variations ov the review.

Then it was all over, he told lier that the somers
would marli past, to give lier a great salute, in honour
ov her been' the Queen ov Spain.

"'TVho are thin ? ' ses she, when a judgment past
by.

^' ' Thin is the Guards ses he. ' Aren't they
fine min ? '

*■ Hem,' ses she, ' they're well enough.'

'^ ' They're the finest min in the British service,
or in any other service either,' ses he. ^ That's given
up to them be very good judges,' ses he.

^ There's good judges wan way, an' good judges
the other way,' ses she. ' I wouldn't fancy them
much myself.'

' You're hard to be pleased,' ses he. ' But here's
the Highlanders ; you can't deny but thin is fine
clever min,' ses he, ^ an' no mistake.'

'^ ' I'm denying' nothing,' ses she. * Have it your
own way.'

'swell, to make my story short, he couldn't get
her to give as much as wan word ov praise to any
ov the judgments that marched past her carriage,
after all the trouble he had in getting' up the review
to phase her. At last he got quite offended, which
was no admiration in life, and looked as black as
twelve o'clock at night.

' Who is thin ? ' ses she, when they wor all
nearly past.

'' ' Thin is the seth Judgments ses he.

' Oh, bloody wars ! ' ses the Queen ov Spain. ' Is
thin the poor ould Fag-a-ballaghs ? ''

' I don-'t know what you mane be that nicknames
ses he, as stiff as a crutch. ' They're Her Majesty's
seth Judgment ov fut, or Connaught Rangers ses he.

^' ' Thin's the somers that I have the grew* for ses
she, ' an' why wouldn't I ? Sure they come from poor
ould Ireland, an' all the world knows, that Ireland
an' Spain is related on the double. I know thin fine
fells well ses she, san' I have every raison to be
thankful to 'em.'

^ They're great fighters, I'll own to that,' ses
he. ' But they're not a bit better than the rest that
you turned up your nose at.'

^' ' Oh, ma grille cJiree 'hu !-\ was every mother's
son ov ye ! ' ses she, when the rogers was passion'
by ; an' she stretched out her two hands to 'em. * It's
long till I'd put ye in comparison wit any ov 'em,
for ye're the flower ov the flock, if as many more
wor in it,' ses she.

'*■ '' Are you tract, woman ? ' ses the Jook, getting*

Grew — Love.

t Ma grille three liu! — My heart's delight !

into a great fury. ' TVliat do you mane be making' a
holy stow OY yourself, before all the decent people
that's in it ? ^ ses he.

'' ' Oh, lay me alone ! ' ses she. * Ton don't know
what's going' through my heart this mint. 'Tis aise
enough for you to be lector' me this way ses she,
when me, an' my little sister, an' our poor mother,
wor obliged to be hiding', and flying' from post to
pillar, without a screed to our backs an' thin poor
Irishmen fighting' our battles an' takin' our part whin
we wor down in the world ses she, ' an' I'm not the
wan to forget ould friendship,' ses she.

"*I like a joke well enough,' ses he, 'but fair
play's a jewel aU the world over. It is aise enough
wit yon to be talking'. Faix, 'twas yourself that was
high, an' dry, when we wor taking' your part, an'
spending' our money in your cause, the same as if
golden guineas wor only sandstones, an' sindin' our
fine min to be kilt and murthered intirely, for the
sake ov yourself, an' that ould fagot ov a mother ov
yours ses he.

'- ^ Why, thin,' ses the Queen ov Spain, ' what did
my poor mother ever do to you, to make you bally-rag
her, an' call her out ov her name ? ' ses she.

* Oh, by George ! as you put it to me that way,
I don't mind teUin' yon,' ses he. * Sure, 'tis no secret.

anyhow, for the whole 'vassal world hard it. Didn't
she go and demand herself be marrying' a private
sober that was standing' sentry outside her parlour
windy, though her husband was only a month
ferric ! ' ses he. ' If you call that decent behavior,
I don't know what you'll say next ses he. When
we put yer foes under yer fut, an lint ye money
afterwards to set ye up in housekeeping', an' thought
to be paid after a little time, 'twas the heighth ov
abuse we got from ye, instit ov our hard cash. An'
sure, 'tis well known, how ye stole a march on us in
regard ov yer matchmaking', an' never had the
decency to invite any ov us to yer wedding', after
all we done, an' all we lost by ye. To hear you talk,
honest woman, one would suppose that you took me
to be a common omadhawn,' ses the Jook."

The narrator of this veracious history paused as
soon as he had come to this part of his story.

Go on, Pat ! Go on, man alive ! What did
the Queen ov Spain say to the Jook thin ? I hope she
gave him tit-for-tat. Begot, that was great intirely ! "

All those exclamations came from different voices,
showing the great interest that was taken by the
company in what was a story in more respects than one.

"Well, I'm rale sorry I can't give ye the rest
ov it," said roguish Pat, with a very grave face, " for



when I got as fair as that, the paper was tore. Sorra
a lie in it. Fake an' sure ! I was as much disappointed
myself as any ov ye, for I was longing to
know how the battle royal indeed. I searched the
house, high up an' low down, for the bit that was tore
off, but I never come across it. I'm thinking' that the
kitchen maid put a hand in it, to light the fire wit it."

*' Oh, what a pity ! I'm sorry now that I heard the
bignin' ov the story, as I can't hear the ind. Fd
bet any money that she was well able for him. Oh !
never fear, the women are great intirely, when it
comes to handling' their tongues. My hand to you,
she gave it to him, an' he was a deserve ov it surely,
for it was a mane thing ov him to throw her mother
in her teeth. Well, if you believe me, it was a dale
manor to boast ov the money he lint her." All this
and as much more in the way of comment, proved
what an appreciative audience Mr. Pat Flanagan told
his story to, and how firmly the poor ignorant people
believed in it.

The only dissenting voice was that of Buck Molly,
who was not quite so ignorant as the rest. Besides
this, he had sat all through, swelling with mortified
vanity, on seeing another engrossing that share of
general attention which he thought should in right of
his own superior merit, belong exclusively to himself.

'' I objectionable that narrations he said dictatorially.
" I objectionable it in the most obnoxious
complication. Confusion to the word of truth is in
it from bignin' to ind, as I can prove by entering'
into a concatenation, an disquisition on the head ov
it, wit any of the gentleman here present."

*^ Barra, hould your whisht, you great big ape!"
said the elderly man before mentioned. " You're not
fit to hould a candle to Pat Flanagan, in the way ov
discourse, nor never was, though you don't think so
yourself. Sure he goes in, an' out, ov the parlour
at Castle Cloyne, an hears what the quality do be
saying' there ; moreover, he's a bright boy himself, an'
has paper an' books galore to lay his hands on, whenever
he has the time for it, an' signs on, he's very
knowledgable, an mighty pleasant company for a
piece ov a night."

This decided opinion of the elderly man settled
the dispute, and Shawn Sugagh, finding the tide
running against him, went away. The rest of the
company began to leave also by degrees, and by
six o'clock there was no one in the house but a few
old women who sat in the '^ corp room," shivering in
the chill air of the cold winter's morning, and almost
stupefied for want of sleep.

A Stormy DEBATE.

Alas ! how light a cause may move'
Dissension between hearts that love.

TnoiiAS Moore.

Mes. Clancy remained with her niece for a few days
after the funeral, to set things to rights, as she
expressed it, a task for which Oonagh herself was
for the present quite unequal. She went over the
farm from end to end, examining everything with
a keen and experienced eye, and saw with surprise,
and dismay, that all there was not in the flourishing
condition that she had imagined. The live stock
was much reduced, and there was but a poor prospect
of sowing the seed in the spring, as the ground had
not been sufficiently manured or prepared for it.
She was surprised at all this, for her brother, when
they last met, had made no complaint to her, and

consequently lie had hoped that the hard times
had not pressed so sorely on him, as they had done
on others, and like all who are themselves in fairly
good circumstances, she could not ascribe this unfortunate
state of things to any other cause than
carelessness, or gross mismanagement. However,
she was wise enough to keep this opinion to herself,
but she resolved to take OonagVs assails into her
own hands for some time to come, and see if she
could not put them into a more satisfactory condition.
In the meantime she would look out for a suitable
husband for her niece, a person who would be
possessed of sufficient capital to free the land from
all debt, stock it newly, and bring it back again
to something like its old state of prosperity. In this
well-meaning if injudicious plan, she had not the
least idea of meeting with any opposition from
Oonagh, who would be only too glad, she argued,
to chime in with a plan that was not only usual
and natural, under the circumstances, but one of
manifest advantage. She knew that her niece was
soft and gentle, but she did not know the depth
of her character, the wisdom with which she could
form her own plans, and the quiet determination
with which she could carry them out.

Early in the day on which this notable bustling

woman was to return home, lie and Oonagh were
at breakfast, tete-astute, for Molly and the men were
absent on outside business, and sbe thought it was
a good time to impart her views to ber niece on the
subject that engrossed so much of her own attention.
"When I go home now/^ she began, "Fll sind
you one ov the boys, either John or Martin, whichever
you like yourself, to manage the place for awhile,
until things are put right somehow. You're not
aiquil to manage such an extensive farm as this
yourself, an' until you get a man ov your own to doit,
wan ov my boys can do it for you.^^

*"' Thank you, aunt, for thinking' ov it, but "

^' Oh ! don't say another word ; tis no compliment
in life, an if it was itself, you're heartily welcome
to it. Sure, I'm the only relation you have in the
world, barring the Carroll that went to America, an
wor lost on the passage — the Lord be betune us an'
harm ! — an' if I don't look after you, I'd like to
know who would. Blood is thicker than water all
the world over. My sons are both as good, clever
boys as a mother ever reared, though I say it that
oughtn't to say it ; but, sure, that's neither here or
there. So you can say now which ov 'em I'm to
sind hither to you. I'll go bail he'll do his living'
best wit the farm, an' it wants that, for it was greatly

neglected this long time to all appearance, in regard
ov your poor father been' so long sick."

'^ Thank you kindly, aunt a thousand times over,
but your own bisness is too heavy to let you spare
either ov the boys."

Oh, don't mind that. Sure if either ov 'em
was a dale better, you're welcome to him for as
long as you want him. That won't be long, please
goodness, for next Shrove we'll have some decent,
clever boy that will settle himself wit you for good
an' all."

''I won't be married next Shrove, nor maybe
never at all, so you may as well put marriage forme
out ov your head."

'tut, tut; that's all the ramash^ ov a foolish
young girl that doesn't know her own mind. Your
heart is sore yet, 'a grew gell, an you don't like the
thought of a bachelor at all. But so itself; this
time twelve months you'll be singing' a song ov another
tune, an' that's only what it ought to be. Ov course,
it isn't in nature that you could live here by yourself,
an' moreover you never could manage this large farm,
an' all the work people in it without a comrade."

'^ I thought ov everything, an' turned it all over

JRa}7i(Xs7t— Noiiseiue.

in my minds until my poor head is fairly addled from
tMnkin'/^ said the weary girl with a sigh. " But it
all comes to wan thing in the end."

An' what is that, ergo ? "

I must sell the land."

Sell the land ! '' exclaimed Mrs. Clancy in a voice
of the greatest consternation, and astonishment, '^ sell
the land ! Oh, queen ov Heaven ! did any wan ever
hear the like ? ''

'^Tm as sorry myself, aunt, as you are, but what
can I do ? "

'^ What can you do, is it ? Eyeh ! what would you
do, but just what Fm tellin' you? Let wan ov my
boys manage for you till Shrovetide, an' then marry
some decent, honest man, that'll have a trifle ov
money. You'll have the land an' he'll have the
arrighidh,^ an' I'd like to know what's to prevent
ye both from been' very happy together. That's what
you're to do, an' a good sensible thing it will be."

The poor girl sighed, and as she did so, her hand
came involuntarily in contact with the broken sixpence
that lay concealed in her bosom.

^' Sell the land, inagh ! Why, Oonagh, you must
be tract, to think ov it even. It is the best farm on

ArrigMdh — Money.

Mr. Dillon's estate, for the size ov it, an' you talk ov
it just the same as if it was only a cabbage garden, oran
acre of bog''

I'm just as fond of the place as yourself, but it is
in debt, an' the debt must be paid. Sure you know-well
that Mr. Dillon must be paid his rent, an' where
is that to be got if I don't sell the place ? As for
marrying' a man just for the sake ov his money, 'isn't
a thing that I could ever bring my mind to. An' well
as I love Ballycross, I'd far sooner sell it than sell
myself."

'' Oh, holy Saint Bridget ! did ever any wan hear
the like since the world began ? Oonagh MacDermott,
you're out ov your mind, that what's you are, an' if
you don't show more sense and raison than what
you're coin' now, I'll have you sint to the madhouse
in Limerick, until this mad fit is well taken out ov you."

Oonagh smiled at this ridiculous threat.

You think I wouldn't do it," said Mrs. Clancy in
great wrath ; " see if I don't ! It would be hard on
me, I own, to have people say madness was in my
family, in regard ov my two little girls that aren't
preferred yet, but I'd sooner do it than let you make
such a world's wonder ov yourself. Och marine !
was there ever such a heart-scalded poor woman as
what I am this day ! " and covering her face with

VOL. I. p

lier apron, lie rocked herself back, and forward ina
paroxysm of the wildest grief.

"Dear aunt, I can't bear to see you fretting
like this' said Oonagb, rising, and laying her hand
softly on Mrs. Clancy's shoulder. " Sure if you'd
only hear to raison, you'd see it is the best thing
that I can do. I can't bear to see you so vexed,
but all the same, I'd like to give everyone his due,
an' not let any wan say he was a loser by my good,
honest father."

Don't spake to me, Oonagh MacDermott ! Don't
come near me, I tell you ! Oh, vo, vo ! Did I
ever think I'd live to see such a black, woful day !
To see the splendid, fine farm, that belonged to my
father, an' his father before him, an' that they worse
proud ov, an' the fine slated house on it that I
was born in, going for a song, an' I obliged to
stand by, an' let it go. 'Tis for my sins, surely, that
I'm condemned to pass through such a fiery furnish —
what else ? "

Oonagh waited patiently until this burst of passion
would subside. When it did so after some moments,
she sat down again, and resumed the conversation
with her usual composure of manner, and gentleness
of voice, as if there had not been such a stormy
interruption to it.

'^ You see, aunt, there's nearly two years' rent
due ov the land, an' where am I to make out that
much money, if I don't sell it ? The master, I own,
was very indulgent, an' patient wit us, but you know
that wouldn't go on always. He has his own calls,
an' he's not a rich man be no manner ov manes,
an' he'd have to eject me in the long run, an' so
I'd make nothing at all by holding' on. Isn't it
better for me to sell it, an' get something for my
interest in it, an' clear my good father's name,
than have the sheriff come down on me, an' lave
me nothing at all ? '^

'' What signifies two years' rent?" said Mrs. Clancy.
'^ Sure 'tis nothing but a drop in the ocean to Mr.
Dillon, an' the like ov him. He ought to remember
that you are the last ov a good ould stock, that
lived on his ground for hundreds of years, an' that
it was your mother that nursed his own daughter
into the bargain. He'll forgive you every pinny if
you only go the right way to work wit him, an'
thin you can begin a new score wit him as fresh
as a daisy. He never could stand the country if
he threw you out on the wide world, an' you all
that's left after your decent father."

'' An' is it because I am the last after my decent
father, that I'm to bring discredit on his name ? '^

F 2

exclaimed Oonagli, while a proud light kindled in
her clear earnest eyes. 'ran' is it because I am
the foster sister ov his daughter, that Fd do what
would make her ashamed ov me ? ]\iiss Grace Dillon
must never have cause to say that the milk she got
from my mother wasn't honest, an' three ! "

"Have it your own way," cried her aunt; "but
I renounce it. I'll not have hand act, or part in it."

She had ceased crying by this time , and now sat
back in her chair defiantly, with her arms folded
beneath her ample chest , and her lips tightly compressed.
Oonagh might sell the house and land,
and burn all the furniture in a colossal holocaust, but
she would never interfere again, at any time, or under
any circumstances whatever. Never !

'^I have no way ov pain' this heavy load ov debt
but just to let everything go," said the poor girl, as
if speaking to herself, while at the same time she
looked out on the green fields that she loved so well.
God knows — an' He knows everything — that I'd
live on a male a day, an' work my fingers to the
bone, if I thought there was a chance ov my being
able to keep the farm ; but there is no chance, former !
While I'd be striven' to pay what's due, more rent
would be risen' on me, an' there would be wages,
an' rates, an' taxes, an' how could I work the land

with any advantage an' pay all, when there is hardly
as inch as a cow on it ? "

There is a cow on it' cried the aunt, forgetting
her late declaration of non-interference. " I saw
her myself this morning' in the cow-houses

'' She is sold, or as good as sold. Anyway, she's
old, an' running' out ov her milk, an' won't sell for
much; but whatever she brings, I want it to pay
Dan Ryan for the coffin that he "

^''Let him wait for it," interrupted Mrs. Clancy,
with a toss of her head.

'^ He can't do that, for he's a poor man wit a
long young family, an' I know myself that he was
obliged to run tick for the timber that made it.
An' moreover, if I was never to handle another
shilling bryant the price ov that cow, I couldn't
bear to think that the bones ov my good, loving'
father wor lying' in a coffin that wasn't paid for."
And as she spoke, Oonagh's face was lighted up
with emotion.

It is the last straw that is said to break the camel's
back. This last speech filled up the cup of Mrs.
Clancy's wrath.

"An' div you think, Oonagh MacDermott, that
I'm going' to sit any longer here listening' to your
tract ramasli ? " she exclaimed, rising up with great

majesty. '^As you'll neither lade nor thrive for my
bidden', I have no more to do but to rise out ov you.
May God direct you, little girl as Vm not able todo
it."

She took down her ample blue cloth cloak from
the peg on which it hung behind the doors and put
it on with great deliberation. Then she opened the
door, and passed out without even glancing towards
her niece.

^^ Oh, aunt, where are you going ? " cried Oonagh,
running after her, and trying to bring her back again
into the house. But the irate old dame was not to
be mollified.

"Let go my cloak, child, an' let me go my ways.
I see plainly that I have no bisness in this house,
an' moreover that I'm not wanted there,"

But sure the horse isn't come for you at all yet,
an' you never could walk from this to your own place"'

I'll they it, anyhow.'^

But the sky looks very black intirely, an' Fm
in thread that we'll have a power ov rain. You'll
be wet to the very skin before you're over a mile ov
the road."

So itself. I'm neither sugar nor salt, that I'd
melt just o' count ov a drop ov rain."

'' Ob, aunt, ashore macLree ! don't lave me this

a way ! " pleaded the poor girl, who was now crying
bitterly. "Don't lave me in anger, for my dead
father's sake. I'm very miserable, an' desolate without
that, if you only knew but all''

Mrs. Clancy, however, was not to be appeased by the
tears and entreaties of her weeping niece, but in high
dudgeon closed her heart against the streaming eyes,
the sensitive, quivering mouth, the clinging hands, and
the broken voice imploring her to stay with her " for
her dead father's sake." She strode down the path to
the stile with a sturdy step and a sullen brow, without
ever looking back to where the poor orphaned girl was
sobbing convulsively.

Don't mind her, 'a cushla real," cried old Molly,
who had returned from the dairy in time to be a
witness of the latter part of this scene. " The ould
garron ! 'tis a gizzard that's inside ov her instead ov a
heart, an' a very hard one it is too. She was ever an'
always a great collector ov a woman, an sure I'm not
the only wan that says it ov her. Alliloo ! 'tis she that
makes that poor disciple ov a husband ov hers shake
in his shoes. My hand to you, she makes him sing
his Kyrie Ellison in gallant style. You're well rid ov
the ould Shedioge,* an' if she get's drownded itself,

Shedioge — A bloated, puffed-up woman.

she wants something that'll cool her. Sure she never
came to the house while your poor father lived — the
Heavens be his bed this day ! — but she was sure to
light a icisp before she went away again. Whisht now,
Oonagh, whisht, hanna hellish ! Come in out of the
could, an' I'll make a cup ov tay for yourself, and
myself, that'll rise our hearts, an' dear knows we want
that same. The cross-grained ould fagot ! don't fret
yourself no more about her. She's gone now, thank
goodness, an' if we never see her again, that the sight
ov our eyes may never fail us ! "

Canvassing THE COUNTY.

I will, sir, flatter my sworn brother, the people, to earn a

decent estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account

gentle ; and since the wisdom of their choice is rather to have

my hat than my heart, I will practise the insinuating nod, and

be off to them most counterfeit. Therefore, beseech you, I

may be consul.

Shakespeare.

About this time an event occurred which created
no small sensation in the county, and particularly in
the estate of Castle Cloyne. This was nothing less
than a vacancy in the representation of the county,
caused by the sitting member having accepted the
Chiltern Hundreds. He had gone with his party-through
thick and thin, to use his own expression ;
was in his place in the House punctually, whenever
any question of the least importance was before it,
and waited with the most exemplary patience for the
good time coming, when the loaves and fishes should

fall to the side that he had supported with such
steady regularity. His patience and devotion to the
party he had attached himself to were after sometime
rewarded in a very satisfactory manner. There
was a division in the House on a very important Irish
question, and by a majority as overwhelming as it
was unexpected, the Ministry was defeated, and Her
Majesty's Opposition found themselves once more
seated on the Treasury bench. The new Ministers
did not forget the faithful adherents who had stood
by them so gallantly in the days of their adversity,
and among them was the gentleman who had vacated
his seat in Parliament by accepting the Chiltern
Hundreds, preparatory to accepting also a very
influential, and lucrative situation in the Colonies.

No sooner was it known that there was a vacancy
in the representation of the county, than a number
of candidates came forward; each of them hoping
that the successful one would be himself. There
were at least " six Richmond in the fields all eagerly
setting forth their own claims on the popular favour ;
but as the day of nomination drew near, the six
dwindled down to two. The other four, in sporting
parlance, had got out of the running, for seeing that
their chances of success were growing less and less
as time went by, they considered that the better

part of valour was discretion, and prudently retired
from a contest whiclij if persevered in, would end
in certain defeat, made still more grievous by an
enormous bill of costs.

Of the two gentlemen who had resolved on coming
to the poll, Mr. Dillon of Castle Cloyne — who had
not lost courage by his former defeat — was the most
popular; though many of his best friends disapproved
of his tempting fortune once more. They considered
that it was unwise of a man so largely in debt, to
encounter the heavy expense of a contested election,
and by so doing add still more to the grievous burden
laid on a property already heavily weighted, simply
for the empty gratification of writing two additional
letters after his name. Some of them went so far
as to say, that they hoped the poor old gentleman
wasn't " losing his head," and that some kind friend
*^ who was for his goods'' would in charity interfere,
and counsel, or compel him, to abandon a course that
was sure to end in disaster, and ruin.

The solitary opponent that remained to Mr. Dillon,
was a wealthy Manchester manufacturer who was
ambitious of a seat in the Imperial Parliament, and
hoped that by literally paving his way with gold, he
would get into it on the shoulders of an Irish constituency.
His agents were in every part of the county

scattering money broadcast — in an underhand covert
way it is true, for they remembered that there were
such things as petitions against bribery, and corruption
— but still surely, and with no niggard hand.
Mr. Dillon had not much gold to scatter, but he also
did some strokes of business in the way of bribing, as
far as his purse, which was slender, and his credit,
which still held good, allowed him. In every other
respect but that of money, he had far and away, the
advantage of the rich Englishman. He was no
stranger, but native born. He was a resident landlord;
one of the 'would stock,' ^ whose fathers had lived
in Castle Oloyne from time immemorial, and been
connected with both the gentry, and the people by
many old, and fast ties of kindred, and association.
Personally, Mr. Dillon was greatly liked by all classes,
and conditions of men. By his own equals, and by
the respectable middle class, he was popular for his
genial manners, his unbounded hospitality, and lastly,
because he had come from a family that had for ages
been identified with the soil. By the peasantry he
was almost idolised, because he professed their own
creed ; a creed to which all his race had clung with
passionate devotion through the darkest periods of
Irish history, for which many of them had given their
lives, and many more of them had abandoned property,

and home, and country, to die exiles in foreign lands.
Stories of their heroism, their honourable poverty
uncomplainingly borne, and their chivalrous bravery,
which had made the name of Irishman respected allover
Europe, still lingered among the people, who now
called to mind, and dwelt upon them, with a fond and
exultant pride. Mr. Dillon lived among them, and
spent his fortune in the country that produced it. He
was by no means a hard landlord, but on the contrary
reasonably indulgent to his tenants, and was called
emphatically " the poor manes magistrates The son
was quite as popular as the father, for to all the
father's good qualities, Hyacinth added youth, good
looks, and a happy temperament that bathed everything
it came in contact with, in its own joyous
sunshine. So all things considered, *the cotton-spinners'
as Mr. Milestone was irreverently termed
by a certain class of the constituency — who, though
they had no votes, had voices — had a most formidable
opponent in Mr. Dillon, even if his money bags were
twice as full, and their contents dealt out with a still
more lavish hand.

It may be asked what it was that had induced the
chaster of Castle Cloyne, at his advanced age, and
in his straitened circumstances, to wish for a seat in
Parliament. Not only had he a reason, but he had

many, all of them appearing to him good and
sufficient ones. In the first place, he wanted to
obtain freedom from arrest, wliicli impecunious
members of the Imperial legislature regard as one
of their greatest privileges. For many months he
had been '' on his keeping." Several writs were out
against him, and more than one execution in the hands
of the sheriff, while the bailiffs were lurking about the
gates of his demesne, in a most persistent manner, at all
hours between sunrise and sunset. His house was literally
in a state of siege. All the windows on the ground
floor were once more fastened down securely from
the inside, and the doors guarded by short iron chains
drawn across them, which were never slipped off the
hooks wide enough to admit any one to enter until
it was first ascertained beyond all doubt, that he who
sought admittance was neither a bailiff, nor a dun.
This state of things, though by no means any novelty
in Mr. Dillon's experience, was very displeasing to
him personally, as well as galling to his pride, and
the only way by which he could put an end to it was
by becoming a member of Parliament. He would
most willingly have paid every shilling he owed if he
could, but as that was not possible, there was no use
in worrying himself about it, neither could he bear
to be always a prisoner. He was resolved to be no

longer ''a Sunday man," but free to breathe the pure
air of heaven and to come and go as it pleased him ;
free to hunt and shoot, and take the place in his native
count jj that he was well entitled to by his birth and
fortune. These were all great privileges, and it was
surely worth his while, he thought, to run some risk to
obtain them.

Then again, no Dillon of Castle Cloyne had ever
sat in Parliament since the first penal laws against
the Catholics were enacted several hundred years
ago for since the passing of the Emancipation Act,
by which they were all repealed, one thing or another
had always arisen to prevent it. When that famous
Act became part of the law of the land, Dominic
Dillon was a minor, and when he did attain his
majority, and for some years after it, there was no
vacancy in the representation of the county. When
it did occur he tried his chance, as we have seen, but
without success, and another man went to St.
Stephen's, and sat in the seat that he so greatly
coveted. But now at last the long-wished-for
opportunity presented itself once more, and he had
not self-denial, or common sense enough to let it go
by. This time matters looked more propitious than
they did on the former occasion ; at least everyone
told him so, and he fully believed them. To all

appearance, there was not only a probability, but
an absolute certainty that lie-would be at the bead
of the poll, and that at the end of several centuries,
a Dillon of Castle Cloyne would be the sitting member
for his native county.

In his family pride, as well as in his longings for
senatorial distinction, Mr. Dillon had the keen
sympathy, and ardent co-operation of his son. The
young man was ambitious, and thought that a seat
in Parliament was the first step in the path of honour,
that was newly opened to the family. With the
buoyant and versatile spirit of youth, he panted for
change, for excitement, for any new turn of the
wheel that would effect a change in the dull monotony
of a country life, and give it some colour, and
variety. When his father should be elected, he
would accompany him to London ; they would enjoy
their lives there, and breathe at last free from the
worry of bailiffs, and the impertinence of duns.
Lodgings in some old-fashioned street, or square, was
not a very brilliant prospect to look forward to, but
then the chain would not be drawn across the inside
of the hall-door, from sunrise to sunset, on six days
of the week. He would be sure to find in the Great
Babylon some outlet for the restless, and superabundant
energy that was consuming him, soul and body, like

a smouldering fire. A season in London, lie argued,
would be worth ten years of the dull routine of Castle
Cloyne ; and Hyacinth, with, the Dillon blood in his
veins never for a moment doubted the certainty of
having the entree of the best circles at the West End.
He would there make the acquaintance of many
young men who, though they might exceed him in
wealth, or social rank, could not, however, do so in
long descent, or in unsullied reputation. Hyacinth,
poor fellow, had a great deal to learn and to endure
before he could acquire the wisdom that only comes
from rubbing shoulders with the world, and taking
to heart the lessons and the sad experience that are
sure to be taught in its stern school !

The only thing that gave either father or son any
trouble, was the expense of the election. Where was
that to come from ? The county was to be traversed
from end to end, to canvass the electors, and " entreat
their most sweet voices' There were agents to be
paid, and votes to be purchased — of course on the sly —
and accounts to be opened with the hotels and public-houses
at the various polling places, for lodgings,
food, and drink galore for the freeholders, and stabling
and provender for the horses of such of them as
should have a long distance to come. Then a mob
should be organised in every town, and well paid;

VOL. I. Q

otherwise their performances in the way of shouting,
cudgelling, and abusing the opposite faction, would to
a certainty be of a very languid, if not neutral,
character. If the thing were to be done at all, it
should be done handsomely; there would be neither
credit nor profit in half measures, to say nothing of
the risk of ultimate defeat. A good old family was
not to be let go to the wall, on account of a few
beggarly thousands; that was clear.

But once more, where were the thousands to begot?
To be sure there were five thousand pounds
vested in trustees, the fortune of the late Mrs. Dillon,
and by her marriage articles settled on younger
children, and as there were no younger children but
Grace, it would all come to her. She was perfectly
willing to give up her right to this money, but she
wanted two years of being of age, and consequently
her signature was not worth the paper it was written
on. The trustees were both dead, but their representatives
altogether declined making themselves
responsible, by consenting to have the money drawn,
or even any part of it. Miss Dillon would be sure
to marry, and her husband and children would hold
them, to the last shilling they possessed, accountable
fOT her five thousand pounds. It was very disobliging
of them, Mr. Dillon and his son said ; very mean and

shabby too for the money would surely be made good,
long before Grace came of age. Even if it was not
forthcoming then — as the trustees shrewdly anticipated
— neither lie nor anyone on her behalf would
ever do so base a thing as to turn round on the
guardians of her fortune and compel them to pay
it a second time, to their own grievous wrong. But
the trustees — hard-headed men of the world — were
obdurate, and refused to let the money they held
for the young lady be swallowed up in the bottomless
pit of a contested election. They put no faith in the
solemn assurance that it should be refunded to the
last farthing; appearing to think that all the probabilities
lay quite on the other side. Disappointed
in this expectation, the Dillon had no other alternative
than to negotiate a fresh loan at very hio-h
interest or, as Terry Macnamara, their nearest relation
and most intimate friend, pithily expressed it, '^ to kill
another pig."

So the " pig '^ was killed accordingly, and another
mortgage laid on the estate, in addition to all the
others with which it was already so heavily burdened.
Then when the " sinews of war ^^ were in readiness,
Mr. Dillon issued his address to the electors. It was
a very clever composition, as well it might be, considering
that four persons were occupied for nearly

Q 2

a week in putting it together. The quartette consisted
of Mr. Dillon and his son, Terry Macnamara, and
Father O'Rafferty, the parish priest ; and all the
friends of the family agreed that it was the ablest
and most convincing document that had ever been
issued from the press. It set forth the claims of
Mr. Dillon to the suffrages of the electors, which
were in truth so palpable as to need no exaggeration :
the hundreds of years in which his family had been
rooted in the soil; their continual residence among
their own people, and great sympathy with them,
and challenged their opponent to prove that a bad
or an exacting landlord had ever been known among
the family of Castle Cloyne. This last part was Mr.
Dillon's own composition, and it contained more
truth than is generally to be found in election
addresses. The next paragraph alluded to the bravery
of the Dillon, which had been proved not only at
home, but on every battle-field in Europe, where they
had distinguished themselves as gallant soldiers and
chivalrous gentlemen. This part was written at the
dictation of Terry Macnamara, who having proved
his courage by three times " facing his manse'' on the
sod early in the morning, was entitled to be called
an authority on all affairs of duelling or pitched
battle. But the pith and marrow of the document

was that which was inspired by the priest for it
reminded the electors of that great Catholic county,
that the Castle Cloyne family had in the worst of
times adhered with great constancy to the old faith,
and had lost and suffered much in consequence of that
fidelity. The address concluded with the usual
stereotyped flourish of calling on the electors not
to be bribed by English gold, but to hold their votes
as a sacred trust to be given to an Irishman, one of
themselves, one of their race and creed, and one
who was ready to die in their service !

Great was the enthusiasm called forth by this
address when it made its appearance in the county
newspapers, and was posted up in large type on the
gates of the chapels, and on all the posts and dead
walls in every town and village. The address of
Mr. Eagles tone, . the candidate in the Conservative
interest, was torn down, or bespattered plentifully with
mud ; his agents were insulted, and any one who was
known to have promised him a vote, or to wish him
well was called opprobrious names, and held up as a
mark for the finger of public scorn. So great was the
general excitement, and so high did party spirit run,
that an additional force of police was sent into the
county, to assist in keeping the peace, and protect
the freeholders who came to the poll, from being

maltreated. Two different mobs, well primed with
whisky, and bearing flags that displayed emblems
considered appropriate to the occasion, paraded the
streets of the towns and villages, paid by the two
candidates ; and many were the shillelaghs flourished
and the '^ scrimmages " fought during the few days that
preceded the nomination, when " the barley got abuse
the bree." But as the belligerents were not killed, but
only ^^kilt entirely' and as no greater wounds were
inflicted on either side than could be easily cured by a
poultice, or a bit of sticking plaster, the police, who
expected this sort of thing as part of the usual
routine of a contested election, wisely took little or
no notice of the desultory warfare that was waged in
the streets, or the furtive skirmishing that went on
round corners, and in the back lanes. They knew that
a certain amount of license was at all times claimed and
allowed at a county election, and that when once the
saturnalia was over, party spirit, and mock enthusiasm,
well paid for, would evaporate as quickly as they had
effervesced, and that when the event that had conjured
up the excitement had passed away, the people would
as a matter of course settle down again to their
normal state of indifference and repose.

What seek I here to gather into words ?
The scenes that rise before me as I turn
The pages of old times. A word, a name,
Con j ures the jDast before me till it grows
More actual than the present.

L. E. L.

It was the evening before the first day of the election ;
a close sultry evening in glowing August. Dinner
was over in Castle Cloyne ; the parish priest who was
one of the guests had said grace; and Miss Dillon,
the only lady among the company had vanished from
the room. As soon as the last flounce of her white
dress was gone, the four gentlemen who remained
behind drew closer round the table to enjoy their
post-prandial glass of hot punch, and also to arrange
the programme of the following day.

The guests who sat with Mr. Dillon and his son,
were Father O'Rafferty and Terry Macnamara; the

first was the parish priest of Castle Cloyne, the
second a relative of Mr. Dillon's^ and his most intimate
friend. They had assisted in composing his address
to the electors, and now they had assembled together
to hold the final council of war, and decide upon
the course of tactics proper to be pursued in the
forthcoming campaign.

It is almost needless to say, that the priest was
a firm and active partisan of Mr. Dillon's, and ready to
employ every means in his power, and that a clergyman
could conscientiously use, to ensure success. There
were many reasons to make him embark in the cause,
heart and soul ; but the first and greatest was, of course,
community of creed. This was the grand bond that
bound him to it. Had Dominic Dillon been a bad manor
an oppressive landlord, or, what he considered almost
as bad, an absentee, the priest would still have supported
him on the broad principle of his being a
Catholic. But when, to being not only a Catholic, and
the descendant of a long line of Catholics, who had
lost so much for conscience sake, it was added that
Mr. Dillon was a good resident landlord, a warm friend,
and a genial host, at whose table he was himself
always a welcome guest, it is no matter of surprise
that he threw himself with all his heart into the cause.
He was a good-hearted man, this poor country priest

who was never known to desert a friend,, and unlike
the world, was most friendly when his friendship was
most needed. The help of such an ally at a time like
the present was a tower of strength. His influence
over his flock was unbounded, and even with those
who could not be ranked in it, he was extremely
popular. It was said that, to a certainty, he could
command ten out of every twelve votes in the barony
in which the estate and village of Castle Cloyne were
situated, and that whatever candidate he favoured had
the best chance of being at the head of the poll.

The appearance of Father O^Rafferty, like his
lineage, was anything but patrician, though it was
very characteristic. He was a low-sized, round little
man, with a full, good-humoured-looking face, a
wide mouth, and a vulgar snub nose. Bat the homeliness
of his features was atoned for by a splendid pair
of black eyes, that made one forget everything else
in the marvellous intensity and variety of their expression.
They could flash with the fiercest rage
and scorn, twinkle merrily with irrepressible fun, or
melt into the utmost softness with compassion or
charity.

> To the full as ardent a partisan and as firm a
friend was Terence — or, as he was always called,
Terry Macnamara. He was Mr. Dillon^s^s first cousin.

of this own age, and they had been schoolboys together
united even more closely by the tie of friendship
than that of blood. As far as birth went they were
on a perfect equality, the only difference being that
the paternal ancestors of Mr. Dillon were Anglo-normans,
while those of Macnamara were Irish, pure
and simple, without the slightest admixture of foreign
blood in their veins. They were Celtic to the core,
even to their very name, for Macnamara is an Irish
word, meaning literally " son of the sea." From the
earliest times they had been gentry in their native
county, people of large property, and possessed of all
the prestige that property is sure to carry with it, when
it is accompanied by good birth. It would be an impossible
task to trace their pedigree, for the founders of
the race were lost in the mists of antiquity, although
their descendants were rarely heard of, outside the
bounds of their native county. But there they held
their own well, and if they did not distinguish themselves
greatly, were yet quiet, peaceful people, liked
and respected by all who knew them. However, one
member of the family was a notable exception to this
rule ; and, strange to say, this member was a woman !
This Amazon lived in the time of Queen Elizabeth,
to whom she was a bitter, unrelenting foe, regarding
her person, country, and creed with the most implacable

hatred which she manifested on all occasions,
in the most determined and sanguinary manner.
This " Banne Thierna/' or female chieftain, was called
by the Irish chroniclers of that time, Mauria Ehua,
or Need Mary, but whether she obtained that sobriquet
from the colour of her hair and complexion, or from
the merciless, sanguinary nature of her exploits,
neither tradition nor history has explained. But the
chief aim of her life appears to have been hatred of
the English invaders, showing them no mercy when
they were so unfortunate as to fall into her hands.
She kept great state in her strong castle of Leim-
neigh, in the county of Clare, exercising a princely
hospitality, and by her generosity, haughtiness, unflinching
courage, and unwomanly cruelty, made her
name famous through the land. The Castle of
Leimneigh is now only a ruin, and the bones of its
once powerful and dreaded Banne Tierra have
crumbled into dust, but the proudest families in
Clare boast of being her descendants, and have what
purports to be her portrait, hanging on their walls.
Neither is she forgotten by the peasantry, who speak
of the great " Mauria Rhea '' with a mixture of pride
arid dread, while the native bards have celebrated, both
in English and Irish verse, the story of her greatness
and of her wickedness. The Irish poetry was written

with a vigour and enthusiasm, partly due to the
character of the language, and partly because the
object of their encomiums was a bold Irishwoman,
who had struck many good blows for her country.
The English verses were in every way much inferior,
being only the very poorest doggrel, of which reverse
may serve as a specimen of all the rest :

The famed Mauria Ehua, she was my great grannura,
And spent in great splendour, ten thousand per annum ;
In Leimneigh Castle she kept a strict watch.
And hung all the Sassenachs that she could catch.

Terry Macnamara, the lineal descendant of this
very strong-minded female, was the younger son of
a younger son, and consequently as sparely endowed
with the world's goods as such people usually are.
When he came to man's estate, he got, through the
family interest, a commission in a cavalry regiment,
and, having done this, the family did nothing more
for him, but left him to sink or swim, as Fate would
ordain it, with nothing to support him but his pay.
It was the usual story with poor Terry. His pay, in
his own opinion, was wholly inadequate to enable
him to live like an officer and a gentleman, and, with
a young man's folly, he got into debt, which he had
no means of paying but by the sale of his commission.
When he returned home without a guinea in his

pocket, his family were so disgusted that they — metaphorically
— washed their hands of him, and either could
not, or would not do any more for him. The last was
probably most near the truth. After a short time
a sister of his father s died, and left him a small
annuity, so very small, that people said it was hardly
worth accepting; but poor Terry was very glad to
get it, and contrived to make it sufficient for his
wants. How he brought both ends of the year to
meet on such slender support, was a mystery, but he
managed to do it, somehow. If he had privations, no
one was the wiser, for he never complained to anyone.
Taught by the hard lessons of his youth, he never
got into debt again, but made his small income
suffice for his few and simple wants. His lodgings
in the village of Castle Cloyne were of a very unpretentious
character, and his tailors bills were very
trifling, although he was always dressed like a
gentleman. But his laugh was as cheery, and his
manner and air as high-bred and proud, as if he
was the lord of a thousand acres. His sole extravagance
was in now and again making a present to
the little boy and girl that were growing up under
his eye in Castle Cloyne, and were as fond of him
almost as they were of their own father.

There was not a respectable house in the whole

country to wliicli Terry Macnamara was not welcome
to come when lie pleased, and stay as long as it suited
him; and the kindness that was offered so freely,
and as freely accepted, was now the only debt that
he was willing to incur. But hospitality in Ireland
is so spontaneous, so freely given on one side, and
so willingly accepted on the other, that the least
obligation is never attached to it. Like mercy, it is
twice blest, for the host is glad when a guest shares
either in the abundance or the poverty of his table,
whichever it may be, and the guest knowing this,
and feeling that, to use an expression which is
peculiarly Irish, he is heartily welcome, accepts the
hospitality that, if the situation were reversed, he
would give as willingly as it is now given to himself.
But though Terry never denied his poverty, yet he
never obtruded it on anyone; for he was not either
mean or vulgar, and remembering the good blood
that flowed in his veins, he always preserved his
independence. And in proportion as he respected
himself, he made others respect him also. He gave
offence to no man, neither would he permit any man
to give it to him; for his courage was undoubted,. and
he had fought several duels, after the fashion of
Irish gentlemen in those days. Like the priest, he
had told off his three score of birthdays, but, unlike

him, lie was tall and thin, with a high-bred, handsome
face, on which the word '' gentleman " was stamped
in unmistakable characters.

'what a pity it is that you can't make your
appearance at the hustings tomorrow ! '' said the
priest to Mr. Dillon. ''To have Dominic Dillon's
election going on while he is at home himself at
Castle Cloyne, will be like sitting down to a weddings
when the bride and bridegroom are gone away.
I'd just as soon have one as the other; they are both
so tame and insipid that there is hardly a choice
between the two''

It is hard," replied the host, with a sigh ; '' but
it can't be helped. The bailiffs — damn them ! — are
watching me as a cat would watch a mouse, and if I
only showed my nose outside my own gates, they
would pounce on nae just as quickly. It is too bad,
that while you both are fighting my battle at the
hustings, I am to remain at home with poor little
Grace."

'' What is to harm either you or her ? " said Terry.
And you will have your own man, Pat Flanagan, to
bring you the news up from the village. You need
not be at all uneasy about the election, for we all
intend to work very hard. My young friend here's
jerking his thumb towards Hyacinth, " will represent

you right well, and ride to the hustings at the head
of your tenantry; and unless I am greatly mistaken
in the lad, he will do you no discredit. The two best
attorneys in the county are your law agents,, and
Father John here and I will do all the rest ; so don't
be worrying yourself into another fit of the gout.
Everything will be all right; never fears

"Is it finally settled who are to be the proposer
and seconder ? '' inquired Hyacinth.

"Yes, it is finally settled. Wilson, of Beech Hill,
is to propose your father, and your humble servant is
to second the nomination. ^^

A better selection could not be made," observed
Mr. Dillon. "Jack "Wilson is a Protestant, and Terry
Macnamara is a good holy Roman. Jack has his
pockets full of money, and Terry has the old blood
in his veins. That's an arrangement no one can cavil
at.^^

But the Englishman has more money than all
the Wilsonss put together ; and to give everyone his
due, he is no miser, but is scattering it right and left
with a full hand. He bears a capital character, both
at home and abroad, and I am really sorry that we
must extinguish such a good fellow as Egglestone is,
by all accounts."

He is a rank Tory, anyway," put in the priest ;

and the best proof of it is that lie has all the Conservative
landlords at his back. Oh, don't I know the
kidney of them ! Half of them Cromwellians, and
almost the other half Dutchmen who came in with the
usurper William'

^^They are all of them Irishmen now, whatever
their forefathers might have been," remarked Hyacinth
Dillon ; '^ and right good fellows, and gentlemen to the
core, the greater part of them are, and no mistake
about it. I am sorry so many of them will be arrayed
against us, but when this brush is over we shall all be
as good friends as we ever were.^'

I have always been on good terms with my
brother grand jurors and magistrates," said Mr.
Dillon, "and I hope to be so at all times, whatever
way the election goes. Ten elections, not to talk of
one, could bring no ill-blood between us. But your
glass is empty. Father John. Hyacinth, pass the
decanter.' '

"Not for me," cried the priest. "My allowance
is one tumbler of punch daily, and I have already
taken that."

The decanter is with you, Terry. But probably,
like myself, you prefer a glass of this old port."

Not at all. I prefer a glass of good whiskey
punch to all the port that ever came from Lisbon.

VOL. I. K

But the water is nearly cold, and I must ring for some
that will be hot' and suiting the action to the word,
Macnamara rang the bell.

In a few moments the summons was answered by
Pat, who brought the hot water with him. When he
had placed it on the table, he looked very significantly
at Hyacinth, and then slowly left the room.

By the way, sir, I have a favour to ask of you,"
said the young man, addressing his father, " and I am
sure I need only mention it to have it granted'

You are reckoning without your host, then, for
I won't let Pat go to the election, if that is the favour
you want."

^^He has set his heart on going, and begged me
to ask leave for him. It is not often he gets a
holiday."

Well, he cannot have any this time, that's all."

"As I am to be seconder tomorrow, I'll be
seconder also to-day," said Terry, "and I second
Hyacinth's request. Pat is a good boy, and deserves
a little indulgence. Who is to do his business at the
election, if he isn't to be there himself ? "

And who is to look after me, if I should get an
attack of gout ? No one understands how to manage
me but Pat, and I can't spare him. Besides, he hasa
genius for getting into mischief, and as sure as he

goes to the election, so surely will lie get Myself
into trouble of some kind, and do our cause a great
deal of damage. Oh ! I know him, and I know too
the fiery blood that's in him, and that he got from
his father. He is much safer here, believe me, than
he would be at the election. ''

I don't agree with you, father,' ' said Hyacinth.
"Pat is a steady fellow, though I must confess he
loves to make a sensation, and is up for any amount
of fun. Still, I will make a bet with anyone who will
take me up, that he will conduct himself properly
while at the election, if you are good enough, sir, tolet
him go''

You will lose that bet."

It will be a great disappointment to the poor
boy," said Father John ; " but all things considered,
I dare say you aise right. He might most likely get
into some row that would end in finding himself in
the hands of the police. Pat has no control over
himself, poor boy, when he gets excited."

^^He is his father's own son," said Mr. Dillon,
'^ and blood is sure to tell in the long run ; at least,
that is my experience. I remember Pat's father very
well, for we were both lads together, though the grass
is growing over him for many a long year. He was a
good-looking fellow, like Pat, but very poor, being

R 2

only herd in one of my fathers mountain farms ; a
wild, lonely place it is too as yon all well know. It
was a great place that time for the manufacture of
pot whiskey, which was carried on with very little
hindrance. It was no one's business, yon see, to give
information, and the dangers were afraid to go there
without a strong escort; some of them who had
plucked up sufficient courage to go there alone, never
came back, or at least they didn't come alive. Bat all
that was before my time, and a good deal of what is
said about such things may not be true. There is no
potheen made there now, except an odd gallon now
and then, just to keep their hand in''

'' But about Paf s father, sir ? You were going to
tell us his story," said Hyacinth.

Why, I thought ye all knew it ; certainly Father
John does; but 'tis a very old story now, for it all
happened before you were born. Well, as I said,
Barney Flanagan was poor — as poor as Job on his
dunghill — but for all that he had a great spirit He
was the very deuce for fighting and love-making.
He could no more help palavering a pretty girl when
he fotmd himself in her company, than he could help
breathing, and the history of his various flirtations
would fill a volume. His fighting qualities were so
well known that he was elected captain of a party.

and this prowess at every fair green where lie and
this 'faction' flourished their aliens, was marked
by broken heads as plentiful as blackberries. My
father often remonstrated with him on his belligerent
propensities ; but though Barney always promised
amendment, the promise was invariably broken on the
first opportunity that presented itself

"He should have sent the scamp about his
businesses remarked Terry Macnamara.

Well, so he should ; but somehow he never did,
though he was always threatening it. Barney was
the son of an old tenant, and as honest as the sun;
and, except when he was fighting or courting, he
minded his business well, and was one of the best
herdsmen on the property. In a man like that a great
deal must be condoned, or overlooked altogether, and
my father did both by turns. It is easy to part with
a good servant, but not so easy to get another who
will be as good.

*' But Barney did not always escape with a whole
skin, or without getting as good as he gave. 'Tis the
fortune of war, and greater captains than he had to
endure a reverse. One day that he headed his 'faction*
at the fair of Castle Cloyne, the scrimmage was sp
fierce and long-continued that my father, as a magistrate,
had to send for the military, and read the Riot

Act. The military — there were no police then — had to
charge the belligerents with fixed bayonets. When
some sort of order had been at last restored, there was
a lot of wounded and disabled men lying about in all
directions on the fair green ; but, luckily, no one was
killed outright. Among the ' kilt ' the worst case
was that of Barney Flanagan, whose skull was fractured,
and his whole body beaten black and blue. In this
deplorable condition he was laid on a door and brought
to this house, as he was known to be one of the Castle
Cloyne herdsmen. There was a bed made up for him in
one of the back rooms, and a messenger sent off with a
car to fetch his mother to take care of him. He was laid
up for some months, and all the time attended by a
surgeon, at my father's expense. At last he was well
enough to be sent home to his cabin in the mountains.
My father spent several hours lecturing him, and he
listened with great apparent attention, and making
many plausible promises for future good behaviour.
When the horse and cart, with a feather bed in it,
came to the door, he was helped into it and made very
comfortable, with his head resting in his mother's
lap. My father walked with them until they got out
from the avenue to the public road, exhorting the
invalid to turn over a new leaf, and avoid fighting for
the rest of his life. When they were turning off in

the direction of the hills, Barney could no longer
restrain himself, and feebly waving his arm over
his head in a significant manner, cried out withall
the strength he had left in him : ' Phase goodness
Master, we'll be able to hould the stick once
more '^ *

^^ What an incorrigible ruffian ! '^ exclaimed the
priest.

What a brave fellow ! '' cried young Dillon.

"He was really brave," remarked Terry Mac-samara
" and made of the same good stuff that won
all our battles out in the Peninsula. It was that same
bull-dog courage, only trained and disciplined, that
kept the squares unbroken at Quatre Bras and
Waterloo, when our men stood like rocks through the
long summer day, against the repeated charges of the
flower of Bonaparte's cavalry. What a splendid
soldier that fellow would have made ! His place would
not be long among the common rank and file."

"Indubitably. But you know, what would be
gallant conduct in a soldier was not quite the thing
for my father's herdsman. So now, my boy, you know
why I can't let Pat go to the election. He has his

This anecdote is a literal fact. The man who acted and
spake as described in the text, was herdsman to the author's
father.

father s blood in him, and Heaven only knows what he
might do, when he found himself in the thick of the
rooJ:aicn. He would either be brought back herewith
a broken head, like his father, or be furnished
with safe lodgings at the expense of the county, for
breaking other people's heads. It is jtist a chance
which it would be'

Bat, sir, what was the end of Bamev ? He must
be dead many years, for as long as I can recollect, Pat
has been in this house."

Not Tery long after that he got married to Pat's
mother. The moth was so honor fluttering about the
candle that it got burned at last. Barney fell in love
with a girl, that he had no more chance of getting
as a wife than you have of getting the Princess Royal.
She was the only daughter of a respectable farmer,
who could give her a thousand points on her
wedding-day, and never miss it. But to give the
devil his due, Barney thought only of herself, and
not of her fortune. When he proposed for her, her
family laughed him to scorn, and when he had the
egregious folly to argue the point with them, they
put him by force out of the house, and he went off
swearing he would marry her in spite of them all.
He was not without some excuse, for he was distractedly
fond of her, and she fully returned hi

love. In some time, finding that nothing would
move the father and brothers — there were three
brothers, all tall, strong fellows — the lovers resolved
to take their fate into their own hands, and marry
without their consent, as they could not marry with
it. She consented to elope with him, and meet him
on a certain night in a little copse outside her father's
farm.

"As his cabin in the hills was too far away to
bring her there on foot, the scamp went to the
stables here, and telling the groom that he was
acting on his master s orders, he saddled the best
animal there, and coolly mounting it, he rode off.
She was a beautiful mare, called Hebe, famous
both for spirit and speed, and was the grandam of
my horse Tearaway, the best hunter I ever crossed.
He found the girl waiting for him, true to her
promise ; in a moment she was up behind him, and
they rattled away at a good pace, for the mare was
quite fresh. It was a stormy night, and still remembered
in the country for all the disasters that occurred
both on land and sea. Still the lovers were not
daunted, for with the good mare under them, they
hoped to reach the hills very soon. But in this
expectation they reckoned without their host. Even
through the noise of the storm, they heard the clatter

of horses hoofs behind them, and the three brothers
shouting to them to pull up. Barney knew that
their cattle were good, while his mare had the disadvantage
of carrying double, what she was not used
to. He also knew that a tough fight was before him,
but for all that he did not lose heart. Telling the
poor girl, who was nearly insensible from fear, to
cling to him with both arms, he urged on the mare
with voice and hand, and she gallantly answered his
call, though half maddened by the flashes of lightning,
that were almost continuous.

^' There was a river on ahead, and the bridge that
spanned it was the nearest way to his home ; but
what was his consternation to find when he reached
it, that the river was so swollen by the rains, that it
had overflowed its banks, and carried away the piers
of the bridge on the other side, though those that
were next him were still standing. One half of the
bridge had been swept away, and was floating in
fragments down the river, and the other half would
in a few moments inevitably share the same fate. It
was a dreadful position that the unfortunate fellow
found himself placed in. Behind were the three
brothers, shouting with exultation when they saw
him, as it were, delivered into their hands; and
before him were the broken bridge, and the angry

flood that foamed below. But lie never hesitated,
for lie knew that the mare lie rode was game to the
backbone ; so he gave her the spur, and looking back
at his pursuers, with the wild war-whoop with which
he had often led on his faction at fair and market, he
sprang on to the bridge. Hebe, true to her good
blood and generous spirit, put forth all her strength
for the leap, and flew forward towards the yawning
chasm. But just as her fore feet touched the opposite
bank, one of the brothers, frantic at seeing himself
baffled, fired a shot that was no doubt intended for
Barney, but it hit poor Hebe in the shoulder. With
a wild neigh of pain, she fell back into the swollen
river, and of course the lovers fell with her. But
Barney flung one arm round a broken arch, and with
the other caught the girl as she was drifting past him.
Steadying himself as well as he could, through the
masses of broken masonry, he brought her safe to
the bank.

When the brothers saw that they were safe at
the other side, they knew the game was up, for none
of them would follow his example, in taking such a
desperate leap. To add to their rage and mortification,
Barney looked across at them with a mocking
smile. ' Oh, begot ! after all yer haste, ye won't be
in time for the marriage.'

He took the girls hand, and led her away in
full view of the angry men at the other side, who
could do nothing but thunder out threats of vengeance
against him. His impudence and coolness made them
perfectly frantic, but he only laughed at them. He
brought the girl straight to the house of his parish
priest, and they were married. It was a strange
wedding, and a strange figure they must have cut,
as they stood before Father Pat, drenched to the
skin, and half-dead from anxiety and fatigue''

But what became of the gallant mare ? " asked
Hyacinth, when his father ceased; 'was she drowned ?'*

"Not at all. She partly scrambled and partly
swam down the river for some distance, until she
came to where it was shallow, and the bank not so
precipitous, and then she got ashore. At least this
was the conjecture made on the matter by the
men in the stables, to which she returned some hours
after, covered with mud, and with a sorely wounded
shoulder. My father was foaming with rage when
he saw the state she was in, and swore by all his
gods, that he would make Barney's shoulders as
sore from the application of his horsewhip, as Hebe's
had been made by the shot. But on hearing the
story he forgave him. He admired him for his
pluck and courage, and was very proud of the

mare, who soon got quite well under skilful treatment."


^^ But did lier friends ever forgive Barney's wife,
and come down handsomely with the cash, to set them
up housekeeping ? "

"They did not do either one or the other. My

father,, as their landlord, tried to reconcile them to

the young people, but he might have spared himself

the trouble. They never spoke to the poor girl again,

nor did they give her any money. My father gave

them a little farm at a low rent, to set them up ina

small way, but they did not live to enjoy it. She

got into a consumption, and only lived to give birth

to Pat. I dare say the drenching, and being all night in

her wet clothes, was the primary cause of it, and

she took much to heart the displeasure of her family.

Anyway, she died, and Barney never held up his

head again, but died of grief, if ever man did, thereby

falsifying a prediction of my father's, who often said

that as he had not been killed in a faction fight, or

drowned at the broken bridge, he was sure to be

hanged. The poor fellow was always reproaching

himself for having taken her from the comfort, and

plenty of her father's house, to endure the hardship

and privation that were her lot with him. By that

time my father was dead, but knowing what he would

have done had he lived, I sent the infant to one of
the tenants houses to be nursed, and when he was
old enough took him into the house, where he remained
ever since. He is a good boy, and a smart
servant, but I must own has a good deal of his father's
hot blood and cool impudence."

'^My good friend, we must remember that we
were once young ourselves," interposed Father
O^Rafferty, sand so we should make allowance for
the light heart and high spirit of youth."

At this moment Pat himself appeared at the door,
telling them that " Miss Grace desired him announce
to the gentleman, that herself an the tay wor waiting'
for em in the drawn' room."

It was refreshing to exchange the heated atmosphere
of the dining-room for the cool air of the pleasant
drawing-room at the other side of the hall, where
Miss Dillon sat behind the urn, with a bright smile
of welcome. The windows were all open to admit
the soft, balmy air of an August evening, the room
was fragrant with fresh flowers, arranged in china
vases of priceless worthy and the well-appointed table,
with its dainty china and gleaming silver, looked so
bright and fresh that they felt as if suddenly transported
into another atmosphere altogether. Everything
in the drawing-room looked so cool and pleasant,

and suggestive of repose and peace. And not the
least pleasant thing in the room, was the young hostess
in her simple dress of white muslin, her only ornaments
being natural flowers in her hair and in the
front of her dress. Though not beautiful, she was
young and gentle, and after all, when beauty is
pitted against youth, gentleness, and a gracious
manner, it is not always sure to come off the victor.
One will make itself wings, and flee away, alas ! all
too soon, but the charm of the others dies but with
life itself.

After having had some tea, the priest and Mac-samara
rose to go. Mr. Dillon and his son went
with them to the hall door, and all four stood on the
steps to admire the loveliness of an August sunset.

Good-night and good-bye, Dominic,''^ said Terry,
shaking hands with his host ; " I shall not see you
any more until you are a free man, and M.P. for the
county.^^

Bring back my boy safe and well to me, Terry,
and I will run chance for the rest."

Macnamara burst into a roar of laughter.

*^ That's a good one ! " he cried, " the best joke I
laye heard for many a day. One would think I was
taking him off to lead a forlorn hope. Why, man,
what's to happen him ? Look at that young giant.

Father Holm — six feet tall if he's an inch, and his
father asks me to bring him back safe, as if he was
still a baby in long clothes'

'■^Musha, thin, if he isn't aiquil to mind himself
this time ov day, an' take his share in a scrimmage
decently said Pat Flanagan, who stood in the background,
with the freedom of a favourite servant, '' he'll
be the first man ov his name that couldn't do it.
The first ov 'em at haste that I ever hard tell ov,
an' I'm living' on the land ov Castle Cloyne, man an*
boy, for nigh upon four-an'-twenty years"*

HOW PAT Flanagan Contrived TO GO TO THE ELECTION.

Lord. — Who is this forward, pestilent fellow, that thrusts

himself where he hath no right to be ? ^aiTj come up ! times
are changed, and things come to a pretty pass, when such ashe
could be tolerated for a moment. An I had my will, I'd
make my horsewhip and his shoulders better acquainted.

Steward. — Ah, my lord, content you ! He is young, and
youth is ever hot-blooded and malapert ; but he will acquire
better manners when he is a little longer in your lordship's
service.

Next morning after a hasty breakfast, and before his
father was up, Hyacinth Dillon set out from Castle
Cloyne, gallantly mounted, faultlessly dressed, and in
all respects looking the thorough gentleman that he
really was. He was in thee highest spirits, ful of
pleasurable anticipations of the variety and excitement
in which he was to take such a prominent
paint, and fully confident of its coming to a favourable
ending.

VOL. I. 8

Mr. Dillon and his daughter sat in one of the
recesses of the large drawing-room windows, he
reading the newspaper for her, while she employed
herself in some needlework. They had a long, quiet
day before them, for all the men about the place
had gone off to the election with the exception of
Pat Flanagan, and an old groom who was too
rheumatic to take exercise , but hung about the
stables,, smoking his pipe all day long, without being
of much use. But he was an old, faithful servant,
and Mr. Dillon could not bear the thought of turning
the poor old fellow out on the world when he was
almost past his work. He had just then been
absent for a day or two on his masters business,
and was now returned.

^' Av you phase, sirs said Pat, coming to the door
and standing with the handle in his hand. stony
Whigarald is outside, an would be glad to see your
honour's

And I shall be glad to see him. Send him here,
Pats as soon as he has had his breakfasts

In a short time Tony Fitzgerald made his appearance
in the doorway, making a profound reverence when he
saw Miss Dillon ; which reverence consisted in pulling
down his front lock of hair, and scraping the carpet
with his right foot.

Have you had breakfast Tony ? " inquired Grace
kindly.

'assure enough I have, miss; long life to you!
Cassius an' latins ; bread an' butter, an' tay, an'
could mate. Success to Kitty MacCall ! 'tis herself
can handle the carving-knife an' fork in great style
intirely, an' cut a plate oy vifctles that would do your
heart good to see, let alone to ate. Faix, Miss GracOj
you couldn't be more fldhuloucli^ yourself at the head
ov the table, an' the dish out turning you. 'Tis the
truth I'm tellin' you, miss."

I am very glad that Kitty treated you so well,
after year long ride this morning," said Grace, with a
pleasant smile. " Someone told me lately, that Kitty
and you were so friendly that we may be prepared fora
wedding in Castle Cloyne one of these days."

"You're welcome to your game, miss," said poor
old Tony.

^^ But seriously, Kitty would make you an excellent
wife; and though I should be sorry to lose such a
good cook, still I would not stand in her way if she
got a good husband."

'•' Folly on. Miss Granua, folly on ! Fake an' sure,
you're a mighty pleasant young lady, so you are, God

Fldhulouch — plentiful.

s 2

bless you ! '^ cried the ancient lover, with, a shamefaced
look that was exceedingly ludicrous, at the same time
delighted that Grace thought his powers of fascination
were still equal to captivate the heart of such a
blooming young woman as Kitty MacCall.

^^ Come in, man, and sit down, and let us hear how
you fared on your travels," said Mr. Dillon, glad of
anything that would serve to break the monotony of
the long day that lay before him.

In obedience to this command, Tony Fitzgerald
-drew a chair just inside the door, and sat down on
its extreme edge ; for he did not think it would be
respectful towards Miss Dillon if he were to settle
himself in any more comfortable position. With his
old hat in one hand, and a stout blackthorn stick
in the other, he hemmed and cleared his throat a
good many times before he gave an account of
himself.

Why thin, Mr. Dillon, sir, I have nothing to
tell you but the height ov good news intirely. Ah !
sure I needn't be at the trouble ov drawing down
the others on your honour's own estate at all, for
ov course we're sure ov every man Jack ov them. I
wouldn't demand either you or myself be ain' any
wan ov em what way he'd note, for all the money
in the Bank of Ireland, let alone all the cotton in

Manchester, would bribe wan ov them to sell the
passes

"Well, indeed, Tony, I wouldn't do my own
people such an injustice as to think any of them
would vote against me. I never deserved it from
them'

"Sure enough, sir, you never did; there's nothing
at all surer than that. An' the min on the Beech
Hill estate will folly you to the poll, every man ov
'em; an' what great admiration is that, when Mr.
Wilson, their landlord, is to be your proposer, an'
his daughter to be married wan ov these days to
Master Hy'cinth ? Never fear, but 'tis himself that
will keep a sharp eye on 'em, for fear they'd be
bought over by the cotton-spinner's money. Mr.
Wilson I mane, sir."

Oh, I'm as sure of the Beech Hill tenants as
I am of my own; I'm not afraid of them at all.
But, Tony, the Mount Shannon men will all go, I
fear, with Mr. Egglestone."

A good many ov 'em will, sir, I'm in thread,
bad cess to them; but 1 gave some yellow boys to
the wives ov some ov 'em, on the sly, an' that gives
us about ten or a dozen notes here an' there."

"But that was bribery, man," cried Mr. Dillon,
pretending to be much displeased.

^^Eyeh.! so itself, sir. Sure everything is fair
in love an' war, an' if we come in at the head ov the
poll, the devil may care about the bribery. Aren't
the other side bribing' horse an' fut, as fast as ever
they can pelt, an' why would we be behindhand
wit 'em ? We're not so poor as that we'd hould back
ov spending' the money, o' purpose to phase this'
and Tony tossed his head to express great contempt
for 'the cotton-spinner."

At this moment Pat made his appearance once more,
and to the great surprise of Mr. Dillon, clad not in his
ordinary clothes, but in his best suit, which was never
worn but when he went abroad, or when there was
company to dinner at Castle Cloyne. He stood at the
door, hat in hand, and though at no time remarkable
for bashfulness, yet now he seemed as if trying to get
his courage up to a certain point.

'- What do you want ? " asked his master.

"Well, sir, I just came to tell you that I'm going
to the election, an' to ax if your honour had any
commands ? "

Going to the election ! " exclaimed Mr. Dillon in
the greatest amazement; "going to the election! Sir,
you shall do nothing of the kind. Go back to your
business, and let me have no more of this nonsense."

"An' who's to look after Master Hy'cinth, I'd

like to know, if I^m not there to do it ? Begorra, 'tis
kilt an' murdered intirely hell be by tim villains, if
I'm not alongside ov bini to take bis part."

He will do muck better without you. It is nearly
time to send up luncheon, and you had better go to
your pantry and see about it. Let me have no more
of your impudence.'^

Mr. Dillon's tone and manner were so peremptory,
that Pat saw he had no earthly chance of getting
permission to set off, so he retreated without further
parley. But, though some time elapsed, he did not
return to announce luncheon as usual.

'' Oh, by the lord Harry ! the impudent rascal
has given us the slip, and gone oS to the election ! "
exclaimed Mr. Dillon in great wrath.

"Well, sir, I wouldn't put it bryant his father's
son to do that same,^^ said the old man, who had a
perfect recollection of Barney Flanagan and his
daring exploits.

I hardly think that Pat would do such a foolish
thing," said Grace in her soft voice.

tis the very thing that he would do," cried Mr.
Dillon, who by this time had worked himself into a
great passion. "I know him well, and a greater
scoundrel than he is, is not on the face of the
earth. I often prophesied that he'd come to the

gallows , and they who will live to see it will know
that I took his right measure. He's a desperate
blackguard ! '^

'ego look for Pat and send him here at once/^
said Grace to Tony. "Tell him we are waiting for
luncheon."

Tony Fitzgerald obeyed at once very glad to
be dismissed, for he felt anything but at his ease
in Miss Dillon's drawing-room. He went to look
for Pat, whom he found at the gate of the back
entrance, whip in hand, and mounted on Mr.
Dillon's own horse, which was the very best animal
in the stables. He expected to have been able to
get well off before anyone would be sent in pursuit
of him, but now that he was caught in flagrante
delicto, he put on a bold face, and resolved to
brazen it out.

''Arrah, where are you going' to, man alive?"
demanded Tony, breathless from haste, and amazed
at the fellow's cool impudence.

"Pm going' to the election. Sure you hard me
tellin as much to the master, in the drawn-room
within,'^ replied Pat carelessly.

"Well, an' if I did, I hard him tellin' you not
to do it, at your peril. He said that, in the hearing' ov
my two ears''

'swell, I hard him too. Sure the poor ould
gentleman was talking to himself, an' av its the haste
consolation in life to him, no wan will begrudge it.
Why would they ? "

"An who's to send in lunch for himself an'
Miss Granua, an' attend em at dinner this evening
if you're to ride off wit yourself this a way ? "

^' You may do it, av you like. Fake an' sure
there's no wan thryin' to prevent you; sorra wan
that I can see."

Barra, what div I know about attindin' quality
at their vittles ? An' I have my own bisness to
mind."

Oh, very well. Thin you can tell Kitty MacCall,
or any ov the other women in the kitchen, to doit.
There's enough ov them, goodness knows. But
don't go an' say, Tony Whigarald, when I'm gone,
that I didn't tell you what was right for you to do
for the short time I'll be away''

'san' is it taking Tearaway, the master's own
horse, you are, you young limb ov the civil ? "

'^ An' why not ? He knows me, an' no wan will
take as good care ov him as myself. An' now that
I think ov it," he added reflectively, " Tearaway is in
want ov a good gallop, for since the master got
this last fit of the gout, the poor baste got no exercise

to signify,, an signs on lies getting'' too fat. Faix,
Master Hyacinth said almost as much to me the
day before istherday/^

"Pat Flanagan, you'll come to be hanged yet,
surely."

"Well, if I do, you won't break your heart o'
count of it. But all the time that I^m discoursing' you
the day is going' by, an' if I wait any longer the fun
will be all over when I get into the town. So goodbye
to you, Tony Whigarald,^' and touching the
horse with the whip he started off.

Come back, you civis limb ! " shouted the old
man at the top of his voice. " Come back, I tell you
again. My hand to you, Pat Flanagan, you'll sup
sorra for this day's work. The welcome you'll get
whin you come home will be your walking' paper in
the heel ov your fist, see if you don't."

Oyeh, nabocklish ! " cried the incorrigible Pat.
'^'Tis myself that'll be as welcome as the flowers
ov May to the master, when I come home to him wit
my mouth full ov good news. Oh, be the tare ov
war ! 'tis I that'll be the white-headed boy thin wit
himself an' Miss Grace. *You never brought me
bad news, Pat, an' you're not going' to begin now,'
that's what the ould gentleman will say to me, an' he

shaking the very hand off ov me. Sorra word ov lie in
it, Tony Whigarald/'

Be sed by me, Pat, an' come back''
'Take an' sure, I won't. Is it to have the
election going' on, an' myself not to be in it ! Array,
get out ov my way, ould man, an' let me pass out
the gate."

"Well, if you're bint on going', lave Tearaway at
home. If anything was to happen to that horse,
bryant all the other horses in the stable, the master
will have your life. Oh, sorra drop he'll lave in

you!"

^' An' what good would it be to go to the election
without I was decently mounted ? I couldn't take
Master Hy'cinth's part, nor let the people see that
I was own man to Mr. Dillon ov Castle Cloyne, if I
hadn't a good horse under me. Is it to disgrace
the family you want me to do, Tony Whigarald?"

"The master is calling' you, Pat."

"Oyeh, so let him."

Well, if you won't come back quietly, I'll make
you," and Tony laid his hand on the horse's rein.
Come back''

*' Bioul cuss !^ Clear the way out ov that, or I'll

Dioul cuss — Devil a foot.

ride over you. Hurroo ! '' and giving Tearaway she
spur, lie waved this arm in triumph, while the horse
dashed off so suddenly that poor old Tony was
knocked down into the dirt. But that did not in
the least stop the career of Mr. Pat Flanagan, who
waved his whip over his head with a yell of exultation
j and the horse, true to his name, tore away,
leaving the prostrate old groom soon far behind.

'^ I hope the foolish boy will bring the horse back
safe, an his own four bones into the bargain," said
poor Tony, picking himself up, having fortunately
sustained no greater injury than a large sprinkling
of dust and dirt. "tis three for the master, he
has his father's blood in him, an' he's every inch
ov him his father's son. He has a great spirit,
surely, an' sure the world knows he didn't stale that,
but got it where he had the best right to it. Maybe
'tis on a dure he'll be brought home to us, like his
father want on a time — who knows ? An' Tearaway
may be dhruv by him into the very thick ov the
rookawn, an' get his leg broke, so that he'll have to
be shot. An' if he do itself, what does Pat care ? "
And muttering these, and similar disjointed sentences,
the old man went into the stable to scrape the mud
from his clothes, before he presented himself to Mr.
Dillon to give an account of the affair.

THE NOMINATION DAY.

Come, we'll inform them

Of our proceedings here ; in the market place

I know they do attend us.

Shakespeare.

A LITTLE before two o^ clock on the first day of the
election, Hyacinth Dillon rode into the county
town in gallant array at the head of the Castle
Cloyne tenantry. A great number of these were
freeholders, prepared, as a matter of course, to
record their votes for their landlord; and a great
many more had no votes at all, but came to swell
the cortege and make a show for "the honour of
the old family's They were all of them well
mounted, well dressed, and looking what they really
were, a respectable, sturdy body of yeomen, who
were in no degree actuated by coercion, but came
voluntarily to exercise their privilege on the hustings

in favour of a landlord who was well worthy of it.
At one side of young Dillon rode Mr. Wilson, of
Beech Hill, who was to be his father's proposer,
and at the other was Terry Macnamara, who was
to second the nomination. The streets of the old
town were very narrow, and crowded with people,
consequently the cavalcade was obliged to proceed
very slowly on the way to the court-house, where
the opening of the drama was to be enacted. As
they rode along at walking pace, they saw that
the windows at each side of the street were
filled with spectators, mostly of the gentler sex,
a good many of them friends or acquaintances of
the three gentlemen who rode abreast at the head
of the cavalcade. The male portion of the spectators
smiled and nodded recognition to them as they passed
along, and the ladies waved their handkerchiefs,
and looked distractingly beautiful in the gorgeous
toilettes, that were all evidently got up for the occasion.
There was not a shadow of doubt as to which
of the candidates was the popular favourite, most
especially with the women of all classes. How could
it be otherwise, when they looked on the handsome,
bright-looking young fellow who represented his father,
and who managed his horse with much grace, though
his right hand was incessantly employed in raising

his hat to acknowledge the vociferous welcome that
greeted him from every side ? If the ladies had no
votes, they had plenty of enthusiasm ; and, to do them
justice, they availed themselves of the latitude that is
allowed at election time, to manifest their sympathy in
the most unequivocal manner. Nor were the " faithful
commons" who thronged the streets a whit less
demonstrative than their betters. They shouted, they
flung their hats into the air, and unlike the gentry,
who contented themselves with silent pantomime,
they gave their opinions aloud pretty freely, as the
party from Castle Cloyne passed slowly along.

"Three cheers, boys, for the ould stock, for the
brave ould family, that stuck to their religion through
thick an' thin, an' wor always to the fore whenever
they wor wanted ! "

"■ Can any ov ye tell us where was the cotton man
an' his spinning' jinny, when the Dillon wor fighting'
at the Boyne ? "

'^Ah ! sure you don't mane to forget Fontenoy,
where a Dillon was kilt at the head ov his regiment?"


'^ God bless you, Master Hy'cinth ! 'Tis yourself
that's the illigant fine young man, every inch ov you ;
an' happy is the woman that'll be able to put her
comehether on your's

^' Oh, phase goodness, lie^ll get a soother * yet ; an'
why not ? Sure he hasn't his match in all Ireland
ground."

'^ Blood alive, boys ! where's the spinning' man at
all ? If he cars to show his nose here to-day, we'll
sind him spinning' back to Manchester, to make baffity
at a pinny-farthing a yard."

This sally, which was evidently considered very
clever, was received with, a roar of laughter.

Up to this, everything had gone on well and
peaceably, but just as the Dillon party had arrived
within sight of the court-houses the public tranquillity
was interrupted by a very unexpected incident. This
unpleasant interruption was caused by the appearance
of Mr. Pat Flanagan, who was determined to
exhibit both, himself and his steed to the greatest
possible advantage. On coming up with the party,
lie had prudently remained a little in the rear, ashe
did not wish to be seen by Hyacinth, who would
bring him to a strict account for being there without
his master's permission. However, when they entered
the town, he knew that Hyacinth would have something
else to do than thinking of him; and taking
courage from this, he pressed forward, no longer

Similiter — A good wife.

content to remain modestly in the background. As
they proceeded, he got more excited by the noise
and uproar around, and, urged on by his own reckless
vanity, he gave Tearaway the spur, just a little,
to excite his mettle. The horse was no way slow
to answer this unmistakable hint, but, as the crowd
was very dense, he could not get forward, and had
to content himself with rearing on his hind legs
to the terror of the people on foot, who could not.
get out of the way. At the side of the narrow street,
just at the kerbstone, were a number of small tables
ranged along, and covered with apples, gingerbread,
and other cheap wares likely to find customers
among the country people. One of those tables
was right in front of Tearaway when he felt the
spur, and the old woman who sat behind it became
so terrified that she raised a loud cry of alarm.
This sudden noise, full in his ears, frightened the
horse, that, unable either to recede or go forward
through the crowd, settled the difficulty in his own
way by coming down on the little table with a
heavy crash, overturning the unfortunate old woman,
with her wares, into the dirt, the last being so
trampled by his hoofs that not a trace of their
original shape or substance could be discerned.

If the principal object of Pat Flanagan in coming

VOL. I. T

to the election was to create a sensation, it must be
owned that tie had fully succeeded. Up to this point
all had been fair sailing, but now a scene of the
greatest uproar and confusion took place. The other
horses took fright, and following the example of the
unlucky Tearaway, reared and plunged, causing the
greatest alarm through the narrow, densely-packed
street, and it required the most dexterous management
on the part of their riders to keep them from
starting off at full gallop through the crowd. There
was something so ridiculously ludicrous in the whole
affair, that when Pat rose from the ground where he
had been thrown among the debris of the poor
huckster's little table, and caught his horse by the
bridle, he was greeted by ironical cheers and roars
of laughter from every side. High above it all,
however, rose the loud lamentations of the poor old
woman, who, more frightened than hurt, stood beside
the ruins of her poor stock-in-trade, and bewailed her
loss with a vehemence and volubility that only increased
the general amusement, without exciting any
sympathy for herself or regret for the ruin of her
small wares.

'^ Oh, vo, vo ! Isn't this poor treatment for a
lone widda woman, that has nothing to keep the life
in her heart these bad times but her little industhry!^^

she "bawled out in lier loudest tones. " That table an'
what was on it was all I had to dipind on to get the
bit an' sup for the week, to say nothing ov my lodging'
money, that's ninepence-ha'pinny as I'm a sinner.
Oh, millia murther ! I'm kilt an' ruminated horse an'
fut ; an' that I may never die in sin, if I have as
much as wan copper to buy me the bit ov tobacco,
let alone the grain o' tay, to comfort my poor ould
heart this blessed night. Oh, terra, neighbours ! let
ye all look at me, wit all I had in the wide world med
smithereens ov out foment ye ! "

"What do you mane, you ould rattletrap, be
making' such a row for nothing at all ? " cried the
irrepressible Pat, in no way abashed by the consequences
of his escapade. ^'1 wouldn't give the
ashes out ov my pipe for all your trumpery, if it
was twice as much. Err a, hould your whisht !
What impudence you have, to be annoying' the
gentleman, an' they on their way to the Court
House ! "

Why thin, neighbours ! d'ye hear him ? The
laggard that has me fairly murthered without
judge or jury, an' has the face to ballyrag me
af ther wards ; the dirty lick-plate ! Och marine !
I'm broke, horse an' fut ! "

Here a person in the crowd, who evidently was

T 2

one of the opposite party, cried with a loud voice :
"Down with the Dillon''

An' down wit you, an' all your dirty breed ! "
Shouted a man near the last speaker. " You infernal
ruffian ! If I hear another word, crooked or straight,
out of your ugly puss, I'll be after sending a few
ov your teeth ov a message down your throat."

More power to you, Dan Murphy ! Stand
to your gun, man alive. Smash his nose to remind
him that he's to have better manners next time;
an' when he looks in the glass he won't forget to
remember it. Aye, in troth ! "

Eyeh ! where would a poor excuse ov a manlike
that, larn manners ? Sure he's only a tailor on the
loose for to-day,iust to stretch his legs. There wouldn't
be much glory in fighting' wit the likes ov him''

This last sally was greeted with great laughter
by the crowd.

However, the tailor was not without his own
backers among the bystanders. Hats were pulled
down firmly over the brow ; sticks were flourished
in a way that was ominously suggestive; and there
was every prospect of a free fight in the narrow,
crowded street, which would doubtless have ended
with the usual amount of broken heads, only for the
presence of mind and savoir faire of Hyacinth

Dillon. With his most genial Voice and winning
smile he called out to the old woman, and asked
her what was the cost of the damaged goods, professing
himself willing to pay her their full value.

** Long life to your honour, sir," she replied, greatly
mollified. " The goods cost me half-a-crown istherday
night, for I had to buy 'em fresh in regard ov the
great hate ; but Vd be sure to double my profit, an'
more again, before this day was out. An' my little table
an' stool that's in smithereens out foment you, Mr
Dillon, wor worth a couple ov shillings more ; aye, in
troth, if the bargain was betuue two brothers, they
wouldn't sell for a pinny less. That the harm ov the
year mayn't pass me, gentlemen dear, if it's a lie I'm
tellin' ye ! "

Well, my good woman, I don't doubt you in the
least. I am sure you wei*e a good deal frightened;
but as for your furniture and wares, this, I think, will
pay you for their loss," And as he spoke, young
Dillon took a sovereign out of his pocket, and tossed
it towards her with a pleasant smile.

At the sight of the gold piece the poor old huckster
was almost stupefied from amazement. It was a longtime
since she had known herself to be the owner of a
golden sovereign, a sum that, even at her own valuation,
was far more than the worth of the poor merchandise

lie had lost. She clutched the coin eagerly
in her hand, and, falling on her knees in the street,
poured forth her thanks for the gift, and blessings on
the giver, as loudly and volubly as she had before
bewailed the destruction of her extempore shop.

"Long life to you, Master Hyacinths' shouted
one of the popular party. " tis yourself, surely, that
has the open hand an' the feeling' heart for the poor
an' the dissolute ! ''

"Fake an' sure, 'twas no loss to poor ould Joan
that she sat in the street to-day, an' got that little
upset. 'Tis himself that's a Dillon every inch ov him,
an' he has their free hand, as well as their handsome
face. Gondhoutha.'' *

The ould stock an' the ould blood for ever, an'
the ould religion to the back ov 'em."

Soniiher to you, Master Hy'cinth, darling' ; what
you'll get yet, never fear."

"Barra, lave off your prate, honest woman, an'
don't be delay in' us here all day. Make way, av
you phase, for the gentleman to pass on to the Court
House, where the sheriff is waiting' wit a power ov
compliments for the ould family ov Castle Cloyne."

Tranquillity having been restored through the tact
of young Dillon, the procession of which he was

Gondhoutlia—W iihovit doubt.

leader again moved on in the direction of the Court
House. In a few moments it emerged from the
narrow street into a square situated in the very
centre of the town, from which the different streets
branched off at the four sides. In the middle of
this square was the Court House. The open space
all round it was thronged with people, and from the
streets and lanes leading to it, vast numbers kept
pouring into it from all parts of the country. The
crowd was so immense that it was literally a sea of
heads, so densely packed together that if a pin fell,
it should be on some person's hat, even though the
hats were in perpetual motion, and kept surging and
swaying from side to side. They were all laughing,
talking, and bandying jokes from one to the other,
and as they saw the DiUons slowly advancing, they
good-humouredly tried to make way for them.

But it was not destined that the peace so lately
restored was to be of long duration. The fuel was
quite ready, and it only required a match to set it
in a blaze. Exactly as the Dillon arrived at the
Court House by one avenue, Mr. Egglestone and his
supporters came from the opposite side. The rival
parties met unfortunately in the centre of the
densely-crowded square. The Englishman was fully
as well and numerously attended as was his opponent,

and his followers were of a higher and more
respectable class,, for the Conservative landlords had
rallied round him with all the authority and influence
that they could command. They mustered in great
force, partly to afford the candidate of their choice
all the moral support their presence could give, and
partly to see that their tenants, who were brought
up in gangs, should vote in the direction that had
been pointed out to them.

'^ This is very unfortunates'' said Mr. Wilson, of
Beech Hill, a grave, white-haired old gentleman,
reining in his horse. "I had hoped that one or
other of the two parties would have arrived at the
Court House before the other. God grant that there
will not be bad work here to-day ! ^'

'^ Pray don't make yourself uneasy," said Terry
Macnamara coolly. "There is a strong force of
police here, and beyond a few cracked skulls and
broken bones, there will be no great harm done.
When things go beyond that, the police will strike ins'

'' I don't like the aspect of affairs at all'' said
Mr. Wilson, shaking his head and looking very
grave. " I wish the business was well over, and
that we were all sitting down to dinner at Beech
Hill. Have you your men well in hand. Hyacinth
and can you depend on them to keep the peace ? "

^^ There is one of them I will not answer for at
all, and that is the impudent scamp that caused
the row a while ago. My father was quite right in
forbidding him to come here to-day, but I suppose
the fellow came off without leave in the end. It is
just like what he would do. I was never more
amazed than when I saw him a few moments since,
and mounted too, on my father's hunter,, the very
best horse in the Castle Cloyne stables. Of course,
he stole him away without leave, for I think my
father would hardly lend Tearaway to me, not to
talk of letting Pat Flanagan ride him to the election.
But I promise you, that when I get home, I'll lay
my whip on his carcase to such good purpose, that
he won't be able to get on horseback for a month
to come."

Three cheers for the ould family ov Castle
Cloyne ! " cried the audacious Pat, forgetting in his
excitement the wholesome fear of his young master
that had kept him up to this in the rear, " an' down
wit baffity makers an' spinning' pennies ! "

Down wit the pot wallopper ! " screamed a
voice in the rear of Mr. Egglestone ; " an' down wit
the rebel Papists ! "

'who sould the pass to Vase Whigarald at
the election of twenty-eight ?" bawled another.

'' Fll tell you that, if you want to know. It was
the Tory landlords, every mother's son ov ^em/^

Boys, remember yer country an' yer religion,
an' don't sell yer souls for filthy lucre."

"Boys, don't mind this rdmash, but think ov
yer wives an' little children at home, an' stand by
yer landlords ! "

By this time the confusion and uproar were
perfectly indescribable. The belligerents were no
longer satisfied with shouting abuse at each other,
but proceeded to more active measures. Very soon,
rotten eggs, dead kittens, and even stones and
brickbats were flying from side to side in blinding
confusion. Then the sticks were uplifted, but fortunately
owing to the density of the crowd, there
was not room for them to have full scope, and all
the mischief that was done was battering down
some scores of hats, and inflicting thereby some
black eyes and bloody noses. Shouts, yells of pain,
and the fiercest imprecations resounded on all sides,
while the closely-packed masses of people swayed
to and fro in the greatest excitement, like the waves
of a tumultuous sea. But the battle did not last
long, for the police, in a compact body, made their
appearance in a few minutes. It was not an easy
task for them to force their way to where the combat

was raging most fiercely, but their very appearance
on the scene of action was sufficient. Bach party
was fain to recede, leaving it a drawn battle. Before
it was quite over, however, Mr. Egglestone was
struck in the cheek by a brickbat, and rushed into
the Court House with the blood streaming down the
front of his shirt.

The uproar within the Court House was almost as
great as it was outside in the square. It was filled
to suffocation almost, by a better class, but all talking
and shouting at the top of their lungs, so that the
proceedings took place for the most part in dumb
show. Mr. Egglestone was proposed to the electors
of the county as a fit and proper person to represent
them in the Imperial Parliament, but the noise was
so terrific that not a word that the gentleman who
proposed, or the one who seconded him said, could
be heard. Mr. Dillon, of Castle Cloyne, was next
proposed by Mr. Wilson, of Beech Hill, and his
nomination was seconded by Terry Macnamara, who
were both received with several rounds of Kentish
fire. Their efforts to gain a hearing met with no
better success, and they were obliged to sit down
after some moments spent in dumb show.

Then Mr. Egglestone stood up to address the
assembly, and was received by a perfect storm of

hisses, cat-calls and similar manifestations of the
popular displeasure. He was as pale as marble, and
this was made still more apparent by the contrast
between the deathly hue of his face and the red
blood that dyed his shirt-front ; but he stood his
ground firmly, holding his hat in one hand, while
with the other he wiped away from time to time, the
drops that oozed out from the wound in his cheek.
He was told by a hundred voices to sit down, but
he would not do so, being fully determined to obtain
a hearing. After some short time spent in this sort
of pantomime. Father O^Rafferty, who stood at
Hyacinth Dillon's right hand, stepped forward and
addressed the people.

"Boys, fair play is a jewel, all the world over.
This gentleman has done nothing that should make
ye refuse to hear him. It is neither manly nor
straightforward, not to permit him to answer for
himself. I don't intend that ye should vote for
Mr. Egglestone by any means; Fd be very sorry
that ye did anything of the kind'' This was said
in a mock whisper, and with a droll wink that set
everyone laughing. "But it won't do my friend
Dominic Dillon the least injury, or prejudice his
election in any way, to treat his opponent courteously
and fairly. And I hope that he will be so treated,

and get what everyone is entitled to, a fall and
patient hearing

Three cheers for Father O'Rafferty ! ''—this from
the lower end of the Court House — '"''and for his
sake let us listen to what this spinning-jenny man
has to say'

Sufficient quiet was now established to enable
Mr. Egglestone to speak with some chance of being
heard. He was listened to in grim silence, and when
he was done there was a feeble attempt at a cheer,
made by his own party, but it soon died out. Then
Hyacinth Dillon, as the representative of his father —
who it was said was confined to his room by a very
severe attack of gout — came forward, to address the
electors on his behalf. As he stood before them bareheaded,
and in the flower of early manhood, graceful
in person, and with a face of almost feminine beauty,
he was received by thunders of applause, that were
renewed again and again. Ladies waved their handkerchiefs
from the galleries, and men flourished their
hats from the body of the house, in a manner scarcely
less enthusiastic. He, too, had to wait for some time
before he could obtain a hearing ; but the delay only
served to exhibit to greater advantage the handsome
young fellow who, hat in hand, and a bright smile on
his face, stood awaiting their pleasure. And when

at last lie was allowed to speak, lie was constantly
interrupted by some flattering or encouraging observation,
or by rounds of cheers, that sounded very
pleasantly in bis ears.

He began by apologising for the unavoidable
absence of bis father, which he hoped the electors
would not impute to indifference or disrespect to them.
He then modestly set forth the claims that his family
had on them, not forgetting to remind them of the
great number of his ancestors who had sacrificed so
much for conscience' sake in the old persecuting times.

'^ Hurrah for Fontenoy, an' for James Dillon who
died there at the head of his regiment ! '^

'happily, the days were past," he continued,
when the gentry of the country, and the flower of
its people, were compelled to choose between the duty
they owed to their religion, and their love for their
native land; and all Irishmen, no matter what their
creed or station might be, were now equal in the eye
of the law. None of the Dillon had a truer love for
religion and country than his father had, who had no
earthly doubt of being, through their support and
influence, returned by a large majority to represent
them in the Imperial Parliament'

^^ Three cheers for the old house of Castle
Cloyne ! ''

*"' Three cheers for the fighting Dillon ! "

'^ One more for the Dillon who fought at the
Boyne, and at Aughrim ; an' down wit the foreigner
an' his spinning jinny ! "

"As the day was now far gone he would not
trespass any longer on their kindness, conscious
as he was how very inadequately he could represent
his father'

When the loud applause that followed this speech
had subsided, the High Sheriff called for a show of
hands, and nearly all present raised their hands in
favour of Dillon, while those who declared in favour
of Egglestone were very few. The latter gentleman
then demanded a poll, and the High Sheriff appointed
the earliest day allowed by the law, for it to take
place. The proceedings being then over for that
day, the people began to disperse. The rival candidates
and their friends departed on their respective
ways, and the Court House was left once more in
profound silence.

BEECH HILL.

"Le bonheur lui-meme n'esfc pas grande chose, mais les
avenues sont delicious."

Marmontel.

When the principal business of the day was over
Hyacinth set out in search of Pat Flanagan, determined
to order that worthy to return immediately
to Castle Cloyne^ as a very small punishment for
his disobedience and misconduct. Besides, he could
not tell what further mischief might be wrought
by Pat's overflowing good spirits, and exuberant
zeal for the honour of the family. In his heart
Hyacinth was not greatly displeased, for youth
will sympathise with youth, and " a fellow feeling
makes us wondrous kind." In his opinion
Pat's escapade was a fault on the right side ; but,
nevertheless, discipline must be observed and the
line drawn somewhere. But the valour of " Mister

Dillou^s own man " was blended with some small
share of discretion ; for as soon as lie saw that the
chief business of the day was over, and that the
immense crowd that had filled the town in the
morning was gradually dispersing, he prudently
followed that example, and took himself off, being
both afraid and ashamed to face his young master.
He was afraid, too, that if they met. Hyacinth would
order him at once to return with his father's hunter,
which was a thing that did not at all suit Pat's
programme. He had a cousin living within a mile
or two of the town, and he resolved to go off to
him and remain at his place until the election would
be over, taking of course Tearaway with him, for
he would not let the horse out of his own care.
He hoped, too, that as his young master would not
meet him in town during the intervening time, he
would think he had returned home with the horse.
As he said to his cousin, in the course of the evening,
when they were smoking their pipes together : " If
I let Tearaway out ov my sight, an' that anything
happened him, or that he was stole, o' 'count ov
borj-yin^ him without as much as ^ by your leave '
to the master or Master Hy'cinth, begot, I'd have
nothing for it but to fly the country, an' make
for fortin parts. The civil a less ! "

VOL. I. u

In the cool of the afternoon, Terry Macnamara and
Hyacinth Dillon rode home to Beech Hill with Mr.
Wilson. It was a pretty place, just outside the
town, and its peace and repose were very welcome
after the noise and turmoil of the crowded town. Mr.
Wilson rode with them, and it was settled that his
house was to be their head-quarters for a few days
until the close of the election, as the distance to Castle
Cloyne was too great to permit of their returning
to it that evening.

Mr. Wilson, of Beech Hill — as he loved to be
called — was a man of large fortune, one of a class that
is known as les nouveaux riches. Although holding
himself the position of a gentleman, his family and
relations were all inferior in the social scale. Neither
he nor they could be called old gentry like the
Macnamaras and the Dillon, who could trace their
pedigree not for years, but for centuries. He did not
possess the luxury of ancestors, at least not any that
Ulster King-alarms could take official notice of, nor
could he go farther back than his grandfather. Fortunately,
however, for himself he had had a grandfather,
the man from whom he derived his wealth,
who began life as an errand-boy, and ended it as the
senior partner of the house the floors of which he had
once swept. His son was well educated and ambitious,

and the grandson, who was a great improvement on
the other two, married into a good old county family
and, on the strength of the wife's respectability and
his own wealth, held his head as high as if he had
been descended from the Plantagenet. He was a
quiet kind of man, though rather pompous, and very
proud of his money, which he esteemed beyond
everything else in the world ; and this was not surprising
considering what money had done for him,
without aid whatever from good birth or high connections,
or brilliant intellect, which goes beyond
them all. Money, and money alone, had raised up
his family from their original obscurity, and placed
it in society, and on an equality with men whose
ancestors had come into Ireland with Strongbow, or
who had been lords of the soil there " when Brian
smote down the Danes But though fully sensible
of the value of money, he made no ignoble use of
it, for he lived in good style on his own property,
assisted the local charities with liberality, and
practised a hospitality that was above criticism,
for it was neither mean on one side nor ostentatious
on the other. Respectable in his habits, and inoffensive
in manner and language, he was like the
hare in the fable, and " had many friends," as the
rich and prosperous are sure to have, unless they

u 2

violate good taste or public opinion in some very
outrageous way.

Mr. Wilson's family consisted of only one child,
a daughter the sole heiress of his large fortune.
Like Grace Dillon, she was unfortunately motherless,
but, unHke her, she was gifted with great
personal beauty. Young, lovely, and an heiress, it
may well be said that she had many admirers ; some
of them admiring her fortune, and others, with proverbial
Irish gallantry, admired her fine person still
more. But, with one exception, she regarded them
all with the greatest indifference, and that exception
was in favour of Hyacinth Dillon. The young heir
of Castle Cloyne loved the beautiful girl with all his
heart and soul; for him there was but one woman
in the world, and that woman was Caroline Wilson.

In this instance, strange to say, the course of
true love had hitherto run very smoothly. Those
two young people Heed in an enchanted palace,
within whose precincts summer always reigned, where
the flowers never faded, and where the birds songs
were a perpetual chorus of exulting joy. No serpent
lurked in the Eden of their love. Xo stem parent,
who had never loved himseK, or loved so long ago
that he had lost all memory of its fragrance, and
could not sympathise with youth, or the fresh, bright

hopes that are its priceless dower, was there to forbid
their love or separate them with a masterful and
pitiless hand. Mr. Dillon and Mr. Wilson were both
aware of the mutual affection of their children, and,
so far from opposing the engagement they had
entered into, they fully approved and sanctioned it.
This complaisance on the part of the two fathers
did not proceed altogether from pure affection for
their children, or anxiety to secure their happiness,
but from much more ambitious and worldly motives.
The first consideration with both was in the circumstance
that the greater part of Mr. Wilson's property
lay side by side with that of Castle Cloyne, and that
the two, if joined together, would lie in a ring fence,
the fairest and most compact estate in the whole
county. The two old gentlemen were at one on
this point, and, after many consultations, they came
to the conclusion that it would be the greatest pity
in the world that the estates should be separated.

To be sure, there were a few minor objections,
but when all parties were agreed on the major
points, agreement in the minor ones was sure to
follow as a matter of course. Mr. Wilson knew
that the Dillon owed a great deal of money, but
his knowledge on the matter was rather vague, for
he thought they only owed some thousands, when

in truth the estate of Castle Cloyne was mortgaged
up to its full value. The large sum of ready money-lie
would give his daughter on her marriage would,
he calculated, not only clear off all the encumbrances,
but leave a handsome surplus sufficient to repair the
old house, and furnish it newly from the cellar to
the garret. With all the ambition of a parvenuj he
wished his child should marry into an old family
like the Dillon', whose blood was untainted, and
whose antecedents were faultless. The very quality
that he lacked himself he envied and admired in
them. His grandchildren would be Dillon, and with
the name would inherit the prestige and the grand
old traditions of the race.

But on his side Dominic Dillon did not regard
the projected marriage with unmixed complacency.
He felt, in truth, not a little sore and discontented
at the thought of his only son and his heir being
married to a woman whose grandfather had begun life as
an errand-boy, whose wealth had been made in trade,
and whose blood was, in his estimation, only the
merest puddle. Had the Wilsonss a coat of arms
at all ? he asked himself, or if they had, where did
they get it, or from what respectable family did they
pilfer it ? Wilson was a quiet, gentlemanly man, who
knew how to bear himself well and prudently withall

classes of men, and Caroline was a beautiful
accomplished girl, and as far as he could see a good
girl too, but Ms son, the last Dillon of Castle Cloyne,
was, he thought, well entitled to marry a woman who
had not only money in her pocket, but good blood
in her veins.

All this, and much more to the same purpose, was
said by Mr. Dillon to his fidus Achates, Terry Mac-samara,
as they sat in the open window of the diningroom
in Castle Cloyne, one fine evening in summer.
Dinner was over, and there was a small round table
beside them, on which were two glasses of good old
port, and some fine ripe fruit freshly gathered.

I can't say I think your view of the question is
either a good or a wise one' said Terry, when Mr.
Dillon, with a rueful face, had for the twentieth time
gone over all his objections to the match. " Her
money is exactly what we are most in need of at this
stage of affairs, and not her blood, so that her want of
that commodity does not make much difference. Of
course it would be better if she had it; but as she
hasn't, there is no more to be said. We can't have
everything we like in this world. We can afford to do
without ancestors for her, when we have so many and
to spare on yours. Hyacinth has the blood and Caroline
has the fat, and so the pair are pretty well

matched. Wilson wants to give this daughter rank
and position by getting her married into an old
county family, and he is satisfied to pay well for
his ambition ; and you want to redeem the old acres,
and to do that you must pay too, in the sacrifice
of a share of your pride. Each gives what he can
spare, and gains all that he wants, and that, I think,
is a fair reasonable bargain."

'all the same, Terry, I never would give my
consent to such a marriage, only that Hyacinth
loves the girl, and I could not bear to cross him,
or give him a sore heart in the beginning of his life."

'' You're about right there, and have used the
very best argument in favour of the match. He
is a fine lad, and it would be a grievous thing to
break his spirit or grieve his young heart on account
of the phantom of your absurd old family pride.
He is your only son ; take care not to pull the string
too tightly by which you still hold him in your hand.
You were young once yourself, Dominic, and you
married the woman you loved, and were very happy
with her. Don't, for heaven's sake, condemn your
son to a life less happy than was your own lot.
This consideration alone ought to settle the matter,
even if worldly prudence and sound common sense
were not already in the scale."

And it did settle it with. Mr. Dillon, though it
is very doubtful if lie would have consented to haul
down his flag so soon, had his affection for his son
not been seconded by the splendid dower that Miss
Wilson was to bring with her. Dominic Dillon was
no fool, although he sometimes did very foolish
things; and he could not but see that Terry's
arguments were wise and sensible. So he not only
gave his consent to the marriage, but he did so
with a good grace ; and it was arranged that it
should take place in another year, when the young
lady should have attained her majority.

On the day of the nomination there was to bea
large dinner-party at Beech Hill, composed for
the most part of those country gentlemen who had
come from a distance to give the support of their
presence to Mr. Dillon. There was not much conversation
during dinner, for the guests were all too
hungry for anything but strict attention to the good
things before them. After dinner the discourse all
turned on the business of the election and the
proceedings of the morning, mixed up with some
local news, all of which, though very interesting
to the company themselves, is not of any importance
to the progress of this story. As soon as he could
do so without attracting observation. Hyacinth slipped

out of the room,, wMcli tie could easily do as he
was next the door, leaving his seniors to discuss the
election, and make themselves comfortable over some
good old port and prime Cork whiskey.

Miss Wilson was not in the drawing-room when
he went in, but through the window he caught a
glimpse of her moving about among the trees outside
the house. Springing through the open window,
he was in a moment at her side. Winding his arm
round her slender waist, he gently led her out of
sight of the dining-room windows, to where the trees
were more thickly massed, and the leafy screen overhead
made a fitting canopy for the idyll that always
exists on earth when that charming triad, youth, beauty,
and love, meet together for a brief space of time.

Caroline Wilson was a radiant blonde. In the
words of Tennyson,

She was divinely tall,
And most divinely fair.

If she was not a patrician by birth, she was certainly
one in appearance. It was no perversion of language
to call her beautiful, for she was nobly formed, with
a bright face crowned by an aureole of red golden
hair, and eyes of so deep a blue that they vied in
colour with the skies above them. She was, in truth,
very beautiful, and she knew it; for what woman

that is beautiful does not know it, unless she is a fool ?
This knowledge made itself quite apparent in the
stately carriage, in the calm, proud composure with
which she met the admiring gaze with which strangers
first looked at her. She was a queen in right of
^^ sovereign beauty born,^^ and required the full tribute
of admiration that she thought was due to the surpassing
loveliness of her face and form. It had been
often said that Caroline's charms would be absolutely
perfect if she could only seem a little less conscious
of them, if she had about her more of the loving,
gentle woman, and less of the flattered beauty and
spoiled heiress. But Hyacinth saw no fault in his
idol, no flaw, however slight, in the dainty workmanship
of her composition. In his eyes she was simply
perfect, the ^' bright particular star '' that was above
and beyond all other women.

Ah ! how happy they were, those two, as they
wandered about among the trees in the soft, sweet
haze of that glorious August evening ! Their future
promised to be as fair and cloudless as the present;
no cloud, not even as small as a man's hand, appeared
to darken the horizon that stretched itself on before
them serene and glad. Let age accumulate wealth,
and count his money-bags with ever-increasing interest
and greed, but youth and love have a gold

of their own far more precious, or rather they
possess an alchemy that turns all they touch into
gold ; airy, unsubstantial, fleeting, but to them priceless
wealth; a wealth that can neither be bought
nor sold, but is their own in fee. And when youth
and love abide in the same heart, there also is gladness
and happiness, for to be young is to enjoy, and
to love is to be happy.

But the August evening, though very lovely, is
also very short, and the fast-coming darkness as well
as the heavy dews warned them to retire indoors.
When they entered the drawing-room, where the
tea-table was set out waiting for its mistress, they
found only Mr. Wilson and Terry Macnamara playing
a game of backgammon at a small side-table. The
other guests had all gone away, soon after dinner, as
they lived in the country, and had long distances to
ride before they could reach their homes.

After tea Caroline sat down to the piano, and while
the two old gentlemen played their game with
varying success, she performed some of the fine
classical music of the German composers. She had
a good ear, correct taste, and had been most carefully
taught, therefore her execution was beyond
what is commonly seen in an amateur. She played
piece after piece, and Hyacinth turned the leaves

of her music-book, and between each, there were
tender whispers and soft nothings by way of
interlude ; all very delightful to themselves, no doubt,
but which would look very silly indeed if put into
print. When the two old gentlemen had finished
playing, Caroline stood up from the piano, and closed
the book, while still the last strain of Chopin^s
dreamy music floated on the air. Her father, whose
taste lay more in vocal than in instrumental harmony,
asked her for a song before they separated for the
night, and she sat down again to the instrument, and
after a tender prelude she sang some English words
to a melancholy old Irish air. The words were quite
as pathetic as the air, and she rendered both with
much taste and feeling. It was strange that one so
young and joyous should have selected so sad a song,
but les extremes se touchent, and excess of happiness
often has the effect of making us thoughtful and
pensive, as if to remind us how transitory a thing
joy is, as well as to show us that there is nothing
bright, or glad, or lovely here below, that is not
darkened by the shadow and the fear that are the
inseparable attendants of all earthly things.

The day has waxed and waned, the night is falling,

Hushing to solemn calm the world's loud roar ;
But thou wilt answer to my heart's wild calling,
ISTo more, oh, never more !

'Eo more wilt thou be joyful in my gladness —
Oil loved and lost ! — as in the days of yore ;
And, if thou couldst not soothe, wouldst share my sadness,
No more, oh, never more !

ISTo more wilt thou with tender accents bless me,
And on my lonely heart Love's sunshine pour,
Or with thy gentle, pitying hand caress me,
No more, oh, never more !

Yearningly I stretch my arms above me.

As if to win thee from th' eternal shore ;
No more shall I be loved as thou didst love me.
No more, oh, never more !

A CONTESTED ELECTION.

With wreaths of laurel now my brows entwine,
• '5 . , . The victory is mine !

Pope.

When the day fixed on by the sheriff for polling
the electors of the county arrived, the small old
town miscalled the capital was once more the scene
of the wildest excitement. Warned by what had
occurred on the day of nomination, the authorities had
wisely decided that the candidates and their followers
should make their entry into the town, not only from
different sides, but at different hours of the day.
Strong bodies of police were stationed at the outskirts,
whose duty it was to enforce this order in the
most stringent manner. Mr. Egglestone, as he had
lodgings in the town, was directed to have his people
to the fore '' by nine o'clock in the morning, while

the Dillon, who for the most part^had to come from a
distance, were appointed to put in their appearance at
ten, at which hour the polling was to commence at
the several booths. By this judicious arrangement
a collision between the opposite parties was avoided,
and the business of the day allowed to proceed with
not more than the usual amount of excitement and
uproar.

For an hour or two the voting was tolerably even,
and neither side could claim much advantage over the
other. This nettled the great county magnates, who
almost all were in favour of Mr. Egglestone, the Conservative
candidate, while the middle classes, the Catholic
clergy, and all whom they could influence, ranged
themselves on the side of Mr. Dillon. Matters went
on quietly enough until about noon, and then began
the real tug of war. The landlords, who could not endure
the thought of being defeated by the priests,
exerted themselves to the utmost, bringing their
tenants in gangs to the poll, riding at their head in
proud triumph, while the rear was brought up by their
stewards and bailiffs, who took care that no man fell
out of the ranks, or flinched from the task assigned to
him. There was very little fear, however, of much
overt rebellion against landlord authority, for the
greater number of those freeholders were only tenants

from year to year, and were well aware of the penalty
that would surely and sternly be exacted from them, if
they presumed to vote otherwise than as their landlords
had directed. That penalty would be eviction !
They would be deprived of their holdings, and they
and their families flung penniless on the world in
punishment for having obeyed their priests, rather
than their landlords. Some, when they came to the
poll, and saw the eye of their priest fixed on them, and
heard his warning whisper bidding them to stand by
the old religion and the old country, deserted 
boldly recorded their votes for Mr. Dillon,,
amidst the loud acclamations of the bystanders. But
they who had the courage to beard their landlords to
their teeth were not tenants at will, as may be well
supposed, but freeholders who held their lands
on lease; comfortable enough to pay their rents
punctually, and who could, consequently, afford themselves
the luxury of giving their votes to the priest
instead of the landlord. But they were very few,
comparatively speaking, who had the courage to act
so independently ; and when the hour of noon pealed,
forth from the town clock, the tide had turned in
favour of Egglestone, and every moment that passed
increased his majority.

"This will never do," said Terry Macnamara to

VOL I. X

Father O'Rafferty, as they stood together in one
of the booths. ''^The Conservatives are carrying
everything before them all along the line. Where
is Hyacinth ? ^'

'^ He is haranguing a crowd from, the window of
his own committee-rooms

'that won't do much good now. There must
be stronger measures, or we are lost. The landlords
are going ahead of us at a slapping pace. I canst
stay here any longer, but will go out to the streets,
where I could do more good than I can do here.
You can stay here and watch the voting.''^

"I think it would be better if I were the one
to go into the streets returned the priest. ^''111
run round to all the public-houses, and see who are
skulking there. You can take your turn when I come
back; but one of us must remain here to watch
the voters and inform our attorney of whatever
holes can be picked in the freeholders on the other
sides'

'^ So be it/^ acquiesced Terry ; and the priest,
with a celerity that could hardly be expected in one
so old and so fat, was off like a shot.

This was the moment chosen by Mr. Pat Flanagan,
who up to this had remained in the background, to
make what he thought was a grand coui:>. No sooner

lead he seen Father O'Rafferty fairly out of the
booth, than he came forward with an air of great
importance, leading with great apparent care and
solicitude a feeble-looking old man, who, though the
weather was extremely sultry, was enveloped in a
large frieze ^^loody,^' and having his head and face
well wrapped up in a large woollen comforter.

'^ Make way there, boys, for this poor ould man,
that got up out ov his sick bed, an' come a long
distance besides, to vote for Mr. Dillon,^^ cried Patin
a loud voice.

Who are you, my man, and for whom do you
vote ? ^' asked Mr. Dillon^s^s law agent.

'^My name is Martin MacDermott, an' I come to
vote for my landlord, Mr. Dillon ov Castle Cloyed''
replied the man in the low weak voice of an invalid.

Has Mr. Dillon such a tenant, and if so, is he
qualified to vote ? "" asked Mr. Egglestone's attorney.

Mr. Dillon's agent had his own misgivings as to
the real state of the case, but he kept them to
himself, for his business was to secure the vote,
not to disparage it, and an additional vote for his
employer when hard pressed was of great value*
Whether the vote was hon fides or not was no
affair of his.

Undoubtedly Mr. Dillon has such a tenant, and

X 2

in my mind, until my poor head is fairly addled from
thinking said the weary girl with a sigh. *' But it
all comes to wan thing in the end."

An' what is that, ergo ? "

I must sell the land."

Sell the land ! " exclaimed Mrs. Clancy in a voice
of the greatest consternation, and astonishment, " sell
the land ! Oh, queen ov Heaven ! did any wan ever
hear the like ? ''

^^Tm as sorry myself, aunt, as you are, but what
can I do ? ''

'^ What can you do, is it ? Bye ! what would you
do, but just what Fm tellin yo? I^et wan ov my
boys manage for you till Shrovetide, an then marry
some decent, honest man, that^U have a trifle ov
money. You'll have the land an' he'll have the
arrighidhy^ an' I'd like to know what's to prevent
ye both from been' very happy together. That's what
you're to do, an' a good sensible thing it will be."

The poor girl sighed, and as she did so, her hand
came involuntarily in contact with the broken sixpence
that lay concealed in her bosom.

Sell the land, inagh ! Why, Oonagh, you must
be tract, to think ov it even. It is the best farm on

Arrigliidh—lsionej.

Mr. Dillon's estate, for the size ov it, an' you talk ov
it just the same as if it was only a cabbage garden, oran
acre of bog''

I'm just as fond of the place as yourself, but it is
in debt, an' the debt must be paid. Sure you know
well that Mr. Dillon must be paid his rent, an' where
is that to be got if I don't sell the place ? As for
marrying' a man just for the sake ov his money, 'isn't
a thing that I could ever bring my mind to. An' well
as I love Ballycross, I'd far sooner sell it than sell
myself."

Oh, holy Saint Bridget ! did ever any wan hear
the like since the world began ? Oonagh MacDermott,
you're out ov your mind, that what's you are, an' if
you don't show more sense and raison than what
you're coin' now, I'll have you sint to the madhouse
in Limerick, until this mad fit is well taken out ov you."

Oonagh smiled at this ridiculous threat.

"You think I wouldn't do it," said Mrs. Clancy in
great wrath ; " see if I don't ! . It would be hard on
me, I own, to have people say madness was in my
family, in regard ov my two little girls that aren't
preferred yet, but I'd sooner do it than let you make
such a world's wonder ov yourself. Och marine !
was there ever such a heart-scalded poor woman as
what I am this day ! " and covering her face with

VOL. I. p

her apron, lie rocked herself back, and forward ina
paroxysm of the wildest grief.

"Dear aunt, I can't bear to see you retain'
like this' said Oonagh, rising, and laying her hand
softly on Mrs. Clancy's shoulder. " Sure if you'd
only hear to raison, you'd see it is the best thing
that I can do. I can't bear to see you so vexed,
but all the same, I'd like to give everyone his due,
an' not let any wan say he was a loser by my good,
honest father's

Don't spake to me, Oonagh MacDermott ! Don't
come near me, I tell you ! Oh, vo, vo ! Did I
ever think I'd live to see such a black, woful day !
To see the splendid, fine farm, that belonged to my
father, an' his father before him, an' that they worse
proud ov, an' the fine slated house on it that I
was born in, going for a song, an' I obliged to
stand by, an' let it go. 'Tis for my sins, surely, that
I'm condemned to pass through such a fiery furnish —
what else ? "

Oonagh waited patiently until this burst of passion
would subside. When it did so after some moments,
she sat down again, and resumed the conversation
with her usual composure of manner, and gentleness
of voice, as if there had not been such a stormy
interruption to it.

You see, aunt, there's nearly two years' rent
due ov the land, an' where am I to make out that
much money, if I don't sell it ? The master, I own,
was very indulgent, an' patient wit us, but you know
that wouldn't go on always. He has his own calls,
an' he's not a rich man be no manner ov manes,
an' he'd have to eject me in the long run, an' so
I'd make nothing at all by holding' on. Isn't it
better for me to sell it, an' get something for my
interest in it, an' clear my good father's name,
than have the sheriff come down on me, an' lave
me nothing at all ? '^

'' What signifies two years' rent?" said Mrs. Clancy.
*"' Sure 'tis nothing but a drop in the ocean to Mr.
Dillon, an' the like ov him. He ought to remember
that you are the last ov a good ould stock, that
lived on his ground for hundreds of years, an' that
it was your mother that nursed his own daughter
into the bargain. He'll forgive you every pinny if
you only go the right way to work wit him, an'
thin you can begin a new score wit him as fresh
as a daisy. He never could stand the country if
he threw you out on the wide world, an' you all
that's left after your decent father."

'' An' is it because I am the last after my decent
father, that I'm to bring discredit on his name ? "

F 2

this exploit of yours. Faith, his blackthorn stick and
your broad shoulders will be made better acquainted
than they ever were before."

Oh, be the mortal, here he is ! '' exclaimed Patin
very genuine alarm. " Tm off; an', Mr. Macna-
mara dear, you needn't putting that I was here afc
all." And, diving down under the arms of those
around him with, the dexterity of Harlequin in the
pantomime, he made his exit from the booth just as
the priest was coming in with, half-a-score of freeholders,
who were prevailed on by alternate threats
and coaxing to accompany him to record their votes
for the popular candidate.

Meanwhile the scene, or rather the variety of
scenes that took place outside in the streets, almost
baffle my poor powers of description. The crowd
there was immense, but there was no anger or
turbulence among the people. There was a good
deal of pushing and crushing, combined with a
noise and confusion of tongues that might well have
put Babel to shame, yet there was also much good
humour, and a spirit of rollicking fun that is not
to be found anywhere on earth save among an Irish
crowd. Pleasant jokes and witty chaff were bandied
about freely, and peals of laughter that were as
contagious as they were light-hearted, went round

with scarcely any cessation. A large body of police
was drawn up at one side of the Court House, but
there seemed no probability that it would be required,
while the chief officer lounged about, laughing
and chatting with all his acquaintances as they
passed up and down.

On the other side of the square, an old ballad-singer,
whose clothes were absolutely in tatters,
and whose ragged old bonnet was kept on her head
by a piece of strong twine, was shouting at the
highest pitch of her cracked voice, a doggrel soul,
the refrain of which gave much satisfaction :

Then success to brave O'Connell, wherever he is seen,
You'll know him when you see him, for he wears a shut ov green.
For he gained ould Ireland's freedom, as I truly now declare,
When he won the great election, that was fought in County
Clare.

Not far distant was another ballad-singer, who
evidently was determined not to be outdone by a
rival of the inferior sex, for with the lungs of a
stentor, and a total disregard of time and tune, he was
roaring out a panegyric on Father Mathew, who had

Bate the saint whiskey
Out ov green Airing's isle.

Both those minstrels were apparently doing a
thriving trade, for with every verse they sang they

sold a dozen of ballads. Many a hand containing
a halfpenny was held out for one of those admired
compositions; and happy was he who succeeded in
securing one to take home, for the amusement of
the family circle. There was a blind fiddler mounted
on the steps of a gentleman's hall-door, drawing
sounds that could hardly be called music from the
strings of a battered old fiddle ; but whether it
was owing to the bad state of the instrument, or
to the want of skill in the musician, or to the
deafening noise that reigned around, no one could
tell what the tune was, or whether it was grave
or gay. For that matter no one seemed to care
one way or the other; but the poor blind man did
not fare the worse, for so many coppers were dropped
into his hat, that he might have been excused for
thinking his discordant strains were the music of
the spheres. Certainly there was no lack of music,
for in another direction was a highland piper, looking
very fierce and martial in kilt and philabeg, but
whose accent, the moment he spake, proclaimed
him to be unmistakably *' a son of the sods' There
was a Frenchman with a barrel organ, on the top
of which was perched a monkey, whose hideous
aspect and gaudy dress, joined to the demonstrative
gestures and foreign speech of its owner, made

them the centre of a group of gaping rustics. This
wretched animal became so terrified by the uproar
and the pressure of the crowd, that it broke loose
and scampered off over the heads of the people,
who screamed with terror or roared with laughter,
until it finally took refuge on the outer sill of a
first-floor window, from which coign of vantage it
looked down posturing and jabbering after the
uncouth fashion of all its race. It would be hard
to tell whether the antics of the ape, or the frantic
gesticulations and broken English of the poor Frenchman,
were the most absurdly ludicrous.

As a matter of course, the human voice was not
wanting to increase the general clamour and confusion.
It was there in every key and variety of
accent ; from all classes and all ages ; from the
shrill treble of the little street Arab, who trotted
about almost under the feet of the people, to the
deep bass of the stalwart giant ; from the mellifluous
brogue of the countryman, to the more refined and
subdued speech of his superior in the social scale.

"I hear that the tide has turned, and that now
the chances are in favour of Dillon.-'^

"I should not be surprised. The priests are
working shoulder to shoulder for him, and we know
what they can do when they are in earnest. At

every cost, they will have Dominic Dillon at the
head of the polls

"For God's sake, honest man, take your elbow-out
ov my ribs ! ''

"Barra! don't be bothering' us. You think that
no wan is kilt but yourself.''^

^Tll bet six to one, that, in spite of all the
priests are doing, Egglestone rides the winning horse,
and wins in a canter''

Done ! I'm as sure o£ your money as if I
had it in my hand; so, old fellow, you had better
have it handy. The Catholics will return Dillon,
if their priests never interfered at all. Priests and
people are working together now, as they have
always done,"

'^ Bosh ! The landlords are more than a match
for them. They have the freeholders, and the priests
have the mob."

Oh, you common bastion ! Don't you see how
you're tear in' the shawl off my back ? "

"Mushaa, bad luck to your impudence ! What
a rale rooliawn you're risen' for nothing at all."

Why, thin, peeler 'a grew machine, did you see
that man ov mine anywhere at all ? "

"How can I tell? Sure I don't know your
husband from Adam."

Oh, tare an' 'ours ! What a rale omadhawn
I am to stand here all day, to be shoved and scrooge,
as if I was only a lump ov dough; an' my supper
ov beautiful new parties by the fire at home waiting'
for me""

"That I may never die in sin, if I had so
much fun in all my life before. I wouldn't miss
this day for the best pound note I ever shut my
fist on."

All this time the friends and agents of Mr.
Dillon had exerted themselves to such good purpose,
that the fortune of the day had undergone a change,
and that gentleman had not only come up with his
opponent in the several booths, but had shot ahead
of him with so large a majority that before the day
was half over his return was considered certain.
Slips of paper giving the exact state of the poll
were printed every half-hour, and circulated through
the crowd, who received the accounts contained with
great enthusiasm. At every fresh announcement
the people flung up their hats, shouting and yelling
as if they had gone mad.

At three o'clock Mr. Milestone, seeing that his
case had become desperate, withdrew from the contest.
He saw that his own supporters had been
polled to the last man, while from all parts of the

country great numbers still were pouring in to record
their votes for the owner of Castle Cloyne.

No sooner was it known that Mr. Egglestone had,
as the phrase went, ^' thrown up the sponges than
the excitement and exultation of the people became
perfectly indescribable. They cheered as the Irish
know how to cheer — not with the voice alone, but
with the heart, that broke out through it and thrilled
through every inflection. Round after round of
triumph pealed out and died away, and then burst
forth again and yet again, with renewed and most
emphatic joy. Then there was no end of handshaking.
The people were shaking hands with their
priests, with each other, and with everyone who would
shake hands with them. As for Hyacinth Dillon,
it was well that his hand was suffered to remain
attached to his body, and not wrung off altogether,
in the uproarious congratulations of his friends and
supporters.

This state of things was of course gall and wormwood
to the opposite party. They could have borne
their defeat with more equanimity, had the rejoicing
over it been a little less pronounced, but the '^ lo
triumph '' had been so loud and universal that it
actually maddened them. A growl of dissent arose,
low at first, but gradually increasing in force and

volume, with an ominous sound that argued ill for
the continuation of the good humour that had
hitherto prevailed among the crowd.

Down wit the rebel Dillon ! Down wit the
ould Papist nest of Castle Cloyne ! " shouted a diminutive
hunchback, who was bailiff to the gentleman
that had proposed Mr. Egglestone.

Erra, what's that you're say in you misfortune
example ? If you spake another word, by St.
Patrick, I'll make such smithereens ov that crooked
carcase of yours, that your own mother wouldn't
know you ! " cried a burly butcher, looking down
on the little man with eyes sparkling with rage.

Oh haithershin ! Fake an sure, you won't do
anything ov the sort, while the peelers are to the
fore. There's law in the land, my fine fella, for you
an' the likes ov you, an' a quiet little corner in the
stone jug, where you'll get plenty ov time to get
cool. Arrah ! be aise, man ; or you'll be made todo
it."

The big butcher made no reply, but clasping his
strong arms round the unfortunate hunchback, he
raised him from the ground bodily, and flung him
with great force over the heads of the people. He
struggled and wriggled for a moment, and then fell
heavily down through an opening made for him by

the sheer weight of his own body. He rose to his
feet immediately, with blood streaming down his
face in a copious stream; but as it was proceeding
from his nose, his injury was more apparent than
real.

"Boys, will ye stand by, an' see me kilt an'
murthered be that infernal ruffian ? '' he yelled, as he
dashed the goats of blood aside with both hands.

Av you'd keep a civil tongue in your head,
no wan would lay hand on you,^' observed a bystander.
" It will tache you to let the Papists alone
for the futhur. 'Tis a poor case, that we have to
stand here to listen to a critchahawii^ ov your sort
ballyraggin^ us.^^

To hell with the Pope, an' the priests along wit
him ! '' bawled a man, who was the very next moment
felled to the ground by the brawny arm of the butcher.

The melee now became general. However, the
space was so confined and crowded with people, that
though blows were freely exchanged and sticks
flourished in the air, not much harm was done, but
the confusion and noise were dreadful. Some of the
gentlemen present called loudly for the police, and
for a magistrate to read the Riot Act, just as a fresh

Critchahaivn — A hunchback.

actor appeared upon the scene. This was Father
O'Rafferty, brought to the spot by the uproar,
and he at once proceeded to quell the tumult in a
fashion peculiar to himself. He rushed into the very
thickest of the battle, and laid on right and left,
on friend and foe, with his stout blackthorn cudgel,
with such praiseworthy impartiality and downright
goodwill, that he scattered the combatants as if they
had been so many frightened sheep.

"Take that, and that, and that ! ^^ he shouted,
following every word with a whack laid on withall
the strength of his arm. "I'm shamed an disgraced
by ye ! 'Tis a pity not to leave ye to murder
one another, or be shot down by the police like mad
dogs ; and that I don't do it is not for your sake,
but for the sake of your wretched wives and children.
What, ye rufl&anly blackguards ! 'Tis fighting ye
want — no less ! Well, here I am, and I'll give ye
enough of it, see if I don't. Take that, and that ! ''
and again the stick came down with the force of a
sledge-hammer.

This shower of blows, well aimed and given in
earnest, had such good effect, that in a few moments
the crowd that had been so dense dissolved very
rapidly. They who were nearest the priest, and
under the immediate influence of his terrible stick,

VOL. I. Y

received their castigation with wry faces and cries
of pain, while they who were at a distance beheld
the performance with shouts of laughter. What had
promised to be a tragedy ended by being a screaming
farce !

'*" You have not done badly this time as a champion
of the Church militant. Father John," said Terry
Macnamara, who had watched the scene with much
amusement ; " but though you are great, be merciful
also. The arms and backs of some of those poor
devils will be black and blue for a month to come,
after the thrashing you gave themes

'the rascals haven't had enough yet," replied
the priest, who, however, lowered the formidable
blackthorn. ^^ Their bad conduct has brought me to
shame ; and I was so proud of them, forsooth, and
boasted so much of their good behaviour ! To tell
the truth, they were well-behaved, and would have
continued so to the end, only for that miserable little
humpback, who began the fray. But I think he was
drunk."

^'^And I am sure of it. I saw him to-day in
half-a-dozen public-houses, treating himself, as well
as others, at Mr. Egglestone's expense, and this row
has been the consequence. It was well you were so
near, otherwise there would have been bad work,
and the police should interferes

Well, bad as I was to them, it was better for
them to bave to deal with my blackthorn, than with
the bayonets of the policemen

A fresh incident now occurred that diverted the
public attention into another channel. For some
days a travelling circus had been advertised to perform
in the neighbourhood on the day of the election,
and now the horses and performers were advancing
up the street in grand parade. The procession was
headed by a high open car, painted in gaudy colours
and drawn by four piebald horses. A brass band,
braying with might and main occupied this car,
adding a good deal to the noise, though the less that
is said of the music the better. After this showy
vehicle came another, containing the " funny men "
of the company, wearing hideous masks, and dressed
most grotesquely. The cavalcade was closed by the
females of the troupe on horseback. On account
of the crowd, they had to proceed very slowly, to
the great delight of the people, who were delighted
to get gratis a good deal of the sight that should
be paid for by-and-by. All went on well until the
first car, containing the band, arrived at a part
of the square that opened into a back street, or
rather lane. From this lane a flock of geese, led
by a solemn-looking old gander, issued at the moment
the car arrived, and, with the stupidity of the race,

marched straight on instead of turning back onto
either side. Unable either to stop or recede, the
driver of the car, with a lofty air of contemptuous
indifference, drove right down on the geese. Though
geese saved the Capitol and city of Rome, they could
not save themselves in this instance, but, fluttering
their wings, raised such an outcry as even to drown
the discordant sounds of the band. The scene was
so full of all the elements of broad farce, so absurd,
so noisy, as to defy all description. When at last,
amidst the inextinguishable laughter of the crowd,
the cavalcade had swept on, it was seen that more
than half of the unfortunate birds were dead, and
the rest so maimed that they were quite worthless.
The poor old woman who was their owner came out
of the lane just in time to behold the catastrophe,
and her lamentations over their destruction were
loud and long-continued. She had good reason to
remember "Dillon's election," for those wretched
geese made all her worldly wealth. The Irish geese,
less wise and fortunate than their Roman predecessors,
instead of being honoured as the saviours of a great
nation, were the sport of a mob, and were crushed
to death under the wheels of a travelling caravan.

END OF VOL. I.

Charles Dickens And Beans, Crystal PALACE PEE83.

\

k

:^^^-^-^

^^^S

^^'gggqgg'''t?tI5r paper r^Seslielving^^^trr-tKe
following manner is considered a temporary

m^ ^ .^^^^

1. lying pd/or wrapping and tying
^"~- ^. ^ storage in acid free envelope, document
box, sect.

CONSIDER THE F Following ALTERNATIVES

1. Replacement

2 . Reprint

3 . Withdrawal

U. Photocopying, Microfilm, Microfiche sect.

5. Storage for future preservation if

bibliographic research determines it is
valuable to our collection, (if transferred
to Storage in Stacks, it must be last copy
in system. )

Return to Bijading/^fending for a h
if volum^i6/<5nly iQ9py,/Fii5j&"^nd
GrioLnai binding or covers, e

S^5- 78 n^^ Q^y^^.,^.

made box only
rash copy,

)dit:

)BOOK ON PRESERVATION EFFORTS AT UIJ
^RMATIONUDR-^ONSULT BI]

)INC

CEROID Isles OF CASTLE CLOYJE.

OR,

Pictures OF TEE Munster TEOFLE.

BY

M. W. BREW,

AUTHOR OF "THB BURTONS OF DUNBOE.

m THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

HotttJon :

CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.

1885.
lAU Rights Reserved.]

Contents.

Chapter I. p^e^

PAT FLANAGAN BEINGS Hodie THE XZ"^S 1

CHAPTEE II.

OONAGH GETS AN OFFER OF 3IASEIAG2 . . . .18

CHAPTER III.

OONAGH LEAVES HEE HOME 41

CHAPTER IV.

BAW>-iIORE 60

CHAPTER V.

MATCHMAKING 74

CHAPTER VI.

A Proposal FOE MISS BIDDY 92

CHAPTER ^11.

AN lEISH Counter Attending lOS

4G7'^99

CHAPTER VIII. ^^'"^

THE MATCH IS BROKEN OFF 122

CHAPTER IX.

OONAGH LEAVES BAWNMOEE 138

CHAPTER X.

THE Year 1847 . . . 159

CHAPTER XI.

THE LAST OF THE Dillon 171

CHAPTER XII.

AN lEISH Funeral 188

CHAPTER XIII.

A FAMILY COUNCIL 206

CHAPTER XIV.

MISS DILLON'S NEW HOME 224

CHAPTER XV.

OONAGH FINDS Another PLACE . 239

CHAPTER XVL

OONAGH Heads SOME NEWS 256

CHAPTER XVII. Pace

OONAGH GOES ON A JOURNEY .271

CHAPTEE XVIII.

284

Chapter XIX.

OONAGH ADOPTS HER Love's SON . . . 299

CHAPTER XX.

OONAGH BEGINS ANOTHER LIFE 314

Chronicles OF CASTLE Cloy.

CHAPTER I.

PAT FLANAGAN BRINGS HOME THE NEWS.

Sir, you have wrestled well, and overthrown more than
your enemies."

Shakespeare.

As soon as the slips of printed paper announcing
the resignation of Mr. Egglestone had been issued
from the press, Mr. Pat Flanagan, taking care to
provide himself with one of those precious documents,
left the town without any further delay. He walked,
or rather ran — and Pat was reckoned to have the
fleetest foot in Castle Cloyne — for about a mile
until he came to the house of his cousin, where he
had slept since leaving home, and where he had
left his masters horse. He had his own motive for
making such haste out of the town — a great piece
of self-denial on his part, for it was expected that
great fun and amusement would take place there

VOL. II. B

^

in the evening. He was resolved on being the first
person who should announce the good news of his
triumphant return to Mr. Dillon, and he hoped that
on this account he would be forgiven for his gross
disobedience. Not only had he gone to the election
without leave, but he did so in defiance of his
master's positive commands to the contrary, and byway
of still more aggravating his offence, he had
taken with him the very best horse in the stables.
There were twelve Irish miles to be got over before
he could reach Castle Cloyne, but he knew Tearaway
well, and what he was capable of doing when put
upon his mettle. Twelve miles would be a trifle to
the good steed that had often carried his master
forty miles without food or drink.

When he came to his cousin's house, he found
no one there but an old woman and some children,
for all the rest of the family had gone to town for the
fun of the election, and had not yet returned.

Did Tearaway get a feed ov oats to-day ? "
he asked the old woman, as he was putting on saddle
and bridle.

^'Throth, an' he did so. The little gossoon gave
it to him no more than a couple ov hours ago. It
was the last word his father said to him latin' out
the house this morning', to be sure to give Tearaway

a good feed ov oats in the middle ov the day, for
that you'd go home airly/'

"That's all right. Now, Tearaway, 'a coppal
dheelish,^ you must show me that that feed ov oats
wasn't put into a bad skin. Your grandam did
a good turn once for my father an' mother, an' you
must folly her example to-day an' do a good turn
for me."

^^Wont you ate a bit, Pat, before you go?" said
the woman, on hospitable thoughts intent, laying
her hand on his shoulder. "The parties are silicon
the fire widiu, an' we'll have the dinner while
a cat would be washin' her 'air. Be sed by me an'
take share ov what's going."

No, thank you, Biddy ; I couldn't stop if it
was the best roast an' boiled that was ever laid on
the table in the parlour of Castle Cloyne, an' I
needn't go bryant that. I'm obliged to you all
the same; but if I'm not the first to bring the
good news to the ould master, I may as well lookout
for another place. Begot, 'tis my walking'
paper I'll get in wan hand, an' what wages is coming*
to me in the other. I'm tellin' you the truth, the
same as if I had my hand on the blessed vestments."

'A mj-ijial dheelisli — My darling horse.

B 2

"Alliloo! Is that the way ov it? Faix then,
rd be long sorry to say a word that would delay
you. But sure, though you can't wait for the dinner,
sou can take a glass ov spirits. That won't take
long."

She ran back to the house, and brought out a
small bottle of whiskey and a wine-glass, the shank
of which had been broken off. Pat drank the whiskey
she poured out for him in one gulp, touched the horse
lightly with the butt-end of his whip, and calling out
'^ good-bye " to the woman, he set oS at a rattling
pace.

Good-bye an good luck ! ^^ she bawled out after
him ; but Pat was already almost out of hearing.

The good horse did not disappoint the expectations
of his rider, or give the lie to his own name,
for he tore away at a speed that soon left the farmer's
house far behind. He was fresh after a few days'
idleness, and, fortified by the good feed of oats, he
stretched himself to his task willingly and bravely.
He flew past one milestone after another, with the
speed of an animal well accustomed to the hunting
field. Pat got quite exhilarated, partly from the
glass of whiskey and partly from the quick motion,
and his courage rose as he approached home, remembering
the good news of which he was the bearer.

Sometimes he passed a persorij or group of persons,
who cried oat to him eagerly : ^' Welcome home, Pat !
What news from the election ? ^' To which he would
reply with a shout of joy : " Good news ! good news !
The ould stock for ever ! " or some such cheery and
triumphant answer. But he never drew bridle or
slackened his speed until he found himself at the
gate of Castle Cloyne. Here he found Tony Fitzgerald
lingering about to try if he could see anyone
returning from the town, who could tell him how the
election had gone. As soon as Pat saw him he sprang
from his horse, and, throwing him the bridle, told
him with a great air of patronage " to walk Tearaway
up an down gently for a start, before he was brought
into the stable, for that he was in a great hate
entirely

"Faix, you may sing that same if you have the
air ov it," replied the old groom. " Wish, bad luck
to your brazen impudence ; see what a lather ov foam
you brought home the rather in. Oh, tare an'
'noun's ! what a state you have him in, you rale limb ov
the dive ! an that's the only name that's fit for

you."

"Oh, Tony, there's no harm done, an' the horse
will be all right in a couple ov hours' time. As soon
as ever I see the master, Pll come back straight, an'

spend the whole night rubbing' him clown," said Pat,
now a good deal frightened by the old man's manner.

"Begot, thin, you have no dismiss in life fain'
him, an' I wouldn't advise you to do it. He was just
like a mad bull when he hard you went off, an' brought
the horse wit you ; an' that'll it be now, when he sees
the state you brought him back in? Oh, the sorra
drop will be left in your carries ! Oh, you misfortune
boy, bad as you are, I can't help feeling' pity
for you ! "

'' Erra, lay me alone, Tony Whigarald," cried Pat,
trying to pluck up courage, and put a bold face on the
matter. '^ Lay me alone, I tell you. 'Isn't anything
you say that's giving me any trouble at the present,
for I have very weighty things on my mind. Where's
the master ? "

If you're advised by me, honest boy, you won't
go next nor nigh him. Anyway, wait till Master
Hy'cinth an' Misther Macnamara come home; they
may beg you off, an' 'pon my conscience they'll have
enough to do. Tell me your news, an' I'll bring it to
him."

"An' who'll be the fool thin, Tony ? I tel you
that cock won't fight. Where is he, I say ? "

Oh, have it your own way, thin. He's below on
the lake wit Miss Granua, an' you may go to him av

you like, an' see the sort ov welcome he'll give you.
But don't go an' say that I didn't give you fair warning'.
That I may never die in sin ! but he's gone after all
that I said to him, the born dive that he is ! Fake
an' sure he's his father's son, every rope's length
ov him ! " ejaculated the old man in the greatest
amazement.

Undeterred by Tony's gloomy prognostic, Pat
rushed past him, and ran as fast as he could down
the path that led to the lake. Mr. Dillon and his
daughter were in a little boat that she had learned
to manage with no little skill, and to paddle about
the lake in it on fine evenings was one of her chief
pleasures. Now, when she saw a person flying towards
them at full speed, she knew that whoever
it was, he must have come with decisive news of
the election, so she pulled her little skiff in towards
the bank, so that they might the sooner hear the
news.

When Pat arrived at the side of the lake he never
even stopped, but half-mad with joy and excitement
he dashed into the water headlong, and flinging his
strong young arms round Mr. Dillon, raised him from
the bench where he sat, and carried him to the shore
as easily as if he were only a child. When he set the
bewildered old gentleman on his feet, he began

dancing and capering around him as if he had
suddenly gone mad.

*' Your honour can stand on your own ground
agin^ sir an walk the country in the face ov day,"
he burst out, ^^ without as much as ' by your lave ' to
the Sheriff or the bailiffs — the dive's luck to the whole
blasted crew ov 'em ! "

"What is the meaning of this disgraceful, outrageous
conduct ? " exclaimed Mr. Dillon. " Quit
my presence, you rascal ! How dare you show your
impudent face where I am ? "

It manes, Mr. Dillon, sir, that you're the member
for the county, an' no thanks to any wan for that,"
snapping his fingers. " Sure the spinning' man gave
in whin he found the day was going' again him intirely,
an' that he hadn't as much as a leg to stand on.
Begot, 'twas himself that was well bate, an' why
shouldn't he ? Sure he never had the ghost ov a
chance again your honour an' Master Hy'cinth, to
say nothing at all of Father John an' Misther Mac-samara.
'Tis the truth I'm tellin' you, sir, an' sure
if you won't believe myself, you'll believe that bit ov
paper that was wrote with the High Sheriff's own
hand, an' printed o* purpose to sind to you, sir.
Master Hy'cinth gev it to me himself. 'Pat,' ses
he, ' ride for your life, an' bring that slip ov paper

home to my father,' ses lie 'an' don't let the grass
grow under your feet. 'Tis very well that you
thought ov bringing' Tearaway wit you here ses he,
for there isn't another horse in Ireland ground that
could carry you aiquil to him ses he. ' I'm sure
my father is a trifle displayed wit you for coming'
here without lave ses he, ' but tell him wit my love
an' duty, that I hope hell overlook this little faut
for the sake ov the good news I^m sindin' you wit.
I'd go home an' tell it all myself to him ses he,
only that I must stay here to-night to be discoursing,
an' making' manners, for the gentleman that backed
us up, an' wor good friends to us,' ses he'

During this harangue, delivered with great volubility
and gesticulation;, Mr. Dillon's anger had been
gradually melting away, as Pat very 'well knew it would.

Pat Flanagan, you are a desperate liar," he said,
trying hard to look very grave and stern, while a smile
was breaking over his face; 'every word you have
said now is a deliberate falsehood."

Sorra word ov falsehood in it' replied the unabashed
serving-man ; " I could swear to every word
ov it, on all the books in Ireland. Sure your honour
can ax Master Hy'cinth when he comes back, an' if
you won't believe him or me, you can't but believe the
paper that's in your hand."

The " paper ^^ was there, sure enough, and its
contents were too plain and positive to permit of
any doubt.

'you must forgive Pat this time, father' said
Grace from the boat. '^ He is very sorry, I am sure, for
having displeased you, and remember, he is the first to
bring you the good news/^

Stomacher to you, Miss Grace darling', what you'll
be sure to get, wit the blessing ov God. You're always
to the fore to put in a good word for any poor rather
in trouble''

And, Pat, you're streaming with water, and will
get a bad cold, if you don't go at once and put on dry
clothes.'^

'^ Sure enough, miss, I am a trifle wet,^^ said Pat,
looking down at his legs and feet, " but when I saw
the master, sure I couldn't stop myself, nor wait for the
little coble to pull in to the shore. Any wan that
didn't know me might say I was hearty, but that
would be a great lie, for all the licker that passed my
lips this blessed day, since I had a bowl ov tay for
breakfast, was wan glass ov spirits I took at my
cousin's before I started for home ; that surely
wouldn't make a man hearty, an' be this cross '^ —
and here he laid one forefinger across the other —
that's all I had in the way ov licker this daj"

*^I suppose you brought my horse back to me
nearly dead ? '^ said Mr. Dillon.

Array, what was to kill bim ? Sure it isn't a
dozen miles ov a gallop in the cool ov the evening wit
myself on bis back, that he's used to, an' that knew
bow to manage bim. Sure yourself often rode bim at
a bunt for three times as far without ever pulling
bridle, and brought bim bone afterwards as fresh
as a daisy. Wish, sir, I'm surprised at you to be
talking' that a way, ov a horse that hasn't bis aiquil
betune this an' Galway''

'^ Well, be off with you, and let me have no more
of your tricks. Tell Tony Fitzgerald to look after
Tearaway, and go change your clothes, and have your
dinner, for I suppose you have had no food since
mornings'

^' Three for you, sir, I had not. Eyes ! wasn't
mate or drink I was thinking ov."

"Well, Pat, though you're one of the greatest
rascals alive, you deserve something for bringing
bone the good news so quickly, and you must have
it too'' and Mr. Dillon put a half-sovereign into
Pat's band.

/' Long life to your honour, sir, an' long may
you reign over Castle Cloyne ! '' cried Pat, as be
pocketed the gold piece.

Be off now and remember I shall go to the
stables after dinner to see Tearaway, and if he is a
hair the worse for being in your hands you will
have to go."

'' Never fear, sir. I'll give you hand an' word,
that when you see the horse in the course ov the
evening', his coat will be as smooth an' shining' as
Miss Grace's hair. Now, what more can I say than
that ? "

Mr. Dillon only laughed at this sally, and went
to assist his daughter out of the boat, and Pat
scampered off to change his trousers, and get his
dinner. When those necessary operations had been
performed, he went off to the stables, where, in
company with Tony Fitzgerald, he was to make
Tearaway fit for his master's inspection. They
worked so well, that when Mr. Dillon came in the
course of the evening, he professed himself to be
quite satisfied with the appearance of his favourite
hunter, saying to Tony privately that though Pat
Flanagan was cracked — as it was only natural his
father's son should be — yet he knew a good horse
when he saw him, and had some notion of how he
should be treated.

In another week Mr. Dillon, now fully recovered
from his recent attack of gout, went off to London

to take Ms seat in Parliament and as a matter of
course, his son went with him. His daughter preferred
remaining at Castle Cloyne, for, shy and
sensitive, and in failing health, she shrank from the
noise and turmoil of the great city, for which she
knew she was totally unfit. However, she was not
alone altogether, for Terry Macnamara, who loved
her as if she were his own child, left his lodgings in
the village, and came with his carpet-bag and 
to occupy Mr. Dillon^s^s room during his
absence, and be a suitable protector to his daughter.
He was not much indoors during the day, but always
punctually returned to dinner, and sat with Grace in
the drawing-room for the rest of the evening. He
was not a very congenial companion for a young
girl, but there was a sense of rest and security in his
presence and protection, that made her feel greatly
at her ease. Being a near relative, he was always
quite at home at Castle Cloyne, and in Mr. Dillon's
absence acted as its master. The tenants, workmen,
and servants were so much accustomed to see him
there, that it never occurred to any of them to question
his authority, or disobey his commands. He
was no restraint on Grace, who always treated him
as a member of the family, and made no difference
in her occupations or pursuits on his account; and

he, on Ms part never intruded on her from breakfast
until they met again at dinner, unless when he knew
she particularly wished for him.

But even with the sense of security given by the
protection of the old man in the house, and frequent
visits from Father O'Rafferty, who came to see
her as often as he could spare time, Grace Dillon
felt very lonely in the absence of her father and
brother. She was by no means in robust health,
but as she never complained, no one appeared to
notice it, but if anyone did, it was put down to the
low spirits generated by solitude, and the weary,
dull monotony of her life at Castle Cloyne.

She had few acquaintances, and only one friend
of her own sex — Miss Wilson, her brother's betrothed
wife. But Caroline could hardly be called a friend,
in the sense in which we understand friendship.
She was too lively, and vain, and fond of amusement,
to find congenial companionship in the pale, lonely
girl, who was often ailing, and always grave and
thoughtful. There was nothing whatever in common
between the two, except that they were both young,
of the same sex, and at no distant time would
be connected by a nearer and more affectionate tie.
However, the prospect of that connection was not
looked upon by either with very pleasurable feelings

or anticipations, for each knew that she was in all
respects unlike tke other, and consequently that
there never could be much real confidence between
them.

There are many women like Grace Dillon. They
are not beautiful in person, nor brilliant in conversation,
nor attractive in manner, and those negative
qualities are all cardinal sins in the opinion of the
world, and for which they must suffer a heavy and
life-long punishment. It seems unjust, but it is
nevertheless the universal law, to which the only
exception is the possession of either rank or wealth.
These two are the great beautifiers, and like charity
they cover a multitude of sins, not only of the
negative kind, but also of those that are more
positive and pronounced. But our kind mother
Nature has many compensations in her .gift, and
if she is niggardly of outward favours, she gives
the inward ones with a free and generous hand.
Very often the plain face covers a heart that contains
a world of love — dormant, it may be, because no one
has ever taken the trouble to waken it into life —
under the shy, unattractive manner is hidden a
sensibility so keen that it vibrates, to the mere sound
of a loving word, quivers to the touch of injustice,
and is for ever yearning for affection, and grateful

for the few crumbs of kindness that so rarely fall
to its lot. Ifc is not surprising that such natures
are reticent and shy. With hands stretched out,
and hearts full of love, they are repelled at all
points, their feelings wounded in the cruellest
manner, and invariably obliged to give place to
those who, in all things except good looks or
showy manners are vastly their inferiors. Their
claims to any consideration are ignored with a
hard coarseness, and they are perpetually reminded,
either by words, or by a contemptuous silence that
can be made as galling and insulting as any words,
of their real or apparent inferiority. No wonder that
such women are shy, and nervous, and silent. They
have no barrier wherewith to protect themselves from
the cruel injustice of which they are the victims,
but the veil of proud reserve which they wrap round
their wounded feelings and bleeding hearts. Woe
to such as these who live in this hard world; buta
double woe to them, if in it they must eat the bread
of dependence — a bread that, even under the most
favourable conditions, must be always unspeakably
bitter ! I doubt if, after all, Natures compensations
are the wisest and the best. Why should an affectionate
nature be given to a woman, who must live
and die without love ? Why is she to be endowed

with sensibility, when her feelings are to be so often
outraged ? Why should neglect, or injustice, or simple
toleration at best, be her portion, because she is neither
beautiful, nor brilliant, nor rich? It is a problem
hard to solve, and never likely to be solved anywhere
but in the Land " where all the hills shall be brought
low, and all the crooked paths be made straight'

There are Cornelia in common life, as well as in
that enchanted land in which the divine Shakespeare
reigned supreme. Never did the great master show
his marvellous knowledge of human nature so much,
sis when he painted the exquisite picture of the
misunderstood and disinherited daughter of the shortsighted,
mad old king.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE II.

OOHAGH GETS AN Offer OF Marriage.

Oh, Treaty heart ! that must Within itself

Close aU its deepest leaves.

L. E. L.

DuETS'G the first days of her bereavement, Oonagh
was so stunned by her great sorrow, and so bewildered
by the weight of care and responsibility thrown
on Her by her father's death, that she felt as if
she were in a trance, without the power of thinking
or acting for herself. But with one so happily constituted
as to possess a sensible, well-balanced mind
in a body of the most perfect health, such an
abnormal state of existence could not long continue.
One of the best and most valuable possessions of
yontb, is its marvellous elasticity. It may bend to
the very earth under the force of the storm, yet it
cannot remain very long prostrate, but will spring

up again fresh and buoyant as before. The heart
and the hope of youth — provided always that they
are buckler by a conscience free from all grievous
sin — are equal to face any storm, and gifted with
a vitality so intense that it can hardly be destroyed,
or even subdued. Only for this glorious dower,
how could youth encounter the hard, pitiless world
that lies on before it; how endure the trials and
the sorrows that are sure to mark its course
through life with the regularity of milestones ? It
is a dower that is, thank God ! freely and impartially
given, for the heart of the youthful peasant in the
mud cabin is as elastic and hopeful as that of the
heir to wealth and rank. It costs nothing, and it
buys everything. It is a fount of unfailing refreshment,
a heaven of perpetual sunshine. It is indestructible,
immortal, for as long as youth exists
upon the earth, the elastic heart that is an integral
part of it can never die. The buoyant spirit of
youth is Youth itself ! Take that away from it,
and it becomes age, but with none of the attractions
of age. It is age with a smooth brow and bright
eyes, but a withered and weary heart ; age without
its wise experience, its indulgent toleration, its serene
and dignified calm.

When the first bitterness of her grief had gone

c 2

by, and that she could think of anything outside
her great loss, the poor girl's thoughts naturally
turned to her lover. She began to wonder why he
had never come to show sympathy for her sorrow,
or renew his suit, as one who was ^' manifested ^' with
her was bound to do. While her father lived, she
knew that John Molly could not come to Bally cross,
for the old man had forbidden him to do so in the
most peremptory manner. But now, that obstacle
existed no longer; she was her own mistress, and
accountable to no human being for her actions, and
yet " Pleasant John '* avoided her as if she lived ina
pest-house, and left her, without a word of comfort
and sympathy, to her loneliness and sorrow. ^ At first,
though surprised and deeply grieved, she was very
patient, and in her heart made many excuses for
him. She remembered that he had come in for the
possession of his brothers farm, and must have many
things to take up his time and attention so completely,
that he could not manage to make her even one
hurried visit. But though love made this excuse,
common sense — of which Oonagh possessed no small
share — whispered that even if he could not come,
he might have written, or sent her a kind, loving
message to bid her be of good cheer, for that he had
not forgotten her. Neither letter nor message came,

and her heart, in addition to all her other troubles,
was sick with the great anguish of hope deferred.
He was in good health, for she had heard that he
was seen very much about lately ; from one, that he
had been at such a fair, and from another, that he
was flirting away with every girl who was supposed
to have a good fortune, either in money or land.
But it was never told her, that he was seen dangling
after a poor girl, no matter how good or handsome
she might be. Shawn Sugagh was now a rich man,
and they who knew him best all agreed in thinking
that in choosing a wife, he would require to get
penny for penny .^^ Not for a moment did Oonagh
believe a word of this gossip, for her faith in her
lover was very great. Still she could not help thinking
that it was very strange he never came near her
now, never even inquired for her, that she could hear
of. What could it possibly mean ?

But at last it began to dawn upon her mind —
slowly at first, indeed — that he shunned her of set
purpose, with a view to get out of the solemn engagement
into which he had entered with her. The
embarrassed state in which her father had left his
affairs was by this time tolerably well known. In
fact it could no longer be concealed, and Mrs. Clancy
in her anger had done nothing but tell it to all her

friends, who in their turn made it public enough.
Oonagli herself — as true and open as the day — never
denied that she owed a year's rent, which, without
stock on the land, or any capital to draw upon, she
could hardly hope to pay. On the other hand, John
Molloy had got rich in the same proportion as she
had got poor, and evidently he did not care to marry
a girl whose small inheritance, deeply encumbered as
it was, was not now of much value in his eyes. He
would not come courting her any more ; that was
plain. There was no fear that he would not get a
wife, and a rich one too; and she on whom his
choice would fall, would no doubt esteem herself,
and be esteemed by all other women, as most fortunate
and happy.

A woman can forgive every sin in her lover except
meanness. He may be wayward, passionate, exacting,
and she will bear with it all; he may be even unfaithful,
and that too she will forgive, though her
heart be sorely wounded, if he will only return to
her, and profess repentance for his disloyalty. But
meanness, no true woman either will or can forget.
Love will struggle on through a long course of
unkindness, neglect, and brutality, but meanness
kills it with one blow.

^^ My father was wiser than me, an' he knew John

better, an' lie warned me again him, many and many a
time," said tHe poor girl to herself. '' He often told
me that if I married that man heed break my heart
before long, an' I'm thinking' twas three for him.
I loved him dearly, an' I love him still, former ! But
so itself, I must try to put him out ov my head, an'
forget him as he forgets me. He needn't be the haste
in thread that I'll be folly' him, or hunting' after him
to remind him that we wor manifested together, now
that he likes to throw it over his shoulder. He may
go courting' where he likes, an' marry who he likes;
'tis all aiquil now to Oonagh."

But though bitterly grieved and mortified, Oonagh
was not the girl to sit down to shed tears of idle
and unavailing regret. She was too active-minded
for that, as well as too proud and well-principled.
Having no one to manage her business for her, she
was obliged to do it herself, and look her difficulties
steadily in the face, in order to surmount them, if it
could be done. But all her considerations ended in
her coming round to the point from which she had
started : she should sell her interest in the farm.
When her determination was made known, there was
no lack of people willing to become the purchasers.
The land was good, though just then somewhat
neglected and out of heart; the house comfortable

and in fair repair ; the rent was moderate, with a
good lease, and held under a good landlord. Under
such favourable conditions a purchaser was soon forthcoming
in the person of a rich old farmer, who wanted
to provide for his eldest son, and set him up in life
on his own account. He paid her a tolerably good
price, considering that the times were not very good,
and she found that after paying all her father's debts,
there was a surplus of about twenty pounds left of
the purchase money. This she lodged in the bank
as a little reserve fund, that was to be left lying by,
for sickness or any other unforeseen trouble. Her
furniture was taken at a valuation by the person who
had bought the land, and what she got for it was
sufficient to pay the wages of her two old servants, as
well as a small present she made them on parting.

And now the last evening was come; the last
that Oonagh was ever to spend in the old house
where she was born, and that she never again would
call home. With the exception of her father's
dog, that lay asleep on the hearthstone, there was no
living creature in the house but herself. Her servants-had
left her in the morning, the old man to go
into another place, and Molly to go to a niece, who
lived some miles away, and had offered her a home
It was March, and the day had been wild and

wet. The wind howled and moaned round the
house, and though it had an eerie and mournful
sound, yet it was sound of some sort, and it was
better, she thought, than the deep silence that since
morning had weighed her down with a nameless
terror. But as the evening wore on the wind went
down, though the rain still continued. She had her
frugal supper, and then fed her dog, remembering
sadly how many living creatures she was accustomed
to give food to, in the good old times that were
gone for ever. Then she tried to banish thought
by cleaning up the kitchen, and cording the little
trunk that contained her small stock of clothing.
When at last there was nothing more to be done,
and night was drawing on apace, she made down
a fresh fire, and sat by its cheerful blaze for the
last time.

The thoughts of the poor lonely girl as she
sat there, were very sad and bitter. Old memories
came crowding to her heart, old voices that would
never sound on earth again came ringing in her
ears. The love that had never failed her, that
had stood the test of summer's sunshine and winter's
cold, that had borne the heat and burden of the
day, had been taken from her, and she had now
no staff to lean on but her own good conscience.

and stout heart. When night came round again
she would be houseless, and standing face to face
with the world, from whose hard contact she had
hitherto been so carefully and so lovingly shielded.
But come what may, her father's debts were paid,
his memory unspotted, and her own hands clean,
and her soul, full of calm courage and self-reliance,
was ready for whatever fate Providence might appoint
it.

After some time her musings were interrupted
by the entrance of a visitor. The new-comer was
Mr. Dillon's "boy'' Pat Flanagan, who was well
known to be one of Oonagh's most ardent admirers,
but who, notwithstanding the stock of assurance
and conceit with which nature, had abundantly
gifted him, had hitherto " never told his love." Withall
his confidence, he could never lose sight of the
fact that he was only a servant earning his yearly
wages, while she was a rustic heiress. She had,
however, always some suspicion of the nature of his
feelings towards her, for what woman — even the least
vain and self-conscious — can ever remain long ignorant
of such a fact ? — but she had given her love away, and
she did not pretend to see a regard to which she
could make no return. All she had to give to any
man but John Molloy was kindness and good will.

Oonagli rose from lier seat and met lier visitor
with an outstretched hand and a smile of welcome.
She wiped the dust from a chair with her apron,
and then motioning him to take it, she resumed her
own at the opposite side of the hearth. For sometime
they sat looking at each other in silence, she
calm and self-possessed, as she always was, and he,
for once in his life, silent and embarrassed, leaning
his elbows on his knees, and turning his hat round
and round between his hands in dumb and bashful
confusion.

'^I suppose you wor coming' home from the fair,
and turned in to see the old house before the new
people come into it,'-* she said, breaking the silence.
^' It was a kind and a neighbourly thing, Pat, an'
like what you'd do ; for I was all alone here, wit no
wan to keep me company but poor Bran."

'swell, I knew that, Oonagh; and it was it
made me turn in off the road. Ould Tony Whigarald
an myself wor at the fair, an' on the way home he
went off to the wake ov a woman ov the Murphies
up at Poulet, an' I turned in here, knowing you'd
be all alone, in regard ov all the labours about here
been' at the corp house."

"I am very thankful to you, Pat. As you came
straight from the fair, sure you must be lost wit

the hunger. Fm sorry that I have no better to
offer you than bread and milk; but sure you're as
welcome to it as if it was the fine supper that's
waiting' for you in Castle Cloyed'

'don't give yourself any trouble about it,
Oonagh. I ate something in Dan Leafy's tent
before I left the fair."

*' So itself. There's many a good long step
betune this an' the fair place. Don't refuse me,
Pat," she continued with a slight tremble in her
voice, and a tear glistening in her eye; 'for it is
the last time that I can ever ax any wan to break
bread in my poor father's house."

To please her he pretended to make use of the
simple fare she placed before him ; but it was only a
pretence.

I couldn't eat it, Oonagh ashore ! for there's a
big lump in my throat almost choking' me. Don't ax
me."

She put away the food in silence, and then sat
down again. She could not trust herself to speak,
for the honest sympathy of the poor fellow had gone
to her heart.

I hard over at the fair place that you sould the
place, an' wor latin' it for good. Is that three ? "

"It is, Pat. I had no other way ov pain' my

father's just debts, an' clearing' his name, that was
ever an' always known to be honest. It goes very
bard on me to part wit the ould place, but I
may as well part it decently, than to have the sheriff
drive me out ov it, an' no thanks to me into the
bargain."

He made no reply, but kept turning bis bat round
still more rapidly than before.

"Tbere isn't a bush on this land that I don't
love," sbe went on. '^ I love every stick ov the ould
furniture, as if they wor all alive, an' bad a feeling'
for me. I always knew that I'd be heart sorry to
part 'em, but I never knew till now bow great my
grief would be at the last. But sure I lost what
I thought worse ov than the few hrelaiimsj^ an' I
bave to be satisfied, or try to be so. But wan thing
I know well, an' 'tis that wherever I go, or whatever
becomes ov me, I'll never again be as happy as what I
was here."

"Did you ever bear tell ov my uncle, Luke
Flanagan, Oonagb ? " be said suddenly. " He went
to America to seek bis fortune, before ever I was
born, or my father an' mother married."

Ov course I did. My father an' he wor great

Brelawns — Old, worthless furniture.

comrades intirely, when they wor both monsoons, an'
many's the laugh he had , tellin' ov all the wild pranks
they used to play together. He used to say that you
took after him greatly."

^^ Well, Oonagh, my uncle Luke is dead, Grod rest
his soul ! He got on grandly in America after a
little while, an' made a power ov money. After
he got rich, he wrote for me to go out to him though
he never even saw me, but you see my poor father
was his only brother. Over an' over he wrote forme,
offering' to pay my passage, an' do well for me as
if I was his own son."

^^ An' why didn't you go, Pat ? It was a great
chance surely, an' there isn't a boy in Castle Cloyne
that wouldn't jump at it, barren' yourself."

Well, for one why, I was very comfortable in
Mr. Dillon's house, an' had almost as good a life
there as his own son, only that he ate his vittles
in the parlour, an' I ate mine in the kitchen. The
master was very good to my poor father an' mother,
when all the world turned again 'em, an' whin they
died, an' left me behind 'em without a male's mate
or a laffina^ to buy it, he took good care ov me, an'
never let me know what could or hunger wor. I

Latina — A halfpenny.

was his own man since I grew up, an' the thought ov
latin' him ga' me a lonesome feeling' that I couldn't
get over. That's wan why. Another why is, that
Master Hy'cinth an' myself is ov wan age ; we grew
up together, an' I love him as if he was my own
brother. It would take all the money that's in
America, to make me go where I'd never see his
face again. An' there's another why, but that's neither
here nor there ; maybe you know yourself what it is,
though I never had the courage to tell it to you.
Anyhow, my uncle died three months ago in America,
an' he left me three hundred pounds in his will ! "

Oh, Pat dear, I'm so glad ! " exclaimed the girl,
while her face that had been so sad a while ago, was
now lighted up by joyous smiles. *but are you
sure ov it ? "

"Here's the letter from some man in the same
place, that's executor to the will. I only got it a while
ago on my way home from the fair, when I went to
the post office, to ax if there was any commands for
the master or any ov the family. It is directed tome
to the master's care, an' it reads as if it was all
right, an no mistake in life about it. You can see
for yourself," and he handed it to her, with the postmark
of New Orleans on the cover.

"It seems to be all right," she said, when she

had read it ; " an' there's no fear but you'll get the
money. Oh, Pat dear, you're a made man for ever'

"tis a power ov money, surely' said Pat reflectively.
'^ Anyway, 'tis a power to a poor boy like
me, wit no back but my year's wages. Now, Oonagh
ashore machine ! can you give a guess why I couldn't
go to America, an' what it was that brought me here
to-night ? "

'' I'm a bad hand at guessing', Pat."

The warm blood that mounted into her face,
suffusing cheek and brow, told, however, that she
knew his meaning right well.

He cleared his throat a couple of times in a
perfect agony of bashfulness. At last, making a
desperate sort, he blurted out :

^^The truth is best, Oonagh, ever an' always.
I came to offer you myself an' my three hundred
pound, an' there won't be a happier or a prouder
boy on Ireland ground this day, if you will take meat
my offer."

Between embarrassment and surprise she was
silent ; and having broken the ice, he went on again
volubly enough:

'^I always loved you, darling', though you never
knew it. It wasn't istherday, or the day before that
again, but as long as I can remember; but I never

had the courage to tell you. You were a comfortable
man's daughter, an' I was only Mr. Dillon's own
man. Well, I knew that the likes ov me was no
match for you, an' that if I went to Martin Mac-vermont
for a wife, he'd only laugh in my face.
But all the same, I couldn't help myself. I used
to folly you about like a fool, an' go to the same
mass wit you, though it wasn't at the priest or
my prayer-book I was lookin', but at your party
face. An' don't you remember that whenever you
came to see Miss Grace, I was for ever hanging' about
the stairs, waiting' till you'd be going', an' that I
could walk down the avenue wit you. Don't you
remember it all, 'a cushla ? "

Still she was silent, and this gave him courage
to go on with more confidence.

'three hundred pound ! Think ov that, 'a chorea
machine ! The letter says as soon as I sind out a
power ov attorney, whatever that manes, that I'll be
paid the money. I don't understand it, but the
master will manage it all for me. Three hundred
pound, an' to be all our own ! We'll be as happy,
both .ov us, as the day is long."

He was radiant with happiness, and his dark eyes
lighted up as he gazed on her grave, downcast
face.

VOL. II. D

"But the farm an' everything is all sold' she
said at last. '''I lead to sell every stick an' stone to
pay my poor father's debts'

All that is aise settled. A hundred pound will
pay the debts an' the rent that's due. Barra, they're
not worth talking' ov. An' then there's a couple
ov hundred more to stock the land, an' begin the
world again, as fresh as paint. An' now, what have
you to say to me ? ''

'*■ That you're a good fellow, Pat, an' deserve a
good wife; what you'll get yet, wit the blessing' ov
God. But that wife won't be Oonagh. I thank you
for your love an' friendship, but you must put it
all out ov your head. If you had twice the money
you have, it would be all the same; I can't marry
you, Pat. An' I hope you won't be the worse friends
wit me, for tellin' you the thrash ; but 'tis best for
both ov us in the long run. You know that I never
say wan thing an' think the other," and she looked
full at him with those clear, honest eyes of hers, in
whose calm depths no deceit had ever lurked.

Don't say that, 'a dudgeon thael ! * Ould Tom
Dempsy is a decent man, an' he won't be so mane
as to keep you to your bargain, when he hears you

^A dudgeon thael — My share of the world!

have the money to redeem the land. Sure you
didn't give him possession at all yet'

But he has my promise that I'll give it to
him tomorrow at twelve o'clock, an' I never broke
my word wit anyone yet' she said simply.

^' I'll go this very minnie, an' make him let you
off. He's a devout honest man, and whin I intense
him into the rights ov the story, he'll hear to reason ; "
and Pat, terribly in earnest, started up, and strode
towards the door.

'^ Come back again, I bid you, an' sit down,"
she said, with such decision in her voice and manner
that he was obliged to obey her.

*' It is you, Pat Flanagan, that must hear to
reason now. If you had Castle Cloyne as your own,
not to talk of three hundred pound, it would be
all the same to Oonagh. How could I marry one
man, when I'm manifested wit another ? "

'^ I hard some little sketch ov that, but I didn't
believe it."

Who told it to you ? "

"Oil, 'tis no secret. I hard it from Shawn
Sugagh himself. The laggard ! The mane, dirty
laggard ! He was in Dan Leafy's tint to-day, an'
he had so much licker taken, that he didn't know
what he was saying'. He was bragging' ov how you

D.2

an' he wor manifested together ; but that it was
done when he was a bit soft an now that he had
more sense, he had no idaya ov follyin^ after a
girl that had no fortune but debt. There wasn't
a man there that didn't cry shame on him. I ran
at him, an' would have given him the best licking'
that ever he got, but they all dragged me away,
an' said it wouldn't be fair or manly to strike any
wan so far gone in licker. But, all the same, I'll
put a mark on the lying' villain that he'll carry to
the grave, as sure as my name is Pat Flanagan."

It may be imagined with what feelings the poor
girl heard this story. The blood rushed to her face
in waves of indignant shame, and as quickly receded,
leaving it as colourless as if she had been turned
into marble.

'i'm sure you're not join' wit me, Pat; for
it isn't in you to play such an ugly joke on a poor
fatherless girl; Though you're a frolicsome boy,
there is no ill-nature in you."

"You only give my due there, Oonagh. Whoever
I'd play tricks on, it wouldn't be you. There
was a dale of people hard him as well as me, an
they'll tell you I'm spain' the thruth.'''

"I believed you from the very first. I'm sure
every word is three," she said bitterly, while she

was twisting her fingers together in wild, nervous
excitement.

"Don't fret yourself about such a ruffian. Sure
no wan that was in it believed a word he said, an'
he mad drunk besides. Yourself an' myself will
be laughing' together at him, wan ov these days, when
we're man an' wife, happy an' comfortable. Don't
refuse me, Oonagh, 'a grew gell," the poor fellow
pleaded, his voice trembling, and all the swagger
and impudence quite gone. " Sure I can wait as
long as it's plain' to you. I can hould on at the
big house, an' you can stay here, an' manage the
farm; an' my hand to you, I'll never come next
nor nigh you, till you sind for me by a slip ov paper
wit nothing wrote on it but just, spat, come home
to me,' an' if it was at the ind ov twenty years
I'll surely come."

"No, Pat, my poor fellow, no. It can never be.
I'm not like John Molloy, for I'm the same ever
an' always. I divided the sixpence wit him, an'
though he broke hand an' word wit me, I couldn't
break it wit him. I love him all through, /o^'ee?' .'
forget ! " and the poor deserted girl, resting her head
on the back of her chair, wept such bitter tears as
women rarely shed more than once in their lives, though
very sorrowful, in truth, their lives are sure to be.

*'\ must go away, Oonagh, for I can't bear to
see you crying' like that. Let the land go to the
honest man that bought it , as nothing else will
satisfy you. There's many another farm on Castle
Cloyne estate just as good, an' remember, darling
that if ever you change your mind, Pat Flanagan
an' his three hundred pound will be both ov 'em to
the fore."

He held her hand in a long clinging clasp, while
his whole soul went out in pity for the poor fatherless
girl weeping before him.

An oh ! where are you to go, ashore machine ? "
he cried, still lingering. " How can you face the wide
world, or what will you do ? ^'

I'll get on very well, never fear. As soon as
I give possession tomorrow to Dempsy, Pll go onto
ould Connor Burke^sj he's the father ov Toman'
Shusy, an' a relation ov mine, though not a very
near wan. But sure blood is thicker than water,
any day. 1^11 stay wit them till I can get a place,
for I don't mane to ate idle bread."

"Never fear you for that, Oonagh. Lave Bran
wit me, an' I'll take as good care of him, as I
would ov a child."

"Thank you, Pat, for the offer. Pll take it
when I get a place, if the people I go to won't let

me keep him. But as long as I can, Fll keep him.
I couldn't bear to part my poor ould father's dog,
as long as I can help it. When the time comes
I'll sind him to you by a sure messenger. You'll
be good to poor Bran, Pat, for my sake, an' the
sake ov the ould man that always had a welcome
for you. An' all I can say is, that I never will
let out ov my heart all the feeling' an' kindness that
you showed me this night. Good-bye, Pat."

He pressed her hand without a word, and left
the house. And now, again alone, Oonagh's tears
fell without any restraint. All her woman's love
had been scorned, the love that would have willingly
given all, and asked for little in return. All her
woman's pride had been outraged, the pride that
to a modest and virtuous woman is the brightest
jewel in her crown. And to put the climax to her
sorrow, the following day would see her a homeless
wanderer, face to face with the hard world !

Hour after hour of that long, cold night passed
away, and still Oonagh sat beside the hearth that
in a few hours would be hers no more. The fire
went out, and she did not replenish it, and when
the pale, chill dawn stole in through the window,
she was just where Pat had left her, with the dog
crouched down at her feet. Her face was swollen.

and her eyes were red and sore from excessive
weeping. It was not for lier father she had wept
so long and passionately, though he had been to
her everything that a loving parent could be to an
only child; nor for her home, though everything
in and about it was dear and sacred in her eyes.
But she had wept for the priceless jewel of her
heart's lost love, the love of her youth, its first and
its last ! She had squandered it away — that '^ full
and perfect chrysolite ^' — and she could not call it
back again, let her wish it ever so much. It was
a very sad and dreary vigil that the poor girl kept,
sitting as it were beside the grave, where all that
had made the gladness and brightness of her life
was buried away out of her sight. Youth and home,
and the love that was dearer than them all, were
lying deep down in that grave, and with the light
of the new day she was to go forth into a strange
world, and eat henceforth of the stranger's bread !

OONAGH LEAVES HER HOME.

Whither, oh whither, hath the world a home.
The wide, cold world, for heart so lone as mine ?

Anon.

At twelve o^ clock the following day, Oonagli, according
to her agreement, gave the possession of her house
and farm to the farmer who had bought them from
her, and then with tearful eyes and sorrowful heart,
she took a final farewell of her dear old home.
She took nothing with her but a few necessaries
for immediate use, tied up in a bundle that she
carried in her hand. The rest of her clothes were
in a trunk that she left to the care of the new
tenants, until she would be able to send a messenger
for it. She intended walking to the house of Connor
Burke, her relative, which was about twelve miles
distant, but before doing so, she had two visits to

pay. One was to her father's grave in the neighbouring
churchyard, and the other was to Castle
Cloyne, to take farewell of her foster-sister. Miss
Dillon. She walked on briskly, followed by her
dog, and to her great satisfaction did not meet
anyone, for it was market-day in the next town,
and it was too late to meet those who had gone
there in the morning, and too early to meet those
who would be returning home. It would have pained
her to meet any of her old friends and neighbours
on this day of great sorrow, for what comfort could
they give her ? — and just then she preferred the companionship
of her own thoughts, to the conversation
of those who did not know how very heavy washer
burden. The dav was dull and cloudy, as miorht
have been expected after the storm of wind and
rain of the previous night, and there was a depressing
influence in the chill, damp air for which she was
almost glad. Sunshine, and the brightness and
beauty that invariably follow it, would, she felt,
be too much for her sad, lonely heart at that trying
hour.

She was soon in sight of the ruined walls of the
ancient church round which

In many a mouldering heap

Tbe ide forefathers of the hamlet slept.

It was in this old graveyard that her father and
mother were buried, and she could not endure to
leave the country without visiting the grave in which
they were sleeping their last sleep together. She
was just turning up the holireen, or narrow bypath,
that led to it from the road, when she was
accosted by a voice whose lowest tones, even still,
had the power to thrill through her whole being,
and turning round she saw before her the handsome
face and tall, well-made figure of her false lover,
Shawn Susrag^h.

The top ov the morning to you. Miss Oonagh,''
he said, with his usual cool impudence. Even taken
by surprise as she was, she could not but notice
the formal word " Miss " prefixed by him to her
name for the first time. " Thy, 'tis a thousand
years since I had the supreme pleasure ov seen'
you. I little thought when I left home this morning',
that I'd have the mellifluous surprise to come across
you during the course ov my peregrinations."

You might see me aise enough, if you had a
mind," she replied simply, "for I never left Bally-cross
for a long time, barren' to run off to fairly
mass on Sundays."

"Well, indeed, I must place guilty to your
averment, but I had a dale ov bisness to elucidate

after my brother's death. I have very little time
now to be perambulating through the country, as
I used to do when I had nothing to occupy my
cogitations but diversion an society. I^m a responsible
man now. Miss Oonagh, an' have a dale ov
work to attend to, an' tillage an' cattle to see
after."

So I hard. You'll never be half as well off
in the world, John, as what I wish you. You maybe
sure ov that."

Oh, thank you, thank you ! " he said, in a very
lofty and patronising way. " I knew that your good
wishes an' congratulations won't wanting' to mein
my elevation, though there's many envious people
in the world that bridges me my superiority. But
I never misdoubt you, miss, for I always liked
you; an' what I liked you most for, was your
philanthropy an' your jocularity."

Whatever philanthropy the poor girl might have
been the possessor of, there was very little jocularity
about her at that moment. She stood before him
pale and silent, with her little bundle lying at her
feet, with eyes cast down, and lips firmly compressed,
lest she should, by look or word, betray any part
of the great suffering that surged through her whole
being. All her woman's pride rose up to support

her, and to save her from the unspeakable humiliation
of letting him see what she felt. He had cast
her off coarsely and brutally, and trampled on the
unselfish love of her pure virginal heart, but she
would not give his vanity the triumph of betraying
any emotion. It was a hard struggle for the poor
girl, but, like all women who respect themselves and
their own sex, she was fully equal to it, and came
off the victor. In another moment she looked up
at him again with a composed, resolute face, and
the calm, soft eyes that never flinched before his
gaze.

'^ I'll be saying good-bye to you, John, for I have
a long walk before me, an I want to be at my
journey's end before the night falls"* she said, with
a quietness of tone and manner that only her self-controlled,
resolute character was capable of. '^ But
before we part, I must tell you how glad I am at
your uprise and good luck, an' I hope that you'll livelong
to enjoy it. I say this, John, wit all my
heart."

I'm sure I'm obligated to you, miss ; the same
to you. Every word that you promulgate, finds a
reciprocity in my own heart. I'm very proud indeed
to see you so jovial an' odoriferous, for I
always had a great regard for you intirely; au*"

'tisn^t every wan, you persuade, that I'd contaminate
myself be consort' wit. You'll allow that there's
no great admiration in that; for everyday that has
the honour ov my acquaintance, knows my intire
superiority, an' conversion wit all the branches ov
polite education, above all wit the classical construction
ov languages, an' the humanities, belonging'
both to the ould ancients, as well as to the
complexity ov modern authors."

It was no wonder that his bishop had peremptorily
refused to receive him as a candidate for the priesthood,
and that Susie Burke had contemptuously
called him a fool!

To this speech, which he evidently considered the
perfection of refined oratory, as well as being quite
in harmony with his late advancement in life, Oonagh
made no reply. He waited for a little while thinking
she would renew the conversation; but she did
not, and he began to weary of an interview in
which his powers of fascination were so little appreciated.
Callous and vain though he was, he yet
could not fail to see that he was making a very
poor figure in the eyes of a woman, whose chief
characteristics were her sterling good sense and
simple truthfulness. He felt that whether she still
entertained any affection for him or no, that he had

completely lost her respect, and that her eyes were
fully opened to the meanness of his conduct, and the
unworthiness of his character. Even though determined
on breaking every tie with her, still this was
a mortifying and unpleasant reflection, and seeing
that he could not impose on her any longer, he
thought it was high time to terminate their interview.
He could bear her resentment, and her reproaches,
if she would only express them ; but her cool, silent
contempt was too much for him.

^^You must accept. Miss Oonagh, my expostulations
for keeping you so long, especially as Fm in
thread that the day will most likely eventuate in rain.
I prognosticate, from the obscurity ov the morning',
that therein be a distillation in the afternoon."

He then shook hands with Oonagh in quite a
condescending manner, and walked away with his
usual air of swaggering importance. She turned
up the hohreen with rapid steps, and making her
way to her parents' grave, she flung herself upon
it in an abandonment of passionate sorrow. The
tears that she had hitherto suppressed with some
success, now broke forth in a hot, blinding rain,
while her whole body was shaken by the violence
of her sobs.

^' Oh, father, mother, why did ye lave me behind

je, in this hard, cruel world ? '' moaned the poor, desolate,
broken-hearted creature, '•' for now I must face it
without yer strong arms to protect me, an' per
loving' hearts to shelter me. Oh air hellish, vdher
'a grain machine, ages minima /* Mv poor heart is
broken, an' there is no wan to spake a kind word
to me, no wan to care what becomes ot me, or
whether I lire or die ! Look down from heaven
on yer snfferin' child, an' beg ov the good God
to have pity on me, an' take me to Himself."

The great violence of her sorrow wore itself
out after a time; her sobs became less frequent,
and her tears were actually exhausted She rose
from her recumbent posture, and, kneeling down
at the foot of the grave, took her beads from her
pocket, and recited the rosary for the repose of the
souls of her parents with all the steadfast faith, and
simple piety of the Irish peasant. This devotional
exercise, and the holy thoughts with which it inspired
her, calmed her agitated heart, and tended to bring
it back in a great measure to its normal state of
self-reliance and serene peace. K there were some
thoughts to afflict her. there were many others that

Oh aJiir cherish, vdher 'a grain: machine, ages minima!
Oh, dearest father, oh mother, the love of my heart, and my
son

were well calculated to soothe and comfort her, and
foremost among them was the consciousness that
she had never grieved or disobeyed her parents
wilfully, and that in all things she fulfilled their
last injunctions, not only in the letter, but in the
spirit also. There was balm in Gilead, even for a
heart so sorely stricken as hers. She had not grieved
her father's soul, or brought down his good gray
head to the grave with sorrow, for the sake of the
worthless scamp she had just parted from. Now,
kneeling beside his grave, she recognised the wisdom
with which he had guided and saved her from being
the wife of the man, who could treat her as John
Molloy had done but an hour ago.

She rose from her knees, remembering that she
had a long way to go before night, and bathing her
face and eyes in the clear water of a little brook that
flowed at one side of the churchyard, she again resumed
her journey, and met with no interruption
until she arrived at Castle Cloyne. She went to
the house by a path through the wood, intended only
for pedestrians. On arriving at the house, she went
at once upstairs to Miss Dillon's own parlour without
any question asked, for the servants all knew that
she was the young lady's foster-sister, and a privileged
person in consequence.

VOL. II. B

Oonagh found Grace sitting by a good fire in lier
room, reading, and as usual quite alone. Her father
and brother were in London, and few visitors came
to so remote a place as Castle Cloyne. The foster-sisters
had not met for some time, and now each
noticed that the other was changed, and not for the
better. The health of Grace, never robust, had
become much worse since the departure of her father
and brother, and left alone without companionship,
the poor, lonely girl drooped and faded day by day.
The change in Oonagh was not quite so perceptible,
for when youth and perfect health go hand in hand,
the physique cannot greatly deteriorate. But the
gladness and brightness that make the glory of youth
were gone. There was no smile on her lips, no light
in her eyes, though neither sorrow nor time could
rob them of their sweet, candid expression.

You look sad and weary, my poor Oonagh,^'
said the young lady affectionately, as she made her
visitor sit down beside her.

'^ Are you surprised at that, Miss Grace ? I went
through a heap ov trouble ov every kind since I
saw you last, but, wit the blessing ov God, tis allover
now. Nothing can ever happen to me again,
so sorrowful or so hard as what IVe put behind
my back. I have no more to lose now, barren' my

life, an when everything else is gone, what good
is life to me, or what pleasure can I have in it ? '^

^' Oh, Oonagh dear, I am surprised to hear such
a good, religious girl, as I know you to be, say
such a thing as that. Life is the gift of God, and, as
such, is not to be under-valued, or made light of.
You have health, and that is a great blessing," said
Grace, with a sigh.

^^I ax God's pardon if I offended Him, miss, but
sure I spoke them words without thinking' ov myself.
The holy will ov God is best always, an' Tm submissive,"
and here Oonagh crossed herself devoutly.

If my father were at home," resumed Grace, " 1
am sure he would forgive you what rent you owed,
or at least a great part of it. But the agent was
only too glad to get the money, and never told him orme
anything about it. If I had known it, I would
have written to my father, but you never told me,
and it was only yesterday that I heard it by the
merest chance. He would have dealt kindly by you,
and would not have suffered you to give up your farm.'

"So he would, miss. God bless him, an' sind
him home safe to his own place, an' his own people !
But sure where would be the good? How could I
make the rent, without as much as a tail on the landor
any way ov tilling' it, or the price ov the seed

E 2

to put down, unless I run in debt for it. I'd be
every day sinking' deeper an' deeper into the mud —
wit respects to you miss. An above all, I never
could pay my poor father's debts, as I promised him
that I'd do'

'you are a good girl, Oonagh, and much wiser
and more practical than I am. Looking more closely
into the matter, I acknowledge that you were right
in casting off a burden too heavy for you to bear,
and you have obeyed your father's last wishes, and
kept his good name without reproach."

'that was what was in my mind all through,
an' I had no rest or pace till it was done. Every
penny that we ever owed is paid, thank God ! "

"That is a most happy feeling to have. And
now tell me what are your plans for the future, or
if you have formed any. If not, stay here with me-for
the present. I am very lonely here since my
father and brother went away, and Mr. Macnamara,,
who is staying with me, is out always until evening.
My own maid is leaving me, for she is going to be
married, and I am sure you could fill her place very
well. Or if you don't like taking her situation, you
could stay on until you have recovered yourself a little,
for you are greatly in want of rest and quietness
after all your troubles.' '

'^ God spare you your health. Miss Grace ! I
never doubted your goodness, but I couldn't stay in
the parish ov Castle Cloyne at all'

'^ Why not, Oonagh ? You have done nothing
that would make you ashamed to remain among your
old friends and neighbours, but quite the contrary.
If truth, and worth, and integrity, had their proper
place, you could compare with the first lady in the
land, and that to your own great advantage'

"Oyeh, no, miss. I'm only a poor ignorant girl
striving to do my duty, an' I have no call to compare
myself wit ladies at all. But I couldn't bear to
stay in the place."

Have you had a quarrel with ' Pleasant John' ? "
said Grace with a smile, for she had been Oonagh's
confidante all along.

We had no quarrel at all," faltered poor Oonagh,
but I got poor, an' he got rich, an' just that's how
it is. I wouldn't like to misjudge any wan, an' haste
ov all him, but if it isn't that, I don't know what
it is."

'' He was never worthy of you, Oonagh, and you
know I often told you so. Now you know him for
what he is, and can estimate him at his proper value.
In slighting you, he has ' thrown a pearl away, richer
than all his tribe.' I cannot say that I am sorry you

have lost such a heartless sordid lover. You are well
rid of the mean wretches

That may be, Miss Grace, but the misfortune
part ov my case is, that I love him all the same.
You'll say that I am very foolish an' mane, an' no
admiration that you'd say it ; sure anyone that would
hear the story would say it. But so itself I can't
help it. An' that's why I can't stay in Castle Cloyne^
but must go to another parish, where I won't see him
at all, or hear people talking' ov him. I can bear a
great dale, but I couldn't bear that. It would kill
me, Miss Grace, an' that's the whole truth now for
you, the same as if I was in the confessional," and
sinking on her knees, she buried her face in the lap
of her kind foster-sister, and burst into a perfect
storm of passionate sorrow. Grace did not at first
reply to this wild outburst, wrung from the inmost
core of an outraged heart, but only caressed with her
soft hand the head that lay in her lap.

After a little time, when Oonagh was calmer, Grace
said to her : '^ Listen to me, Oonagh, and take
comfort from what I say. That man is not worthy
of you, whatever glamour he contrived to cast over
you. It is well that he has shown himself in his
true colours, before you became his wife. "What
would Your life be as the wife of such a man ? Death.

itself would be preferable to so dreadful a lot as
that'

''^You said a while ago Miss, that I was wiser
than you, an' now I can return you the compliments
said Oonagh, wiping away her tears, "for
what you say has sense an' reason in it. But though
I was so foolish just now, 'twas becase my
heart was very sore ; an' when I saw your face, an'
knew how much you felt for me, all the grief an'
misery burst out in spite ov me. But sure 'tis only
to yourself, Miss Grace, that I'd let it out at all.
But you needn't be in thread," she went on, with
some of her old proud spit, "that I'll ever say
or do anything that would make you ashamed of
the child ov the woman that nursed you at her breast.
If John Molloy was to come back again to me, an'
ax me on his binded knees to be his wife, I wouldn't
consent ; no, not if he was ten times as handsome
an' rich, an' my love ten times more than it is. That's
the truth, Miss, as I'm a living' woman. But I
couldn't stay wit you, nor in the wan parish wit
him; my heart is a dale too sore an' troubled yet
for that. But when I'm far away in a place where
I'll neither see nor hear ov him, I'll they to put him
out ov my mind, an' forget that I ever cared for
him."

You may be right, therefore I won't press you
to remain, at present. But in some time, when you
have got over this foolish infatuation — for I can
call it nothing else — you must return to me. Remember,
Oonagh, that wherever I am, there is a place
for you also. But where will you go now ? '^

To a place called Bawnmore, where Connor
Burke, a distant cousin ov mine, lives. He goes
by the name ov Croohoore Crussough, in regard ov
his been' a little contrary an' cross in himself, when
anything vexes him. His wife is a very decent, quiet
woman, an' his daughter Shusy an' myself wor
always great comrades. You often hard me talk
ov Shusy. They might know ov some place that
would shut me ; anyway, I could stay wit them fora
while, till I could look about me, an' see what was
best for me to do."

"It is not a bad plan at all, and my mind will
be at rest when I know you are under the protection
of friends. But why not go to your aunt, Mrs.
Clancy ? Her house is far enough from Castle
Cloyne in all conscience, and you would be more
sure of a welcome from her than from cross
Connor."

"Well, miss, she was so displayed wit me for
selling' the land, that she ris out ov me entirely, an*

since my poor father's death, she never axed whether
I was alive or dead. Vd sooner go to the Burkes
for a short time, till I get a place, an' that'll be as
soon as I can, for I never could bring myself
down to eat the bread ov idleness on anyway's
flores'

"You are quite right, and I would not wish that
you should, for the life of a dependant is a very hard
one. But remember always, that when you are out
of place, there is a home and a welcome for you in
Castle Cloyne."

"Long life to you, miss, an' long may you reign
there ! But the day is passion', and I have far to
go."

But you must not go until you have had something
in the way of dinner," said Grace, ringing
the bell. In a short time a tray with cold meat,
bread, and a bowl of milk was placed on a small
table drawn down to the fire, and the poor girl, who
had had but a very indifferent breakfast, and had
the natural healthy appetite of youth, sharpened by
her walk in the open air, made, notwithstanding her
grief, a very hearty and, for her, a very luxurious meal.
When she had finished, Grace told her to make a
parcel of what was left, and put it in her pocket, to
eat at the approach of evening.

'^I asce a grand dinner, thanks to you, miss, an*"
I'll want no more till I get to Bawnmore. Bat, by
your lave, I'll take it all the same for Bran, that's.
waiting for me at the back dure. He has a long road
before him as well as me, an he's not used to bo
hungry. So 1^11 take the vittles for him, if you.
plase.''"'

Grace made up the fragments of the dinner in
an old newspaper, and put the little parcel • into
Oonagh's hand. Then she kissed her affectionately,
and wished her God-speed, and with moist eyes
watched her as she went down the path that led
out to the public road, followed by her dog.

When Oonagh came to the end of this path,.
which was shaded by a belt of trees, and felt herself
secure from observation, she sat down on a stone
and, opening the parcel, broke the contents into
small pieces, and proceeded to feed her dog. It was
a long time since poor Bran, like herself, had got
so splendid a repast, to which, it need hardly be
said, he did ample justice, not leaving behind even
a solitary crumb. Then Oonagh prepared for her
long walk, by taking off her shoes and stockings,,
which she tied up in the bundle with her other
things. She did this partly from economy, and
partly because she knew that she could walk more

lightly and freely without them, than she could
possibly do if she wore them. Taking up her bundle
once more, she sprang lightly over the stile that
separated the shrubbery from the main road, and
calling her dog, set out on her walk with as little
concern, as if the twelve miles that lay between her-and
Bawnmore had been only two.

BAWXMOEE.

This farmer hath a sharp and meagre face.
*Ti Death in an undress oE skin and bone,
"Where age and youth, their landmarks ta'en away.
Look all one common sorrow.

Deydex.

The evening was deepening into night, when Oonagh.
and her four-footed companion arrived in sight of
the farm and homestead of Bawnmore. It was here
that Connor Biirke, the father of her friend Susie,
lived. The house was a good, substantial cottage,
pleasantly situated in a valley that was well sheltered
by surrounding his, and the land seemed good, and
fairly well cultivated ; both together looking as if
the owner was a thriving, if not a wealthy man. The
evening" was getting very chill, for a frost had
succeeded to the damp of the early part of the
day, just enough to tell that Winter was but a step

behind; and yet there was in it also that elasticity
and freshness that smack of the spring-time, and
bring to every heart, even the saddest and most
weary, some fleeting visions of joy and rest. The
cattle were all slowly coming to the farmyard from
the different ont-stations, the horses weary from their
hard work at the plough, and the placid cows weighted
with the overflowing udders, that gave rich promise
of milk and butter, both for the market and household
use. A crowd of dogs ran about barking
and yelling, and in their own demonstrative way
giving a welcome to the patient, weary creatures that
came trustingly home, as if conscious that rest and
food awaited them there. The poultry that had all
day roamed about at will, now also trooped homewards,
and screamed, crowed, and cackled, as if
determined that they too should not be forgotten
in the distribution of the good things that were to
come, and so adding their share to the general
clamour. It was a pleasant, home-like scene, full
of the old pastoral innocence and simplicity, and
suggesting thoughts of rude plenty and hospitality,
and of lives that were wearing away contentedly in
the golden mean between poverty and riches.

Anyone who on that spring evening would casta
bird's-eye glance at the house and farm of Cawnpore,

would say that its owner was a well-to-do,
comfortable man, and in that lie would not be far
wrong. But lie would also see, on closer examination
— if lie were a competent judge of such things —
a great deal that was not pleasant to look at. He
would see that though the land was good, yet it
was not made the most of, and that the system of
farming practised on it, so far from being at " high
pressures was, on the contrary, of that happy-unlucky
order that left a great deal to Providence and
the weather, and regarded all improvements and newfangled
modes of culture with supreme contempt.
In truth, the farm and house of Connor Burke would
not have found much favour in the eyes of an English
or Scotch agriculturist. They would both be disgusted
by the absence of order and method in all
directions, while the carelessness, waste, and dirt
would have driven them half insane. The gates and
the doors of the out-offices were all off the hinges,
and as they were altogether, or very nearly, unacquainted
with paint, were fast decaying from the
combined action of time and weather. The fences
all over the farm were so much neglected, that
they were yawning with *^gaps,^' which said
gaps were stopped up with furze bushes, pieces
of old, useless timber, or any other thing that

might happen to be " conveniently unpaved
yard was ankle-deep in mud and loose litter
of all sorts, the accumulation of all the dirt and
rubbish of the past week, which had never been swept
away to its proper place on the manure heap. Though
there was a sty for the pigs, or what had at one time
been intended for such, it was scarcely ever occupied
except at night. Very far indeed from ornamental
was the said sty, any more than it was useful, and
defective in its internal accommodation, as well as
unsightly in appearance. This opinion the pigs
seemed to entertain as well as the beholders, for
they always preferred any other place to that specially
allotted for their own use. And when it was seen
that the broad flag that had once formed the roof,
had by some untoward accident been split in two,
and had then fallen in, admitting the rain on one
side, and that the door had been wrenched off its '
hinges, and was ever since lying up against the wall,
so that the pigs could come and go at pleasure, it
was not surprising that they took advantage of the
liberty allowed them, and made their appearance in
so many places that they seemed to be perfectly
ubiquitous. The calves and fowls, allowed the same
degree of freedom, elbowed the grunters stoutly, so
that there were many tough battles fought in that

farmyard from morning until night. When the
din of battle became too much, even for the
seasoned ears of the inmates of the house, the dogs
were called in to quell the riot, and disperse the
combatants. The dogs, no way loth, charged
vigorously into the very centre of the melee, and
after a few moments of the most awful snarling,
yelling, granting, and cackling, the belligerents
were fain to retire sullenly to their respective quarters,
with torn wings, bleeding ears, and other dismal
tokens of the fray.

About the house itself, and the offices attached toit,
an appearance of plenty, and even wealth,
contrasted forcibly with the total disregard of all
order and neatness. Some of the offices were good,
substantial stone buildings, like the dwelling-house,
with good slated roofs, while others were only
mud hovels, propped up at the four corners with
heavy stones, and roofed with thatch more than half
rotten from damp and neglect. The dwelling-house
was indeed weatherproof, and tolerably comfortable
and clean, but that is all that could be said in its
praise, for in its construction beauty and symmetry
had been altogether sacrificed for comfort and convenience.
It was a long, low, rambling cottage of one
storey well thatched, and pierced here and there by

a few windows, wMcli varied so much. in size, and
in the positions in which they were placed, as to set
all the laws of architecture completely at defiance.
The house had been lately whitewashed, and had
behind it a clump of trees, which, though bare and
leafless now in the early spring-time, yet must look
pleasant when the foliage was full and green, which
it would soon be when the year was a little older.
There was a cabbage garden on one side, and a plot
of early potatoes on the other, while in front was the
farm-yard, where all the inhabitants of the farm, biped
and quadruped, met as on common ground. The
centre chimney gave out wreaths of blue smoke,
as if proclaiming to all whom it might concern, that
the evening meal was in course of preparation, and
as if answering the call, the servants and farm-labourers
came leisurely home, gossiping and
chatting to each other as they went along. And
despite the slovenly, careless look of everything,
and the total want of all good management and
good taste apparent everywhere, the farm and homestead
of Bawnmore presented a pleasant picture to
the weary traveller, as she approached it slowly on
that chill spring evening.

If the outward appearance of the house gave
promise of warmth and plenty, that promise was

VOL. II. F

amply fulfilled by the aspect of the interior. The
large kitchen, which was the living-room of the
family, was brilliant in the light of a huge fire of
turf and bogwood, blazing and sparkling in a hearth so
wide that it took up one side of the room altogether.
The rafters overhead were black with age and smoke,
and in all directions they were pierced with hooks from
which depended a number of articles of the most miscellaneous
description. Flitches and hams of bacon,
hung side by side with the harness of the farmer's
carts; hanks of thread and yarn just ready to be
sent to the weaver, were mixed up with the long
reins for the plough, and horse-collars, both new
and in all stages of dilapidation ; while long strings
of golden-brown onions were hanging in neighbourly
proximity with a saddle and bridle. Directly opposite
to the fire, and occupying almost as much space, was
the tall dresser, the special pride and glory of the
Vanities, or good woman of the house. Half this
dresser consisted of shelves, the lower part of a
press and two drawers. On the upper shelf were
six plates and a dish of pewter, which were a part
of Mrs. Burke's wedding portion, and consequently
were held by her in peculiar respect and veneration.
When common delf ware became cheap, those highly-prized
articles were no longer used, but " wisely kept

for show," nor were they ever taken down from their
elevated position on the dresser, except to undergo
a weekly scouring, after which operation they were
carefully replaced. To preserve those precious heirlooms
from falling down, a rough fence of wire was
nailed across the shelf on which they were placed
in an upright position, so that their polish and
brightness might dazzle the eyes of all the beholders
thereof. The other shelves were stocked with plates,
dishes, mugs, bowls, and other articles of coarse' delf,
all painted in the very gaudiest colours.

Such was the dresser, the glory of Bawnmore,
and the envy of all the housewives in the district.
The rest of the furniture was simple enough. A
settle was at one side of the ample hearth, serving
the double purpose of a seat by day, and at nio-ht
when opened up, a comfortable bed, in which latter
capacity it was used by the two serving men who
performed the greater part of the work on the farm ^
The tables were all of unpainted deal, the chairs
ditto, but having the seats made not of timber, but
of sugars, or ropes made of twisted hay. At the
extreme end of the kitchen was the "swellings' a
bench of rough, upland wood, on which were
ranged all the pots, pans, kettles, and other culinary
utensils, belonging to the establishment.

Connor Burke, the master of this comfortable
house, sat in a large, coarse arm-chair at one side
of the chimney corner, smoking his pipe dreamily,
as he watched the women of the household moving
about, engaged in the performance of their evening
duties. In age he was nearly the threescore and ten
years allotted to man by the inspired writer, and
he looked fully every year of his age. He was below
the average height, thin and spare, but as wiry and
hard as flint, and so healthy, that he used to say
that he did not know what sickness was. His skin
was yellow and wrinkled, and, as a match for that,
he had a hooked nose, and lanthorn jaws that were
sucked together at each side of a mouth from which
all the teeth had long since taken their departure.
Being perfectly bald, he wore an old brown wig,
not unfrequently placed awry on his bare skull, and
when this was the case, the effect produced by the
wizened, hatchet face underneath, was certainly very
comical, though it could hardly be called pleasing.
His disposition was as disagreeable, as his appearance
was unprepossessing. He had an immense fund of
self-opinion, crass ignorance, and ill-temper stored
up for occasional use, that would have sufficed for
ten men instead of one. This crassitude was trying
enough to those obliged to come in contact with

him when he was sober, but when he was drunk, it
became intensified to such an outrageous degree,
that he became altogether intolerable. It was not
that he was at all a drunkard, in the common
acceptation of the word, for he never took
strong drink while he remained at home; but let
him go to a fair, or a wedding', or a wake, or
to any other place where whisky was going round,
and he was sure to return home not only drunk,
but with his temper so violent, and his tongue so
abusive, that he was, for the time being, a terror
to his unfortunate family. At no time very gentle
or amiable, he became, when inflamed by drink,
violent, disputatious, abusive, and as his much-enduring
wife declared, "heed neither lade nor
thrives' There was a legend current in the neighbourhood
to the effect, that in the early years of their
married life, he used to fling his wig into the fire
whenever he wished to pick a quarrel with his wifoj
while in a state of intoxication. If she snatched
the wig from off the fire, he thrashed her soundly for
interfering; and if she let it burn, he thrashed her
all the same, for being extravagant and careless. For
this, and many similar exploits, he had obtained
the contumelious nickname of Oroohoore Crussough,
or Cross Connor, a name that was considered by those

who knew him, to fit him exactly. At any rate, it
stuck to him like a burr, and he was rarely called
by any other name for the rest of his life.

Bat notwithstanding all his '^ crossness'' he
was not quite destitute of natural affection, but loved
his three children as much as he was capable of loving
anything outside himself. He loved the two younger
passing well, but his eldest daughter, Biddy, or as he
always called her in the pride of his heart, " Miss
Biddy Burke'' was as dear to him as the apple of
his eye. She was his first-born child, and for years
had been his only one ; and for those years had been
the sole recipient of any love that was in his nature to
bestow. For her sake he toiled, and worked, and amassed
money, to which he was careful to add something
every year. After a few years his house was blessed
by the addition of two more olive-branches, a son
and another daughter ; but Connor Burke remained
faithful to his first favourite, and deemed it a point
of honour that she should not be ousted from her
position in the house, or her place in his affection, by
the superior attractions of the new-comers. As time
rolled on, he became more attached to Miss Biddy,
it that could be possible. He declared that she resembled
his own mother, after whom she was called,
and constantly reminded him of her, while Tom and

Susie "took after their mother an' her people,"
which circumstance was by no means an advantage
to them in his eyes. And certainly, if any idea of
the defunct Mrs. Burke could be formed by the
likeness her eldest granddaughter bore to her, it is
to be feared that it would not by any means bean
exalted one, for like Katie Name of lyric celebrity,
Miss Biddy was " short and dark, like a cold winter's
day'' She was extremely plain, both in face and
figure, and walked, if not with a decided lameness,
yet with such a shambling, awkward gait, that she
had all the appearance of being lame.

Tom and Susie were, as their father contemptuously
expressed it, " the very moral ov the Carrols ; " which
opinion might well be taken in a very complimentary
sense by the Carrol family, for both the young people
were very fair types of rustic comeliness and manly
strength. Tall, fair, and pleasant-looking, they were
a marked contrast to their elder sister, especially
Susie, who, like Molly Carew in the song above
quoted, was " fresh and fair as the flowers in May''
They were both great favourites with all their
acquaintances and friends; but the more they were
admired and loved, the more did the father's heart
cling to his unattractive and neglected first-born.
Often he declared, that if '^ Shusy was twice as party

again , lie should never be married before Miss Biddy.
Nos in troth ! There was no hurry at all about
Shusy, not the haste taste in life ov a hurry. Let
her take her time , an' wait for preferment until her
turn came rounds for she was nothing but a bit ova
slip. Miss Biddy Burke should never be obliged
to dance in her vamps for the likes ov her. My mind
is made up on the matter, an' I wouldn't change
it for nothing , nor for no wan. Whoever is the
ould maid ov this family , it won't be Miss Biddy*
and so on ad infinitum.

In consequence of this determination, from which
neither expostulation nor entreaty had the power
to make him swerve, he had refused in the most
peremptory manner, several very eligible proposals
for the hand of his youngest daughter. His wife
and son had repeatedly reasoned with him on the
want of prudence and common sense he displayed
in this matter, as well as the great injustice he was
doing Susie, who had never in any way offended or
disobeyed him. But they might as well have
reasoned with the wind for blowing round the house
on a winter's day, as with Croohoore Crussough on
this subject of the marriage of his daughters. On
no point did he deserve his nickname more completely
than on this.

As lie sat by the fire smoking his pipe, his wife,
a large, fair, placid-faced woman, went to and fro,
directing the movements of her two daughters, who,
assisted by a maidservant, were scalding milk-tubs,
and doing other routine work for the dairy. When
the milk had been poured into them, and the dairy
shut up for the night, the family sat down to supper,
which consisted of coarse brown bread and milk,
with a pair of eggs for the old man. He was — fora
wonder — in a more amiable mood this evening,
than he had exhibited for a long time before, or at
least a mood that might be called amiable for
Croohoore Crussough.

MATCHMAKING.

The father wake th for the daughter when no man knoweth,
and the care for her taketh away his sleep.

ECCLESIASTICUS.

Connor Burke and Ms family had just sat down to
supper, when the latch of the kitchen door was raised,
and Oonagh, carrying her bundle in her hand, and
followed by her dog, stood on the threshold with the
usual kindly salutation of '' God save all here ! ''
In an instant Susie had sprung from her chair, and
with a loud cry of joyful surprise, flung herself into
the arms of her friend. She hugged her to her
breast, she cried and laughed by turns, and in her
rapture repeating over and over again, '^Oonagh,
Oonagh, 'a cushla gell, you're as welcome as the
flowers ov May ! " The rest of the family also advanced

to give their welcome to the new-comer as
sincerely, though in a much less demonstrative
fashion.

The valid sin, avour7ieen, ages head millia
falthagh/' * said Mrs. Burke, kissing the poor,
weary girl affectionately. 'elisha, if this isn't the
pleasant surprise you're given' us''

'welcome to Bawnmore, Oonagh," cried Connor
Burke, shaking her hand with cordial heartiness, for
she was his own relation, and besides, with all his
faults, he was like all the Irish peasantry, extremely
hospitable. '' But forsake, girl, your hand is as
could as a stone, an' you look fairly bate up. Did
you walk all the way from Bally cross to-day ? '^

"I did."

Blood alive, Biddy ! run out an' bring in another
basket ov turf, an' a smuthawn ov bondage to throw
on. the fire, an' Shusy, cut down some rashers off
that flitch ov bacon over there, an' let me see them
on the pan along wit a couple ov eggs, while a cat
would be licking' his 'air. Come, be alive, both ov
ye; don't ye see that the poor girl is almost kilt
wit the could an' hunger ? "

The two girls bustled about most willingly to

The valid sin, avourneen, ages head millia falthagh ! —
Welcome, my daring, and a hundred thousand welcomes !

obey their father's commands-while their mother
took off Oonagh-'s cloak, brought a chair for her to
the fire, and by many other kind and motherly
attentions, tried to make the weary girl know how
welcome she was.

In a very short time a smoking dish of rashers
and eggs was laid on the table, and the family once
more sat in, fully resolved to do ample justice to
the unusual treat that the new-comer had been the
means of affording them. Every one of those simple,
good-natured people vied with each other as to
which would show most kindness to the stranger, all
the more welcome because she had come to them
uninvited. When she had eaten her supper, Susie
herself prepared a plentiful mess for Bran, declaring
that no one else should feed him, as long as he and
his mistress remained in Bawnmore.

*' I hope, Oonagh, ashore, that you're come to
stay wit us for a long dhrass,^' said Mrs. Burke,
when they were all sitting round the fire after supper.
Sure it will be a rale thrace to the two girls to
have you wit ^em.'^

'why, then, 'a vanities, it will be a greater
thrace to myself, only that I don't like being
troublesome.'^

*' Oyeh, don't spake ov that at all. Sure you can

take the run ov the place wit the pair ov em, an'
be a great help to 'em into the bargain. We have
a lot ov new milch cows, an' betune the milkia'
an' the young calves, they have enough to do, my
hand to you."

'^ I thought that you always kept a regular dairymaid
for the spring an' summer months, one ov the
County Limerick dairy-women ? "

swell, an' so we did; but the wan we had left
us last week to go to America wit a brother ov
hers."

An' will you get another in her place ? " asked
Oonagh, who was not slow to see an opening for
herself.

^^Iss, if we can get her; but a good dairy-maid
is not to be found under every bush these times,
an' I'd as lieve drag on as we are, than take up wit a
bad wan."

'the neighbours at home in Castle Cloyne used
to say that I was a good hand at dairy business," said
Oonagh modestly; "anyhow, my butter always sold
first quality. If you think, 'a vaiiithee, that I'd shut
the place, I'd be very glad to take it."

^' You ! " exclaimed Mrs. Burke, raising her hands
and eyes in the greatest astonishment. "You, the
child ov Martin MacDermott, to be a servant on any

wan's flare ! Oh, blessed saints above, but this is
quare news ! I often bard ov the turns ov the world,
but this is the greatest I ever bard ov/^

'everything my poor father bad is gone, barren*
bis honest name," replied Oonagh, with some pardonable
pride. " 'Tis a long story, an' a very sorrowful
wan ; but the ind of it is, that I must air my bread
the best way I can. Sure Fm not the first decent
father an' mother's child that had to do that same,
an' I suppose I won't be the last. There's no
disgrace in honest work. I'm strong an' healthy,
an' you will see that I can get through your business
as well as a stranger."

'what do you say, Connor?" said Mrs. Burke,
turning to her lord and master. " I'm heart sorry she
has to face the world, an' I never thought her decent
father's only child would come to such a pass. But
sure as she's obliged to air her bread, 'tis better
for her to begin wit friends that know who an' what
she is, an' will respect an' love her. I'd rather have
ber than a stranger, as she's willing' to come to us,
an' so I'm sure would the two girls. Oonagh won't
be as lonesome wit us as wit strangers."

"Very well," he replied, "that's aise settled.
She's a good quite girl, an' come ov a very decent
stock. She's my own relation, too, for her grandmother,

Sally Kelly, was married to Thomas Borough,
my great-grandfather. He was lame, and you persuade
that's why they called him Thomas Borough j but
sure that's neither here nor there. An' I'm sorry
like yourself J that she's come down a little in the
world,, but as she'll be wit friends, that won't make
any differ."

So the matter was settled, much to the satisfaction
of poor Oonagh, who felt that among those friendly,
good-hearted people, she would have a peaceful, happy
life. Already she experienced a feeling of rest and
content to which she had long been a stranger; a
feeling that she could lay down her head to sleep,
and never trouble herself as to what might happen
on the morrow.

When the two girls returned in from feeding the
calves and pigs, their mother told them of the new
arrangement by which Oonagh was to remain with
them, not as a visitor, but as a member of the household,
at which their delight was very great. Susie,
as being her special friend, was enchanted, and kissed
her over and over, until at last her father desired
her to sit down, for that he was tired of her
laves."

'^ I wonder what's keeping' Tom so late ? " he
said after a short time. '^'Tisn't often he stops out

as late as what he is to-night, to tell the truth ov
the boy'

'terra, how do you know who he met at the fair''
said his wife good-humouredly. " Sure 'tis the Shrove
that's in it, an' boys an' girls will be always meeting'
an' talking' to wan another whenever, the Shrovetide
comes round."

What ramash you're talking', woman ? " he cried
in a surly tone. ^^Wisha, there's nothing in the
whole world surprises me aiquil to the foolishness ov
women. Conshumin' to me ! but I think women has
no idaya ov anything whatsoever but Shrovetide, an'
matchmaking'. The dive another thing troubles 'em,
from wan year's ind to the other. Soon enough
youngsters get quare notions into their heads,
without an ould fool like you, that ought to be
making' your soul, putting' 'em up to it. If you only
minded your bisness as well as you mind the Shrove,
what rich people we'd all be at the ind ov the year ! "

Oh, then I am a foolish old woman, sure enough,"
she replied calmly, though a hot flush mounted to
her face. *^ An' to be join' wit a man that can't
understand a joke at all. If I had the haste gumption
in life, I'd keep my jokes for them that would
know how to take 'em, an' then you'd have no call
to be snapping' at me, every time I open my mouth."

To this Croolioore Crussough only replied by a
surly grunt, while the rest of the company kept a
discreet silence. At last one of the girls cried out,
^^ Ohj here is Tom ! " and immediately after the young
man came into the kitchen.

^' Oh, Tom ! here's Oonagh MacDermott," cried
Susie, with a glad smile on her pretty face, ^^an' she's
come to stop wit us for good an' all. I'll go bail you
didn't hear any news at the fair half so good as that.'''

Fake an' sure I didn't, and that's the truths the
same as if the Brevary was in my hand," said Tom,
shaking Oonagh' s hand not once, but many times. " I
didn't bring home any news as good as what I found
before me, sure enough."

'' Come over here, an' sit down alongside me, an'
tell me all about the fair, 'a vouhaleen hawn"^ said
the old man, who, notwithstanding his great love for
Miss Biddy," was both fond and proud of his only
son.

Oh, 'tis too long to tell all in a minnie ; I must
get time to rest myself, an' think ov it all."

"But tell us, man, how prices went at the fair,"
cried the old man impatiently, when Tom, having
taken off his outer coat, sat down before the fire.

^A vouhaleen lawn — My fair little boy.
VOL. II. G

'^ Well, the fair was a great fair intirely for good
milch cows an bonnes, but as for dairy cows an'
store pigs, them that had 'em wasn't axed what
brought ■'em there'

Blood an' 'noun's, man ! Is it the truth you're
tellin' us? Faix, we wor very lucky to keep our
bonnes at home for the present. As the prayers
isn't very good wit us this year, we may as well give
'em to the bonnes, as let 'em go for a song. We'll
get a rattling' price for them next Michaelmas."

"You may be right there, father. Any way, we
can't help it. The same bonnes will be good fat
pigs when they have the last ov the small prayers ate."

While the father and son were discussing their
business affairs in this way, the two girls had brought
Oonagh into the little room where they were to sleep,
and Mrs. Burke had gone to her own, where she
employed herself every night for an hour before
she went to bed, in saying her prayers and reciting
the rosary. The two men remained for some time
longer at the kitchen fire, to smoke a last pipe, and
talk over the news of the fair.

"Tom, you never would guess who spent a piece
ov the day wit myself," said the old man when the
women were all gone. " Come, now ; Til give you ,
three guesses."

"Fm no good at guessing', so you may as well
tell it out at want," answered artful Tom, who had
his own shrewd suspicions respecting the visitor.

"Why , thin, it was ould Bryan Cahill, an his
son Bryan Oge.* An' now that you know who they
wor, you must guess what brought 'em."

"Oh, that's aise done. Ov course they came
matchmaking said Tour, laughing. ^^What else
would bring 'em both here at Shrovetide, but to
look for a wife an' a fortune ? An' which ov the
girls is that play-boy Bryan Oge in console wit ? "

Before answering this question old Connor looked
round very cautiously, to ascertain that there were
no listeners to the conversation. When he made
sure that they were quite alone, he drew his chair
nearer to that of his son, and looking him full in
the face, said, in a tone of the utmost vexation, " For
which ov the colleges did they come matchmaking',
is it? Why, then, for the wan they won't get, an'
that's Shusy."

Won't get ! " repeated the son in great surprise.
'father, what do you mane? Do you want to
persuade me that you refused such a match for your
daughter, as Bryan Cahill ? Why, he'd get his choice
wife among all the girls in the whole country ; an'

Oge — Young.

G 2

the very best ov 'em would jump at him, if he'd only
say the word to her'

'eau the same, he won't get his choice ov my
little girls. I would him so, an' I tell it now to you."

But what answer did you give the decent people,
might I ax ? "

'Lyell, I would 'em that they could have Miss
Biddy, for as she's the elder, she's first for preferment.
Moreover, I said that I paid 'em a great
compliment intirely in offering' her to 'em, an' that I
had it always settled in my own mind to give more
to her than to Shusy. But Bryan Oge started up
before his father could say a word, an' said it was
Shusy that he wanted, an' not her sister. So I up
an' would the pair ov 'em, that I wouldn't let any man
that ever stud in shoe-leather run through my little
girls, an' take his pick an' choice ov 'em. They must
be married in their turn, or never at all."

"An you refused Bryan Oge Cahill, the best
match, as well as the handsomest boy in the three
baronies ! " exclaimed Tom Burke in the greatest
dismay. '^ Begot, you thrown the girl's luck over
your shoulder, an' mark my words, you'll live
to be heart sorry for it. Oh, father ! how could you
thrace poor Shusy that a way ? — how was she ever
a deserve ov it ? She was a good girl, ever

an' always, an' never want turned round on the
flare to displease either you or her mother since the
day she was born'

'^ Tm not fault' Shusy, Tom, at all, an what's
more, I wouldn't listen to any wan else coin it; so
take care, my fine fella, what you say ov her in my
hearing'. She's a good girl, an' a party girl, I'm
not denying' it, be no manner ov manes ; but if she
was twice as good, an' as party again, I won't let her
elder sister be past over or disrespected to phase
her, I tell you, Tom, I won't have it. Shusy is
a dale younger, an' has more time to wait for her
luck, an' she must be satisfied to take her turn, or
I'll know the reason why."

'^ An' do you think Bryan Oge will wait ? See if
he does ! There isn't a man in the world, barren'
yourself, would think or expect such a foolish thing.
An' why would he wait, I'd like to know ? When
you see him married wan ov these fine days to another
man's daughter, 'tis yourself that'll be ready to cut
your throat wit rale spite an' vexation. Sure 'tis
the thi^uth I'm tellin' you."

'' Oh barra, do you hear this ? " cried the old man
apologetically. "tis well, Tom Burke, you know
that I wouldn't let him go, if I could help it. I
offered him Miss Biddy, over an' over again, wit more

money than Vd give any other man — three hundred
pound in hand an' another hundred next Lady Day.
An' now wasn't that a handsome offer, I ax yourself ?
You'll hardly believe me when I say that the mane
nager refused it, ov course holding' out for more.
In the ind, sooner than let him go, an' lose such a
match for my little girl, I offered to throw in the bay
mare, an' her foal, along wit the arrived clieseJ^
What more than that could I do ? It would be a
great match for Miss Biddy, I own, for he is very
rich, an' a good, clever boy into the bargain, but if
he was twice as good an' clever, I couldn't go farther,
nor make him a fairer offer. No, in troth."

^^ You could, father. You could have given him
the wife he came for, an' he'd take her for just half
ov what you are satisfied to give Biddy. If a man
fancies wan girl, that's no reason he's to be forced
to marry another that he don't fancy at all, an' you
have no right to throw away Shusy's luck, for the
sake ov Biddy. 'Isn't fair. Oh father ! only say
the word, an' tired as I am, I'll start off this minnie
for ould Cahill's, an' my hand to you, everything will
be settled intirely to your satisfaction."

Oh wish ! wish ! did any poor Christhen ever

Arrived these — Ready money, or money paid down.

hear the like ? Oh, lay me alone, you foolish boy !
Don't you know that I'm book sworn on it ? Don't
you remember wan time that yourself an' your mother
was given' me no pace about another match, that I
went an' took the Brevary that I'd never let Miss
Biddy be so far disrespected as to have her younger
sister preferred before her. Miss Biddy is first for
preferment, an' Shusy must wait for her turn. I
would you that often."

Well, all I can say," said Tom, much provoked,
is that you wor a great fool to take such an oath,
an' greater again to stick to it. Sure all the clergy
in the diocese will tell you that. If you're advised
by me, you'll break through that wicked oath, that
you took when you wor a trifle hearty. It is a
shame, a burning' shame, that a nice, party girl like
Shusy is to lose the best match ov the Shrovetide,
becase you can't get any wan to take that ugly little
grdnioge off your hands."

As Tom concluded, the face of Croohoore Crus-sough
became almost purple with suppressed rage.
This disrespectful epithet applied to his favourite
child by anyone but his only son, would have sufficed
to lash him into madness. Even as it was, he was
very angry indeed.

Folly on, young man, folly on, an' see how it'll

thrive wit you. I must own that Miss Shusy an'
her bachelor have a great back intirely in you; a
grate faction all ov ye, in hague together again a
little rather ov a girl, an' a poor ould man. But
if ye wor as intricate again, I'm able for ye, an' for
all ye're skamin'. My money is my own, an' I won't
give it but to them I like. Bhieul a latina ! An'
I don't care that for the whole box an' dice ov
ye ! " and he snapped] his fingers viciously in his
son's face.

But, father, won't you hear to reason ? " remonstrated
Tom in a milder stone, conscious that in his
last speech he had gone a little too far.

'^ Reason or no reason, I'll never give my consent
to it, an' I wonder greatly that you have the
impudence to ax me, an' you known' that I kissed
the holy Brevary on it. May the dive size it fora
story ! It will put me under the sod, so it will."

Any other than Tom Burke would now have
given up the cause in despair, but he knew his
father well, and like a skilful general, would not
retire from the field until he had brought up the
force prudently kept in reserve for the final coup.
Assuming an air of great indifference, he said
quietly :

'^ Very well, have it aU as you like yourself. They

are your daughters, an not mine, an' your money,
too, is your own, to give it or keep it. So phase
yourself. But don't think that becase Bryan Call
didn't get a wife from you, that he won't get wan
from some other man. Faix, he will so, an' a fortune
too, ni go bail. An' why wouldn't he ? wit his
noble, fine farm, an' slated house, an' a hawaii full
ov milch cows ! He has nothing to do but go
across to Matt Hassett, at the other side ov the road,
an' get his choice wife among four good girls, ana
dale more money than what you could give him.
Sure 'tis no new story to you, what an intricate
ould fella Matt Hassett is, an' how far he would
go to circumvent you. He took a farm over your
head; he made you pay twice over what you owed
him, becase you lighted your pipe in a mistake wit
his relate, an' now the best bachelor in the three
baronies he'll snap up before your face, just to
spite you. 'Tis Matt himself that'll be proud to get
the whip-hand ov you, an' no wan will have the
haste pity for you that hears the story. And why ?
Becase when you had the five, knave, an' ace ov
hearts in your hand together, your play was so bad,
that you let him have the game. That's why ! "

An expression of the greatest dismay came over
the old man's shrunken, hatchet face. He shifted

Ms position uneasily, and taking an old blue cotton
handkerchief out of the crown of his hat, he began
wiping away the moisture that broke out over his
forehead in large beads.

Oh, Tom, avick machine ! I never thought ov
that' .he gasped out with dry, parched lips. " Oh,
wirra threw ! what a misfortune poor ould man I
am this blessed night. Before Fd consent that that
rogue. Matt Hassett, would have such a crow over
me as to hook Bryan Oge for wan ov his long alla
gallantries, I'd go an' cleft myself. Oh, then, Tom
'achree, advise me what I'm to do, for I'm intirely
depindin' on you for advice an' consolation. Oh, vo !
vo ! see yourself what a hobble I'm in."

I have no advice to give now, but what I gave-before.
Step out like a man, an' be beforehand wit
Matt. Sind for Byron Oge, an' give him the wife
he axed for, an' as much money as you can afford.
Don't be f retain' about Biddy for the present ; there's
no fear ov her husband, when you intend to give her
such a good fortune. Many a wan will be glad to get
her, an' though she isn't as handsome as her sister,
she's a good, industrious girl, an' that's well known ov
her far an' near. But we'll give up arguing' about it
for the present, for I'm dead bate after the dayan'
Ion gin' to go to bed."

So leaving his father to crack the nut he gave him
so artfully, Tom yawned, rose up, and went off to his
bed at the other end of the house, and the old man,
after a few muttered curses on the devoted head of
his enemy Matt Hassett^ soon followed his example.

A Proposal FOE iOSS BIDDY.

And then oncspak the bride's sister,

As she came in £rae the byre :
Oh ! gin that I were bnt married,

Tis a' that I would desire."

OiJ) Scotch So:5fG.

The cold, gray dawn of an early spring morning was
slowly creeping in throng. the solitary pane of glass
that did duty for a window in Tom's little bedroom,
when lie felt a tant laid on his shoulder, and starting
up from a sound sleep, found Ms father standing
beside his bed. The old man's face was pale and
haggard, and he looked as if he had spent a very-wakeful
and anxious night.

Yon needn't be in any thread, Tom," he said ina
very low voice, as if fearful of being overheard,
*^^ there's nothing in life wrong wit me, barren' that
I couldn't get a wink ov sleep all night, in regard

ov what you said to me about that blasted robber,
!Matt Hassett. Xow, listen whether to me, Tom avicJ:,
for you're the only friend an' adviser I have in the
whole world. I tell you, Tom, that i£ Matt Hassett
takes Bryan Oge from my little girl, blast me ! but
FU set fire to the house over his head. I will, an'
be satisfied to swing for it afterwards. That rufiSn
outbid me wit my landlord, he perjured himself in
open court, to make me pay him money twice over,
an' now if wan ov his alla mullets takes this good
match from me, Fll make him sup soira.'^

^^ Well, father, 'tis all in your own hands. You
can settle it all fair an' aise, ii you only do what's
right," replied Tom, very coolly. " Go off at want,
as soon as you ate your breakfast, to the Chills
or, if you like it better, I'll go, an' say you're
satisfied to give 'em Shusy, an' what they axed
wit her on yesterday. There's nothing in life fisher
than that, or surer. You'll secure the best an' the
richest match in the parish for your daughter, an'
Matt Hassett won't have any satisfaction over you.
As you axed my advice, there it is for you."

"But Bryan wouldn't have Biddy at all," cried
old Connor in. a doleful voice. " I tell you again,
that 'tis Shusy he wants, an' not Biddy."

"An' I tell you again to give him the girl he

wants. If Sliusy was twice as party, an' had twice
as much money, Bryan Cahill is husband good enough
for her any day in the year ; an' you know that
yourself, as well as me."

^'I know it, Tom' cried the old man, grasping
his son's hands, and looking at him with the harassed
expression of some hunted animal brought to bay.
"I know that well, 'acJiree sullae.^ But my oath,
Tom, I can't break through that, you persuade, whatever
happens. Oh, barra ! what's the use ov all this
shanahus, when you know well that I went an' kissed
the Brevary on the head ov it ? I never can hear
to a match for Shusy, till her elder sister is
first married."

"Well, that puts an end to the whole box an*
dice ov it," said Tom, settling himself back in bed
again. " The only differ it makes now is, that
you have two girls on your hands, when you might
provide well for wan ov 'em without much trouble.
That's all about it. An' in the name ov God let
Bryan Oge go off wit himself to the Hassetts, an'
let us not be bothering' ourselves any more about
him."

The father and son gazed at each other fixedly

'Achree sulla ! — My heart's calf /

for some time in silence; the farmer in great tribulation
and perplexity, and the latter affecting an
indifference that he did not feel.

'' I have it, be cripes ! '' exclaimed the old man
in a tone of joyful triumph. "I have it all now
glory be to God that put it into my poor ould head !
I'll give Miss Biddy to her ould bachelor, Michael
Foddha/^ an' then Bryan Oge can have Shusy an
my blessin'.''^

But you refused Biddy to Michaul, every wan ov
the last three Shrove ! Don't you remember this
time twelve months, when himself an his uncle
followed us into Doyle's public-house, an' you'd
have nothing to do wit 'em, though I was arguing' wit
you till I was hoarse. They wor so much offended
that they never came near us any more, matchmaking"


'^ But Michaul is to the good yet, an in regard ov
his being offended, you'll see how cleverly I'll come
round him, an' how finely I'll luther him. Never
fear. An' I'll give him fifty pound on the nail, more
than he was wanting' this time twelvemonth. That's
a power ov money, Tom ! "

So it is ; but isn't it for the girls you have it ?

Michaul Foddha — Long or tall Michaul.

You have enough for yourself an my mother while
ye live, an that ye may live long to enjoy it ! The
farm will be my share when you're gone, an' enough
too so I don't begrudge the poor girls what will
provide for 'em."

You're a good boy, Tom, as good as any father
ever rare ; I'll say that ov you, if it was to be my
last word in this world. An' you think my plan a.
good wan ? "

"I do. I think it is a good way for us to get
ourselves out ov this cursed bogle, without letting*"
Matt Hassett be crown' over us,'^ replied cunning
Tom. " Stick to that, an' I'll go bail, it will take the
console out ov the whole ov 'rem."

^^ Thrum a llauve 'a rich machine ! "* exclaimed
the old man, in the exuberance of his delight at
having found a way by which he thought he could
get out of his great dilemma. ^^Faix, you wor a
bright boy, ever an' always, an' I'm proud ov you,
so I am. Turn out ov bed now at want, an' skelp
off to the Chills, an' tell 'em at the peril ov their
lives to hould on, an' have no call at all to them
Hassetts. As soon as I get my bruckwist, I'll go
off to Michaul FoddhaSj an' you'll see that I'll manage

Thrum a llauve 'a vice macliree ! — Give me your hand
son of my heart !

him cleverly. 'Tis myself that will soap him well, till
I can twist him round my finger like a wand ov sally.
Now what have you to say ? "

After breakfast, the father and son left the house
on their different errands. The artful Tom was very
proud of the success of his diplomacy. Neither
Metternich nor Talleyrand ever felt more self-satisfied
after having effected a successful negotiation, than
did this honest fellow, when he found that his own
little stroke of policy had been attended with such
a happy result.

In the meantime, Oonagh was getting on in her
new role in the most satisfactory manner. The kindhearted
Mrs. Burke made no difference between her
and her own girls, while they looked on her as on
a beloved sister, who had come home after a long
absence. All three occupied the same bed-room,
shared in the same labours, and ate at the same
table. If ever she felt that she was a servant, it was
with a feeling of intense thankfulness, remembering
that she was not eating the bread of dependence,
and that though her wages were not very large, they
were growing day by day, and would be at all times
sufficient for her own simple wants. This feeling
of independence was the first ray of comfort that
shone on her since her father's death, for nothings

VOL. II. H

sweetens life more than the consciousness of independence,
no matter low humble and lowly it maybe.
It lightens the hardest labour, and gives a sweet
savour to the coarsest food. The unbearable load
of debt that had so long weighed her down had
been removed, and she could walk erect in the face
of day, without shrinking from observation, for like
Longfellow's blacksmith, she " owed not any man."
A sense of rest and peace came gradually to her
mind, and her spirits regained something of their old
equable and cheerful state.

But perfect happiness is a plant that can find
no root in the hard, cold soil of this world. The
remembrance of her faithless lover, and of the unworthy
way in which he had treated her, was forever
rankling in her heart. And it was no small
aggravation of the girl's sorrow, to feel that though
she heartily despised this man, as a true and noble
nature must ever despise one that is mean and base,
she still loved him, or rather, she could not effectually
trample out the ashes of the old love that once lived
in her heart. They still smouldered, and she hated
herself for being so weak as to care still for so very
unworthy a thing as he had shown himself to be.
But there was an excuse for her weakness. Her
love had not been the growth of a day, | and it was

not in a day that lie could succeed in rooting
it out.

On returning home about three o'clock, Tom
Burke found that his father had not yet made his
appearance. When he gave his mother an account
of the state of affairs — one word of which her lord
and master had not deigned to tell her — he went out
again, and on to the public road, for the purpose of
meeting the old man, and hearing what he had to
say, before they would enter the house. When he
had gone about a mile, he saw his father coming
towards him, and saw also that he was very drunk.
It was quite apparent that the negotiation between
him and Long Michael, had not been carried on without
that invariable accompaniment to country matchmaking,
plenty of whisky. Croohoore^s hat was
tilted off to the back of his head, while the wig had
been pushed on one side, leaving the other completely,
bald as it was, exposed to the keen wind of a March
evening. His 'bloody'' or frieze great-coat, was
hanging merely on one shoulder, the empty sleeves
dangling down, and the long skirts trailing in the
mud behind him. His progress was very slow, for
he staggered from one side of the road to the other,
quite as often as he went forward in the straight
line towards home. He was very drunk, of that

H 2

there could be no earthly doubt, but as, whenever
he left home even for a day, he always returned in
this condition, it caused no surprise in Tomes mind
that matters had gone on in the old well-worn groove.

"When the old man saw his son, he threw his hat
into the air with a wild " hurroo " of triumph, while
he shook him by the hand over and over again.

"Everything is all settled now, 'avick, an' your
poor ould father is the proud an' the happy man this
day; glory be on high for ever, amin ! Miss Biddy
will be married a Sunday night to her lover Michaul,
an' no thanks to the robber Matt Hassett for that
same. But listen whether to me, Tom. Faix, I was
obliged to give him the odd fifty pound, over an
above what he was satisfied wit last Shrove, an' the
black heifer to the back ov it. But so itself; what
hurt ? "

^^ Well, if you did itself, what great differ does ifc
make ? " answered Tom, taking his arm, and leading
him along. "Sure it is your own child that you're
given' it to. An' if he never said a word about the
heifer, it was only right that Biddy should get it,
latin' your house for good. She rare that heifer
herself, an' med a great pet ov it, an' that's the haste
present you could make her."

"You're right there, Tom. She must get ifc, by

St. Bridget her namesake, an' she's a deserve ov it,
if it was twice as good. Don't think that I begrudge
it to her. Be this crass' and he crossed his forefingers
one over another, ^^I'd give it to her if it
was med ov gold. An' if he's a good husband an'
fond ov her, that I may never die in sin, if I don't
give 'em wan ov the little Berries ; see if I don't !
Af ther a little while," he added reflectively, " for I'll
wait till I see how he pirates her. I'll look before mean'
consider, before I give any more than what I
promised to-day. I won't be so great a fool as not
to keep something for the vanities an' myself, again
our old age. I won't make a beggar ov myself, to
phase anyway. I'm poor enough, dear knows, as it
is. Oh, Tom dear, your ould father is very poor,
very poor intirely, an' if things goes on this a way,
I'll soon not have the price ov a bit ov tobacco to put
in my pipe. YOu don't believe me, I persuade."

I do believe you, father ; ov course I do. But
let us get home as fast as we can, for you're very
tired," replied Tom, trying to soothe him, and bring
him home quickly.

The dive another word, crooked or strait, I'll tell
you, for 'tis aise seen you're not minding' what I'm
saying' to you. My son Tom, my own son, don't
believe what his poor ould father is tellin' him ! Oh,

wirra ! wirra ! Isn't this a poor case, I ax ye all ? ^'
addressing an imaginary audience.

By this time, Croolioore Crussougli's mood had
completely changed from what it was when he had
met his son, and he had now entered into that stage
of intoxication known as the maudlin. All the wild
exultation he had shown at first, had given way to the
deepest despondency. He bitterly bewailed his hard
fate, in being cursed with a son so undutiful as Tom,
so unfeeling and hard-hearted, and, sitting down in
the mud by the roadside, he wrung his hands passionately,
and shed abundance of tears.

Fm ruminated intirely, broke horse an fut ; an'
when I pay the fortunes ov these two colleges, the
rest ov us, my son Tom, an' myself, an' the ould
woman, must turn out to beg wit the bag on our
back, or else walk straight into the poor-house. The
dive blast the other thing is before us this day, as Fm
a sinner ! Oh, vo ! vo ! Ain't I the misfortune
poor ould rather, to have such bad luck foUyin' me
everywhere, night an' day ? Wouldn't it be the aise
to my poor heart, if I was dead, an' ferric bryant
in Kilcarrol churchyard, along wit all my people ?
Ochone ! ochone ! " and he wept copiously once more.

"You must rouse yourself, father," said Tom,
assuming a voice and manner of authority. 'there

are people coming' on au' they'll both see an' hear
what a show you're raakiii' ov yourself. If Matt
Hassett, or any ov his family, wor to see you now,
keening that a way by the side ov the road, what
would they think, but that you an' all ov us wor in
some great cleft stick, an' you know yourself what
cakes an' ale that would be to them. Rise up out ov
the mud, an' come home wit me, I bid you."

Sure enough, Tom, 'tis cakes an' ale any trouble
ov mine would be to that infernal villian, an' his mane
crew, an' I'm only a common omadhawu to be sitting'
here crying' an' keening for no reason in life; for
nothing at all, be japers ! " said the old man, whose
variable temper had now entered into another phase.
ril let that common ruffian see that I'm as good as
himself, an' a dale better, if the truth was known.
An' listen whether to me, Tom : won't I have a fine
crow over him when one ov my little girls is married
to Michael Daly, an' the other to Bryan Cahill ! Faix,
'tis a fit of the alla jaundice he'll get on the head
ov it. I promised the Daly's that I'd pay the money
arrived these, an' what Hassett that you ever hard
ov, could do that ? "

After some time, and a great deal of trouble, Tom
contrived to bring his father home. In the excess
of his drunken triumph he informed all the women,

the moment he entered the house, that Miss
Biddy was to be married on the following Sunday.
He was most particular in his directions to his wife
about the wedding-feast, charging her to spare no
expense, but to have everything that was fit and
proper to make such a great event go off well and
respectably. Everything was to be of the best, and
his friends and neighbours should all see how dearly
he loved his " little Bridges and respected the young
man who was to be her husband. At last, after
having given vent to more than the usual rant and
folly which inseparably accompanied his drunken
bouts, his wife and son got him to bed, although not
without much persuasion and trouble.

The three girls then gathered round the kitchen
fire to have a good chat over the great news, for who
is the woman, either old or young, that is not pleased
and interested by the prospect of a wedding, either
proximate or remote ? The bride elect, particularly,
was in the seventh heaven of delight. She had had
so few lovers, and had been so often disappointed in
her matrimonial expectations, that she had begun
to despair of ever being married at all. Now that
all things had at last been finally arranged, and that
in a few days she was really and truly to become a
bride, and saved from the great disgrace of '^ dancing

in her vamps " at she wedding of her younger sister,
she could hardly conceal her joy. She knew that she
was no longer young, and had not , even in her youth,
been good-looking, and that her chances of being
married were becoming less and less as time rolled on.

Poor " Miss Biddy ! " she was unaffectedly rejoiced
at her approaching " preferment," as her father expressed
it, and artless and simple enough not to make
any secret of her satisfaction. The two other girls,
with all their hearts, sympathised with her in her
happiness, and it was only when the first note of the
'' cock's shrill clarion " told them that morning was
near at hand, that they went to bed, a very contented
and happy trio.

With the following morning began the preparations
for the eventful day, not " big with the fate of
Cato and of Rome," but with that of Miss Biddy and
her constant swain, Michael Daly. Armed with the
sinews of war in the shape of some well-worn banknotes,
fished up by old Connor from the deepest
recess of the old chest that was at the foot of his
bed, Tom and his two sisters, as soon as they had
eaten their breakfast, set off in high spirits for the
nearest town. The business of the girls was to
purchase such few additions to their simple stock of
clothes, as would suffice for the bride and her

attendant land-maiden on the wedding-day. Tom's-business
was to bring home "the little groceries''
necessary for the wedding-feasts consisting of a large
supply of tea and sugar, lemons for punch, and
though last, not the least item of the catalogue,,
whiskey galore. To these were added pipes and
tobacco, an unlimited supply of bread, and a coarse
kind of confectionery known as crackers and toasting-cakes.
Mrs. Burke aud Oonagh remained at home;
and their time was fully occupied in making butter,
killing fowl, and other necessary employments, which
were considered by the former as suitable for the
proper celebration of her daughter's wedding-day.

The old man, now once more sober, also remained
at home. Sometimes he strolled out to the garden
near the house, where his men were planting potatoes,
and sometimes he sat in his usual seat in the chimney
corner, and while he smoked his pipe, watched with
complacent earnestness the proceedings of his wife and
Oonagh as they went in and out about their work. For
once in his life he was quiet, and satisfied both with
himself and the world, and neither snapped viciously,
nor found fault with anything that was done. His darling,
Miss Biddy, would not be " an old maid left on the
shelf," and Susie, his colleen chas, would very soon be
married to the handsomest young man, as well as the

richest farmer in the district.' And — best and sweetest
thought of all ! — Matt Hassett would be circumvented !
He and his four *' long gallantries '^ would be eaten
up with envy, as well as put completely in the shade,
by the wonderful uprise and prosperity of the Burke
family. The thought was glorious, and almost
enough to repay him for the farm that had been
taken over his head," and the money that he had
been made to pay twice over.

AN lEISH Country WEDDING.

Tou have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
"With most admired disorder.

Shakespeare.

As time never stands still, Sunday at last arrived, and
all things were ready for the wedding in Bawnmore.
All the simple skill of Mrs. Burke and her handmaids
was exerted to the utmost, in the effort to make all
things as they should be, in honour of the great event
that was to be celebrated on that day. Many hands
make light work, and as the entire family worked
with a will, all the preparations were completed before
the arrival of the guests.

Two rows of long, narrow tables, that were borrowed
for the occasion from Mrs. Doyle, at whose
public-house the match had been made, extended
from side to side of the kitchen, leaving an open

space in the middle. These tables were covered with
large joints of meat,, cooked in the most primitive
manner; bacon, pork, and corned beef, intermixed
with geese and turkeys. If quality had not been
much considered in the bill of fare, that omission
was amply compensated for by its great quantity. It
must be admitted that the fowls were very much out
of season — what else could be expected in the month
of March ? — and required an immensity of boiling to
make them eatable. Mais n'imjjorte, the guests had
brought to the dinner the appetite of famished wolves,
and consequently were not inclined to be fastidious as
to what was before them. Loaves of bread were
scattered at intervals between the dishes; but lest
there should be any scarcity of so necessary a part of
the dinner, an additional supply was carried round the
tables in two large wicker baskets, such as are generally
used for turf ! There was no end of green
cabbage — it was too early in the year for the white —
placed under the meat, and of course plenty of potatoes,
both boiled, and roasted in the ashes. It would have
made a London Alderman pine with envy, to see the
way those hardy, robust, country people — with most
of whom a meat dinner was a luxury of very rare
occurrence — set to work to make the most of the
good cheer that had been so plentifully provided for

their entertainment. The rusty bacon, and greasy-pork,
with she usual accompaniment of cabbage, the
tough old fowls, the piles of bread, and smoking hot
potatoes, all disappeared as if by magic. Connor
Burke sat at the head of one table, and Michael Daly,
the bridegroom, did duty as host at the head of the
other. They were not, indeed, very expert carvers,
either of them; indeed, the less that is said about
their performance in this respect, the better. But the
guests found no fault with the sawing, and tearing,
that were intended for carving, and as long as their
plates were heaped up, they did not care whether the
meat was neatly jointed or not. In fact, the carving
was a decided success.

The bride sat beside her father, dressed out in all
the colours of the rainbow, and looking as pleased
and happy as a bride should look. Mrs. Burke, her
second daughter, and Oonagh, did not sit down at all,
but, accompanied by Tom, who acted as waiter, kept
moving up and down by the tables, attending to the
guests, and supplying their wants, so that no one
should have reason to think himself neglected. One
person required a knife, another a fork, a third a
plate, and so on ; but under the hospitable superintendence
of the '^ Vanities' and her willing aids, all
were made as comfortable as possible. It was only

when the dinner was over — for even with the keenest
appetites in the world, people cannot go on eating forever
— that they retired to a little back room to get
some dinner for themselves, and some rest after all the
fatigue of the day.

The marriage ceremony was not to be performed
until a late hour in the evening, for the parish priest
was absent at a conference of the clergy of the
Diaconate, and could not reach Bawnmore in time for
dinner. He had offered to send his coadjutor, but to
this old Connor decidedly objected. No curate should
marry his little girl, and as the parish priest could
not come to dinner, they would wait until it was
his convenience to come later on. His place at the
head of the principal table was filled by the bridegroom,
who but for the priest's absence would have
gone about with Tom Burke, attending to the wants
of the company. Everything went on well and
smoothly, however, notwithstanding the absence of the
chief guest ; and the wedding of Miss Biddy Burke
promised to be a decided and brilliant success.

When the last fragments of the dinner had been
cleared away, and distributed among a crowd of
beggars who were squatted on the grass outside the
door, waiting for their share of the feast, the tables were
moved as near to the wall on both sides of the kitchen

as possible. This was done to make room for the junior
members of the company to enjoy their favourite
amusement of dancing. The old people retired into
the background behind the tables, and smoked their
pipes, while they discussed among themselves such
important questions as the price of butter, the spring
tillage, or the prospects of '^ Repale.''^ A fiddler and
piper were stationed in the chimney corners, one at
each side, so that they could relieve each other, for
when the dancing began, it was, to quote the newspapers,
'^ kept up with spirit." The ball was opened
by the young man of the house, who led out a very
pretty, bashful-looking girl, and they danced the first
jig to the entire approbation of the company, and they
were pronounced by everyone to be ^'a very nate
couple entirely' It was generally said, that when
both his sisters were married, Tom Burke would not
long remain a bachelor. The next jig was danced by
Susie and her lover, Bryan Oge, and they went far to
bear away the laurels that had been acquired by the
previous couple. Reels succeeded jigs, or rather they
were danced alternately, according to the music asked
for by the different sets of dancers. Some of them
liked that lively jig known as '' the Foxhunter," while
others preferred a moneen, or a slip jig. Some liked
a reel danced by two persons only, to the inspiring

strains of ^' Lady Mary Ramsay' or ^' Haste to the
Wedding," and others liked better a reel danced by
four, and known as "the figure of eight." And
certainly, to see the zest and energy with which those
young people went at it, was really amazing ! It was
very pleasant too, and so contagious, that few could
resist the inclination to jump up and join in the fun.
Talk of dancing ! There may be fashion and elegance
in quadrilles, and what are called round dances, but
for thorough enjoyment, and unaffected grace, show
me before all else an Irish country girl dancing away,
with her easy carriage, sparkling eyes, and a heart
as light as her heels.

While the young people were amusing themselves
by " takin' the flores'' the seniors looked on
approvingly, and related stories of their own youthful
days, and of the wonderful adventures that had
befallen them. However, as the whisky went round,
it seemed very probable that when the priest arrived
to perform the marriage ceremony, he would find
the greater part of the company more or less " hearty."
First they began to sing altogether, each man perfectly
irrespective of his neighbour, and from singing,
they proceeded to speech-making, some in the vernacular,
and others in English. One gentleman was
so anxious that he should be fully heard, and of

VOL. II. I

course appreciated, that fearing lie could not make
himself sufficiently audible where he sat, he mounted
up on his chair, and began ventilating his views withall
the strength of his lungs. Almost immediately-near
this performer, was another, who was favouring
the company in a very cracked, hoarse voice, with his
own words to the air of '^ That's the time o' day, my
boys/^ On the opposite side was another disciple of
Apollo, sitting on an empty butter-cask turned
upside down, steadying himself by keeping his
back firmly against the wall, while his battered
old hat was pressed down tightly over his nose. He
was chanting in a voice frightfully out of tune, a
lugubrious ditty in Irish, which no one who heard
ifc could understand, but which he himself fully
believed to be " Golden chas crushed na moe." *

At a small table that was drawn a little to one side,
sat Connor Burke and his son-in-law elect; and it
was quite apparent that the old man had taken more
whiskey than was good for him. He had been
drinking it in small quantities all the evening, and
as the fumes of the spirit mounted to his brain,
his habitual crassitude and bad temper mounted

Colleen chas crushed na moe — The pretty girl milking
her cow.

with it. And as the truth must be told, his new
ally, Michael Daly, had not been slow in following
his example. He was a very tall young man, which
had got him the nickname of " f oddha ^' or long, had
fiery red hair, and the kind of complexion that is
known as sandy. He had been courting Miss Biddy
for a long time, or rather he coveted the good fortune
which it was well known that plain-looking damsel
would bring to her husband. The old man had
always had his own shrewd suspicions as to the
disinterestedness of Michael's attentions, and it was
solely owing to the singular dilemma in which he
found himself placed, combined with the persuasions
of his son, that he at all consented to receive so
sordid a wooer for his favourite daughter.

f^VVhy, thin, Michaul Daly'' said Connor, whose
brain was getting more and more confused with
every glass of punch that he drank, ^'^gi' me your
hand, for 'tis myself that's proud an' glad to see
you sitting there out foment me. An' I'll say it out,
before all the decent people that's in it, that I'm rale
proud to be joined to you, an' to all ov the good
ould stock you ken from. Look here now, Michaul
'a- vice, I don't care a thrawneen for money, blast
me if I do ! Sure I have enough for ye both, an'
I'm proud to get such a fine clever boy as yourself

I 2

for my little girl. An what's more Fm proud ov the
great faction that's standing' behind your back, an'
that when I meet wit em at fair an' market I can
shake hands wit 'em without remain' myself by
it. An' that's what I was lookin' for ever an' always
an' no less than that would phase or satisfy me."

I'm very thankful to you, Connor Burke'
replied Michael, returning the proffered hand-shake
with good interest. ^^An' if we are decent study
people — an' no wan that knows us can deny it — sure
to-night we are joining' ourselves to them that's our
own acquits, any day in the year. Listen whether
to me now, till I tell you a great secret intirely.
If the Queen's eldest daughter, wit a crown ov good
on her head, was to offer to marry me, the dive
fire me if I'd take her in preference to Biddy
Burke ! '^

'^ Will you believe me, now, what I'm going' to
tell you?" said the old man, bending across the
table, as if he too had a great secret to communicate.
'^ I love you, Michaul, 'a vice machine ! an' every word
that you say goes straight to my very heart. 'Tis
when I'm dead an' gone, that you'll find out how
fond ov you I am. Ma horn an dieul!^ but I love

Ma hor]p an dieu ! — My body to the devil !

you as much as I love Miss Biddy herself And
as if to demonstrate the truth of this assertion, he
very affectionately kissed Michael, who by this
time was nearly as drunk as he was himself.

Oh tare an' 'noun's ! did I ever think Fd live
to see this joyful day's exclaimed Michael in a
burst of maudlin affection. "I'd rather be your
son-in-law, Connor Burke, than to be the king ov
all Ireland, for I love your daughter, an' I love
yourself, an' I'm proud to be joined to you, an' to
the decent woman that owns you."

"You ought to be fond of her, Michaul, for she's
fond ov you. An' whin powers ov great bachelors
wor coming' here to us, matchmaking' for Miss Biddy,
she wouldn't hear to a word from wan ov 'em; an'
her word to me ever an' always was : ' Connor
Burke,' ses she, ' that'll phase me for my little girl
is Michael Daly,' ses she; 'an' if I have that
decent boy for my son-in-law, I'll die in pace, want
I hear the words sed over 'em,' ses she."

"I wouldn't doubt the Vanities, an' 'tis nothing
but what I'd expect from her, for she has a good
word for every wan, high an' low. Bat whisper me
this now : why did you refuse me so often ? That's
a thing I can't make out at all. Was it any wan
that put you again me last Shrove, or the two Shrove

before that ? Becase if any wan played me sack
a dirty trick, you have only to tell me his name,
an* be the niortial blazes ITl make arch smash or
his carries, that his Own dog wouldn't demand himself
l^ smeHin* to him."

It wasn't any wan that third to put me again
you at aD, but I had my own good lascms for what I
done," said Ooohoare with drunken g i aviij.

** An what wor jour rafioanSy if I might make so
free as to ax ? Wasn't I comrade good rough for
jour daughter, an' isn't my faction just as good as
your own, any day ? "

'^ Maybe it is, an' maybe it isti :. Arr?/::. :ike
my advice, yci: f::^:?^ ^— ^i' ^ : - :: - ir^~.
If there's any s:^^t „ .;: :l. pitt

tract head, yon . t: ^ t L ze."

"I won :- in' Id: : ^^r: 7 : -.
it or not' - '" - — l Ij. "An'

moreover I 11 n ~ Jt t it '.'iz

Bat sure as y::i're =: Tzi:rli"~ :. 5 : ^z:— it, m
ten Jot. b" : . : : Timely, an' I wouldn't

^ ~ : n' yourself an' mysdf.

'Twas - 7 15 ^ :li a blazing' red, an'

along wit has, yciire very ugly, an' no ways genteel

That's the way ov it, an' now that you hard the news,
I hope 'tis plain' to you."

'' Thunder an' 'noun's ! is it to my face that you
have the impudence to tell me that I'm not genteel ?
Faix, 'tis the quare story if I'm not as genteel any
day in the year as Biddy Burke. An' why wouldn't
I ? When I got five quarters at Thady Hunt's
evening' school, an' she never got any schooling' at all.
Genteel, inagh ! Arrah, hould your whisht, ould man,
an' don't let any wan hear you talking' such foolishness.
Don't be aggravation' me, I tell you."

An' what div I care whither you're aggravated
or not, Michaul Daly ? " cried the old man, whose ill-temper
had quite gone beyond his own control. " I'm
sitting' here on my own flare, an' I don't care the
ashes out ov my pipe for you or for your faction, root an'
branch. Come now, tell me what fault have you to
find wit my little girl, that's wife good enough for
your superiors. Eyeh ! Out wit it, man, whatever
it is ! "

"I have to say," said Daly, irritated by the
contemptuous tone and manner of the old man,
"that you often refused me for a wife, thinking' you
had nothing to do but clap your thumb on some
great match intirely, but no wan ov that sort ever
came next or nigh you. An' now, when you see

no wan else will have lier, you want to pass lier
over on me, like a bad halfpenny. You said a while
ago. that powers ov bachelors wor after her. Erra,
Connor Burke, who wor they, or where did they come
fi-om ? Powers ov bachelors, inagh ! Oh Lord ! An'
whin all fruit fails, then welcome haws. But I was
the rale oinadhaicn, an' to let a cunning' ould fox like
you, bamboozle me into marrying' your lame disciple,
after every other man that you offered her to, refused
her."

Drunk as Daly was, yet as soon as he had said the
last word he felt that he had gone too far. The old
man was silent for a few moments, as if stunned by
the audacity of his " dear Michaul," and sat gazing on
him with a hard, bitter look on his wizened old face,
which, however, the other bore without flinching.

'flame, is she ? " said Croohoore Crussough, slowly
and bitterly. "Lame! I'll let you see before long
whether she's lame, or whether she isn't. She must
step out on the flare this very minnie, foment all the
people here, an' dance a hornpipe, an' then if you
don't own that she isn't lame, blast me if ever again
I say a word in her favour ! "

He rose from his chair, and walked or rather staggered
into the open space in the middle of the kitchen
allotted for dancing, announcing that a great insult

had been put upon his daughter by her intended
husband, and that she should then and there dance a
hornpipe, to prove to him and to all present, that she
had no lameness, or other bodily defect. This very
singular announcement was received by the greater
part of the company with shouts of laughter. They
had come there to enjoy themselves and regarded this
strange freak of their host as something got up
specially for their entertainment. But those among
them who were sufficiently sober to think at all, foresaw
that no good would arise from so unusual a proceeding,
and considered it an additional proof of the
violent temper that had gained for Croohoore Crussough
his unenviable sobriquet. Mrs. Burke and her son
were thunderstruck at the turn things had taken so
unexpectedly, and aware of his obstinacy, particularly
when he was drunk, they were greatly troubled, and
anticipated anything but a pleasant conclusion to the
performance of Miss Biddy.

Come back to your chair, father, an think ov
yourself' entreated Tom. " This isn't the way we
ought to entertain our friends and labors, an moreover
you're not train' Biddy at all well in making such a
show ov her. For God^s sake sit down, an' keep yourself
quiet, an' don't make yourself an' your family
the laughing-stock of the whole country."

THE MATCH IS BROKEN OFF.

I say thou hast belied mine innocent child ;

Thy slander has gone through and through her heart.

Shakespeare.

Mrs. Burke now came forward weeping, and in great
agitation, to add her entreaties to those of her son, and
try to allay the storm that had got up so suddenly,
but Croohoore Crussough — true to his evil nickname —
was just as indifferent to her tears, as he was to Tom's
arguments. He pushed them both aside with very-little
ceremony, and in a loud, imperious voice commanded
his daughter to come forward " to the flare ''
and dance a hornpipe there, to prove to all the assembled
company, that what Michael Daly had said of
her was ^^ a blasted lie ! '^ All the other dancers sat
down instantly, while the fiddler began to play the
best hornpipe in his repertoire. The Bride advanced

and took her position in the centre of the floor, and
truth obliges me, as an impartial chronicler, to admit
that she did so without the least appearance of either
reluctance or embarrassment, at finding herself in so
singular and anomalous a situation. Naturally, every
eye was fixed on her, to see how she would get through
the strange ordeal prescribed to her by her drunken
father. But Miss Biddy's nerve and self-possession
were fully equal to the task. While the fiddler was
tuning his instrument, and drawing from it a few
preliminary chords, she stood alone in the centre of
the kitchen with an easy carriage, and well-balanced
pose, that would have sufficed to excite the envy of
many a theatrical debutante. In a moment the fiddler
began to play the hornpipe, and with a wave of her
hand that was intended as a preliminary flourish, she
set off. Whether it was that her vanity was roused
by finding herself the object of so much observation,
or that she wanted to fix the wavering affections of
her intended spouse, it would be hard to tell, but
certainly she exerted herself so much, that her
performance of the hornpipe was a very brilliant
affair. In the slow part she sailed along with the
greatest ease, still waving her hand at intervals, and
when the air grew quicker, her movements quickened
with it, and she executed all the ^^ steps'' with a

neatness and precision that would have done credit
to any dancing-master from ^' the kingdom of Kerry,"
famous as it is for professors of the art. I have seen
Fanny Esher dance a pas seul, and Certo in her
celebrated pas de V ombre, and neither of them showed
more nerve or aplomb than did Miss Biddy on this
occasion. Certainly they could not have been more
heartily applauded by their audience in Her Majesty's
Theatre, than she was while she danced her own pas
seul in the Bawnmore kitchen, nor did t\iQ\v pirouettes
and entrechats meet with more uproarious admiration.
Many and loud were the expressions of applause that
greeted her from all sides, and it must be confessed
■of derision and mockery, as much as of approbation.

^^Faix, 'a colleen chas, 'tis myself that's proud ov
you to-night, an I always knew that you had the
stamp in you, if you'd only let it out ; more power
to you ! "

'^ Begot, Bridge ashore, 'tis yourself that knows
how to welt the flare in style. Hurroo ! "

Oh, the civil a bit lame she is. Whatever put it
into the head ov that foolish Michaul ? Blood alive !
but that's great footing' intirely."

'' Oh, ma grew se thisca !* Michaul, you thief ov

Ma grew se thisca ! — Success to your legs !

the world, what have you to say for yourself now ?
When you said that the little girl was lame, 'twas tellin'
your drams you wor, honest man'

'^ Barra, Bridge, I'll lay any money on you. Folly
on, 'a cushla, the night is fairly yet."

Daring these and similar exclamations, Miss Biddy
seemed perfectly unmoved by the sensation she had
excited, or if it had any effect on her, it was only to
spur her on to renewed exertion. At last she finished
her pas seul with a low curtsey to the company, which
■if not as graceful as Esher's, was quite as easy and
self-possessed.

All the time that she was dancing, her father had
sat perfectly silent, gazing at her performance with a
look of stern resolution on his wizened old face. His
Ian thorn jaws were sucked in until the withered cheeks
almost met, and he bent forward leaning on his stick,
as if he feared missing any of the "steps" that had
won so much applause. When she had finished and
made her curtsey, he drew a long breath of relief, and
threw himself back in his chair with an air of the
greatest triumph.

Well, Michael Daly, what have you to say for
yourself now ? " he said, in a tone that he intended to
be very cutting and contemptuous. ^^ Can you say
now out morning me, an' morning all the decent people

that's in it, that my little girl is lame ? Is that
dancing' like the dancing' ov a lame person ? Answer me
that, if it's plain' to you. I put that big lie down
your throat, any way. Dioul ! ''

^'I humbly beg your pardon, Connor Burke''
replied the unlucky Michael, whose fright by this
time had completely sobered him. *^I didn't mane,
dear knows, to give you any offence at all, at all.
Troth, I'm heart sorry for what I said, an' if you'll
only overlook it this want, I'll go an' take the
vestment out ov hand, that I never again will say as
much as wan untimely word to you."

Won't you, Michaul Foddha ? By St. Bridget
I'll take good care you never will, for I'll have no
call to you at all, from this day horrid. Now you can
make yourself scarce, do you see, for you'll never put
a ring on the finger ov my little girl, turin' duration.
Put that in your pipe now, my fine fella, an' smoke it."

As Croohoore Crussough said this, he looked round
in a very meaning manner, as if defying the company
— who all seemed stunned by surprise and
consternation at this extraordinary conclusion to the
festivities — to contradict him. No one ventured to
remonstrate with him, except his wife and son, for as
they all said to each other, it was no affair of theirs
at all.

Father, what is all this about ? '^ cried Tom in
the greatest dismay. " There was enough ov this join'
if there was any good in it. Let there be an end ov it,
for God's sake ! 'Isn't pleasant nor it isn't dacent.-'^

'^ There's a dutiful son for ye, nabors/^ said the
drunken old man, swaying unsteadily from side to
side. *' There's a well-behaved, religious boy, to tell
his poor ould father that rare him, that he isn't
decent ! Now Til go bail, that not one ov ye would
believe that ov him, only that ye're listening' to him
ourselves'

I have a right to spake here as well as you,
Connor," sobbed the poor wife, who was weeping
bitterly. " If you're the little girl's father, I'm her
mother, an' I love her just as well as you, though I
don't make such a blowing horn ov it. Ah ! for the
love ov the Blessed Virgin, don't make a show ov the
poor child, nor a world's wonders what she'll be if
you folly on wit this foolishness. She's a good, quiet
girl, an' never done nothing to bring herself into the
mouth ov the public, an' don't you go an' do it this
hour ov your life that you ought to 'have sense, if ever
you're to have it. Michael Daly is a very decent boy,
an' likes the little girl, an' you have no call to fall out
wit him lecount ov a foolish word that he said without
main' any harm."

But if Connor Burke rejected so unceremoniously
the advice and interference of his only son, whom he
both loved and respected, that of his wife, whom
he had always treated as if she was vastly his inferior,
was not likely to be more graciously received. He
was besides, now greatly enraged by her presumption
in daring to remonstrate with him, or question his
authority, in the presence of all his neighbours.

"The dive take your impudence, you brazen old
fagot ! " he shouted. '^ Be the piper that played
before Moses, I'm come to a party pass, when the
likes ov you would start up to outface me, standing' on
my own flare ! Sit down, woman, an' hould your
whisht, or 1^11 make you do it. Fm down in the
world surely, when you car to ballyrag me. Sit
down, I tell you again, an' be quite.^^

At this moment, a cry was heard outside that
at last the priest was coming, and poor Mrs. Burke
summoned up fresh courage, hoping that the influence
of his pastor would prevail with her husband, although
every other had failed. Brute as he was, and shamefully
drunk as he was, she still thought that respect
for his clergy (which is almost innate in the heart of
every Irish peasant) would make him amenable to
reason and common sense, even at the eleventh hour.
She hurried out to meet the priest, and in a few words

contrived to put Mm in possession of the facts, and of
the difficulty with which he had to deal. He was well
acquainted with the crassitude and bad temper of
Croohoore Crussough, and in a moment comprehended
the state of the case, as if by intuition. A little
surprised, and at the same time greatly amused by
the strange scene that presented itself to him, he came
forward in compliance with the passionate entreaties of
Mrs. Burke, to try what he could do to allay the storm.

Connor, my good fellows he said, shaking the
old man cordially by the hand, "what is amiss?
You look as if a little overcome by the heat of the
place, and by all the noise ; but if you will come
out with me into the air for a little, you will recover
yourselves

I'm thankful to your Reverence, sir, but if its all
the same to you, Fd sooner stay where I am,^^ was the
ungracious reply of Croohoore.

Very well ; you are the best judge. I'm sorry
to be so late, but my horse cast a shoe, and I was
obliged to leave him at Carrol's forge, and walk on
for the rest of the way. However, here I am at last ;
better late than never at all, and we can have the
marriage ceremony performed at once. Let the young
couple come forwards and as he spoke, he drew hia
stole out of his pocket and put it on.

VOL. II. K

I'm intirely obliged to your Reverence , an' I'm
sorry you had. so much trouble be my little girl'
said Connor Burke doggedly (he was perfectly
respectful to the priest, but determined nevertheless
to have his own way), "but my mind is changed
intirely about this bisness, so it is. You're welcome,
father, an' so is all the labors, heartily welcome to ate,
an' drink, an' enjoy ourselves while ever a bit or sup
is left, an' head millia falthagh — but that boy ov the
Days will never put a ring on the finger ov a little
girl belonging' to me. My mind is made up on that,
all the same as if I was sworn on the Brevary."

You are it. a good humour, Connor, and you
want to have a little joke with your priest. But you
had the joke, and saw it out, and now there is an end
of it. Michael Daly is a good, honest young man, and
I am quite sure will make a good husband to your
daughter. I never knew a man of his name that was
not a good husband, and he will follow the example
set him by his family. The young people like each
other, and they have a fair prospect of being very
happy. He has waited a long time for her, and he
deserves to get her."

By your lave, sir, he does nothing ov the sort ;
an' if you wor here a while ago, an' hard the frightful

way lie dragged her through. his tongue, yoa^d say
the same'

'f Forget and forgive, man. You and he didn't
mind what ye said to each other, over a glass of punch.
Ye were both a little hearty, you as well as Michaelis

'^ Hearty ! An' so, sir, you say before all the
labors here, that I'm hearty' repeated Burke, his
crass obstinacy in no way softened by the genial
manner of the priest, but rather strengthened.
*' Bather shin ! ^ But whether I'm hearty or no, 'tis
all acquits to Michaul Foddha. Let him an' his
follies clear out ov my place at want, for I won't
give him my girl, or her manes, to phase you, or her
mother, or my son Tom. See if I do ! An' listen
whether to me now, father, hell blow the rap you
care about my being disrespected, an' my Httle girl
disrespected, so as you'll make the marriage money
out ov us. An' that's what your Reverence is lookin'
out for, an' arguing' about, an' sure, small blame to
you for that."

A deep flush suffused the countenance of the
priest, as he listened to this coarse tirade; but,
mastering his disgust and indignation, he said calmly :

Bathers — May be so.

K 2

Connor, my good felloe, tomorrow, when you are
able to think rationally, you will, I am sure, regret
haying used language to your parish priest, as unbecoming,
as it is undeserved

"Oh, Air hellish ! ' ^ "^ cried poor Mrs. Burke,,
"don't laye him, don't give up the cause so soon.
Sure, if any wan can get good oy him 'tis yourself
Don't rise out oy him yet, for goodness' sake."

"Not another word shall I say to him'' answered
the clergyman, "for it wotdd be quite useless.
Indeed, I wotild go very far to serve you or your
daughter; but when such very unworthy, mercenary
motives are imputed to me, I must remain silent
as a matter of course."

^^ Bat, Sog garth 'acushia, whisper whether. If we
could get this man o2 to bed any way, an' thin laye
the marriage celebrated fair an' aise, when he was
fast asleep, wouldn't that be the best way? "

You must not think of such a thing. It would
be a desecration of the Sacrament, and a gross deception
besides, to which I could not be a party. It
would be very injurious to you, — even laying aside the
great impropriety of it — for to the last hour of his life
he would reproach you for it, and you know what an

Alii hellish — Dearest father.

aggravating temper of his own the poor unfortunate
man lias got. Why, lie would make it a standing
-cause of quarrel with you for ever. Such a proceeding
would be very wrong in you, and doubly so in me so
you are not to think of it events'

While the priest and Mrs. Bare were talking in
an under-tone, the humour of Croohoore Crussough had
once more undergone a complete change, and veered
round to the opposite side of the compass. From
being defiant and belligerent, he became lachrymose,
and full of self-pity for imaginary wrongs. A shower
of maudlin tears ran down his withered parchment
face, and he looked round with an expression of vacant
silly sorrow, irresistibly comical.

Why, thin, labors, isn't this party treatment that
the man ov the house is getting' out f ornint ye, an' none
ov ye would have the decency or the spirit to take my
part, or stand up for me ? Ochone ! what did I ever do
that Fm to be hunted this a way, as if I was a mad dog
that had a tin kittle folly' after his tail ? 'Tis aise
seen that I'm a poor ould man, wit no wan in the 'vassal
world to back me at all. Sure if I was a Rooshun,
or a Prooshun, or a blackamoor from fortin parts,
the Lord save us ! what worse, I ax ye all, would be
said an' done to me this blessed night ? Ochone !
Ochone ! But I have wan comfort, that I'm dying' as

innocent as an unborn cliild^, in spite ov all the perjury
sworn again me before judge an' jiiry. But I forgive all
my prosecutors, an' them that swore away my life for
good , an' I hope they'll be sorry for their false swearing',
when they hear the little boys crying out in the street
my last three an' dying' speech. An' I have no more
to say, barren' that I throw myself on the mercy ov
the Court. Oh, wirra ! wirra ! A long day, my Lord,
a long day ! '■'

At the conclusion of this dolorous jeremiad, it was
plain that Mr. Burke had arrived at that hazy and
helpless state of intoxication, in which he had lost
sight of his own identity altogether, and believed
himself to be a criminal brought up to receive
sentence of death. It was also plain that no more
could be done, than get him off to bed as speedily as
possible.

'' I think, my friends, that the best thing we can
all do now, is to leave the house without delay," said
the priest, addressing the wedding guests. '^ The
sooner that we go, the sooner will this poor harassed
woman be able to look after her unfortunate husband.
May God grant her patience ! for she is very sorely
tried."

All the guests had the good sense to follow this
advice, and rose up in a body, preparing to go away

There was a general bustle, looking about for hats,
great-coats, and sticks. Such. among them as were
.tolerably sober, were soon gone, and those who were
not, were brought off by their friends in a very
summary and unceremonious fashion. Michaul
Foddha and his '^ faction " left the house in great
dudgeon, swearing that they would '^ have it out with
him at the coming fairs'

While her guests were going off in this ignominious
way, poor Mrs. Burke stood at the door, crying very
bitterly, and apologising to each person, as he or she
passed out, for the abrupt and unpleasant termination
of the festivities. In a voice, broken by weeping,
she interlarded her apologies by such exclamations as
the following :

Oh, 'a grew machine 'hu ! how will I ever be
able to show my face again among the nab or s, after
all ' this shame an' scandal ? Oh, my poor little girl !
what a holy show was made ov her, this blessed
night ? Och marine ! Was there ever a poor
misfortune woman had such a heavy cross to carry
as what I have ? hard an' heavy it is, an' the Man
above knows that well. But He'll gi' me patience
to folly His holy will now, as He did ever an' always,
thanks be to His name ! An' to hear my own husband,
an' the father ov my children, ballyrag me before all

the decent people as if I was nothing but the dirt

under his fut. Oh, Queen ov Consolation ! you

know whether I deserved that from the man ov my

house, an that Vm. married to nearly forty year. An*

what harm what he said to myself, sure I'm well used

to the rough side ov his tongue, but my poor innocent

child will be in the mouth ov the public, without

rhyme or reason. Ah, thin, Connor Burke, tis no

admiration that people do be talking' ov you, an if you

never gave em cause before, fake an sure, you done

it to-night in a way that'll be spoke ov to your dying*

day. Oh vo ! vo ! " and so on ad infinitum.

The priest remained after all the rest were

gone, and did all he could to comfort the poor

woman. The three frightened girls were huddled

together in a distant corner, and Tom stood with his

back to the fire, staring about him in a bewildered

sort of way, and hardly able to realise the total

collapse of all his harmless plotting. Tom knew

nothing of poetry, beyond a few nursery rhymes, and

street ballads, but with the great poet of his own

class, who had well known all its sorrows and simple

joys, he could say :

*' The best laid schemes of mice an' men
Gang aft alley."

Croohoore Crussoup^h himself — now more than

ever deserving of his nickname — sat propped up
against the wall by the arm of the settle looking
the very personification of sodden, stupid
intoxication.

Such was the end of Miss Biddy Burke's
"wedding'' and whether it ended in a semi-tragedy
or a screaming farce, I leave my readers
to judge for themselves. As might be expected,
the affair was the subject of very general conversation,
at fair and market, in the field, and at the fireside,
all through the country for many a long day.
Endless were the jokes to which it gave rise; and it
was celebrated in song, as well as in story, for the
'^'janious" of the district made it the subject of a
ballad, which, though rather defective in grammar and
versification, met nevertheless with great applause.
The refrain in particular was much admired, and
regarded as both witty and appropriate :

Success to Michaul, for 'twas he lost the race,
And success to the marriage that never took place.

Note. — This and the preceding chapter are not altogether
imaginary. The incidents related in them occurred in a
remote part of the county of Clare, and were related to the
author by the late Eev. T. Kelly, Pap. and vicar-general of
the diocese of Killaloe, who was the clergyman sent for to
celebrate the marriage ceremony, but not suffered to do it,
as shown exactly in the text.

OONAGH LEAVES BAWNMOEE.

But this I know, where'er I go,
That there has past a glory from the earth."

Wordsworth.

Whether Croohoore Crussough was or was not
ashamed of the foolish way in which he had thrown
over a good husband for his unattractive daughter,
could not be known, for he kept his own counsel on
the subject, and none of his family dared bring him
to task for it. However, no way disheartened by the
ridiculous failure of his last attempt at matchmaking,
lie very soon set to work again in another direction,
as if to show tke obnoxious Michael that he was
finally dismissed, and without chance of a recall. He
hunted up another swain who lived in a distant
parish, and after the usual amount of haggling and
bargaining, the match was made, and Miss Biddy

wedding-day was once more fixed. With much native
good sense, and the memory of the former vasco fresh
in her mind, she stoutly declared that she would have
no wedding ; that she had had one, and was in no way
proud of it; and that she preferred being married at
the parish chapel early in the morning, and taking
leave of her family immediately after the marriage
ceremony was performed, set off with her husband
for her new home. In this very wise resolution she
was strenuously supported both by her mother and
Tom, who were determined to avoid, if possible, any
second edition of the disgraceful scene that had
been enacted on the former occasion. For once in
his life the old man was amenable to reason, professing
himself to be heartily disgusted with weddings, that
he said were only a foolish waste of money that could
be more profitably spent in some other way.

But the punishment of his drunken folly was yet
to come home to him, and a very heavy one it proved
to be. The very day after Miss Biddy was " wooed an'
married an' a','' he sent Tom off once more to the
Calais, with full instructions to have everything
finally arranged for the marriage of Susie with Bryan
Oge. To his great surprise, Tom did not meet with
the hearty welcome from the Cahill family, that he
had calculated on. Their greetings were cold and

restrained, and in a very unmistakable manner they
gave him what is called '^ the cold shoulders and put
-aside all his attempts at putting matters on the old
footing, in a way so very decided, that he could not
possibly misunderstand it. He was quick enough to
see that his errand would be a fruitless one, and that
it would answer no good purpose to prolong his visit.
He came away very soon, and was accompanied part
of his way home by Bryan Oge, who took that
opportunity of telling him, that there could be no
further matchmaking between them, and added that
after the late exhibition that had taken place, he
could not possibly consent to be the son-in-law of such
a violent man as Croohoore Crussough, who deserved
his opprobrious nickname better than any man he
ever knew. Such a father-in-law he could never
endure, no, not if his daughter were twice as pretty,
and he had ten times as much money to give her !

This was bad news to bring back to Bawnmore,
and on hearing it, old Connor stormed and raged like
a perfect lunatic, and tormented and worried his
wretched family, until they were almost weary of their
lives. But even worse news was still to come. Ina
few days, Bryan Oge was married to one of Matt
Hassett's ^^'yalla mullets ! '^ There was a roaring
wedding at Mattes, to which none of the Burkes were

invited, on account of the long-standing feud between
the two families, and everything passed off there as
pleasantly and smoothly as it was possible. All where
there, said it was the gayest and pleasantness
wedding that had been in the parish, within the
memory of man. Human nature could not stand
this, at least such human nature as old Croohoore was
compounded of, and he was obliged to betake himself
to his bed, really ill from sheer vexation and
disappointment. That he should have lost for his
'^ little girl '^ the best match in the whole country,,
just when it was almost in his grasp, was very trying,
but that this good match should have been snapped
up before his very eyes, by his arch enemy, was
perfectly heartrending. It by no means mended
matters to reflect, that this slight to his daughter,
and mortification to himself, were caused by his own
ungovernable temper, and bitter, injurious tongue.

At the end of a week Connor Burke left his bed,
and to the great surprise of his family, in better
humour than they had ventured to expect. However,
he abused the whole Cahill family from first to last,
and not only them, but all their forefathers, and
relatives, who had been dead time out of mind, with a
bitterness and acrimony that could not be easily
matched. When he had exhausted his vocabulary

of abuse on the subject of the treachery and depravity
of the Calls and Hassetts en masse, be then
declared that " there was as good fish in the say as
ever come out ov it/^ and that any man baying a
pretty girl, and a fistful of bank-notes to give ber on
ber wedding-day, to back up ber beauty, need not be
in any doubt of being able to provide handsomely for
ber. From all this boasting, bis wife and children
came to the conclusion, that no way daunted by ibis
former failure at matchmaking, be was determined on
trying bis luck at it a second time. He was also
resolved to let the Calls and Hassetts see that they
should not bave an opportunity ''^of crowing over
bim ; '' they bad their turn, and be would bave ibis,
and they should find out that be would get such a
match for bis little girl, as would make their livers
turn green with envy !

Were there is a will there is a way, is a good
old proverb, and Connor Burke's will being of the
strongest, be very soon found a way to attain the
object of bis great desire.

One morning when the Sbrovetide was almost at
its close, the old man, accompanied by bis son and
daughter, went to the neighbouring town to transact
business of various kind. No one remained at bone

but Mrs. Burke Oonagli, and a stout country girl
that had been engaged after Miss Biddy's marriage todo
the coarse work of the dairy and kitchen. On the
approach of evening the two young women went out
to milk the cows, while the elder one employed herself
preparing the evening meal for the family. When all
this necessary work was finished, evening bad set in,
and the old man came home alone. For a wonder, be
was not drunk, nor even excited by drink in the least
degree ; be bad merely taken what sufficed to put bim
into good humour with himself, and with the rest of
the world.

'•' Where are the cbildher ? '' asked bis wife when,
after having divested himself of bis big frieze bloody,
be sat down in bis usual seat by a good fire.

Ob, the childbed is all right ; never you fear about
that, 'a vanities. As soon as my own bisness was
done, I thought it best to come bone, an' tell you ov
the stranger that's coming' bone wit Tom an' Shusy
by-an'-by."

A stranger coming' bere wit Tom an' Busy !
Wbo is be ? Some ould friend, I'm thinking."

Ob, begot, you never made a worse guess in
all your born days. Some ould friend, inagh ! Erra,
woman alive, what *ud be bringing' ould min the last

week ov the Strove to a house where there's a party
girl ? " and as he said this, he winked at his wife in a
very significant manner.

"I suppose 'tis a bachelor for Shusy. An' now
as I guessed it, you may as well tell me whole
is."

The sorra wan ov me will tell you, till you seen
him walking' in the dure to you, an' he's worth lookin'
at, I'll go bail. But death alive, woman, be smart
wit the supper, for I'm rale famished wit the hunger,
an' we won't wait for them, as they wor to have some
delay in town. They can get their own supper when
they come."

When he had satisfied his hunger, he resumed his
seat in the chimney corner, and began smoking his
pipe in great good humour. After what he called
'^a few blasts," he called Oonagh, and made her
sit down beside him.

"How would you like to be married, Oonagh?
Sure 'tis but fair that you'd get your chance as
well as the rest."

Thanks to you, Connor, for your good wishes ;
but, for the present, I'd rather stay as I am," replied
Oonagh.

"Oyeh, that's what all the young girls do be
saying', but as soon as the right man comes to the

fore, they sing a song ov a different take altogether.
Oonagh, you're the nearest relation I have in the
world outside ov my own children, an now that the
two girls will be provided for, I'll set about matchmaking
for you ; see if I don't ! An I'll give you a
noble fine wedding', the same that I gave them. That
the ould dhunnus may size me, neck an' crop, if
I don't ! "

'^ But you're not tellin' us the name ov the
bachelor that's coming' to-night, an' we all dying' to
hear it."

^'Faix, he's a grand bachelor intirely, sorra lie iu
it. They may talk ov Bryan Oge ! Barra, Bryan
an' all the Chills that ever stud at his back aren't
worth the ashes ov this ould dhudeen in my hand,
compared wit the boy that's coming' courting' here
to-night ! "

'^ Did I ever see him before ? " demanded his wife.

Maybe you did, an' maybe you didn't ; sure 'tis
all wan. If you never saw him before, you'll see him
to-night, an' I can tell you that if you searched the
three baronies from ind to ind, you wouldn't find a
cleverer or a brighter boy. An' he has a noble fine
farm, an' a splinter slated house on it. What do you
say to that now, 'a vanities ? "

'^ What have I to say, barren' that 'tis very good ?

VOL. II. L

Still, if lie had as much more, Fd not consent that the
poor child would be made to marry him if she don't
like him'

'^ Oh, av course, av course ! that's only reasonable
an' fair," he answered in high good-humour. " Shusy
likes him well enough, an' so will you when you see
him. An' now, Oonagh ashore, let you an' Mary be
off, an' finish the bisness for the night. Ye have
to do Shusy's share as well as yer own, for 'tis little
work she'll do when she comes home, as she'll have
a nice bachelor to be discoursing' wit her," and the old
man laughed loudly at his own joke.

Oonagh and Mary accordingly went off to the
dairy, which was at some little distance from the
dwelling-house, and for some time were very busy
making all things there right for the following
morning. When all was done they returned to the
house, and Oonagh went to the little bedroom that
she shared with Susie, to wash her hands, smooth her
rumpled hair, and make herself fit to appear before
the new *^ bachelor."

While thus employed, she heard the sound of
voices as if approaching the house, and opening
the window noiselessly she saw three persons coming
on. One of them was Tom Burke, leading a horse by
the bridle ; he turned off in the direction of the stable.

leaving the others, who were side by side, to come on
without him. The next moment a voice — the lowest
tone of which had ever thrilled through her heart —
broke the silence. There was no mistaking that voice
one so dearly loved, and never forgotten — and
almost fainting from surprise and emotion, she leant
heavily against the wall.

An so. Miss Shusy, 'a chorea machine, you never
could discriminate when you left home this morning',
who it was that would have the mellifluous delight ov
coming' here to-night to confabulate wit you ? "

No, indeed,^^ replied the fresh young voice of
Susie Burke ; ^' an when my father brought you up tome
in the shop when I was buying the handkerchief, I
was greatly surprised

swell, you see, darling', I ought by rights to
have solaced myself be paying my respects to you,
for ever since I first experienced the great enticements
ov your beauty and agreeable variations, I entered
into a strict declaration wit my own mind, that I
never would go courting to any other girl during
duration. Faix, you conglomerated my brains, an'
wounded my heart, so, that I couldn't help loving' you,
the rogue ov the world that you are ! An' now if
you'll only say the word, an admit that you feel some
racicroprocity in your own mind towards me, I'm

L 2

ready — though indeed I never was much of a marrying'
man — to run my head into the noose for your sake.
'Tis a fact, upon my reputation."

But I always thought that yourself an' Oonagh
MacDermott always liked wan another, an' I wouldn't
go betune ye, or do anything that would fret her, for
the whole world."

'' Did Oonagh tell you that ? ''

'^ Oh ! never a word did she say to me about you,
or about any other boy either. But I hard it from other
people, an' even that ye wor manifested together."

^' Well, you hard what was a blazing' lie. I never
had anything to say to that girl, nor she to me, be
this book," and the unprincipled rascal kissed with a
loud smack an old tattered ballad-book that he took
out of his pocket.

It was a shame to tell such a lie," said the
simple girl. ^'^But if it was three itself, she's not
the girl that would talk ov such a thug to any wan,
barren' that it might be to her mother, if she was
living'. She's a silent kind ov girl in herself, is
Oonagh, an' tis not aise to know what's in her
mind. But for all that, I love her very dearly, an'
I wouldn't grieve her on any account. She has
grief enough, dear knows, on her poor heart, without
my adding' more to it."

^' Oh ! you have no call to trouble yourself about
her at all, or have any obnoxious reproaches in your
own mind, in regard ov her. Oonagh is a very nice
young woman, an her father was a decent man, an'
they always had a welcome for me whenever I went
to Ballycross. They knew that I was altogether
superior to the low set ov clodhoppers that's going'
these times, that can't discriminate a word ov the
humanities or the classics. That was all, darling', upon
my reputation."

^' But I hard, too, about the widda woman in town
that you wor pulling' a cord wit. I mane the woman
that has the pawn-office in High Street."

Well, now, Miss Shusy, that's rarely good ! " he
cried, with a laugh that was half amusement and half
scorn. "Is it me to be pulling' a cord wit the likes
ov hert I wouldn't contaminate myself be touching'
her wit the tongs. The widda woman that could
aise be my mother ! It was given up to me to bethe
finest scholar in Misther O'Toole's seminary,
both in languages an' parson', not to talk at all
ov the humanities, or polite larnin' ; an' do you think
I'd demand myself be entering' into matrimonial
bonds wit that ould pawnbroker' witch ? Listen
whether to me, now, 'a cushla machine, an' you may
believe me or not just as you like. Be the virtue

ov this oath," here the old ballad-book was again
brought into requisition " I'd rather have you for
my wife, wit no fortune but the accoutrements you
stand in this minnie, than either Oonagh or the
widda woman, if they wor dressed wit elaboration
in the grandest habiliments. 'Isn't that I'd compare
Oonagh MacDermott any day in the year to that
ould rat-trap in the pawn-office. She's a rale nice
girl, an' a party girl, an has great philanthropy an'
jocularity intirely, but somehow, herself an' myself
didn't fancy wan another at all."

'^ She's all that, an' the same as my own sister tome,"
said Susie tenderly. "Every wan that knows
her, loves an' likes her, an' she deserves nothing else
from any wan. 'Tis the pity ov the world that she
isn't in her own house, instead ov been' on any wants
flare." What else the loyal, loving-hearted girl
might have said was inaudible, as she and her companion
had by that time passed out of hearing, and
into the house.

There was a short interval of profound silence,
as Oonagh remained leaning against the wall, during
which her heart was wrung by the most exquisite
suffering. She had imagined all its wounds had been
healed, and were now become callous, and here they
were opened up afresh, and bleeding from every pore.

She could have laid down her life for this man. She
had loved him in spite of all his falsehood and unworthiness,
and though she despised herself for her
weakness, she loved him still. He had in the old
days cast some unholy glamour over her soul, she
verily believed, and now he had cast the same glamour
over the soul of the innocent young creature, who,
though she had once called him a fool, could not resist
the fascination of his handsome face, and the spell of
his oily, persuasive tongue, no more than she had done
herself, when she had thought he was devoted to her
heart and soul.

In her heart she could not blame Susie, and she
did not. How could any woman on whom he cast his
spells, help loving him ? And it was Susie's fate to
love him, and to be his wife ! It was foretold by the
Dumb Cake, and it was decreed that it should come
to pass. It was the second prediction of the dream
on that memorable Hallow Eve, that would be
verified. Judy had been married to the man she
had dreamed of, and in a few days Susie would
be married to the man of her dream. But where was
the fair-haired young priest, saying mass in a church,
who was the man of her own dream ? He would
appear no doubt at the proper time, whatever influence
he was to have upon her future life. The Irish, like

all imaginative people, or people that have an Oriental
origin, are all more or less fatalists, and Oonagh was
no exception to the rest of her class.

She could not tell how long she had remained
leaning against the wall ; it might have been as many-moments,
or it might have been as many years. She
could not reckon it, for she felt as if time had stood
still, or as if her heart had ceased to beat. At last
she was roused by the voice of the new servant
outside, calling the fowls to put them up for the
night. Oonagh stood at the window, and said to
her in a low voice :

'' Mary, I have a great headache intirely, an I^m
in thread I never could stand the heat and noise
ov the place outside to-night. If any wan axes
for me, just say that I was obliged to go to bed
with a splitting headache. You'll do this for me,
Mary ashore ? '^

"To be sure I will, an' welcome," answered the
cheerful voice of Mary. " An' don't be in any hurry
getting' up in the morning' ; sure herself is an fairly
riser, and she'll gi' me an' Shusy a helping hand
with the cows; so for your life don't lave out the
bed, an' I'll bile the kittle fairly, an' bring you ina
cup ov strong tay."

Poor forsaken, sorrowful Oonagli went to bed, but
not to sleep. There was no sleep that night to shed
its gracious dew upon her heart. In a few hours
Susie came softly in, and, after saying her prayers,
silently undressed and lay down by her side. The
loving little thing wound her arms round her companion,
and asked how she felt, and if her head was
better ; and after a little while when she fell asleep, it
was with her head pillowed on OonagVs breast.

But through the long hours of that weary night
no sleep came to give a mementos oblivion to the
suffering girl. She felt as if her heart would burst
from her bosom, and as if all the blood in her veins
had turned into liquid fire. She longed, as she had
never longed before, to see the first faint glimpse of the
dawn, that she may be up and away, and leave that
house and her faithless lover far behind her. She
never asked herself where she was to go, or what was
to become of her. She could only remember that the
world was wide, and that she was young and strong,
and able to earn her bread wherever she went. All
she cared for was to escape to some distant place,
where her heart would not be wrung by the sound
of any voices and the sight of any faces that were still
but too dear to her. She despised the man, but still

she loved Mm. She could not help it any more than
she could help breathing.

But what will Love's exalting not go through,
Till long neglect, and utter selfishness,
Shame the fond pride it takes in its distress.

I know that there are those who in reading this,
will entertain a very low opinion of my poor Oonagh.
They will say she was a coward, and wanting in
womanly pride when she ran away from her false
lover, instead of staying to brave him, and wither his
heart by her contempt and scorn. But this was just
the thing that she never once thought of doing ; she
could not remain to see him make love to her unconscious
rival, and see him married to her in a few days.
And if she remained , it might come to pass — for she
could not be sure of herself — that she would learn to
hate Susie , the soft, loving little thing who had always
been like a sister to her, who had sprung up to meet her
with outstretched arms when she-had come to that
house sorrowful, and footsore, and poor ! No, she would
not remain to mar Susie's happiness, or lessen, by even
a shade, the great love that had always been between
them, and always should be, whatever happened.
She would go away, and her bleeding heart and
sorrowful face should not cast their gloom on tha

sunshine that had burst on the innocent young
creature's life. John Molloy might afflict her in the
years to come when she was his wife — Oonagh now
knew that was not at all unlikely — and the world
might afflict her, but never should sorrow or pain
come to her from the hand of her childhood's friend.

She slipped out of bed without awaking Susie, and
dressed herself by the first gray light of the early
spring morning. Then, having said her morning
prayers, she took up her little bundle once more, and,
without trusting herself to look at the sleeping girl,
passed out into the kitchen, where she found Mrs.
Burke, who was a very early riser. The good woman
stared in unfeigned astonishment when she saw the
girl evidently prepared for setting out on a journey.

Oh, blessed saints ! is it Oonagh I have here !
Wish, what brings you out so fairly, ready for the
road ? "

^^ I had some news last night that makes me go,"
replied Oonagh evasively.

"I suppose 'twas that sudden news that gave
you the bad head-ache last night. But you can't
go, ashore, for it's just going' to rain, an' I'm in thread
it will be wet for the rest ov the day. The sky looks
very dark intirely."

So itself, 'a vanities ; I must go."

'^I suppose your aunt, Mrs. Clancy, is taken
sudden ; so I won't say any more to stop you. But
wait till after breakfast, an' Tom can get the cart
ready, an' bring you there''

'god bless you for thinking' ov it, but I'd be in
thread to wait so long."

'swell, if you won't wait for the breakfast, you
must take it wit you;" and the good-hearted woman
took down two large squares of girdle bread from
the dresser, and then running out to the dairy, soon
returned with a bottle of milk well corked. These
she packed deftly in a small basket, and put it into
Oonagh's hand. She next brought a woollen shawl
out of her own room, which she threw over the girl's
head to save her from the rain, and lastly she put
a pound-note into the basket.

"There's more than this due to you, 'a rci gell,
but 'tis all I have myself, an' I don't like waken'
the ould man for more. But it might be enough
while you're away. You must be home very soon,
for Shusy's match was made last night, an' we're
to have the wedding' in another week, phase God. If
you're not back again be that time, Oonagh, what
is Shusy to do for a bridesmaid, an' what will I do
for a comrade, when she's gone from me ? "

^^ I can't say if I can be home in time for the wedding'

; but sure if I'm not you can tell poor Shusy that
I wish her every sort ov good luck an' happiness from
the core ov my heart," said Oonagh with a quivering
lip. " An' tell her I'm sorry I could not say good-bye
to her, in thread ov waken' her, but that I love her
dearly all the same."

I'll give her all your loving' messages, you may be
sure, an' they won't lose anything in the tellin'. An'
now, child, good-bye, for, as you're bint on going', the
sooner you go the better, before the rain comes down
in rale earnest."

The kind motherly woman kissed the girl tenderly,
and the two parted, never to meet on earth again !

Oonagh took her bundle in the one hand, and good
Mrs. Burke's basket in the other, and left Bawnmore
with bare feet, as she had entered it, and without
having the least idea of where she would go, or under
what roof she was to find shelter for the night. But
she had a strong will, and a brave heart, and her confidence
in the mercy and goodness of God never failed
her.

When she came to the stable where her dog. Bran,
slept in a warm bed of straw under the manger, she
opened the door, and called him to follow her ; and
these two fast friends, in the cold gray light of the
early morning, and under a drizzling rain that was

growing heavier every moment set off once more upon
their travels. But whatever hardships she suffered,
she drew a long breath of relief, when she left Cawnpore
far behind her.

THE YEAR 1847.

That was a time to try the souls of men,
Make the glad spirit thoughtful once again,
Wring drops of Pity's dew from hearts of stone,
"Weeping for others' woes, as well as for their own.

We have now come to one of the most melancholy
periods in the sad annals of Ireland, the summer
of the year 1847. The potato the chief and almost
the only food of an over-abundant population, had
failed considerably in the harvest of the preceding
year. But the sanguine and elastic nature of the
people was not to be daunted by one bad season and
with patient labour and hopeful spirit they planted
the national root once more, taking great pains to
have the ground well manured, and properly tilled,
as well as having the best and soundest seed to
put into it. What anxious hearts there were, that

watched the planting of what should suffice for the
food of the ensuing year and the luxuriant growth
that sprang up, promising a most abundant harvest !
What dull eyes brightened up, and what pale cheeks
flushed with joyful hope, to see the green stalks grow
stronger and higher as the summer advanced, until
at last the beautiful peach-coloured blossoms expanded
to the sunshine ! All classes alike rejoiced at the
pleasant sight presented by the healthy-looking
potato-fields all over the country ; the landlord, who
knew that a second yearns failure meant reduced rent,
or none at all ; the tiller of the soil, who knew that it
meant half-rations for his family, and great falling off
in his accounts on gale day; and the very poor, who
knew that a failure in the potato crop meant for them
absolute starvation. It was no wonder, then, that all
classes alike rejoiced at the favourable aspect of the
crop on which so much depended, and, taking heart once
more, regarded the future with hopeful cheerfulness.

But a black thunder-cloud hung over the doomed
land, which, suddenly bursting, swept in its irresistible
course over the afflicted and suffering people, taking
from them not only the fruit of their hard labours, but
hope, and health, and even life itself. In a few days —
in many places in one night — the green stalks first
withered, and then blackened, while the tubers under

them rotted, poisoning the sweet air of summer by a
most sickening and offensive odour. The potato
disease lead appeared again, but with greater severity
in its effects, and more widely spread than in the
previous year. From the rich manes field of many
acres down to the little patch behind the courtier's cabin,
the plague had manifested itself with terrible impartiality.
After all their bright anticipations, their
patient toil, their many privations, cheerfully borne in
the faith of a better time to come, the Irish people
found themselves, in the autumn of 1847, face to face
with the gaunt spectre of the great Famine, and then
one loud wail, one exceeding bitter cry of desolation
and despair rose up to heaven throughout the length
and breadth of the land.

Ah, Heaven ! Who that was old enough at " the
time of the Famine' to remember it, can ever put its
sorrowful, agonising memories out of his heart ? They
who talk in a carping and slighting spirit of the Irish
people, who maintain that nothing good can come out
of that second Nazareth, Ireland, would do well to
look in a calm, dispassionate spirit on the records of
that most awful and miserable time; when whole
districts were depopulated by sheer hunger ; when the
perishing creatures, who had been evicted from their
little holdings, lay down to die by the roadside .

II. M

complaisantly or crowded, when dying, into the poorhouses,
because there a coffin would be provided for
their wasted remains. And oh, dear God ! how
patient they were ! There was, in the time of the
Famine, no outrage ! There was no crime of more
than the ordinary character, no breaking open provision
stores, no burglaries or highway robberies.
Peaceful travellers went on their own errands through
town and country without the least molestation; and
the general traffic and business of the country went
on as usual, though it was not much, for no one had
money for anything but food, and very little even for
that. There was no disorder of any kind, no disturbance
that would call for any special interference
by the authorities. It was as if, when the last remnant
of their food melted away before their eyes, all
action and energy were crushed out of the wretched
people ; and as if their minds and souls were paralysed
and dead before their bodies succumbed to the slow,
agonising death of famine. It might well have been
said of them, in the words of Felicia Hemans :

Silently they die,
Like streams that shrink from summer's burning eye.

They were as if stunned and dazed by the magnitude
of the awful calamity that had overwhelmed them ; a

calamity for which even the elastic Celtic nature could
discover no remedy , in which it could not find the
least alleviation, nor upon which it could rest the
faintest hope. One feeling alone remained alive in
the souls of the people, one thought that made their
misery endurable, suffering with sublime endurance,
and dying with patient resignation. This one sentiment
was religion ! The Irish peasant rarely loses his
faith in God, and childlike trust in His merciful omnipotence,
and it is this which enables him to endure
a life of poverty and toil with patient cheerfulness,
and to face death with serene composure.

But it was not the very poor alone who suffered
from the ruin caused by the blight in the potatoes,
though, as a matter of course, they were the first to
suffer. The farmers, and the shopkeepers, and the
tradesmen, whose business was ruined for want of
customers, and the great accumulation of bad debts
that could never be recovered ; and, lastly, the landed
proprietors, whose tenants had become hopelessly insolvent,
and whose lands, impoverished and untilled,
were like a howling wilderness. To this last class,
with very few exceptions, the ruin, if it had come more
slowly, did not come the less surely or pitilessly.
They made a gallant stand, and fought a long and
stubborn battle with adverse fortune, but it was only

M 2

a forlorn hope from which few escaped unhurt. The
tide that ran against them was too strong, and, unable
to breast it, they were swept away. The Encumbered
Estates Court made short work with the greater number
of them, while those who, by the most desperate
efforts, kept their heads above water, were hardly in
much better case. They were so reduced in means, so
cruelly crippled in every way, that they could scarcely
hope to retrieve within their own lifetime. They had
however, through all struggles and privations, one
great comfort : they had saved the old acres, and the
roofs under which they were born, from coming under
the hammer of '' the Court," and their children would
possess them in the time to come, when they themselves
should have passed away !

Then began the evictions ! They began in those
wretched districts where the famine fiend reigned
supreme; first singly, then swelling in numbers, until
at last the miserable people, starved and naked, were
driven from the poor cabins that were dear to them,
for they represented home, either to beg, or enter the
union workhouse, as it pleased them best to do.
What scenes of woe and horror were then enacted
under the sunny skies of those terrible summers;
what cries of sorrow and despair, of unspeakable
suffering, were sent up to the great Throne from

breaking hearts who had no relief to expect but in
the awful peace of death, and no shelter but an unhonoured
pauper's grave ! It was, in truth, a very
dreadful time in the south and west of Ireland; so
dreadful that no language can adequately describe its
horror, and not so remote but that many still living
scan remember it well; and their hearts ache, and their
thoughts become very sad and solemn, whenever the
memory of it comes back upon them.

For those evictions the landlords, of course, came
in for a large share of the blame and obloquy, and
this, as I humbly conceive, without sufficient cause.
There were, no doubt, many cases of unnecessary
harshness and abuse of power, but, in the aggregate,
the landowners had scarcely any choice but to do
exactly as they did. Their properties were swamped
by a pauper multitude that had squatted down upon
them. So very poor were these people, that even in good
times they could only live, to use their own expression,
^' from hand to mouths and when the bad time
came they were, as might have been expected, utterly
broken and beggared. They could neither pay the rent
for their lands, nor cultivate them even in the rudest
manner, so that they became a succession of barren
wastes. And, as if the loss of his rent were not
enough, the landlord had to pay the moor's-rate of

those people, in addition to his own. To put them off
his estate had become with him not merely a matter
of choice, but one of absolute necessity. He had no
other option, if he did not choose to sink himself and
his family down to their level, and become as poor as
they were. It was the imperative instinct of self-preservation;
the instinct of one swimming for his
life, who must perforce cast off with a determined
hand the drowning comrade who clutches him with so
convulsive a clasp that both are in danger of being
drowned. It is a question of life or death, and this
inexorable instinct of self-preservation compels him to
save his own life at all risks, and leave his unfortunate
companion to his inevitable fate.

It was thus with the Irish landlords at the time of
the Famine, at least with the great majority, whose
estates were not very large, and, in most instances,
heavily encumbered. They had — if they hoped to
survive the storm — to shake themselves free from the
grasp of the drowning men who were pulling them
down. They saw themselves drifting gradually into-the
vortex of the Encumbered Court; they could not
meet their own engagements or pay their necessary
household expenses but with the utmost difficulty;
their creditors were clamouring at their gates, and
they would not expect help from their friends or neighbours,

for all were equally involved in one huge and
general ruin.

Among the landlords upon whom the calamity of
this most calamitous time pressed most heavily, was
Dominic Dillon, of Castle Cloyne. His estate, at no
time in a very flourishing condition, and encumbered
by a weight of debt that was always steadily progressing,
was now utterly swamped beyond all hope of
recovery. Mr. Dillon resigned his seat in Parliament
that empty honour he had so long coveted, and that
had so greatly added to his heavy burden of debt ! —
and returned home to see what could be done towards
mitigating, if he could not altogether avert, the ruin
that was hanging over him and his family. He and
his son set to work — this time in sad and sober
earnest — but anything they could do was all in vain.
But not without a hard struggle did they give up the
fight. Not without many a bitter pang did their
proud hearts behold the final extinction of all that
was valuable and dear to them, and which henceforth
could be nothing more than a memory. They must
now stand aside, while the broad acres that had comedown
to them from many fathers, and through many
hundred years, were to be brought under the miserable
hammer of the Encumbered Court, and sold to the
highest and best bidder.

Even amid all his trouble — and in truth, it was
very great — Mr. Dillon indulged the hope that from
the wreck of his fortune, when all the encumbrances
should be paid off there would remain some provision
for his old age, and for the future of his daughter.
He had already settled the future of his son ; Hyacinth
was to enter the army. Mr. Dillon had still sufficient
interest with the ministry he had so steadily supported,
to be sure of getting a commission for his boy. The
young man himself had fifty pounds a year left him
by his godmother, and this sum, though small, would
in addition to his pay enable him with economy to live
like an officer and a gentleman. Poor Hyacinth ! this
fifty pounds a year was hitherto spent on horses and
dogs, and now it was the chief staff on which he
should lean, beginning his life on his own account.

It was a very sad and bitter day for those unfortunate
gentlemen — the bankrupt father and the
disinherited son — when they heard that the day
was actually named on which the estate of Castle
Cloyne was to be sold in the office of the Encumbered
Court in Dublin. Next morning Hyacinth
set off to be present at the sale, in the vain hope that
he might be able to do something, he could not tell what,
that would help him to save some little surplus out of
the wreck, before the ship finally went down. Any-tray,

lie had a morbid wish to keep his place on the
neck of the old craft, as long as a plank of her held
together. When he came back, the auction of the
cattle and household furniture was to take place, and
then some inexpensive, quiet home was to be found,
where he could settle his father and sister before he
left home finally.

It was a melancholy and inglorious ending for
the proud old house of Castle Cloyne ; but many as
proud fell to pieces that miserable time, and many as
stately a tree was torn up by the roots. But the
calamity was too general and too widely spread for
any individual case to excite more . than a passing
expression of wonder and regret. However, there were
not wanting those who sorrowed for the old gentry, and
thought that the world must surely be coming to an end,
when they were so utterly rooted out of the land in
which they had been established for centuries ; others
stoutly maintained that the system which had tolerated
them so long, was as unwholesome as it was obsolete,
and that the new blood and fresh energy that had
replaced them all over the country, would vastly serve
to advance its real interests, and develop its numerous
and latent resources. But the peasantry — such of
them as survived the great Famine — still clung to the
should stock," still had a kind word and a tender

memory for those whom the world no longer delighted
to honour, viewing those who succeeded them with a
distrust and surly civility that the lapse of many years
could hardly tone down, or smooth away. For Paddy,
no matter how poor he may be, is yet thoroughly an
aristocrat. He loves a drop of good blood, and respects
long descent as no man in any other part of the world
will do : and, in an equal ratio, he intensely dislikes
new people, and self-made men, holding " showneens '"
and behalf sirs^^ in the most absolute scorn and
contempt.

THE LAST OF THE Dillon.

Thy race is run.
For thee there is no future more ! — for thee
No evil-boding hour can knell again !

Schiller.

Shakespeare says, that sorrows come not in single
spies, but in battalions, and of this saying of the great
master, the Dillon were now to experience the truth.
As if the loss of their property and the ruin that had
overwhelmed them were not enough, still more was to
be added to their " crown of sorrow'" The last of the
two trustees in whom Miss Dillon's fortune — inherited
from lier mother — bad been invested, became a bankrupt.
He had speculated largely with this and other
moneys with which he had been entrusted, and, in the
wretched condition to which the country was reduced,
his speculations as a matter of course failed signally;

and, before the day of hearing before the judge of the
Bankruptcy Courts he had fled the country, leaving no
assets whatever behind him.

This was a terrible blow, and the old man felt it to
the core of his afflicted heart. His poor Grace, his
motherless, darling girl, his one ewe-lamb, was a beggar,
and if something could not be saved out of the proceeds
of the sale, what was to become of her ? Five thousand
pounds were not of so much consequence once upon a
time to the master of Castle Cloyne as that he should
break his heart about it; but that old time was past and
gone, and now it was a sum of vast importance in his
eyes, for while it existed, it stood between his child
and absolute want. It was now gone, and she was a
pauper. It was no wonder that the heart of the old
man failed him at last, and that in one week twenty
years seemed to have been added to his age.

A few days before that one appointed for the
"Castle Cloyne auction. Father O'Rafferty prevailed on
the unfortunate gentleman to leave it, and take up his
abode with him, until a suitable home could be provided
for him. His daughter remained behind for a
few days, to arrange some necessary business, and pack
up the few things that the ruined family could call
their own. At such a time there were many things to
be done that a woman's hand alone could do. As soon

as this task was accomplished, Grace was to follow her
father to the priests house.

Like one in a terrible dream did Dominic Dillon
feel when he got into his own carriage for the last
time. He leant on his daughter's arm going down the
steps of the hall-door, and still he put a great constraint
on his feelings, for though the tears, which
Grace could not restrain, were streaming down her
face, he appeared to be quite unmoved. At the foot
of the steps were the priest and Pat Flanagan, waiting
to put him into the carriage, while the servants and
'followers," whose name is legion, were all standing
about to see the last of the " ould master's Some
were weeping silently, and all showed in the most
unmistakable manner their sympathy and regret for
the fallen fortunes of the house that had so long
sheltered and befriended them. The men were silent,
as men usually are under the influence of powerful
emotions, but the women, more demonstrative, showed
their grief in a more clamorous fashion, giving vent to
their feelings, some in English and some in Irish, but
all in language full of rough eloquence, and of tender,
passionate sorrow.

'''An' here's the ind ov the grand ould family that's
in Castle Cloyne ever since grass grew or father ran.
Oh, vo ! vo ! Warm wor their hearts, an' open their

hands, an' many a poor soul was warmed an fed
under their roof, an' no questions wor ever axed
as to what brought em, or how long they meant to
stay. Many a sorrowful heart did they give comfort
to. Many a poor stranger got alms at their gate,
an' them that wanted no alms got a kind word an' a
pleasant smile. It was never known ov a Dillon that
he had a hard word or a sour look on his face for the
poor. And now here is the ind of it all, an' there's
the last of the Dillon latin' out his own house, forever
an' ever. Oh, Queen of Consolation ! isn't this a
sorrowful sight ! Oh, wirra sthrue ! wirra sthrue !
Sweet bad luck to all the lawyers an' bailiffs, an'
long life to 'em to enjoy that bad luck. That they
may walk in their own funeral, an' swing high on
a windy day, dancing a hornpipe to the tune ov
the Rogues' March, upon nothing at all ! Ochone !
ochone ! "

The task of getting Mr. Dillon into the carriage
was not an easy one, for he was suffering from an
attack of gout, and was very feeble besides. Whether
he heard the passionate exclamations that passed from
lip to lip, or not, could not be ascertained by those
immediately near him, for not a muscle of his face
relaxed its expression of stolid apathy. At last he
was seated in the carriage, and the priest got in

quickly after him making a sign to Pat to close the
door, and bid the coachman drive on at once. Border
was obeyed as soon as it was given, and the
carriage began to move. When the people saw it in
motion, they broke throng all restraint, and gave full
vent to their sympathy and sorrow. An old woman in
front clapped her bands wildly, and burst out into the
opening notes of that most melancholy of all funeral
dirges, the Irish ^'caoine,^^ or lamentation for the
dead. After the first bar it was taken up by the
rest, and in a moment the wild, heart-piercing wail
rose and feU, and rose again, ringing out on the clear
air with mournful, melodious cadence.

When the first sound of the death-chant burst
upon his ears, Mr. Dillon was roused from his appearance
of apathetic indifference. He started as if he
had suddenly got a blow, listened for a moment to
sounds the meaning of which was well known to him,
and, sinking back in the carriage with a low moan, he
covered his face with his hands.

This is all very wrong, very improper, indeed'
cried the priest in an angry voice, although as he
spoke, his own eyes were swimming with tears. ''I
gave particular directions to Pat Flanagan that there
should not be anything of this kind, no demonstration
whatever'

'' After all what difference can it make ? " said the
poor broken gentleman. ^^ It is the last demonstration
that will ever be made for me, until the four black
horses will bring me to where all the rest of the
Dillon are sleeping soundly. Oh, Father John ! would
to God that I could lay down my head this day among
them ! ''

You shall do so when God pleases, my good friend,
but I hope that day is still far distant," replied the priest
cheerily. ^^In God's good time, you and all of us shall
be called home to our true country, which this world
is not, and was never intended to be ; and while waiting
for that time, we must take up our cross and carry
it, or, at least, try to do it/^

^' I hope I^m submissive to God's holy will, for myself
at least,^^ said the poor old man, " but when I
think of my poor children, I think my heart will
break. They are beggars, man, beggars. My weak,
delicate girl, how is she to face a hard world ?
Hyacinth, my bright, high-spirited boy, what is to
become of him ? ''

'^ God will take care of your daughter ; such as she.
He regards with peculiar love and tenderness. Have
no fears for her. Neither have any for Hyacinth;
what fear is there for any young fellow, strong and
healthy, and willing to carve out his own fortune-bravely

and independently ? We shall live, both of
us, to be very proud yet of the lads

There was no more conversation until they arrived
at the priest's house, which was a little outside the
small town, or rather village, of Castle Cloyne. It
was only a cottage, vastly inferior of course to the
grand old house they had left behind them, but still
comfortable-looking and home-like. It contained only
one sitting-room, but that was as neat and cheerful as
it could be made. A bright fire was blazing in the
grate, and on the centre table were glasses, and a
decanter of wine. It was not long until, between the
priest and the driver, Mr. Dillon found himself seated
in a comfortable arm-chair by the fire, with his gouty
foot resting on a soft cushion ; and while the housekeeper
bustled about, making preparations for serving
up dinner, he owned to himself that he might have
found a temporary asylum in worse places than the
house of the parish priest.

In the course of the evening, Pat Flanagan arrived
with his master's luggage, for Mr. Dillon was much
too infirm to be able to dispense with the services of a
personal attendant. Pat was now, for a wonder, very
subdued and silent. With all his vanity, his native
shrewdness taught him that the present was not the
time in which he could indulge in high spirits or much

VOL. II. N

talk, and accordingly he kept both, with a good deal of
tact, under due restraint. He did not want for either
good sense or good feeling, and without being as
noisy as usual in his attendance on his failing master,
was just as respectful and assiduous as he had been in
the old time.

The very day that Mr. Dillon had arrived at the
priest's house was that appointed for the sale of his
property in Dublin, and his anxiety to get a letter from
his son was excessive. He was alone for the greater
part of the evening, for the priest had his own duties,
which could neither be deferred nor set aside for anyone,
or on any pretence, and, therefore, was unavoidably
obliged to be absent. Mr. Dillon, under the iron
grasp of his enemy the gout, was compelled to remain
quiescent, and felt keenly the unaccustomed solitude.
Every ten minutes he rung the bell, which was within
reach of his hand, for Pat to put more turf on the fire,
to pull up the window-blind, to pull it down again ;
but in reality it was only to break the monotony of
the long weary day, and hear the sound of his own
voice, or that of some other person. And Pat, as if he
had divined his old master's drift, was very slow in
performing every little office required of him, and
while lingering about, was in no way chary of his conversation.
With what feverish anxiety did the poor

man count the hours until evening, at which time the
letters and newspapers would be brought from the
village.

No letters, however, came until the third day after
Mr. Dillon had arrived at the priest's house, and while
they were both sitting by the fire after dinner, the
anxiously expected letter from Hyacinth was brought
in. Mr. Dillon's hands shook so violently that he
could not open it, but sat twisting and turning it
about, unable to break the seal.

Open it, Father John, for I cannot, '^ he said at
last in a husky voice. " You know that I have no
secrets from your's

The priest opened the letter, and read it aloud.
Hyacinth wrote only a few lines, but the anguish of
his soul was manifested in every line. Owing to the
dreadful state of the country, and the tightness of
the money markets, the estate and house of Castle
Cloyne were sold at an enormous sacrifice, not much
more than seven years' purchase ! Not only would
there be no surplus to come to the owner, but the
proceeds of the sale would hardly suffice to pay off
all the debts !

Father O'Rafferty laid the letter on the table
when he had read it, and then there was a profound

silence.

N 2

*'I expected it would have sold for more'' said
Mr. Dillon, after a pause, in a hard strained voice.

*' So did I. But you see the times are fearfully
bad j I never knew such awful times, and I hope
I never shall again. There is no money in the
country. The capitalists fly from it as from a pestilence,
and so there is a pestilence in it, God help
us ! the pestilence of starvation. The people are dying
all round us of actual hunger, and of diseases caused
by hunger. The poor-houses are full to overflowing,
and still the poor people are crowding to their gates.
No man in this condition of affairs likes to invest his
money in property that may not bring him back even
one per cent, for many years to come. I confess I
don't see how or when it is all to end ; and my heart
'''^'sinks down to the heels of my old boots when I think
of all my dear old friends ruined, and my poor
people perishing, while I am powerless to help any
of them. I have only to work on while I have any
work left in me, and leave the rest in the hands
of Gods'

It is not for myself that I am troubled at all,^'
said Mr. Dillon. ^' My time here now cannot be very
long, for I feel that this letter has given me my
death-blow. Pray don't interrupt me, or tell me
that I am maundering; though Heaven knows if

I were, it would be no earthly wonder. Bat I was
never saner than I am at this moment, when the
sands in my glass are so rapidly running down. And
it is not altogether for Hyacinth that I am so troubled
at heart ; though if the poor boy were to shoot himself
no one could be surprised. But he is young and
healthy, and of a bright, elastic nature, and he will
get on well in the army, and make friends wherever
he goes. But it is of my poor girl I think most ; for
her my old heart is breaking. Robbed and plundered
by a villain, as she has been, what is to become of
her ? My poor, lonely, delicate girl ! '^

Let not your heart be troubled, or cast down "On
her accounts replied the priest, grasping Mr. Dillon's
hand. " From this day forth she is mine ; my
daughter, to eat of my crust, and drink of my cup,
as long as it shall please God to leave us together.
This house is a humble place for a Dillon of Castle
Cloyne to call her home ; but such as it is, she shall
be as much respected and beloved in it, as if she
were a princess. She shall be mistress there, and
I and every other person in my house be her servants
So, my good friend, make your mind easy about
Miss Grace; let not that thorn stick in your heart,
or thrust itself between you and your Maker, whenever
it may be His will to send for you''

'^ But I cannot let you burthen yourself with. my
child ; you who have so little for yourself

'^ But you can't help it, man. In a storm any port
is welcome. This poor cottage, I know, is a very unsuitable
lodging for one brought up as she was, and
with the blood of a hundred fathers in her'

"Well, stop there, Father John'' interrupted
Mr. Dillon, with a sad bitterness, 'there is an end
now to that old story. It is past and done with
for ever."

"Very well; I won't contradict you, though I might
do it. Still, in spite of everything that's come and
gone, she is Miss Grace Dillon, and the daughter of
my good old friend, and the grand daughter of the man
to whom, under God, I owe all that makes life dear and
precious to me. She needs comfort and kindness, and
with God's help she shall have them as long as I am to
the fore. My house lacks the style and luxury of her
old home, but she will have peace there, if nothing else,
and a peaceful life is the nearest approach to a happy
one that I know of on this side of the grave."

But the times are as hard on you as on anyone
else," continued Mr. Dillon, "and if they don't
mend, how are you to keep yourself, not to speak of
another ? "

I often sat at your table, and I noticed that Miss-grace

had a wonderfully small appetite' said the
priest , with an attempt at a joke. "The times are
very bad , surely, and no one knows how bad they are,
better than a parish priest who has not been paid a
farthing of his dues for the last year and a half. But
'tis a long lane that has no turning, and my hope is
strong that He who has laid this heavy burthen on us
will send relief, if we have only patience and confidence
in His mercy."

To this Mr. Dillon made no reply, and Father
O'Raiferty noticed with much concern how weary and
haggard he looked, and how sadly he was changed.
It was as if years had gone over his head within the
last few hours; aging the jovial face, and withering
up the stout frame that had hitherto borne up so well
against many storms.

^'^Don^t you think it is time you were in bed'' said
the priest, laying his hand on the bell. " This has
been a trying day for you, and you are weary,
and "

Broken-hearted ! " cried Mr. Dillon, finishing the
sentence. •

Pat now made his appearance in answer to the bell,
and took his master into a comfortable bedroom that
was inside the parlour. It was the priest's own room,
but he had given it up to his guest, and contented

himself with one, much inferior, at the other end of the
house.

When Father John found himself once more alone,
he began reading his office — a duty which the business
of the day had prevented him from discharging
until then. But though he tried to concentrate his
attention on the page before him, his thoughts, in
spite of himself, wandered away to the many scenes of
misery that it was his lot to witness day after day.
The life of a priest in Ireland at the time of the
Famine was a very hard one, for where the suffering
was greatest, and the pressure most severe, there it
was his duty to be, by night as well as by day. In the
fever-tainted hovel, kneeling on the damp earth beside
the bed of rotten, mouldy straw ; on committees for
the relief of the poor, battling with all his energy for
his miserable flock ; in his church, preaching, catechising,
and administering sacraments. His days
were indeed full days in those melancholy times. And
though his own personal privations were little thought
of, because he never alluded to them, they were neither
few nor light. His income was reduced so much that
it hardly sufficed to keep himself and the poor, lean
horse that bore him day after day over many a long,
weary mile through his famine-stricken and desolate
parish. Gradually, his purse grew more empty, and

his table more scanty, but he worked on cheerfully,
untiringly, though his black coat was becoming a
rusty brown, and the heart within him as heavy as a
stone.

When his office was finished, the priest went to

bed; but he could not sleep. The more he tried to

compose himself to rest, the more restless and feverish

he became. He heard the little Dutch clock that

hung in the kitchen, strike the hours one after the

other, while he turned from side to side, vainly trying

to sleep. At last, when morning dawned, and he

heard his housekeeper stirring in the kitchen hard by,

he got up and dressed himself. Before offering up

his morning's devotions, he thought he could not do

better than go to the room of his unhappy guest, to

see how he had passed the night. Even before he

entered he was horrified by hearing a sound that he,

whose daily duty it was to attend the dying, knew

only too well. It was what is called the death-rattle !

He burst into the room, opened the window-shutters

to admit the dim light of the early morning, and then

^ passing quickly to the bed, saw to his great horror

■L that its occupant was unmistakably dying. Not only

^B were his hours in this world numbered, but his very

moments were numbered also.

^H " Do you know me, old friend; do you know me ? "

I

he cried, pressing the cold, nerveless hand that lay
outstretched on the counterpane.

"I do. Thank God, you are come in time,"
replied the dying man, in a low, faint voice.

The priest dashed out of the room, shouting to his
housekeeper to bring a pair of lighted candles. Then
putting on his stole as he went, or rather flew, to his
own room, he came back almost immediately with
the sacred elements necessary for administering the
last sacraments. By the time that Mr. Dillon, in a
few broken words, had made his last confession, the
housekeeper and Pat Flanagan were kneeling at the
foot of the bed, both weeping ; though they tried to
control themselves, so as not to disturb the last
moments of the dying man.

It was a strange, as well as a most melancholy
scene ! The morning sunshine streaming in through
the small window on the light of the candles, that looked
yellow and dull in its cheerful radiance ; on the bowed
heads of the two servants, and the solemn, reverent
countenance of the old white-haired priest, kneeling beside
the bed, and reading, in a voice that struggled hard
to be firm, the prayers for the dying, and on the outstretched
form and pallid face of the dying man ! dying
of a broken heart, beggared, and broken down, and

homeless ; indebted to the kindness of his parish priest
for the shelter of a roof, and for the bed on which he
lay; dying far away from both the children that he
loved so well !

AN lEISH Funeral.

Jb'or a while they tread in silence dread —
Then muttering and moaning go the crowd,
Surging and swaying like mountain cloud,
And again the wail comes fearfully loud.

Ululu ! ululu ! kind was his heart !

Walk slower, walk slower, too soon we shall part.

Ululu ! ulula ! wail for the dead !

Ululu ! ululu ! here is his bed !

Thomas Davis.

On the day after his father died, Hyacinth Dillon
returned to Castle Cloyne. His arrival was a very grei"»/t
relief to Father O'Rafferty for many reasons, the chit f
being that the young man should arrive in time to lay
his father's head in the grave. There was no electric;
telegraph in the country districts in Ireland in those
days, and the post that came and went but once in the
twenty-four hours was sent off at such an inconvenient
time, that a letter could not be despatched until late in

the day, and Mr. Dillon's death had occurred very
early in the morning. When Hyacinth's business in
Dublin was transacted he made no further stay therefor
he had no money to spend, and his heart was with
those at home, who were looking out for him as their
protector and comforter. From his very birth he had
been over-indulged, unrestrained in every desire and
caprice, and let play the man while yet only a mere
boy ; nevertheless, he was not spoiled and as the good
priest had often said, " the lad's heart was in the right
place."

The funeral of the last Dillon of Castle Cloyne
was as grand and imposing as if he had died the lord
of all its broad acres, for so his son willed it. Father
O'Rafferty had remonstrated wisely and kindly against
this unnecessary expense as well on the score of
economy, as that he thought a quiet, simple funeral
would, under existing circumstances, be in better
taste. But Hyacinth did not look upon the subject
in that light, and in this he was encouraged and
supported by Terry Macnamara, who was now his
nearest male relative. He said that his father should
be laid to rest with as much respectful observance as
was any Dillon that had gone before him. All that
had come to him from them was gone, and he had
died a beggared and broken-hearted man ; but nothing

could deprive him of his good old blood, the long
descent, and the stainless repute, that would bring
friends and neighbours from far and near, to rally-round
his hearse. All his father's old friends, headed
by Terry Macnamara, gathered about the young man,
and backed him up in this resolution. The feeling of
the county was with him also, for with the Irish a
private funeral is held as ignominious, and showing
that the defunct was a low, worthless person, neither
respected while living, nor regretted when dead. So
the priest, finding himself altogether in the minority,
was obliged very reluctantly to withdraw his opposition.
The hearse was drawn by six tall black horses, but
when the coflS.n was brought outside the house to be
placed in it, a great number of the Castle Cloyne
tenantry came forward, and declared that, as the graveyard
was only three miles away, they would not suffer
the remains of their late landlord to be taken thereby
horses, while they, his own people, with broad
shoulders and willing hands, were there ready to
carry his coffin. So the empty hearse, with its waving
plumes and stately horses, went slowly on after the
coffin, which was borne on the shoulders of eight
stout young men, who were relieved in their labour of
love by eight others at intervals as they went along.
After the coffin went the two chief mourners, Hyacinth

and Terry Macnamara, and behind them Father
O'Rafferty, and all the clergymen of the whole
district, of every denomination, with white scarves
and hat-bands, and walking two abreast. After the
clergy came a number of women in long white cloaks,
and hoods of the same colour drawn closely round
their faces. These women were the professional
keepers, the most celebrated that could be procured — >
famous for their skill in improvisation, and in lamenting
the dead, in their own vigorous and expressive
tongue. Then came an immense string of carriages
and other vehicles, in which were all the gentry of the
country for many miles round. The procession was
closed by an enormous number of the peasantry on
foot.

It was the greatest funeral that had been seen in
that part of the country for many a long year, extending
for more than two miles in a straight line. It
passed over a mountain road that had been constructed
in many turns and windings, to make it as level as was
possible; and it was an impressive and picturesque
sight to catch a glimpse of the long array as it moved
slowly on, at one time hidden from view by an abrupt
angle of the road, and in a few minutes emerging
again — now breasting a rise in the ground, now
descending into a lonely valley. And at intervals, as

they went along, " the Banne Keenthagh/^ as the professional
mourners were called, raised the death-song,
reciting the praises of the deceased, and the virtues
and glories of the old family from which he was descended.
At the end of each verse, sung by a single
voice, the other women took up the strain, and swelled
the chorus of lamentation. The effect of so many
voices, though very wild and barbaric, was still by no
means unpleasing. When it is heard in the house it
is harsh and piercing, but in the open air, and at a
little distance, it is striking and melodious. Once
heard it is never forgotten ! As the funeral procession
wound round the mountain pass, the wild melancholy
cadence rose and fell, and sometimes was lost altogether,
until after a few moments, it swelled out again
in sad harmony, as if in its passionate wail was concentrated
the essence of all human sorrow !

When they arrived at the graveyard, Father
O'Rafferty advanced to the head of the coffin, and
began to read the service for the burial of the dead.
The family vault had been opened early in the day to
allow of the escape of all foul air, and as the last words
of the service were read, and the last blessing pronounced,
the remains of Dominic Dillon were laid in
peace, and with all honour, among the ashes of his
kindred. Then the immense crowd began slowly to

melt away, dispersing in different directions, but the
two mourners and the priest remained standing beside
the vault until it was finally closed by the workmen
who were there for that purpose ; and then they too
moved away silently, and the last Dillon of Castle
Cloyne was left to his rest.

There was a great and noticeable change in our old
friend Terry Macnamara since we saw him last. The
bad times had leant very heavily on poor Terry, as
they had done on all his old friends and neighbours.
He had never been rich ; indeed, his means were very
limited, though he had always made the appearance of
a gentleman, and preserved a sturdy independence
that rejected all obligation, save now and then a little
hospitality; and before the time of the Famine that
was not reckoned as any obligation in Ireland. Indeed,
the obligation was considered to have been
altogether at the other side. But that poor Terry
was a sharer in the general distress, was seen at a
glance. His clothes were still scrupulously neat, but
getting rusty in colour, as well as threadbare from
constant brushing, and his hat had lost all its old
silken gloss; his boots had more than one patch on
them, and his gloves were shabby and broken. He
looked, thin and careworn, and his hair, that was raven
black when last we saw him, was now rapidly growing

VOL. IT. o

gray. But his tall, spare figure was as erect and
upright as ever , and his manner as genial and
courteous. For under all circumstances, and through
every reverse of fortune, Terry Macnamara was
essentially and unmistakably a gentleman. Neither
change of times, nor pressure of poverty, could ever
make him lose caste, or forgetful of the suave old
motto, " Noblesse obliges

The two cousins returned to the priest's house to
dinner, but went away in the evening, as there was
no sleeping accommodation for them there. Terry had
always kept his own quiet lodgings in the village of
Castle Cloyne, and now Hyacinth shared his sitting-room,
and got a bedroom in the same house. This
arrangement was to be only for a few days, until he
should be able to decide on his future plans.

In the meantime Miss Dillon was lying very ill at
the priest's house. As soon as the tidings of her
father's death had reached her, she came at once to
have the sad consolation of weeping over his cold
remains, and looking again on the face that, when she
had seen it last, was animated with sense and life.
But the sudden and violent shock, followed by the
feverish excitement of the funeral, had been too much
for the frail, sensitive girl, whose health, even at the
best of times, had never been strong. She was

attacked by some kind of low fever, wMcli, though not
dangerous, was tedious and exhausting, and left her
in the end in a state of great lassitude and prostration.
During all this time Hyacinth had not heard either
of, or from, the Wilsonss. Mr. Wilsonss had attended
the funeral in his carriage, like all the other gentry of
the district, but had left the graveyard immediately
after the interment, without making any attempt to
speak to Hyacinth, the son of the deceased, and one
who was the affianced husband of his own daughter.
So very marked and so unsympathetic a proceeding
did not, as a matter of course, escape general observation,
and many were the comments passed on it by the
persons who were standing in various groups around.
It was a strange thing for Mr. Wilson to act so by
anyone ; but the cause of this was not far to seek.
Hyacinth Dillon was no longer the heir of Castle
Cloyne ! He was landless, homeless, and with nothing

Save men's opinions and his living blood,
To show the world he was a gentleman.

On, the day when the hammer of the Encumbered
Court fell on the broad acres of the old family, the
last of the race had forfeited, in the opinion of the
rich parvenif,, all his pretensions to the hand of his
daughter.

o 2

Some faint murmur of the idle gossip that was
floating about on the subject came at last to the ears
of Hyacinth, but he indignantly rejected it as a base
calumny on the honour of Mr. Wilson, and the truth of
his betrothed wife. His great love refused to admit a
thought that would cast a doubt on the good faith of
either. He was young and inexperienced, and was
now to learn for the first time how exactly circumstances
are supposed to change a man, and also what a
depth of meanness and treachery an ignoble nature
can descend to, when actuated solely by motives of
worldliness. Owing to his absence in London, his
father's troubles and failing health, a great deal of
business had devolved on him when they returned,
leaving him little leisure for the old pleasant rides to
Beech Hill, in which he used to take so much delight,
Caroline had written to him sometimes in reply to his
passionate letters, but latterly she had not written often,
and he was so worried and miserable about the wretched
state of affairs at home, that he did not attach much
importance to what, at another time, would make him
anxious and unhappy. But now he could no longer
shut his eyes to what had been for a long time obvious
to everyone but himself, and he resolved to go at
once to Beech Hill, and ascertain what it was he had to
hope for, and what to fear.

On the first day that his sister was sufficiently
recovered to sit up in her own room. Hyacinth
mounted his horse to ride to Beech Hill. As the
reader has been already informed, it was a considerable
distance from Castle Cloyne, so that, as he rode
along, he had ample time for reflections, which were
anything but pleasant. His position was fearfully
changed from what it had been in the old time, when
he was the heir to a noble property, and the future
head of an old family that had always held a foremost
place among the aristocracy of the county. Now he
was only Hyacinth Dillon, with not an acre that he
could call his own, or a roof under which he could rest
his head, unless he paid for it. He would have a commission
in the army, and the small annuity left him by
his godmother ! And yet he had the folly, or rather
insanity, to go to the Wilsonss, and ask them to hold by
their contract with him, and consent that a marriage,
arranged under such very different circumstances,
should still take place. As all these mortifying
reflections passed through his mind, his heart almost
failed him, and he thought more than once of turning
his horse's head and going back again. But he took
shame to himself for his faintheartedness, and confident
of the affection of his betrothed, he hoped that
her father would not let worldly calculation interfere

with lier happiness. Then he would see her once
more; that was a joy that he could not deny himself.
From her own lips alone would he accept his sentence,
and his heart — the sanguine, credulous heart of youth !
whispered to him in honeyed accents that it would
not be an adverse one.

In due time he arrived at Mr. Wilson's gate, where
he found that gentleman standing, while giving directions
to some of his workmen. When he saw young
Dillon riding towards him, he became greatly embarrassed,
and shuffled uneasily from one foot to the
other, and nodded as he would have done to any
ordinary acquaintance who might be passing by.
When Hyacinth came up, he dismounted and, leading
his horse by the bridle, advanced to Mr. Wilson with
outstretched hand and his usual frank, cordial manner.
But he was almost petrified by the reception that
awaited him. It was not alone cold and constrained,
but something much worse, something that he could
not put into words, but which he felt most keenly.
Mr. Wilson extended two fingers to his visitor, and
after a few of the usual commonplaces about the
weather, he turned again to his workmen, and was
soon so much absorbed by his conversation with them,
that he apparently lost all recollection of his presence.
There was no loud call for one of the grooms to take-the

young gentleman's horse to the stables, no cheerful
announcement that he was just in time for dinner,
and that Caroline was wondering why he had been so
long absent. All this had belonged to the old times,
and like them, apparently, was to be considered at an
end. Mr, Wilson's manner was so very decided, that
it left no doubt whatever on the matter.

Hyacinth was not slow to understand what the
vulgar parvenu — who not very long ago had considered
that the visit of a Dillon to his house was a
great honour — meant by such a hostile front. A dark
flush overspread the young man's handsome face ; but
he compressed his lips, resolving to bear all patiently
for the sake of her he loved. He waited quietly,
bridle in hand, until Mr. Wilson could no longer have
any excuse for detaining his workmen, who at last
went off in different directions.

^^ I regret that I cannot ask you to stay and dine
with us, Mr. Dillon" — it used to be "Hyacinth" upto
this — said Mr. Wilson, in a voice and with a
manner that he meant should be very grand and
dignified, but which was only stiff and formal ; " but
my daughter and I are going out to dinner. It being
an engagement of long standing, it would not be
possible for us to send our apology at this late
hour."

^' I have come merely to make a morning visit, so
shall not interfere with your engagements replied
Dillon quietly. " I wanted to see Caroline ; we have
not met now for some time."

"I fear you cannot see her, for before I left the
house she had gone with her maid to her dressing-room."


^^I can wait until she is dressed. After riding
from Castle Cloyne, she will not refuse to give mea
few minutes while the carriage is being brought
round ; '^ and as he spoke, he called to a little ragged
boy who stood staring at them, and giving him the
bridle to hold, opened the gate and walked up the
avenue towards the house.

Mr. Wilson was swelling with indignation and
mortified pride to see himself bearded at his own gate
by a mere boy, but in his secret heart was rather
pleased than otherwise at the turn matters had taken,
by having, as it were, a quarrel put upon him.

'* When I said that you could not see my daughter,
I meant that you should not'' he growled out in a
most surly voice, ^^for I never say one thing and
mean another. When I left the house she had rung
for her maid, and was gone to dress for dinner. She
is so much engaged in preparing for this party that
she cannot possibly see you."

** I can wait until her toilet is completed."

Well, Mr. Dillon, I will be frank with you, as it
will save some trouble, and will be best for all parties
in the long run. Your visits to Beech Hill must be
discontinued. When I sanctioned your addresses to
my daughter, and consented to your engagement with
her, your position was quite different from what it is
now. I should be very sorry indeed to say anything
that would wound your feelings, but I have a duty to
perform to my child which is superior to every other
consideration. I must secure, at all costs, her future
-comfort and happiness, and this could not be accomplished
if I were to give any further countenance to
her marriage — either proximate or remote — with you.
Since the time that I received your proposal for the
hand of my daughter, your social position and your
future prospects have undergone a fearful change,
while hers remain just as they were. Don't you perceive
it yourself now ? "

'^ But I am still the same man, the same in family
and good repute that I was then; the man your
daughter loves, and to whom she has plighted her troth."

"No, sir, you are not. The man to whom my
daughter plighted her troth was the heir of Castle
Cloyne. Excuse me if I give you pain, but you have
forced me to it. You are not the heir to anything

now, that I know of. You talk of your family, good
repute, and so forth ; this is all very well for yourself
some people are amused by such things — but they
won't do to set up housekeeping on. And, believe me,
young gentleman, you will do well to accept the
inevitable, and take a cortfmon-sense view of the
matter, instead of nursing this romantic folly, which
can lead to nothing but disappointment. Money, sir,
is the oil that keeps the wheels of life going smoothly
round, and he who is without it has no business going
to look for a rich wife ! ''

'' I cannot take my dismissal from you, Mr. Wilson.
I cannot, and I will not,^^ said Dillon, disgusted by
his vulgar purse-pride. ^' I must see Caroline herself,
and know from her own lips if her feelings towards
me are as changed as yours. I must see her without
your consent, if it cannot be with it. If she tells me
that she thinks and feels as you do, I shall, as a matter
of course, resign all pretension to her hand ; but if , on
the contrary, she says that she still loves me, and holds
fast to her engagement, no power on earth shall
separate us.^^

Mr. Wilson's reply to this speech was a burst of
derisive laughter.

^' I don't want your money, sir ! " cried the
wretched young man, who by this time was nearly

frantic with excitement and wounded pride. *^ You
may keep your money, but I want my promised wife,
the girl I sought when all the advantage was certainly
on my side. I am the same man still, and I will not
take my sentence from anyone but herself."

'^ You cannot see her ; I told you that before, and
I mean to keep my word. Surely you will not force
your way into my house in spite of me ? "

Well, no. But I shall manage to see her elsewhere
for you canst make a prisoner of her at her
time of life."

'' Will you be satisfied with a letter from her ? — and
I promise you fairly, that I shall in no way coerce her
in what she may choose to write to you. She shall
have full liberty to convey her real sentiments un-biassed
by me in the least degree. Will that satisfy

you?"

*' Yes. At least, I have no choice left me. I shall
now relieve you of my presence ; but before I go, I
warn you, Mr. Wilson, not to tamper with the happiness
of your daughter, or compel her to act against
her affections and her conscience. I shall say nothing
on my own behalf, for I'm not your child, and you owe
me no duty; but you owe it to her. A grave responsibility
rests on you where she is in question
Beware what use you make of it ! "

I have taken good care of lier up to this, and I
mean to do so for the future. The best proof of that
is, that I will not consent to deliver her up to poverty
and privation. She has perfect confidence in me, and
we understand each other fully."

This last sentence he pronounced with a knowing
wink, and a broad grin on his face ; for which
Hyacinth would most willingly have kicked him on
the spot.

By this time they had arrived at the hall door, and
as Mr. Wilson did not invite him to enter, even to
take some refreshment after his long ride, Hyacinth
was obliged to take his leave, which, as may well be
imagined from the character of their interview, was by
no means a very cordial one. The unhappy young man
retraced his steps to the gate in a state of mind not
easily described. His pride — sorely wounded in later
times, but never more so than now — had been
humbled to the very dust, by a vulgar, purse-proud
upstart, who had told him that /le. Hyacinth Dillon,
was not husband good enough for his daughter ! He
had been treated with the utmost rudeness and discourtesy,
by the very man who, not very long ago, had
flattered and fawned on him with the most abject
servility. Now, indeed, for the first time did he
come to realise the full force of his great downfall ;

now had the iron of poverty entered into his very
soul.

Bat there was one thing to make him be of good
heart, one ray of comfort that made amends for his
hard trial,, and that was that his father did not live to
see this day. The old man had suffered enough before
he was mercifully called away, without having this
crowning sorrow and humiliation added on to all the
rest. Once upon a time, Hyacinth Dillon would have
fiercely given the lie to any man who had dared to tell
him that the day would surely come in which he
would rejoice at his father's death. That evil day had
now come, and he was glad with all his heart that the
old man was at rest.

A FAMILY COUNCIL.

My native land, good-night.

Byron.

Between the fatigue consequent on having ridden
nearly thirty miles without any food, and the exhaustion
caused by great mental suffering, Hyacinth slept
soundly until a late hour on the following day. When
lie came down to the sitting-room, where breakfast
was awaiting him, he found that his cousin, who was
an early riser, had breakfasted long since, and gone
out on particular business. While Hyacinth was going
through the form of eating — for it was only a form —
he heard the postman's knock at the hall door, and a
letter was immediately after brought up to him, in the
well-known handwriting of Miss Wilson. So far, her
father had kept faith with him. He tore open the
envelope with, all the eager devotion of a lover, but only

to experience a most grievous disappointment. The
letter was not at all what he had so fondly and foolishly
imagined that it would be. With pale cheeks and
compressed lips, he read it to the very end, slowly and
resolutely, as if to give himself plenty of' time to
master its contents. They were as follows :

*' Dearest Hyacinth,

'^ My father has just told me of your visit to us
on yesterday. I was very sorry to have missed seeing
you ; still, on thinking it all over, I have come to the
conclusion that, for the present, it is better that we
should not meet. It would serve no purpose, except
to excite and agitate both of us. My father has
completely changed his mind on the subject of our
engagement, and as he is very obstinate when once he
has determined on anything, I fear we shall have great
difficulty in bringing him back to his original way of
thinking. He says, or rather swears, that if I do not
give up my engagement with you, he will not give meas
much as a shilling or ever see my face again.
Under these circumstances, I don't quite see my way;
I only know that my courage, never very great, is
quite unequal to braving his anger and incurring his
lifelong displeasure. I could never consent to be a
burden on you, or add to your many troubles by going

to you as a penniless bride. It would be madness in
me, and to you utter ruin. Forget me, dear Hyacinth
or think of me only as a sister wbo loves you very
much, and shall always feel the greatest interest in
everything in which you and yours are concerned.
Yours affectionately,

'caroline Wilson.
"Pes. — This letter requires no answered

He crushed this heartless production between his.
hands until it was a mere rag, and then ground it to
atoms beneath his heel. All the rage and mortification,
that with so much difficulty he had restrained
under the outrageous provocation that he had got
from Mr. Wilson on the previous day, was now vented
on that sheet of senseless paper. The total want of
all womanly love and sympathy, the cool calculation,,
the undisguised worldliness, so openly manifested in
every line of this precious epistle, almost maddened
him. Caroline was her father's true daughter; she
had shown herself to be an apt pupil, and learned his
lessons of selfish craft with ready docility. And this
was the woman to whom he had given his whole soul ;.
at whose feet he had freely poured out all the wealth
of his joyous, happy youth, and all the warmth and
tenderness of a young manes first affection !

He sat there, lie knew not low long, until Terry
Macnamara came back who, with a look of amazement
at the disorderly breakfast-table, reminded him
that they were to dine that day with Father O'Rafferty,
and that it was now late enough for them to be setting
out. With a weary sigh the young man went back to
his room to make some alterations in his dress, and,
after a short time, told his cousin that he was ready to
accompany him to the priests house.

As usual, the female element was absent from the
table at Father O'Rafferty's ; for Miss Dillon was still
too great an invalid to take her place there. It was a
silent and cheerless meal, and though the genial host
did all he could to raise the spirits of his guests, the
task just then was more than he could accomplish.
Terry was unusually thoughtful, and took very little
part in the conversation ; and Hyacinth, sad and
moody, took no part in it at all. However, when the
cloth had been removed, and the three gentlemen left
to themselves, with the materials for punch on the
table before them, the social horizon began to clear a
little. ^

'' I have been thinking, and I am sure. Father
John, that you will agree with me, that this poor lad
is only wasting his time by remaining heres said
Terry. ^^What earthly business has he in Castle

VOL. II. p

Cloyne now that Hs fatter and his father's property-are
both gone ! He is no longer a bos, but a man ;
and he should now take a manes place in the world,
and fight a man's battle in it as best he can. I am
sure he will do it manfully and independently, and
like a gentleman who stands bound to keep his father's
name as unspotted and stainless as he received it, I
will go with him to London, where his father is yet
remembered, and where I myself have a few old
friends still left, who have sufficient influence with the
ministry to employ it in getting him a commission. I
am too proud to ask them for anything for myself,
and too old now to begin the world once more ; but to
apply to them for Hyacinth would be altogether a
different thing. A commission in the army, or a civil
appointment under Government, either at home or
abroad, would not be a bad thing as matters stand
with us. The ministry can't ignore the fact that poor
Dominic was their firm supporter, and in common
decency, to say nothing of gratitude, they must give
us one of the army berths that are continually
at their disposal""

I quite agree with you in every word you say''
replied the priest; sand it was to talk the matter
over that I asked you both to share my dinner this
evening. Hyacinth has now to make his own way in

the world ; that is a fact that we must look steadily in
the face. The sooner that he begins, the better for
him. He is young ; and Grod never intended youth to
sink down in useless inactivity or selfish repining.
Hyacinth has a little back in his own fifty pounds a
year, and though it is a poor back for him, still it is
something to lean on, and will help to keep the wolf
from the door until the pay-day comes round.''^

^'I shall never touch a shilling of that annuity
for my own use'' said Hyacinth. " While my sister
lives that money is hers, and not mine. God knows it
is a poor provision for her, but it is all I have to give.
I am healthy and strong, and I can manage somehow ;
but I never could respect myself, or hold up my head
among men, if I took a farthing of that fifty pounds
and left her destitute, weak and ailing as she is''

'' Destitute Miss Grace shall never be as long as I
am to the fore," cried the priest with animation.
^^The very night before her father's death, I made
him a solemn promise that while I lived, his daughter
should eat of my bread, and drink of my cup, and be
to me as a dear child. That promise was not lightly
made, and it shall be sacredly kept, with God's help.
So, lad, make your mind easy about your sister ; for
as long as I am spared, she shall not want a home."

Hyacinth extended one hand across the table, and

p 2

Tvith the other covered his face to hide the tears
that were rising from a sorely bruised but grateful
heart.

'you are the very best of good fellows, Father
John ! " cried Terry Macnamara ; '' and nothing that
you say or do can surprise me, for I know your kind
heart. It is time now for me to do so at the end of
more than forty years. Grace, by right, should have
a home with me, for after Hyacinth I am the nearest
relation she has in the world ; but these bad times
have dealt so cruelly by me that I can hardly say I
have a home to bring her to. I would not make this
confession to everyone, but to you both I will own
that I am desperately hard up. My poor tenants —
they were never very many — are all dead or gone
into the poor-house, and my little property is gone to
the dogs. I cannot even pay the head-rent, though
it isn't much ; and every day I expect to be served
with an ejectment by the head landlord, who is.
Heaven knows, as badly off himself as it is possible
for a man to be.^^

*' I did not know, Terry, that things were so bad
as that with your's said the priest, in a tone of deep
feeling. '' May God pity us ! Where is it all to end ? "

'nor should you know it now,^^ said Terry
sturdily, "for I am not in the habit of annoying my

friends by inflicting my troubles on them, as each and
all have their own nowadays, but that I wished to
explain to you how powerless I am to do anything for
poor Dominions girl. Those two children have grownup
at my knee, and their father and I were more like
brothers than cousins."

^' Say no more about it, if you love me," broke in
Hyacinth; 'ewe shall do well enough, Grace and I.
You would help us if you could, Terry, as freely as we
would help you, but none of us can do anything. I
accept Father John's kind offer of a home for Grace,
until I can afford to provide one for her, and his kind
fatherly protection, for she is too young and too delicate
to live alone. But the fifty pounds yearly she
must have. I could not bear to think that she was
without a few pounds of her own. It would be very
hard on her father's child to be obliged to ask anyone
even you, Father John — for the price of her clothing,
or for a little to give to her old pensioners and
poor old neighbours that might come to see her. It is
a miserable thing to have a generous heart accompanied
by an empty purse. I will add another reason,
and the best of all, why she should have this poor
annuity. While you live, father, she has a shelter at
all events, but if you died — and you are mortal, as we
all are — what would become of my poor Grace then ?

She would suffer privation, no doubt but sbe need not
face the poor-house while she has that money."

'^ The lad is right, by Jove ! '^ exclaimed Terry,
bringing his clenched hand down heavily on the table.
^' I always said he had brains in his head, and now he
is beginning to make use of them. Don't you see course
the truth of what he says, and the real, practical
wisdom that's in it ? ^^

"I do. He has got an older head on his young
shoulders than we old gray beards gave him credit for ;
and, better even than that, his heart is in the right
places

'^ I always told you that it was. But, Hyacinth, my
boy, I fear you would hardly be able to live in the
army on your pay alone; why, it would be half starvation.
And then the outfit; we have to think of that.^^

"Don't worry yourself about that at all. I shall
not enter the army, or go to London to look out for an
appointment, and be kicking my heels at the door of
one great man after another, with my hat in my hand,
making interest to get some beggarly situation, which
even if I got it, would hardly suffice to keep soul and
body together. I shall do better than that, if I am not
greatly mistaken. I shall go to California, where
stout hearts and strong hands are digging gold out of
the bowels of the earth."

But, oil ! my boy, you could never live the sort
of life that the people out there are said to leads cried
Terry, in great dismay. " You were never used to
such dreadful hardship, and you would soon sink
under it'

'^ Nothing of the sort. It is a thousand times
better than starving in the army on '
a day, and being expected to keep up the
appearance of a gentleman on the pay of a groom !
I hear that there are many young fellows out at the
gold-fields, quite as good in all respects as I am ; and
why cannot I work hard, and fare as coarsely as they ?
Fortunes are made there by a few weeks or a month's
toil and privation, and why should not I try my luck
as well as another ? I am sure my need is as great as
it can well be. The gold is to be had for the trouble
of digging it, and you know fortune favours the
bold''

"But you have no money to take you out to that
auriferous land ; and, alas ! I have none to give you,"
said Terry with a sigh.

"But you forget my mare Cora. She was exclusively
my own property, and could not be sold to
pay my father's creditors. Cora is worth one hundred
pounds, if she is worth a penny. I shall get at least
sixty for her ; and that sum will be amply sufficient

to pay my passage out, and provide me with the
small outfit requisite for a person going to the gold-fields.
It is rather less costly than that necessary for
the army's he added with a laugh.

'^ There is no use in opposing him," observed the
priest, turning to Terry ; ^^ for I can see plainly that
his mind is made up on the matter. After all, it maybe
by long odds the best thing that he can do with
himself. If he does not succeed at the diggings — and
I can't see why he should not as well as anyone else —
or if he finds the work or the climate too much for
him, he can turn his face homewards once more. It
would be the easiest thing in life. And if it comes to
that with him — which I am in no way afraid of — he
will still be young enough to try something else, and
make a fresh start in another line. Certainly he will
be none the worse for having travelled a little, and
seen something of the world. It does a young fellow
good to go abroad sometimes, and rub the country
cobwebs out of his eyes, and the country rust oS his
manners. To go off to California, and be thrown on
himself for a while, might very possibly be the best
turn the lad could give himself."

'^ So be it, in the name of God," said Terry
Macnamara. " I have no fear that he will ever do
any discredit to his country, or his father's name,

wherever he is. There is good stuff iii the boy.
Father John, and we may safely let him go."

"And the sooner he goes the better," added
Father John. " There is nothing to be made by his
staying on here, but, on the contrary, much valuable
time lost.^^

It was touching, and at the same time amusing, to
see the mingled pride and affection with which those
two old, world-worn men looked on the stalwart, handsome
young fellow, who, notwithstanding his six feet
and broad shoulders, they still fondly called "the boy'*
and "the lads' To them his birth was an occurrence
of yesterday ; they had watched him emerging from
childhood to manhood, by what to them were imperceptible
degrees, and each of them, in his own way,
had done his best to spoil him. It might have been
said that he had three fathers, for his real father
hardly loved him more than did the old bachelor
cousin, who was his godfather, had given him his first
tip," and taught him to shoot, and ride, and box in
the most approved and scientific fashion practised at
the English public schools; for Terry was one of those
old-fashioned people who think that a youth should
know how to take his own part, when occasion required
it, by the dexterous use of his fists, the natural and
ready weapons with which nature has furnished man.

The old priest had married his father and mother, had
baptised himself, and hoped to live to marry him also
when the proper time came in which that solemn
ceremony was to be performed. And Hyacinth was-not
ungrateful to them, but repaid their kindness and
affection with the same respectful consideration that
lie would have shown to his own father, had he still
lived. His heart was set on leaving the country which
contained Mr. Wilson and his daughter, and going to
some place wherein he would neither see them, nor
hear their names spoken of; but he felt that he could
not have persevered in that resolution had those two
old and true friends opposed him in it. That he had
now won their approbation and consent to his plan
was an immense relief to his mind, as well as an omen
of success in its fulfilment.

And so it was settled, and his life, at least for
some time to come, was mapped out for him with
every care and foresight that affection and experience
could devise. His few preparations were soon made,
for a Calif orphan gold-digger did not require a large
or an expensive outfit, and now all that remained was
the last and saddest task of all, the great wrench of
parting with all he loved.

Hyacinth spent the greater part of his last day in
Castle Cloyne, sitting in his sister's room, but she had

no idea that it tuas the last. They all thought that if
she knew he would not return again before he finally-sailed
for America it would have an injurious effect
on her in her present weak state so she was not told
it. They wished to spare her the anguish and excitement
of the last parting. She believed that he was
going away for a few days on some necessary business ;
and so looking forward to seeing him once more before
he sailed, she was tolerably cheerful. But he, knowing
that he was leaving her for a long time, probably forever
— for she was delicate and frail, and he was facing
a life of much hardship and danger — was very sad and
dispirited. But he tried hard to hide this sadness from
her. Once or twice, however, it grew so overpowering
that he was obliged to invent some excuse for
leaving the room. When he returned he was quite
calm again, and talked to her very cheerfully of his
hopes and plans of what he would do in the New
World.

Just before they parted, she asked him what was
the feeling of Caroline on the subject of his voyage,
and whether she approved of it, or the reverse. She
had noticed, with much surprise, that though he
talked to her of many things and persons, he had
never once alluded to Miss Wilson.

"Don't ask me any questions about lier/^ he-replied,

pressing lier thin white hand. 'all is at an
end between us ; Caroline is nothing to me, and I can
never be anything to hers

Why, dear ? Have you and she quarrelled ? "
"Xo, Grace, we have had no quarrel ; but that old
story is all over and done with. The man that
Caroline loved was the heir of Castle Cloyne, and I
am only poor Hyacinth Dillon. Is not that a sufficient
answer to your question ? If you were to question
me for ever I could give you no other answer, for
I know of none. Let us drop the subject now and forever,
and not, even to each other, ever breathe her
name again. Little one, you must love me now more
than ever, for in this world no other woman cares
whether I live or die, and my mother's child is all
I have to lean upon and trust''

'^ My dearest brother ! my poor Hyacinth ! " she
said softly ; while, bending towards him, she laid her
head lovingly on his breast. There was no need for
any more words between them. Those two desolate,
lonely orphans understood each other, and sympathised
with each other, as no other human being could do.
But in a few moments he spoke again in his usual
quiet voice, and then she knew that the subject was
put aside for ever, and that page of his history was
finally closed.

A FAMILY COrXCIL. 221

Before leaving her, lie said that as he was going
away early in the morning he would not disturb herat
that hour, but would say good-bye now. He
pressed her to his heart with a passionate clasp, and
kissed her lips and brow and eyes with a yearning
tenderness born of a presentiment that he was doing
^o for the last time. His emotion was so great that
he might have altogether broken down only that
Terry Macnamara, apprehensive of such a result,
appeared at the door, telling him that his presence
was required in the parlour on particular business,
and in the end had almost to force him out of the
room. When Hyacinth went into the parlour he
leant his head on the table, and gave way to all the
sorrow that he had repressed during the day with so
much difficulty. Tears gushed from his sore heart
like rain, and he fairly sobbed like a child.

"Don't mind me, boy; cry away/^ said Terry,
whose own eyes swam in moisture. " It will help to
ease your heart of the hard strain that lay on it all
day, I know very well. Tou need never be ashamed
of such tears; they are the last that you will ever shed,
unless I am greatly mistaken; and that same is a
comfort to think of. To-night you are only a boy, a
poor, heart-stricken boy ; but when you leave this
tomorrow you will leave boyhood behind you, to take

up a man's life, and do a man's work in the world. You
will think and act and work, but you never will cry
again; at least, you will not if you have the mettle
and the stout heart that your father's son ought to
have in him/^

The kind old gentleman did not limit himself to

speaking words of affection and encouragement to his

sorrowful young relative,, but he arranged everything

for him, taking pleasure in going over every little detail,

and leaving nothing undone that he thought would

make the voyage pleasant and comfortable. Nothing

was left to chance, and nothing was forgotten. When

all was done he went with Hyacinth to Liverpool —

though where he got the money that paid his expenses

to that port, and back again, was a mystery that was

never cleared up — went on board the packet that was

to take him to New York, and never left him until the

order was peremptorily given by the skipper for " all

strangers to go ashore.^^ Then the two men — the old

and the young — held each other's hand in a long

yearning grasp, that was more eloquent than any

spoken words could ever be. However, Terry kept a

manful face, and tried to talk as if the parting were

but temporary, and that they were soon to meet again,

for he had determined that the boy should have as

little as possible to cast him down on leaving the land,

and that his last recollections of it should be blended
with pleasant looks, and words of hopeful cheer.

As long as the vessel was in sight, the poor old
man stood on the pier with his white head bared, and
waving his hat with might and main. But when it
was so far away that the figure of Hyacinth, standing
at the side, was but a mere speck that soon faded
away altogether, the cheerful look died out of his face,
and his step lost its firmness and ease. He went back
to his lonely lodgings in a shabby third-rate hotel,
with the weary, jaded look of one for whom the world
held no further interest.

'^ Father and son are both gone now," he muttered
to himself, as he crept along slowly and sadly. "Ay,
father and son, both ! All who ever cared for me are
gone, and I stand alone in my old age — alone and
poor ! God help me ! The best thing that could
happen now is to die before I come to the workhouse,
and be laid in peace with all the rest of the Mac-samara
in the old ruins of Quin Abbey. It must
come to that some day, and I don't care now how soon
that day may be."

MISS Dillon's new home.

He was a simple, country parish priest,

And this good conscience was his only feast.

ISTo worldly wealth had he, no porap or state ;

But though his means were small, his heart was great.

A. FEW days after her brother had left Castle Cloyne,
Grace Dillon found herself well enough to leave the room
in wliicli she lead lain so long ill, and go to the parlour,
where Father O'Rafferty was waiting to receive her.
It was not a long journey certainly, but it tried
her powers of locomotion somewhat, and then she
recognised with a sigh how much her health, at best
never very good or robust, had suffered from the
trying events of the last few months. The priest laid
aside the newspaper he had been reading on her
entrance, and, taking her hand, led her to a sofa
placed in a sunny corner near the window, that looked

out on a garden rich with vegetables of the most
useful kind, and gay with a few hardy, old-fashioned
flowers. He next poured out a glass of wine from a
decanter lying ready on the table, and with a manner
half authoritative and half playful, made her drink it.
Then in order to give her time to recover herself a
little, he took up the paper again, and resumed his
reading where he had left off.

Grace had been often before in the priest's parlour,
but there was a great and noticeable change in it
to-day, from what it was when she had been in it last.
She looked around her in much surprise, as little by
little her eyes took in all the little details of this
change. It was the same room, no doubt, but all the
old furniture had been taken away, and that which
had replaced it, was what had been in her own little
sitting-room at Castle Cloyne. The sofa she sat upon
was her own, and beside it was her work-table, with
her work-box, and desk, laid on it ready for use.
There were two recesses in the wall, one at each side
of the fireplace ; in one was placed her book-case, and
in the, other her piano, with the stool and music-stand
beside it. And, as if the good old man had forgotten
nothing that could give her pleasure, and make
her look upon his house as her home, the portraits of
her father and mother, that hung in the dining-room at

VOL. II. Q

Castle Cloyne, now once more looked down on her
with the old familiar smile.

She saw how it was at once. The priest had
bought all those things at the auction, got them
brought to his own house, and arranged in the
parlour, while she was confined to her room at the
other end of the house. Father O'Rafferty had
sprung from the peasantry — his very name was sufficient
to tell that — and was the son of parents who had
lived and died in a poor cabin. He had not much
learning beyond what had sufficed to qualify him for
his sacred calling, and just as little polish of manners,
for his lot had been cast with the ignorant and poor,
his only parishioners of respectability having been
Mr. Dillon and Terry Macnamara. But under a
commonplace person and rough exterior, he had a
heart as soft and tender as a woman's, overflowing
with the milk of human kindness, and with a sort of
quaint, shy delicacy that was peculiarly his own. He
had built up a second home for this' orphan girl where
she had only hoped to find a shelter ; not, indeed, like
the home she had left, for that was beyond his power,
but still, one where she could live a peaceful, quiet
life, and try to be content, though she could not hope
to be happy. This, indeed, was kindness that she had
not expected ; it surprised, it overpowered her, and

-overcome by emotion, and weak from recent illness,
lie burst into a fit of low, passionate weeping.

"Now , my dear Miss Grace, remember that the
doctor said you should keep very quiet," said the
priest kindly. " This excitement is very injurious to
you in your present weak state of health, and will
serve no purpose but to retard your recovery'

Oh, father, what can I say ? " she cried between
the sobs that almost suffocated her.

Say nothing, dear child ; but lie back on the
sofa, and rest until you are more composedly

^^ But I must speak, if only to thank you for all
your goodness to me and mine."

"Tut, tut; I don't want any thanks. That you
are pleased with the little I have been able to do for
you, and will try to be satisfied and happy in this
poor place, is all the thanks that I look for.^^

When God took my father from me. He did not
leave me quite desolate. Yoa are determined that I
shall miss him as little as possible. ^^

My dear, I am a very poor substitute for your
good ,and worthy father. And pray let me not hear
you say anything more about obligation or gratitude.
The obligation and gratitude are all on my side""

Oh, no, no ! ''

But I say yes ; begging your pardon for cone

2

eradicating you so flatly. Look here, Miss Grace ; that
I am a Christian priest, living in a decent house, and
having a decent coat on my back, instead of being a
day labourer, working with the spade in my hands, I
owe to your family ; and that is no light obligation,
you must own'

She looked at him in great surprise.

"It is perfectly true my dear young lady. My
father was one of the very poorest tenants on the
Castle Cloyne estate, so very poor, indeed, that even
though the rent of his little patch was low, he could
only pay it and keep body and soul together by the
hardest toil — toil so severe and unremitting, that it
aged him, and brought him to his grave while still in
the prime of life. All the property that he died
possessed of, was two goats and an ass. As for the
few sticks of furniture in his cabin, they were fit for
nothing but to make firing of them. There was
a year's rent due of him when he died, worn outby
hardship and privation ; but your grandfather —
God rest his soul ! — who was then the owner of the
estate, never thought of that at all. He had the goats
and the ass and the few sticks sold for what they
would bring, to pay the funeral expenses ; for, said
he, ' poor Jack O'Rafferty was a decent, honest man,
and he must be buried with his own money, and not at

any man's cost. In this lifetime it would grieve him
sorely to think that he should be brought to his last
home, among his own people, by charity money, and it
must not be. He shall not be buried like a pauper
nor in a pauper coffin, but one paid for by his own
money.' That, Miss Grace, was what your good
grandfather said. He never thought of the rent that
was due to him, he only thought of the respect that
was due to the old tenant who was decent and honest,
and who had died on his land. The few things brought
just as much as paid for a decent funeral, and nothing
more. I was at that time a little child of seven years
old, and all the neighbours said there was nothing
before me but to take to the road and beg, until such
time as I would be old and strong enough to work
for my living. But your good grandfather — may
God give his soul eternal rest ! — would not listen to
anything of that kind. He said that I was a delicate
child, weakly and underfed, and that the hardship of
that kind of life would soon make an end of me, as no
doubt it would. So he agreed with the man who
took tiny father's little spot of land to keep me for a
while with his own boys ; which he was very glad to do,
as he was allowed for it in the rent. Mr. Dillon also
provided me with clothes, and insisted that I should
go to school regularly, for he said that though I was

not very strong, I was pretty bright at my book ; at
least the schoolmaster told bim I was, and the goodman
believed it. After a few years, he was so pleased
with the progress I had made — and prompted, too, by
his own benevolent heart — that he sent me as a boarder
to a good classical school, and when I was old enough
to go to Maynooth, he gave me a respectable outfit.
Every summer, when I came back for the vacation, he
received me into his own house, for he said it wasn't
fit that the ' timbers of a priest ' should go any more
to Luke Riley cabin, or associate with his sons, who
were of course, poor boys, as ignorant and wild as a
pack of young colts. When I stayed at Castle Cloyne,
he and his son — your own worthy father. Miss G-race —
treated me, both in private and when there was company,
as if I was a gentleman born, instead of being
the creature of their bounty. When I left Maynooth
finally, after being ordained, your grandfather made
interest with the Bishop to have me appointed to his
own parish of Castle Cloyne, first as curate, and later
on as parish priest ; there were few things the Bishop
would refuse the Dillon ! He gave me the price of a
horse, and also something to start me with, when I got
the parish, and keep the wolf from the door, until the
dues came in. I took the horse as ' handsel ' for good
luck, but the money I paid back as soon as I could d

afford to do so; but never, if I were to live for a
thousand years , could I repay his charity, his untiring,
patient kindness, for many long years. I can only
pray for him, and for the man that was his true and
worthy son, and that I do with all my heart and soul
every day of my life. That is all I can do now for
them, who did so very much for me ! ''

He stopped, completely mastered by his emotion, as
well as by the rush of old memories that came crowding
back upon him. The eyes of his young auditor
again filled up, but she respected his great emotion so
much that she did not break the silence.

^^ So, my dear, we shall say no more about obligation
or gratitude,'^ said Father O^Hafferty, when he
had recovered himself somewhat, "for, as I have
shown you, they are all on my side, and not on yours.
I owe everything under God, except life, alone to
your family, and, only for their charity, would be
nothing but a poor slave, spending my days in toil
and want. I married your parents, I baptised their
children, and from the hour of your birth I have
loved you and your brother very dearly. The only
bright spot in all this dreary round of trouble and
sorrow is, that I am enabled by a good Providence to
offer you protection, and shelter, such as it is. If this
poor cottage were a palace, you would be just as

welcome to it. So, for heaven's sake ! my dear Miss
Grace, don't worry either yourself or me any more by
talking of obligation. Your father's child honours
me highly by making my poor house your home, and
being satisfied with it."

'but, father, you paid for those things out of your
own pocket. The auctioneer surely did not let you
have them for nothing."

''^Pooh, pooh, a mere trifle, I assure you. I am
sorry to say that everything went for nothing, or next
to nothing. The whole country is so steeped in
poverty, that no one, gentle or simple, has any money
now for going to auctions. And when the few persons
who were there heard me bidding for the furniture of
your own parlour and bedroom, they all guessed that
I wanted it for yourself, so not one had the heart to
bid against me, and I got them very cheap indeed,
those little odds and ends that were your own, and are
your own still ; so make your mind easy on that point.
The price of the things is nothing to signify; they
just went for a song, as the saying is."

'^ But I see that all your own furniture has been
put out, to make room for what you call mine."

So much the better, for they are no loss, or rather
that loss is a gain. The parlour has now a respectable,
comfortable appearance that it never had before. I

declare I am quite proud of it' and lie looked round
with a look of supreme satisfaction on kis face.

How can I ever repay you'' ske murmured, with
a quivering lip and broken voice.

By making yourself happy and comfortable in
this poor place. I know very well that I am but
poor company for you, after your good father and
brother, but I will do my best, and no one can do
more. And your cousin, Terry Macnamara, and all
your old friends and acquaintances, will come to see
you, and cheer you up a bit. Ok! never fear; we
shall get on splendidly after a little ; I mean, when
you get used to tke place, and try to forget tke big
house of Castle Cloyne, and all tke comfort and style
that was in it. And when I come some in tke
evenings, after a hard day's duty in tke chapel, orin
attending sick calls, it will be a great recreation
to me to listen to a tune on tke piano, while I am
taking my glass of punch after dinner. I don't care
muck for your grand German and Italian music, and
to tell you tke truth, my dear, I don't understand it
in tke least, and you can amuse yourself with it when
I am away all day. But what I understand, and
'dearly love, is our own grand old Irish music, to my
fancy tke most beautiful in tke world. Tke Scotch
music, too, is very good, and so it ought to be, for

the two are nearly related. I often think that if
there were as much pains and trouble taken to improve
our own music, as there is with the foreign music, it
would beat all the rest of the world. There are some
of the old Irish and Scotch airs that fairly stir up my
blood, old as it is, making me feel as if I was once
more a boy, and there are more of them so sweet
and pathetic, that they breathe out the very soul of
music. I shall be as happy as a king in the long
winter evenings, listening to you playing the 'Cooling,'
or the ' Blackbird,' or ^ Oh ! save me from death
That is the music for my taste."

"Many good judges would think you a great
Goth for having such a tastes said she, with a smile,
for she saw that all this talk was intended to rouse
her up, and amuse her.

Well, so they can. As I am not in high society
nor among great musical critics, I can have my own
ideas on the matter, without fear of being laughed at,
or sneered out of them. But I declare here is Biddy
coming in to lay the cloth for dinner, and in good
time too, for I am as hungry as a wolf, and in no way
disposed to find fault with whatever she brings us.
Biddy," addressing the housekeeper, "I hope you
have something very nice for Miss Dillon ; you know
what a great invalid she has been for some time''

'' Miss, your reverence. There is some beef-tay ana
wildfowl for Miss Dillon an' a bit ov frosted bacon,
an' a white heart of new cabbage with it, for yourself,
father'

'' Capital, Biddy ; nothing could be better. A
dish of frosted bacon with new white cabbage is a
dish fit for a king, especially if his majesty was as
hungry as I am this blessed minute. And, Biddy,
take care that the wildfowl is neither burned to a
cinder, nor red-raw, for Miss Dillon might take a
dislike to it if it wasn't nicely cooked, and have her
dinner spoiled. I'll inspect it myself, and carve it for
her when it is on the table, so you had better look
sharp. When she gets stronger she will see to all
these matters for herself, and, with her usual goodness,
spare me all trouble about the commissariat
department of the house. One mistress in a house
is worth twenty masters, for the best among them is
only a botch."

And in this simple, homely way did the good old
man try to cheer the lonely orphan girl, and make her
feel that she was not a stranger in his house. He
was not a very refined or polished gentleman, this
poor country priest, for he never had the advantage
of the early training that makes a gentleman out of a
rough block, and in after life his associates and

companions, with the exceptions of the Dillon, and
Terry Macnamara, were all among a class that by no
polite fiction or stretch of the imagination could be
called ladies or gentlemen. But he had the highest of
all refinement, that of the mind, and a heart full of
that rarest of all things, the milk of human kindness.
He had not much that was in common with the rich,
or the great ones of the world, and rarely came into
contact with them, but he was quite at home with the
poor, the sorrowful, and the suffering, for he was born
one of that class, and his own early struggles and
experiences had taught him to feel for them, and
to sympathise with them. In the exercise of his
sacred ministry, and particularly in those late times,
this sympathy with distress, this feeling of compassionate
protection, were so constantly called into
action, that they became a part of his nature, and the
ruling principle of his life. And now that he had
got another poor, weak creature to protect, another
desolate person to shelter under the large mantle of
his compassion, he was completely in his element.
Besides all this, he had the consciousness that he was,
in a small way, returning to Grace some of the kindness
that had been shown him by her family for three
generations, and that the bread that they had cast
upon the waters was, through his means, coming back

to her, the poorest and most helpless of them all, after
many days.

There was a true and native chivalry in his treatment
of her, in his manner towards her, and in the
way that he addressed her, that was surprising in one
peasant-born as he was. Never when she was at the
head of her father's table, and dispensing his hospitality,
surrounded by all the style and comfort that
were part and parcel of such an establishment, was.
his manner more deferential than it was now when,,
stripped of everything, she was glad to find an
asylum under his humble roof. He never once
addressed her but as " Miss Grace'' what he had
always called her in the old time, and if he now and
then said ^^my dear" or ''^ my child" to her, it was
done so partly in his quality of her spiritual father
and partly to put her completely at her ease in his
house, which he imagined she might not be if his
manner and language were more formal, and less
friendly and affectionate. But whatever he did, or
whatever he said, he never once forgot that she was
Miss Dillon of Castle Cloyne.

Grateful for his exceeding kindness, and anxious
to gratify him, Grace, whose chief endowment lay in
the possession of " a meek and quiet spirit"" did her
best to put aside the remembrance of her old home.

5. . : f liersfj: cheerfully and willingly tote?
altered forrzTies :.: : ^ surrounding's. Tiioagli
s ;: ^ . „ V : get her kindred, and her

f:.:iier s .-?r prevent her heart from going oyer
the waste of waters to that &r distant land, where the
31 her name and blood was toiling all day
1 „ r n! I ;t of the roughest companions and most
- : endings, yet she did her best to keep

:: ke care of her health, and wait with

7 : . - : Time STOod time when her brother would
r T : : , and they would both be happy together
e. But though she looked forward anxiously

great blessing, it was with a very faint and

:: z ^ !:?pe, that she hardly dared whisper to .
Z: "-5 with a longing, rather than a hope; the
12.1:1:. wHd dream of a happiness that might come to
'tier in some far distant time, so very far away, indeed,
:L latimer melted into a shadowy mist, and in

its place, when it had cleared away, was nothing but
the gray, old, ivy-covered vault, where the Dillon, one
after another, were sleeping their last sleep !

OOMAGB. Uses ASCnSKB, PUkCE.

That man is happy in Its sbaax.
Who is want dad and deanljCed;

Whose njeeessanes bound his care.
And honest la^.-i ir " -■' - —^ near

— t-pTTT c C-C'TTC'Sr.

When we last saw Oonagli MacDermott, s ^
left Iter comfortable quarters at Bawmsi^rc, ^:.d,
closely followed by the faithful Bran, was iacmg the
world once more, with a very sorrowful and heavy
heart. Wholly absorbed by her own bitter thoughts,
and heedless of the rain that came down in a slow,
persistent drizzle, she walked on mechanically, caress
where she went, provided only that she increased the
distance between herself and the false loTcr — and
perjured as well as false — who had so heartlessly
deserted her when he had become rich, and she poor.
Bat though she was flying to some place where she

would neither see nor hear of him, she still could not
bring herself to blame him for having treated her so
ill. It was , she said to herself, "appointed" that
he was to be married to Susie Burke, as surely as it
was that Judy was to be married to 'mad Dick
Considine/^ and she herself was not to be married:
at all ; for the two men who had brought the coffin
with her name on the lid — and it was her maiden
name — counted for nothing. There was another man
in her dream — the fair-haired young priest celebrating
mass ; but she could not, of course, be married to him,,
and what he could have to say, or do, with regard to
her future life, she could not imagine. All she knew
was that he was in her dream. Why should she, even
in her most secret thoughts, blame John Molloy ? It
had been written down in the book of irrevocable fate-that
he was not to be her husband, but Susie's, and in
deserting her and marrying Susie, he was only fulfilling
the fate that had been marked out for him even
before his birth, and from which he could not possibly
escape.

This fond superstition, so deeply rooted in the
vivid poetical imagination of the Irish peasant, did
much to reconcile her to her great trouble, though it
did not and could not make her forgetful of it. She
felt that, now when she would be far away from him,

her mind would be more at peace and her feelings
more easily kept under control than they could possibly
be had she remained at Bawnmore^ to be a
witness of the marriage, and a guest at the wedding-feast.
She set herself with her usual good sense and
sturdy self-reliance, to take some thought for her own
future, and let the dead past bury its dead. She
should earn her own living, and the sooner she set
about it the better. As if in unison with such wholesome
thoughts, the rain gradually ceased, and after a
little time the sun shone out, making everything look
glad and bright with its cheerful beams. The sorrowful
heart of the poor girl grew lighter and more
hopeful as she went on, and throwing the thick shawl,
given her as a protection from the rain by good Mrs.
Burke, back from her head, she drank in new life and
gladness from the soft fresh breeze that played round
her face.

After she had walked for some hours, she began to
feel the sense of hunger — the most imperious of all
sensations — and sitting down on a grassy bank by the
side of the road, she opened the little basket that had
been given her by Mrs. Burke that morning, and
taking out the home-made bread and milk it contained,
began to eat her breakfast with the healthy appetite of
youth, made still more keen by exercise in the open air.

VOL. II. R

While lie and her four-footed companion were
sharing the breakfast very amicably, a young woman
of her own age and class of life came up. Apparently
she was in bad health, for she was thin and pale, and
walked slowly along. When she saw the little group
on the bank, she stopped, and accosted Oonagh with
the usual greeting of the Munster peasantry :

Go manner Dia ruth ! Thou thu thitrsaugh.^' *

God save you kindly, honest woman," answered
Oonagh. ^^ Are you going far ? "

Well, not very far ; only about five miles or so ;
but I'm not well in myself, an' 'tis more than twice
as much if I was strong. Still an' all, I must walk
it, whatever time it takes me to do it."

You don't look very strong, surely, but sit down
here an' rest yourself, an' take share of what God gave
myself," said Oonagh kindly. ^' I have a good deal
left, you see, an' you're heartily welcome to it."

I'm thankful to you all the same as if I took it,
but I'm not long after my own brackish. But I'll
sit down for a while to rest, for I lost my breath
intirely, striven' to climb up that big hill that's out
fornenst you."

" Go manner Dia ruth ! That thu thursaugh." " God
save you ! You are tired."

Lie seated herself on the grass as lie spoke, and
Oonagli went on eating her bread and milk. The
two girls were about the same age, and led on by
the freemasonry that exists always in a greater or
lesser degree with young people of the same sex and
class, they were soon conversing in as friendly a
manner as if they had been acquaintances of longstanding.


"Fm going home to my own people, now,^^ said
the stranger. '^ I was this long time in service
with a decent widda woman, one Mrs. Mulhall, that
lives about a mile at the other side ov that big hill.
I liked my place very well, an' why wouldn't I, for
she is a comfortable woman, that has full an' plenty,
an' no wan was ever stinted in her house. She's a
very plentiful woman, too, an' 'tis aise to live in
her house. But I lost my health, former ! an' I made it
worse by not given' up in time, for I staid on till she
could get somewhat in my place, for she didn't deserve
from me that Fd put her to any inconvenience. But
I was so bad this last couple ov days that I wasn't
able to do much, only a hand's turn about the place
now an' again, an' at last herself said that it was as
good for me to give up, an' go home to my mother
before I was knocked down intirely. I was rale sorry
to lave her in such a hobble, for it might be a while

B 2

before lie gets another girl. You see, lier place is a
good bit in from the road, and very lonesome intirely,
an it isn't every wan looking out for service would
find the way to it at all. I hope she'll soon be able
to get a girl that will suit hers for she Has a large
dairy, an' all the work ov it is too much for herself.
She's getting on in years now, an' all her children
are boys, an' what does boys know ov women's
work ? ''

Fm af ther latin' my situation as dairymaid, an'
I'm looking out for another," said Oonagh, eagerly
catching at a prospect of settling down soon again.
"I was always counted a good dairymaid, an', for
that matter, I could put my hand to any work
about a farm that I'd be set to. I wonder would
Mrs. Mulhall take me in your place ? "

'^ Oh, barra, 'tis herself that will ! You may make
your mind aise about it. 'Tis she that will sing
Garryowen na gloria ' with rale delight, when she an'
you settles wit wan another, an' when she sees you
hanging' up your cloak on the nail behind the dure.
The honest woman is in a great pucker intirely, an'
I'll go bail she'll be as proud as Punch, when a lane,
decent-looking little girl like yourself goes to hire
wit her."

"But I have no character to show her," cried

Oonagh in dismay. " I was never dhruv to be on
anyways flare till ov late, an I came away from
where I was in such a hurry, that I never thought
ov axin^ herself for a character, nor did she offer to
give it to me, for the poor woman expects that TU
go back again to hers

''^Och! what differ does that make? Sure you

can tell her that you met me, an' that I sint you onto

her. I'll ingage the decent woman will be satisfied

wit my recommendation, an' ax you no questions

here or there, only just what wages will you take."

• 'that's just what will shut me, for at present

?m on the sJiaughrcuij an' my f rinds are all far away

born this. But if she's any way shy ov me in regard

^f being a stranger, sure I could get a line from my

dd parish priest. Father O^Rafferty, or fi^om Mr. Dillon,

that was my poor father's landlord, an knows myself

an' all my people. It would be the assist thing in

life''

"Ah! don't mind about that. I'll go bail Mrs.
Mulhall won't put you to any trouble ov the kind.
Sure, ivhen she looTis in your face, that will he character
enough to satisfy her''

Anyhow, I'm better go on to her before any wan
else gets inside ov me," said Oonagh, quite unconscious
of the high compliment that the other had just

as unconsciously paid lier; "an' I can't bat say,
honest girl, that Tm greatly obliged to you for your
civility in putting' me in the way ov getting' another
place so soon'

She rose up briskly from the bank, and shaking
the crumbs from her dress, proceeded to wash her
feet in a little brook that ran past. That done, she
put on her shoes and stockings, which up to this she
had carried in her hand, smoothed down her hair, and
made herself as tidy as her al fresco dressing-room
would permit, in order that she might make a favourable
impression on Mrs. Mulhall.

"Well, good-bye, an' good luck," said her new
acquaintance. "Xow, be sure that you tell Mrk
Mulhall that you're a friend ov mine, an' that it wa ,.
I that sint you to her. I'U come across to see yt
when I get a little stronger, an' phase goodness I'D
find yourself an' herself great friends intirely, an' why
wouldn't ye ? An' you needn't give me no thanks at
all; sure you'd do as much for me if I was in your
place."

Then those artless, unsophisticated girls shook
hands, and parted as affectionately as if they had
been acquainted for years, although they had met
that morning for the first time, and did net even
know each other's names. The delicate srirl went

on slowly towards her home, and Oonagh. in the
direction of Mrs. Mulhall's house. After she crossed
the hill, she had to go on for another mile by a
hohreen that led to the widow's house, a comfortable
cottage of the better class, but in a very secluded and
lonely situation. After half-an-hour's brisk walking,
the active girl opened the half door leading into the
farm-house kitchen, and found there only a decent-looking
elderly woman, who was employed in taking
some newly-made butter out of the chum.

God save all here'' said Oonagh, going into the
kitchen ; '' maybe you are Mrs. Mulhall ? "

My name is Mulhall, sure enough, for want ov a
betters' replied the widow with a pleased smile. " It
was my husband's name, but a dale ov my own people
call me by the name that was on me before I was
married. But, sure, a name is nothing here or there,
an' makes no sort ov diner."

Well, ma'am, I heard that you wanted a girl, anas
I want a place, I thought that maybe we might
shut wan another, so I just came to see you on the
head ov it."

'*Tou come to hear it very soon, for 'tis only a
while ago since the one I had left me."

It was her I met on the road bryant, an' she bid
me come to you at want, an' tell you that it was

herself that sint me to you. She looked to be a very
decent little girl, but she seems to be delicate and
wake in herself, poor thing \''

'troth, she is a decent little girl, as honest as
the priest, an' come of a good stock. I never would
part wit her if she had her health, for I had no fault to
find wit her. But something or other quare came over
the poor rather ov late, an' she wasn't able to doa
hand's turn, though she was rale willing. So I
thought that if she was to go home to her mother
for a start, she might recover herself wit the help ov
her mother's care. I'm heart sorry to let her go from
me, an' 'isn't every girl that'll phase me after her, I
can tell you."

"Sure I'd do my living' best to phase you, an' no
wan can do more than her best.'^

'that's three enough. I'd like to take you in
compliment to the wan that sint you, an', moreover, I
like the look ov you. You seem to be a decent, tidy
girl, an' strong an' healthy to do your work. Do you
know anything ov dairy business ? becase that's what
I want a girl for mostly."

I am a very good hand at it, an' so I ought to
be, for my father had a large dairy, an' I managed it
intirely. He never had any dairymaid or housekeeper
but myself since my mother's death, an' 'tis

little either ov us ever thought that I^d have to goto
service ; " and overcome by a flood of old memories,
the poor girl's voice faltered, and her eyes filled with
tears.

'whisht now, ^a rd gal ! Sure you'll have a home
here wit me' said the good-natured woman. " Just
whip off your cloak, and set to work to make that
butter, while I get ready their dinner for the boys.
They went out to work very fairly, an if I haven't
dinner ready for them when they come in ,
as hungry as hawks, they'll fairly massacre
me''

'^ But I have a dog, ma'am," said Oonagh timidly,
pointing to Bran as she spoke. All unconscious that
he was in the house only on sufferance, he had already
made himself quite at home, and was stretched at full
length before a blazing fire. " Sure he's my poor
father's dog, that went in an' out wit him, an'
followed him to fair an' market. People says 'tis foolish
ov me to keep him, but so itself, I couldn't bear to
part wit him."

^^ Oyeh, listen to her ! What a speech she's making'
about the bit that a dog would ate. We're not so
poor, thank goodness, as to think ov such a mane
turn as to grudge his vittles to a dog belonging to any
wan under the roof wit us. Sure there's plenty ov

parties an' sour milk an' odds an' ends ov fat bacon
an' cabbage a couple ov times a week and lie may-take
bis share wit the pigs. We'll never miss it, nor
twice as much, so let bim stay wit you an' welcome.
You persuade the poor baste knows himself that be's
to stay, for be made himself very comfortable already.
So now, my good girl, that is settled, an' you can
tackle at want to the butter, for 'tis grown' late,
an' I must look about the boys' dinner. As for the
wages, we'll settle that by-an'-by, an' I don't think.
we'll bave much difference on the bead ov it."

Without another word, Oonagb took off ber cloak,.
hung it on the nail behind the door, and laid ber
bundle and little basket aside in a corner. Sbe then
tucked up ber sleeves, and washing ber bands, set
about making the butter with all the dexterity and
quiet self-possession of a trained dairymaid. Mrs.
Mulball, in the intervals of ber own employment,
watched ber closely, without however appearing todo
so, and then thought within herself that if ber new
servant was as capable of doing every other sort of
household work as sbe was of making butter, sbe
would be a very valuable servant indeed.

When Oonagb went to bed that night in the little
crib that bad been occupied by ber predecessor the
night before, it was with a feeling of peace and rest

that almost surprised herself. She had set out in the
morning sorrowful and homeless, and knowing not
where she was to go, or where to find shelter for the
night, and now she found herself comfortably settled
in a quiet house that promised to be not unlike a home
to her , and where she could earn her bread in honest
independence. The widow was a kind motherly
woman, somewhat on Mrs. Burke's pattern, and her
sons were shy, silent young fellows, who were not
much indoors, and when there gave very little trouble
to anyone. Before she laid herself down to rest, the
poor girl, with unfeigned piety, thanked God for His
great goodness in having led her by the hand, as it
were, to such a refuge, where she hoped to live in
content and peace, though she could never again be
happy. She was, besides, unspeakably glad to be faraway
from Bawnmore, and out of sight and hearing of
the wedding festivities there. She did not grudge
Susie the great happiness of being John Molloy's
wife — soft little Susie, who was so gentle and affectionate
! — but she felt that she could not have borne
to witness it, at least not at present, while her
wounded heart was so sore. But she knew that she
would get over all that in time, and be able to meet
them both in the days to come, with no stronger or
warmer feeling than the love of a sister. God had

been good to lier beyond all her expectations, and sbe
would, she thought, show her gratitude to Him by
patting all angry and discontented feelings from her
mind, and try to look back no more on her old life.

As time wore on, Oonagh and her mistress came
to like each other more and more. The widow found,
to her agreeable surprise, that the servant she had
lighted on in so sudden and strange a manner, was
not only as good as the one whose loss she had so much
deplored, but in many respects greatly her superior.
She gave no encouragement to "bachelors' and,
therefore, had not any of them coming after her;
neither had she any '' f players," for she knew no one
in that strange place, and made no new acquaintances.
These were cardinal virtues in the eyes of Mrs. Mulhall,
who could see no higher aim in life than to amass
money for her sons, and see them all well established
in the world before she was taken away from them.
Hard work, and careful thrift, were the watchwords
of her camp, and the governing principles of her life,
and she fully expected that all in her house should
conform themselves to that standard as strictly as she
did herself She had fought many hard battles with
her handmaidens in the times gone by, the casus belli
being the aforesaid subject of bachelors and followers,
to which were added the habit of saving" out late on

Sundays after mass, taking an extra sleep in the
morning when there was a pressure of business, and
other enormities of a similar character, to wliicli young
girls of the servant class seemed to " seriously incline."
But here was a paragon of a servant, a young girl who
never grumbled at hard work, or early hours, a very
handsome girl who did not care for dress or amusement,
and who, in the matter of bachelors, seemed to
have a heart of stone. The good woman was never
weary of congratulating herself on her good fortune
in having found such a treasure, but her joy was
often dashed by the fear that Oonagh, owing to the
temptation of getting higher wages elsewhere, or from
the unaccountable longing for change natural to the
youthful feminine mind, might be induced to leave
her.

It would be too much if I were to say that
Oonagh's life at the Mulhalls' was a very pleasant or
happy one. But it was peaceful, or rather stagnant,
and the days went by in one dull round of work,
which, though not too laborious, was yet incessant
and monotonous in the extreme. One day was the
twin-brother of the one that had gone before, and
the one that was to follow it, and the only variety
in the girls life was that which was caused by the
changes of the seasons. Yet with this bare and

barren life she was content. She knew that she
should earn her bread by the labour of her hands,
and that for one place where she might be better
off, and have more brightness and variety in her life,
there were hundreds of others where she would be
worse lodged, worse fed, and worse treated, than
she was in the widow's house. If she had to work
hard, she could scarcely complain when her mistress
worked just as hard by her side. She was well and
kindly treated by all the family, as much so as if she
were one of themselves, and except that she was
paid her wages punctually when they became due,
she could hardly realise that she was only a servant,
instead of being a daughter of the house. But
though she was young and very fair — what woman
that is so is not fully conscious of the gift ? — yet she
put away the natural joyousness of youth, and the
pride that it takes in its beauty. Her heart was dead
to all earthly love, slain by the cruel hand that had
manifested " with her own. And though she now
fully recognised how weakly and unworthily she had
bestowed her first and last love, yet the gift had been
free and spontaneous, and she could neither recall it
again, nor give it away to another. It had passed out
of her own keeping for ever, and now she was bankrupt
and had no more to give. She could love no

more. Never again could living man be to lier what
the perjured and treacherous lover of her youth had
been. That episode of her life was past and done
with, and had left behind it a very bitter memory, a
wound that was not the less painful though she
kept it covered up out of sight, and asked no one
for sympathy and pity. She had nothing now on
earth to hope or care for ; her life henceforth was to
be a toilsome and solitary one, and when she died, there
would not be anyone after her to shed a tear for her
loss. It was a very sad life for one whose capacity for
loving was so great, and whose heart was so large and
true; but she faced it bravely, and with the patient
courage and endurance that come to some women like
a second nature. But these are not of the ordinary
type, nor are they often met with. They belong to
the purest and noblest type of womanhood, and to
such alone is given that most rare and wonderful
equality "to suffer and be strong. ^^

OONAGH HEARS SOME NEWS.

I thought that my heart was surely dead,

In a grave where sorrow could come no more ;

That the love of my youth had long since fled
To where youth itself had past on before.

But thy words have roused up my heart to life,
Out of the grave where so long it lay ;

And love, with its sorrow, and joy, and strife,
Comes back again as in youth's bright day.

And now the time had come when the hearts of menin
the stately hall, as well as in the poorest cabin, were
to be tried in the fiery furnace of tribulation, for the
Famine reigned supreme in the laud. Scarcely anyone
was exempt from the terrible visitation, which
percolated through all ranks and classes with more
or less intensity, though, of course, it pressed hardest
and heaviest on the poor. Those who had been rich
now found themselves straitened, and pinched to the

utmost point of endurance and those who had been
in the ranks of the poor were now reduced to a choice
between two evils, the poor-house or the grave.

To the lonely farm of the widow Mulhall, the
potato blight came as silently and as surely as it did
to the fields of her neighbours, for it had no respect
to persons, and spared no man's land. With sinking
hearts, she and her sons looked on while their potato
gardens were blackening in the sun, knowing by the
foul stench that rose from them how complete had
been the destruction. It was in vain to expect that
even the cattle would endure to eat food so diseased
and putrid as the tubers that were swiftly rotting
under those withered stalks. In the face of this
wholesale ruin, Oonagh was scarcely less concerned
than were the Mulhalls, for they had been very kind
to her in their own undemonstrative fashion, and
under their roof she had found a secure shelter for
nearly two years, earning her bread in peaceful
obscurity, and without even a wish to change so quiet
and monotonous a life. In their season of prosperity,
they had received her when she came to them friendless
and homeless, and now in their adversity she clung
to them, and made common cause with them. She
worked harder and for much longer time than before
if that could be possible, just as if she was a members

II. ^

of the family instead of a servant, and cheerfully submitted
to many shortcomings and privations that
were unknown in the old days of plenty. Soon her
wages were paid less punctually than before, and at
longer intervals, until, at last, so very large a sum was
due to her that she hardly expected it would ever be
paid. She knew that what little money was to be
had should go in paying the rent, or for the purchase
of food, so she never asked for any; and Mrs. Mulhall,
seeing — as she could not fail to do — her patience,
unflagging industry, and sterling worth, cleaved to
her, and leant upon her as if the girl had been indeed
lier daughter.

Another summer came round, and the people who
lead — hoping against all hope — planted potatoes in the
previous spring, now saw, with a dismay no words can
describe, all the symptoms of the deadly blight reappear,
and knew that once more the crop that alone stood
between them and starvation was irrevocably doomed.
The general ruin was complete, and beyond all hope
of being retrieved, even by the severest self-denial, or
the hardest and most unremitting toil. Those who
could afford to emigrate did so, and those who could
not, gave up all further struggle, and either went into
the poor-houses, or perished by slow starvation in the
loneliness of their miserable hovels. The country

swarmed with beggars, clad, or to speak more truths
ulla, half covered by filthy rags, fit for nothing but
to be thrown into the fire. The appearance of those
wretched people spoke for them more eloquently than
any words could have done. There were no cases of
imposture to be discovered and denounced. In the
wasted limbs, the sunken features, the yellow 
skin drawn tightly over the protruding
bones of the face, their pitiful story was written in
characters that could not be mistaken. And with all
this acute suffering there was, strange to say, a profound
apathy, a weary listlessness that made no
complaint, no outcry, no struggle for life. With
some it was a sort of dogged endurance, with others
it was an utter carelessness of what might happen, and
an indifference to life, which was hardly surprising,
considering what little joy life had ever had for them,
and what a fearful tragedy it had become. But with
others — and these were by far the greatest number —
it was the most sublime patience, which had its root in
that religion which was all that was left to them, and
to which they clung with unswerving and passionate
devotion. Never in all their sufferings did the Irish
people during the Famine time lose their faith in God ;
they never despaired of His mercy, and firmly believed
that in another world — that mysterious world beyond

s 2

the grave ! — they would be amply and gloriously
compensated for all the trials and afflictions they
had so patiently borne in the days of their terrible
probation.

It was towards the close of the second year of the
Famine,, and when things were at their worst all over
the country, that an incident occurred that had the
effect not only of stirring up once more all her old
feelings in Oonagh's heart, that she had imagined were
at rest for ever, but of changing the whole current of
her future life.

The hour of noon had passed, and the widows sons,
after eating their scanty dinners, had gone back
again to their work out of doors. Mrs. Mulhall was
employed in washing crockery, and cleaning up the
kitchen after dinner, and Oonagh was at her usual
task of making butter, not a very laborious one now,
for there were but two milch cows on the farm. All
the rest had been sold to pay the rent, and buy foods
they were at work, the sunshine that streamed in
through the open door was suddenly obscured, and
looking up they saw a woman who, though apparently
poor, was still not a mendicant, and uttering the
mechanical phrase of '^ God save all here's came in
and sat down near the door. Neither the widow nor
Oonagh had ever seen her before, but they took pity

on her, for she was old, and seemed weary from
travel, and exhausted by the heat of the day. Her
bare feet were covered with dust as if she had walked
a long distance, and the hood of her cloak was flung
back as if to let the air play upon her face.

"tis a close day, honest woman's said Mrs.
Mulhall; "and you look very tired. Did you come
a long journey ? ''

Ay, in troth, an I have a long step before I
come to the ind ov my journey. But I was kilt
intirely wit the hate, an' a man that I met below on
the road would me that I'd find a decent house above
the hohreen, where I'd be let rest myself, an get a
drink ov milk for the ain' ; so I thought I may as
well come on, an' rest myself until the cool ov the
evening, an take again to the roads

You're welcome, sure. But 'tis a pity you didn't
come a little earlier, an' you could take your share
ov what we had for our own dinner. But if you
take a piece ov the brown cake that's just off the
girdle, an a piggin ov the new buttermilk that the
little girl is taking out ov the churn, you can have
■'em an' welcome. I'm sorry I have nothing else to
offer you."

^^Alliloo ! 'Tis myself that's glad to get it, an' it
isn't in every house that Fd be offered the like. May

God increase comfort to yoa ! I didn't ate a bit
since I left my own place at five o'clock this morning',
an Fm ever since on the fat."

'why, thin, Tm rale glad I had that much bread
left after the dinner, an' 'tis just a chance, for it
might as well be the other way these hard times;"
and suiting the action to the word, the widow brought
the bread and milk and laid them on a chair beside
the stranger. Then she drew forward another chair,
as she said to rest herself, but in reality to enjoy
a bit of gossip that she dearly loved, although owing
to the secluded situation of her house it did not often
fall in her way.

'' Is your place far from this ? " she asked in a
little time, when the stranger, having satisfied the
first keen cravings of her appetite, began to eat
more slowly than at the commencement of her
meal.

'' Wish, 'tis no more than twelve mile or so, but
Vm. not young an' strong as I was want upon a time,
former ! I'm grown' ould, an' I'm wake wit want an'
hardship, an' that's why I spent the whole morning'
till now striven' to get over that twelve miles.
Ochone ! when I was a colleen oge, 'tis little I'd
think ov it, an' then to be up all the night if there
was a fiddler or a piper to the fore. But sure it

isn't the same sort ov world now that it was in them
days," and she broke off with a heavy sigh.

"It is changed wit us all' said the widow. "Sard
no wan ever thought weM live to see such terrible
times."

"Though I'm poor enough, God sees, still an' all
Pm not a beggar' continued the strange woman,
"an I'm going' to St. Bridget's Well at the cliffs
ov Mother, to give rounds there. My little boy has a
white swelling' in his knee, an' the doctors at the
infirmary shut me word to take him home, for that
they can't do nothing' more for him. So when everything
else failed me, I took it in head to go to
St. Bridget's Well, an' give rounds there in her
honour, in hopes that the good God wouldn't refuse
so holy a saint if she prayed to Him for my poor boy.
St. Bridget is a great saint, surely, an' I hard ov
wonderful cures done on people lecount ov rounds
given at her well up in Mother. I seen some ov
the cures myself wit my own two eyes, thanks be to
God an' St. Bridget ! My boy isn't able to go himself,
nor to put a f ut under him ; but, sure, when
I'm going' in his place 'tis all the same as if he went
himself. An' who knows but he might yet be able
to throw away the crutches, an' do his day's work as
well as the best ov them. Och, marine ! if I could

only live to see Mm stand up straight, an put his fut
on the ground, I didn't care how soon it pleased the
Lord to sind for me""

Is he the only boy you have ? '^

^' The only wan, former I I have a couple ov girls,
but what good are they to manage a little spot ov
ground ? Sure, 'tis to the poor-house myself an themselves
must go unless Patsy recovers his health'

"Why, then, I suppose so."

'^ Och ! what else ? As it is, we're nearly two
years back in the rent, an' there isn't a tail on the
land, barren' what belongs to the ass that brings a
load of turf a couple ov times a day to the town, wit
wan ov the little girls, an' keeps us in the grain ov
alla male. Oh, wish, my heavy hatred down on
it for alla male ! 'Tis only the birth of hunger that
would ever make any poor Christian ate it at all, an'
never any sort ov kitchen wit it but just a grain ov
salt."

You have just as bad a story to tell ov your own
place, honest woman, as what we have here. An'
along wit the hunger, there's a power ov sickness
going', an' the saver is very bad about here. Is there
much sickness in your place ? "

Oyeh, lay me alone ! 'Tis we have the sickness,
an' no ind of saver, the Lord save us ! An' what

admiration is that ? The poor hasn't a bit to put into
their mouths but that dirty alla male, an' not
enough even ov that same They're dying' over wit
us ov the fevers just like chickens that would have
the pip."

That's a poor story Grod relieve us ! ''

Sure enough it is. There's a very decent couple
down in the saver, both ov 'em, an' very bad when I
was coming' away. One ov 'em wasn't expected to last
the night, God bless the hearers, and the place we tell
it in ! "

'^ An' who are they, ergo ? "

He's wan John Molloy, himself. Sure they put
the name ov Shawn Soogagh on him, in regard ov his
been' such good company, an' mighty pleasant intirely.
His wife was a girl ov the Burkes, an' a nate party
little girl she was when she married him. They boswell
off then, for he had good manes that he got bethe
death ov his brother, an ould bachelor, an' she
had a very good fortune for a country girl. But he
run through it all, as I hear tell, sporting' an' gallivantin'
at fair an' market, in place ov minding' his bisness, an'
they never knew where they wor till they wor put out
ov their land. They're poor enough now, God open a
gap for them, an' for every wan that's in trouble."

'^ Faix, every wan is poor now, if you go to that ov

it' said Mrs. Mulhall. '^ This day two years I had a
dozen fine milkers in my dawn, an' now I have only
two's

I often think that the ind ov the world is comines*
said the strange woman, with a far-away look in her
weary eyes. " But sure, if my boy got back his health,
I'd never complain ov anything ever again, but strive
to pull on, if I had only a male a day. Dear knows, it
isn't much along wit that as it is. But sure, whatever
God does, 'isn't for a poor sinner like me to go again
His holy will. But I must be going' now, for I have a
long road to put over me before night, but thanks to
the rest, and the good vittles you ga' me, I'm almost as
fresh as when I set out this morning'. It was a good
place to come to, surely. That the harm ov the year
may pass you by, honest woman, and every wan that's
under your roof ! "

'the day is very hot still, an' you're ould an'
wake," said good-natured Mrs. Mulhall. " You're
very tired as it is, an' if you take to the road again
to-day, you'll be fairly knocked up, an' not be able to
give the rounds you promised. Just stay where you
are for to-night in the name ov God, an' you can folly
on wit your journey tomorrow."

Why thin, 'a vanities, 'tis a good offer, an' I won't
go to break your word;" and the poor weary old

woman threw off her cloak, and laid her bundle on
the table behind her.

"Mrs. Mulhall, could I spake just wan word to
you ? '^ said Oonagh, from her own little room.

"An welcome. I hope there's nothing wrong
wit you, poor girl," replied the widow, passing into
the little room near the kitchen where Oonagh always
slept. The girl, usually so quiet and composed, stood
beside her bed with a wild scared look on her face
which was deathly pale.

Could you do without me for a few days, Mrs.
Mulhall ? " she said timidly.

Why thin badly, Oonagh. I never could come at
all the work myself without some help''

"Don't say that, missis, ashore, for I must go
Such you know yourself that only I was hard pushed,
I wouldn't ax it."

But are you hard pushed ? Don't run away from
me, Oonagh, unless you have rale cause."

"I have rale cause. I won'fc cesare you, or hide
anything from you. The poor couple that the woman
outside said wor down in the saver are f rinds ov mine
an' she said moreover that wan ov 'em wasn't expected
to get over the day. She didn't say which ov 'em it
was, but sure 'tis all wan. That poor girl is a cousin ov
mine, an' she an' all her people wor three an' firm f rinds

to me when I wanted friendship, an' that's better than
cousins any day. When I walked in to them a poor
orphan, wit my ' God save all here without house
or home, or a friend to turn to but themselves, they
gsb' me a hearty welcome, an' as long as I was on
their flare, it was the same to me as my father's
house. I might be wit 'em still if I liked, for it was
my own wish to go, but I took a robin' turn into my
head, an nothing else would satisfy me. I knew
the boy himself, too, when I was a slip ov a girl.
An now they're both ov em down in the sickness,
an maybe as it is the saver, they have no wan to
nurse em, or give 'em a drink. I must go to them,
missis ashore machine, or my heart will break
thinking' ov 'em''

^^Why thin, child, if that's the way ov it, go,
an' God speed you, an' bring you back again safe
to me ! I wouldn't be the manes ov stopping' you
for the full ov my ]jrasheen^ ov golden guineas, for I
might be sorry for it when I'm lying' on my own deathbed.
Avock ! I'll have enough to repent ov that
day, without having' that put on top ov all the rest.
But be said by me, an' wait for the cool ov the
evening' — do now, ashore'

PrasJceen — Apron.

'^ Oh ! no, no. Fll be almost there in the vermin' ;
an' you heard her tellin' how badly I'm wanted.
God be wit you, 'a vanities till I come back again
in a few days."

Well, the sooner the better. But stop a bit ;
wouldn't you want to bring a trifle ov money wit
you ? The strange woman said that they wor very
poor."

I'm bringing a three-pound note an' some silver.
'Tis all I have now."

Bless an' save us little girl ! how far would that
go in a saver house ? I'll run for another pound
while you're getting' yourself ready. 'Pon my conscience
! you'll want it all, an' maybe as much more
to the back ov it, before I see your face again. Sure,
you needn't spend it if there's no occasion."

'^ Good-bye, an' God bless you for letfcin' me go,"
said Oonagh. 'you'll see that I'll work twice as
hard when I come back, to make up for all this."

Oyeh ! don't spake ov that at all. You're wit
me now for two years, and this is the first holiday you
ever axed me to give you. 'Twould be hard to refuse
you, an' moreover, when you're in such trouble. An'
if you find that poor couple as bad as what the woman
outside in the kitchen says they are, you needn't fret
yourself about making' a little delay. I'll get oa

bravely till you come back, never fear. An' now,
honey, as you are bint on the road, the sooner you go,
the sooner you'll be at your journey's ind. An' may
God speed you, an' sind you back safe ! "

With a quick step but a very heavy heart,
the girl passed down the path that led to the public
road. She had twelve miles to walk and the day was
very hot, but to one who was young and strong, with
a stout heart and resolute will, these things were
nothing. So she stepped out at a smart pace that
soon left the widow's house far behind her. Her eyes
were brimming over, but she could not indulge in that
luxury of women, '^ a good cry." She wiped away the
drops as they fell, without ever slackening her pace fora
moment. Her anxiety to get on was so great, that
she never paused ; it seemed as if every step she took
gave her fresh strength and energy.

OONAGH GOES ON A JOURNEY.

A fearful gift upon thy soul is laid,
"Woman ! A power to suffer and to love.
Therefore thou canst so pity.

Anonymous.

OoNAGH never slackened her pace until she came to
the nearest town, and then only for a few moments to
buy tea, sugar, candles, and, lastly, a bottle of good
port wine. The purchase of those absolute necessaries
reduced one of her notes to a few shillings; but
though her purse was lightened, it made her heart
glad to know that she was bringing nourishment and
comfort to her sick friends. Notwithstanding her
intense anxiety to get forward on her journey, she
was compelled after a little time to proceed more
slowly, lest she should be knocked up by walking too
fast in the extreme heat of the day. But in a couple
of hours the sun began to decline, the heat got less

trying, and lie was able to push, on again with
increased speed. With feverish anxiety she counted
all the mile-stones as she sped along, and absorbed by
one sole desire to get on, and animated by the hope of
arriving in time to be of use to those she loved in
their great extremity, she never thought of the length
of the journey.

In asking Mrs. MulhalPs leave to set out on her
mission of charity, she had spoken of her love for
her cousin, and her desire to be of use to her, but
though this was true, it was not all the truth. Much
as she loved Susie, she loved Susie^s husband a great
deal more. He had been the lover of her youth, the
only man, with the exception of her father, that she
had ever loved. She had given him up silently, when
her own self-respect and womanly pride had told her
that it was the right thing to do. She could not have
borne to interfere with Susie^s happiness, or give a
wound to the affectionate heart that had always loved
her dearly. She had stolen away from them like a
thief when they were rich and happy, and now in their
poverty and desolation she was returning to them,
with no thoughts in her heart but those of kindness
and helpful sympathy, and a firm resolution to be a
true and loving sister to them. She never thought
at all of the danger she incurred by attendance on

persons smitten with malignant typhus fever, or of the
fatigue and hardship she should inevitably endure in
the course of her labour of love. The large heart of
the girl had no place in it for such selfish considerations
as these. She had health and strength and
great love to bring to the performance of the task she
had set herself and the issue of it she left in the hands
of God.

Notwithstanding that she made all possible haste,
it was very late in the evening when she arrived at the
end of her journey. Her first proceeding, then, was
to find out where the Molloys lived, and for this
purpose she went into a very decent farm-house not
far from the road. As she stood at the door, a woman,
who was the only person visible, came forward, and
seeing that she was evidently very weary, civilly
invited her to come into the kitchen, and rest herself.
But Oonagh's whole soul was bent on going to her
sick friends as soon as possible, so she declined
the invitation.

"I'm looking for the house ov one John Molloy
hereabouts; and Fd be thankful to you, honest
woman, if you would point it out to me,'^ she said.

Is it the man that goes by the name of Shawn
Soogagh ? for there are two or three ov the name in
this parish."

VOL. II. "^

The very same."

'why, thin, there's not much that's 'pleasant'
about the poor boy ov late times, God relieve him, an'
both ov em ! They are down in the sickness, an' so
bad that Vm. in thread they won't either ov 'em get
over it."

'' Have they any wan to look af ther 'em ? '^ asked
Oonagh with a calmness that surprised herself.

Sorra wan but the good God."

As you have so much f eelin' for 'em, I suppose
you go to see 'em now an' then ? "

"I would if I had my own will, an' no one to
think ov barren' myself. But this man ov mine is
terribly in thread ov the saver, for a good many ov
his own people died ov it, an' he swore that if I went
next or nigh them, he wouldn't let me back again into
the house among the children an' himself. But when
he goes off to his work fairly in the morning', and is
fast asleep at night, I make a run over to their place,
an' bring a jug of milk wit me, for they have great
thirst on 'em. But I couldn't stay long there, though
indeed I'd like to do it, for my husband is a very
contrary man in himself, an' can't put up wit any-wan
going' again him at all."

Show me where they live, honest woman, for I'm
a friend ov theirs, an' I'm come a long distance to

nurse them through the sickness' cried Oonagh,
almost trembling with impatience.

"Sure, I'll go myself to show you the way, an'
welcome. I had the jag of milk ready, an' was to
take it before himself came in from his work. You
haven't far to go, for 'tis quite convenient."

She took a large jug of milk, fresh from the cow,
off the dresser, and drawing the door on the latch so
that the pigs would not be able to get in during her
absence, she walked on by Oonagh's side slowly, for
it was now dark.

"You said you wor a friend of this poor couple ? "
she said with kindly interest. She appeared a good-hearted
creature, but in mortal terror of her lord and
master, who evidently ruled his family with no very
gentle hand.

I'm related to the poor girl herself, an' long ago
I'd be wit her, if I only knew how bad things wor
wit her. It was only to-day that I hard they worth
ov 'em down in the sickness from a travelling'
woman that came in to rest herself. So I only threw
my cloak over my head, an' come away at want. It
was hard on the decent woman I'm in service wit tolet
me go, for she has a good dale to do, an' no wan
but myself to help her ; but she's a good, kind soul, an'
when she seen how unaisy I was, she only said Godspeed

me. I^m glad I got lier consent, but all the
same Fd come whether I got it or no/^

I suppose so'

"Fake an' sure I would. Is there any child at
all in this misfortune house ? ''

"Wish, there is, God look on it ! Wan dawned,.
delicate little scrap ov a thing, that I'm thinking
won't be very long behind 'em. He was born a wake
little object, an' he never got any way strong, for the
poor mother never had anything to give him but the
alla male, an' sure what good is that ? "

Hadn't they any milk to give their delicate little
child ? "

Sorra drop ov milk they had for many a long
day. The only cow they had was canted for the rent,
an' it gave her such a turn that she took her labour
sudden, an' her poor little baby came into the world
before his time. They pulled on middling', howsomever,
as long as the parties lasted, but when they wor gone
the poor couple went to the bad intirely. She hadn't
a screed ov clothes on her , an' the wild look of the
hunger was in both her eyes. Many a time, when
she'd be going' past the dure, I'd make her come in to
give her a taste of vittles, but 'tis little the poor
rather would take for herself, only hiding' it in her
apron to bring home to the child."

An didn't Jolin do nothing to support his
family ? ''

"Erra, what could the poor boy do? Now an'
again hdM get a day's work from the farmers about
here, but it wasn't often, an' the wages wor so low,
that what he aimed went neither here or there. 'Tis
little work he could do, for he got very wake when he
hadn't the food to keep him up, though to tell the
truth ov him, he'd work if he was able''

Oonagh closed her eyes, and felt as if she was on
the point of fainting, but she strove hard to conquer
the weakness, for she knew that everything depended
on her strength and courage.

'^ Where is this poor child now ? " she asked in a
voice that struggled to be firm.

*' Asleep in my house along wit my own children.
I took him home wit me the day his mother fell sick,
an' he's wit us ever since. I was greatly in thread
that himself would object to it, an' sind away the poor
little rather again, but he didn't. He's a quare man
in some ways, still an' all he has good turns in him.
We're only poor struggling' people, but we'd be harder
set than what we are, when we'd miss the drop ov
milk that a little child ov two years old would drink
from morning till night."

May God reward you, honest woman, ao' rise up

friends for your own cliildher when they most want
it ! " exclaimed Oonagh, pressing the hand of her
companion.

'^Eyeh, sure, that's nothing at all. I'm only heart
sorry that I can't do any more for the poor couple.
But here we are at their house, an' here's the jug of
milk for you. I'd go in wit you, but himself wil be
coming' home to supper, an' if I'm not in the house
before him, he'll be like nothing in the world buta
bull in the pound. But as soon as ever he's off
to his work in the momin', I'll be surely hither to see
how ye all get through the night. Take care ov the
stones going' up to the dure, an' see that you don't
tumble into a little brook that's a wan side the house."

She went away back to her home, and Oonagh,
with her basket of groceries in one hand, and the
jug of milk in the other, made her way as well as
the increasing darkness woidd allow her, to the door,
which was wide open. There was no light within
but such as came from a few half-burned sods of
turf, that were smouldering on the hearthstone.
Guided by this faint light she went straight towards
it, and laying the jug down on the floor, felt in her
basket for one of the candles she was so provident as
to have brought with her. As soon as it was lighted,
she looked round for a candlestick to put it in, but

seeing none, she stuck it into an empty bottle that
stood beside the one pane of cracked and dirty glass
that did duty for a window. Then, with the light
in her hand, she looked about her, and her heart
sunk at the scene of misery that presented itself.
There was an old table on three legs, a straw chair,
a couple of stools made of twisted straw, a few of
the most necessary kitchen utensils, and in a distant
corner was a most wretched-looking bed, with an old
chest that served the purpose of a table beside it. A
couple of wooden ^'piggins/' and some few articles
of the cheapest crockery ware, completed the list of
the furniture. The thatch was hanging down from
the roof in many places, and the walls, originally
built of mud and rubble, had never been either
plastered or whitewashed, and were now perfectly
black from the combined effects of time and turf
smoke.

Oonagh had latterly seen a great many poor cabins,
but none of them were half so bad as this most
wretched place. As if to complete the horror of such
an abode, a sickening odour, that was most offensive,
pervaded the air, almost intolerable to one who had
but just come in out of the pure, sweet atmosphere of
the summer evening.

It was only by degrees she was able, with the

imperfect light of the candle, to take in all that I have
tried to describe in a few words. After a li ;the she
advanced to the bed, and laid the candle on the chest
beside it, but in the shadow, so that its light might
not awake its sleeping occupant. With a bursting
heart and hushed breath she looked down on the
miserable wreck that lay before her. Was this
starved-out creature, dying not less surely of famine
than of disease on those filthy rags, the soft, fair girl
who had been the companion of her youth ? Was
this wasted woman, prematurely aged, through whose
yellow, shrivelled skin the sharp bones were working
their way, the beautiful Susie Burke, who, reared in
comfort, had never known what pain or sorrow meant,
until her wedding day ? All that remained of her
former beauty was the rich golden hair, that even
sickness and neglect could not deprive of its silky
gloss. It was a sad sight, and as Oonagh looked on
it she compressed her lips tightly together, lest she
should scream aloud in the greatness of her anguish
and horror.

She sat down on the chest beside the bed, dumb
and tearless, unable to do anything but think. She
remembered as it if were but yesterday the evening
she had come to Bawnmore, footsore and weary, and
when Susie, with a cry of joy, had cast herself into

her arms in the warmth of her welcome, and insisted
that she should share her own bed. How loving and
sisterly Susie had been to her, not only then, but for
all the . time that they had remained together ; how
she had striven to make the desolate girl forget her
orphanhood, and make herself at home by a strange
hearth. It all came back as in a panorama, scene after
scene, and kindness following upon kindness. Nothing
was forgotten. How could it be, when it all had
happened only three short years ago ?

And while yet those sorrowful memories were
crowding on her mind, Susie awoke, and by the faint
smile that stole over her face, she showed that she
recognised who it was that was watching beside her.

*^Do you know me, thrifure machree?''^ said
Oonagh, as she stooped down to kiss the wasted cheek.

^' Oonagh ! Oonagh 'a colleen clhuv hellish !''f
replied Susie faintly, " you wor a long time, Oonagh,
but I knew you'd come at last,"

Oh ! sure long ago Td come if I only knew how
it was wit you ; you may be sure ov that. Oh Shusy,
my hearths darling, why didn't you sind for me when
sou got sick ? '^

Thrifure machreeSister of my heart.

t 'A colleen dJiuv dheelish—Mj darling dark girl.

'^ Give me a drink, Oonag"h ; Fm lost wit the
truth. I think there's some milk on the chest near

you."

Oonagh looked with disgust on something in a
bowl beside the bed. It had been milk in the
morning, but now, owing to the heat of the
weather and the close air of the cabin, was of
the consistency of liver, and covered over with flies.
In a moment she had knocked the top off a bottle of
the wine in her basket, by striking it on the edge of
the chest, and pouring some of it into a cup, held it to
Susie's lips, who drank it all with feverish eagerness*
The generous liquor did its work, and, in a few
minutes, the poor girl was so far revived as to be able
to press the loving arms that were cast around her,
and to speak a few words.

"Did you see John, Oonagh ? ^'

'^No, avourneeUy where is he ? ^^

In the little room inside," and she pointed feebly
with her lean forefinger to a place separated from the
outer kitchen by a mud partition that did not reach upto
the roof. ^' He has the sickness too, poor fellow,
but he's asleep now, I'm sure, as I was myself when
you came in."

^^ I will go an' look after him in a minute."

Don't lave me for a bit, darling', for I have something

to say to you. But Fm getting' sleepy, an' I
can't remember it now'

"Don't mind thinking' ov it, but they an' get
another sleep; sure you can tell it to me when you
wake. I won't lave the place, never fear, till you're
well again. They now an' sleep, ashore; 'tis the little
drop ov wine that's making' you drowsy."

Oonagh settled the wretched bed-clothes as comfortably
as she could, and spreading her own cloak
over all, sat down again on the old chest. In a short
time, she saw poor Susie's eyes close, and the lines in
her face — young as she was, they were many and deep
relax in profound repose. When Oonagh was quite
sure that she was asleep, she rose up silently, and
taking the candle again, went into the inner room
where the sick man was also sleeping. At least, she
supposed he was, for since she had entered the house
she had not heard a sound from that room, and Susie
had told her but now that he was sleeping. At the
entrance she was almost overpowered by the foul air
and suffocating odour, driving her back to the kitchen,
but she drew a long breath, and muttering a prayer
in her native language that God would assist and
strengthen her, she took courage once more, and
passed into the room.

'PLEASANT JOHN" ONCE MORE.

Here he lies,

Who should have been — my own !

Baeuy Cornwall.

As Oonagh advanced into this dismal den, that had
neither door nor window, she had to hold the light
aloft to enable her to proceed cautiously, lest she
should stumble and so make a noise that would awaken
the sleeper. But her apprehension was groundless,
for there was no obstacle to impede her progress ;
nothing was there but a heap of straw at the far end
and a rickety-looking wooden stool beside it, on
which was a cup completely empty. She laid the
candle down softly, and then turned round to the
wretched apology for a bed, on which lay, sick unto
death, the lover of her youth.

A mist came suddenly over her eyes, and for a

short time her sight was so blurred that she could see
nothing. But very soon this cleared away, and she
stooped down to look more closely at the sleeping
man. She could not see his face, for it was in the
shadow, nor did she hear him breathe, though she
bent down so low that she almost touched him. Awestruck
by the profound silence, a terrible suspicion
broke upon her.

'^ Awake, John," she said softly, '^ awake, an'
spake to me. I am here, Oonagh, an' I came to nurse
yourself, an' poor Shusy.^^

There was no answer, and full of a terror that
made her blood run cold, she drew down the ragged
quilt, which was all in the nature of bedclothes that
was on that miserable couch, and placed her hand on
his heart to ascertain if he still lived. But that heart,
on which she laid her warm hand so softly, would
never beat again. The deathly cold that met her
touch made her start back involuntarily, and it was
with the utmost difficulty that she kept herself from
screaming aloud. But in that one moment of supreme
anguish her usual presence of mind did not desert
her. She was no fine lady who would give way to
hysterics, or indulge herself by making loud outcries,
but a simple, healthy, country girl, who did not know
what was meant by ^' nerves'' and had all her feelings

well under restraint. Now remembering that in all
human probability Susie's life depended on having a
long undisturbed sleep, she controlled herself by a
mighty effort, and stood silently with straining eyes
and clasped hands a veritable statue of horror.

The unfortunate man must have been dead
for many hours, for his body was as cold and
rigid as marble. He had died alone ! There was
no kind hand near him at the last to close
his eyes, for they were wide open, and their
fixed and glassy stare was perfectly horrible to look
on. The worn face was half covered by a stubbly
black beard of a fortnight's growth, and was like
nothing earthly but a yellow parchment mask,
wrinkled, haggard, and careworn. The throat and
chest, laid bare by having the quilt drawn down, were
so thin that the bones were in a manner held together
only by the skin, and could literally be counted. It
was a shocking sight, the body of this poor wretch
that had died of famine ! He had worked as a
labourer beside men who were healthy and tolerably
well fed, and tried to keep up with them till sheer
weakness and exhaustion had compelled him to fall
out of the ranks. Will and determination are good
tidings, but they cannot supply the place of food, or
make up for the want of it. The contest between will

and starvation was too unequal, and as a matter of
course, the latter won, particularly when its natural
and certain ally, typhus fever, came in to finish the
battle. He was completely vanquished, like many
another man in that unhappy time, and, throwing
down the spade he was no longer able to lift, crept
back to his wretched home, to die without sympathy
or succour.

There was no bashfulness about Oonagh now, no
proud reserve, or womanly shame. She knelt down beside
the dead man, she twined her arms round his neck,
she clasped the wasted body to her bosom, she rained
down bitter, scalding tears on the cold, pallid face.
He was her own now, at last — this false sweetheart,
for whose sake she had rejected many a good man's
proffered love — her very own ! He had been loosed
from the tie that bound him to another woman, death
did them part, and he had passed away to that world
where there is neither marrying nor giving in marriage.
Who or what could prevent her now from showing her
love the love that had always been steady and true,
that had never died ? She had loved him when he
was a handsome young man — the " pleasant '^ John
of the old times; she had loved him when he had
cruelly flung her from him because of her poverty ;
but she never loved him so well as now when he

lay dead between her arms — dead — on a heap of
rotten straw in that foul and darksome den ! And
with this great undying love was blended an unutterable
pity for the poor victim of famine, who had endured,
in addition to his own suffering, the great agony of
seeing his wife and child perishing of hunger, while
was powerless to relieve them. It was a frightful
thing to her to know that he had died alone ! — died
without the clasp of a friendly hand, or the sound
of a tender voice to whisper words of human love or
hope in God to the ear that was fast closing to all
earthly sounds, and the feebly fluttering heart ta
which all earthly things would soon be nothing.

She rocked herself to and fro, as all her countrywomen
do when in great affliction, and moaned over
him with a low but very bitter cry. She remembered
no longer her slighted love, her wounded pride, her
wasted youth, her joyless womanhood. Everything
was forgotten, forgiven; and she could think only
that he had suffered and sorrowed, and lay within her
arms — starved to death !

John, my best beloved, I am with you at lasts
she moaned in the beautiful and expressive language
of her native country, than which none on the
earth is so rich in terms of love, endearment, or
sorrow. "Though you can neither see or hear

me, I am here. You are my own at last—at last you
are my own, and no one can take you from me. You
flung away my love as if it was only a worthless weed,
and made a plaything of the poor heart that would
have followed you all over the world, for no greater
reward than one loving word at the end. But I came
back to you, oh white spot of my soul ! when everyone
else had deserted you, and left you to die untended
and alone. Oh sweet, ever in my ears was the sound
of your voice ! gentle and gracious were all your
words and ways to me ! It was not for nothing that
you were called pleasant, for you won all hearts, and
no one who knew you could help loving you. Where
are they all now ? — they who took delight in your
handsome young face and pleasant ways, and there is
no one but Oonagh — poor forsaken, desolate Oonagh !
to raise the canine over the dead body of her
beloved''

She clasped her arms more tightly round the deadman,
and her whole frame was shaken by the violence of
her sobs. Still, in the terrible intensity of her anguish,
she remembered the sleeper outside, and also that
affection for the dead should give way before duty
for the living.

'' Not yet, oh ! not yet, core of my heart, can the
death-cry be chanted over your cold remains," she

VOL. ir. u

resumed, still speaking in Ler own poetical Irish ;
'' silent tears are all now that poor Oonagh. can give
to her beloved, for she has to think for the living as
well as to bewail the dead. She has to think for the
friend of her youth, of the sweet fair girl that left her
kindred and happy home to face the world by your
side. A hard world it was to both of you, and ye saw
dark days together in it, but ye were patient, and the
love ye had for each other sweetened your bitter cup.
But she — the soft, fair, innocent, loving one ! — she
never knew the grief she caused when she took you
from me. But I loved you always, always, though
I shut up my love in my own heart ; and dear
John, I will give it now to your wife and child,
because they are yours. I will work for them as I
would have done for you, love them as I loved you,
and spend my life in their service. Oh, my love !
my first and my last love ! here, kneeling by your
side, with my arms round you, and in the presence
of God, who sees and hears me, I make you this
promises

Somewhat relieved and comforted by having made
this solemn vow, Oonagh gazed once more on the dead
face before she rose from her knees. As she did so a
flood of old memories came rushing back on her soul ;

her happy youth ; lier peaceful home; lier good
father's unwearied care and love ; all rose up before
her, bright and rose-coloured, in a succession of well-remembered
scenes. But her reverie was broken by
a faint moan from the outer room, reminding her that
the radiant visions of the past must give way to the
imperative necessities of the present ; and rising up
quickly she went out to the bedside of the sick girl.

As soon as she looked at Susie again, she saw
with dismay that a great and fatal change had taken
place in her illness, and that she was now dying
beyond all doubt. The jaw had fallen, the nose was
pinched and sharp, the breath came in short, quick
gasps, and a dull, gray, leaden hue had overspread the
face.

Oonagh quickly pouted more wine into the cup
and held it to Susie's lips, but it ran down again at
the corners of the mouth. The dying girl had lost
the power of swallowing it, and then Oonagh knew
that the end was indeed come. It was not a matter
of hours but of moments.

'' Did you see poor John ? '^ she said very faintly,
thinking in that supreme hour more of him than of
herself.

'' Yes, darling', I seen him.^^

u 2

"1 wish that I could see him too, Oonagh. I
canst put Mm out ov mj mind night or day'

'^ You will see him soon now, 'a hudyeen thael ! *
very soon'' It was evident that the dying girl understood
what Oonagh meant, for though she spoke no
word, she raised her eyes to heaven, and an expression
that was half joy, and half resignation, passed over
her face. But it soon faded away, and in its place
came one of anxiety and care.

Something is troubling' you, ashore. Tell it now
to your own Oonagh,^' and as she spake she drew the
gives head to rest on her bosom.

The child, Oonagh ! the weeny thing that's
hardly two years old ! 'Tis going' between me an' God
to think that he'll be rare in the workhouse."

Acushla sthoreerij let not that thought go between
your soul an' God ! Your child an' John's child shall
never be rare in the workhouse, nor ever ate a morsel
of charity bread as long as I live. I promised that
on my knees when I was inside there spain' to him,
an' now I promise it over again to you. Don't let that
child be throublin' you, for you have no call to do it.
For your sake, Shusy, and for his father's sake, I'll
take that child, an' he'll be like my own to me. I'll

^A hudyeen thael ! — My share of the world you are.

work my fingers to the bone for him, an' if he ever
knows what cold and hunger manes, it will be when
the daisies are grown' over me in Kilcarrol churchyard.
I'll do my best for him ; I can't go any farther
than that."

It is enough said Susie in Irish. " Oonagh of
the truthful tongue and loving heart ! it is enough.
Stoop down and kiss me, Oonagh, and hold me fast, so
that I may die in your arms."

She never spoke again, but lay quite motionless on
Oonagh's breast. In a little time she became quite
insensible, and Oonagh laid her gently back, for the
candle was almost burned out, and if she did not light
another quickly she would be in the darkness, a thing
not to be thought of in that wretched house of death.
When another candle was lighted, she sat down
again, and a feeling of intense terror that she could
not control came over her whole being. The thought
that until morning she would be the only living
creature in that house, with a corpse on either side
of her, was more than she could bear. The stout
heart and the steady nerves, that had never before
failed her, now utterly gave way, and with a wild
piercing cry she fled out of the house.

Just as she had reached the high road she heard
the sound of a horse's hoofs, and presently in the soft

light of the August night she saw a solitary horseman
riding towards her.

Stop ! whoever you are/^ she cried in a voice
that quivered with intense excitement, '^ stop, for the
love ov God ! ''

Thus adjured, the horseman pulled up, and then
she saw to her great relief that he was a clergyman.

"It was the good God that sent you here to-nights
she exclaimed. ^^There^s a woman dying'
in that house. Come in, and give her the last
absolution."

My good woman, I am not a Catholic priest, but
I am a clergyman, though not one of your creed,"
replied the stranger mildly ; " my name is Crawford,
and I am the rector of this parish."

Oh, what differ does it make ? You're a goodman,
Fm sure, whoever you are, an' you won't refuse
to come wit me?" she pleaded, encouraged by his
gentle manner. "There's a man dead in that sorrowful
house, an' his wife is all but dead, if she isn't dead
already. There is no living' person wit 'em but mean'
if I have to stay there by myself till morning', I'm
sure I'll go mad."

"You are greatly excited, my poor girl," said
Mr. Crawford ; " but I can scarcely wonder at it
under the circumstances. I am just come from the

death-bed of one of my parishioners, and am tired and
worn out, but I will go with you if it will give you any
comfort or courage

He dismounted, and throwing the bridle of his
horse over the broken post of what had once been a
gate, followed her into the house. When he looked
on the poor, pallid, waxen image that was extended
on the bed, he knew that life, with all its sorrow and
suffering, was over; but Oonagh in her distracted
state did not see this.

Oh, sir, you are a clergyman ; won't you say a
prayer for her, won't you say a prayer ? ^'

Certainly I will," he replied ; and drawing from
his pocket the Book of Common Prayer, commenced
reading, in a solemn and reverent voice, that most
beautiful composition, the burial service of the
English Church, beginning with the words, "I am
the resurrection and the life''

When the clergyman had read to the end, he said
to her, in a tone that was very gentle and pitiful :
"My poor girl, your friend has been dead for sometime,
and you must now think of yourself. This is a
sad, dismal place for you to be in, alone as you

are''

"Oh, sir, you won't lave me here by myself?"
she cried in wild terror, laying her hand on his

arm. " I£ you go away I'm in dread that I'll
die*"

No, my poor girl, you will not. I must go, for if
I did not my family would be seriously alarmed,
particularly my wife, who is not in good health. But
for this I would willingly remain with you. You will
keep yourself as quiet as you can, and as soon as I
reach home I shall send a decent woman to keep
you company, and assist you in paying the last sad
duties to these poor dead people. I shall also send
the relieving officer to see about the interment. Are
you their sister ? '^

'^ No, your worship — your reverence I mane ; but I
am a friend, an' the only wan, former ! that they had in
the whole world''

That fact is quite apparent," said Mr. Crawford,
with a glance round the miserable place. '^ Did you
live with this poor couple ? "

*^ Oyeh, no, sir. I'm in service wit wan Mrs.
Mulhall, a widda woman, twelve miles away, an' it
was only 'istherday, by the greatest chance, that I
hard they wor sick at all. I came off at want, thinking'
that I'd be ov some service to them, an' nurse them
through the sickness. But oculi, marine ! I was too
late, for wan ov 'em," pointing to the inner room,
was dead, an' this poor thing dying' fast."

Have you lead any food since you les fc home ? '*

Sorra morsel, your reverence. Sure I never
thought ov it at all. It wasn't food that was through
me."

You walked twelve miles yesterday afternoon, and
have been ever since in this pest-house without food
of any kind ! " exclaimed the good clergyman, aghast.
'' My poor girl ! 'tis no wonder that you are nervous
and overwrought. Is there any food in the house ? "

Oh, yes, sir. There's a few things that I brought
wit me when I come ; tay, an' sugar, an' bread, ana
bottle of good wine."

sall right. The tea and sugar will do well
another time, but the good wine and the bread will
come in very handy just now. Where are they ? "

"Here, sir."

He broke off a piece from the loaf, as he did not
see any knife about, and then, in a very peremptory
manner, he bade her eat it at once. He watched her
while she was eating with a pleased look on his face,
and then pouring more than a glassful of the wine into
the cup, made her take that also.

I must now go," he said. "As it is, my family
are, I am sure, very anxious about me, for I have been
absent a longer time than usual. But before leaving
you I must say that I wish that I, and everyone I

loved, could boast o£ having as true and loyal a
friend in need, as you have proved yourself this night
to be/^

He shook hands with her kindly, and, going outside,
mounted his horse and rode off at a good smart
trot. Oonagh saw him to the door with the candle in
her hand, and when she returned to the house sat
down near the bed, prepared to keep her dreary watch
until morning, when the woman that the clergyman
would send to her should arrive. But the wine, to
which she was wholly unaccustomed, soon made her
drowsy, and the fatigue of her long walk, added to the
effects of the wine, gave the poor, weary creature —
wearied out in mind as well as in body — the best and
surest of all medicines, sleep, as the kind clergyman
had shrewdly anticipated. Gradually she began to
lose consciousness, her eyes closed involuntarily, and
slipping down on the floor, with her head leaning
on the side of the bed, Oonagh was soon fast asleep.

OONAGH ADOPTS HER LOVER'S SON.

Dejected Pity by Lis side,

Her soul-subduing voice applied.

Collins, Ode on the Passions.

A HAND laid ligMj on Oonagli's shoulder awoke
her after a few hours of sleep that notwithstanding
her uneasy position and dismal surroundings, was
sound and refreshing, for she was young and very
weary, and youth and nature will not endure the
deprivations of their just rights. When she opened
her eyes, she saw bending over her the compassionate
face of the good woman who had shown her the way
to the house on the previous evening. It was now
broad day, and Oonagh knew that she had slept
several hours. One glance at the bed was quite
sufficient to arouse her fully, and she started to her
feet as if she had got an electric shock.

Mushaa, this was a terrible place for you to pass
the night in' said the visitor, "" an' no wan to keep
you company, nor even a light to help you to keep up
your heart. Fake ^m sure you're the courageously
woman I ever knew, or hard tell ov either."

I had a candle," replied Oonagh, pointing to the
bottle,, "but I suppose it burned down after I fell
asleep. I brought it here wit me, and a few other
little matters that I thought would be ov use here, but
they aren't wanting now, former ! They don't want
anything any more from me, nor from any wan else.
Oh, missis, I don't know your name, but so itself,
sure you're a friend, my very heart is breaking wit the
ninth ov grief an trouble," and flinging herself on the
woman's breast she wept bitterly.

Whisht now, whisht, ashore real, don't cry that
a way; an' my name is Sally, an' you needn't be
calling' me Mrs. this, or that, only just Sally;" and
she wound her arms round the poor weeping girl,
while her own tears fell fast. ''^An' I was so onaisy
all the evening' after latin' you here, that I hardly
closed an eye all night. I thought twenty times to
get up out of the bed and come hither to you, only
that I have a little baby that's very fractious by reason
ov teething', an' if I left her the man ov the house
would nearly take my life when I'd come home again.

But lie's gone off now to the bog for a good while, an'
I run across wit a grain ov tay an' sugar to get a bit
ov breakfast for yourself an' myself. Dear knows we
both ov us want something to rise our hearts after
the night, for I own to goodness the poor little baby
was so cross that I was awake the whole night lecount
ov hers

brought tay and sugar wit me as well as
the candles. You'll find 'em on the table over
there."

'' Well, what differ does that make ? sure 'tis all
the same which ov us owns the tay, when we're both
going' to drink it. An' now, alannah, do you go outside
from this sorrowful place for a start, while I make
a fire and bile the kittle. You see I brought itself ana
taypot along wit me, an' the seed ov the fire in an
ould saucepan."

The good-natured woman pushed Oonagh outside
the door with a little gentle force, and soon the sweet
fresh air of early morning revived in some degree the
weary limbs and sad heart of the poor worn-out girl.
The grass was thickly covered with dew-drops, that
shone and sparkled in the early sunshine, that, full of
hope and brightness, brought with it another day to
bless and gladden the world. A cow, eager to bo
relieved of her milk, was lowing in the next field,

and from some houses not far distant came the sounds
of dogs barking, and of the " cock's shrill clarion' as,
with sleek plumage and arrogant strut,, he led his
numerous family forth for the day. There was a
little brook running with cheerful music past the
cabin, and Oonagh bathed her hot face and swollen
eyes in its cooling water, and felt soothed and refreshed.
Then she washed her hands and feet, and smoothed
down her long hair that had escaped from its comb,
and was flowing about her shoulders in dusky waves.

And when, at the end of half-an-hour, Sally
brought out breakfast to be eaten beside the brook,
saying that " it was a cheers ruler place to eat in than
the cabin," she was not a little surprised to find that
her new acquaintance was a very pretty girl, and a
much more respectable-looking person than she could
imagine any friend of the Molloys would be.

While they were at breakfast the woman arrived
who was sent by Mr. Crawford, for he was faithful
to his promise, and she was soon followed by others
who lived in the neighbourhood. They at once proceeded
to make themselves useful by "laying out"
the bodies of the wretched husband and wife, that
had died so miserably within a few hours of each
other. Their assistance was gladly accepted by
Oonagh, who felt herself quite unequal to making

the least exertion, and by Sally, who was obliged to
return home to nurse her sick baby, and what was of
more importance, to have his breakfast ready for her
lord and master when he would come back from the
bog. The good-hearted creature persuaded Oonagh
to accompany her and remain for a short time, until
the ghastly business at the cabin had been completed.
The poor girl was not unwilling to be spared all
participation in it, and in the sadness and loneliness
of her great sorrow she clung to one who, as well
as being of her own sex, had shown her so much
sympathy and kindness.

When they arrived at Sally's house, they found
that her husband was already come, and was making
down a fire, while a number of children of all ages
were playing about. As the two women entered
the house, he looked up from his employment with
a dark scowl on his face, a face that even in its best
aspect could scarcely be called good-looking.

^^This is a friend ov mine, Jim'' said Sally in a
very apologetic tone, as she presented Oonagh ; *' an'
she's a friend ov the poor couple bryant, that died
last night, both ov' em, God bless the hearers, an'
the place we tell it in ! I made her come over wit
me for a while, till a few decent women that are
there are latin' out the two corps."

No matter what the disposition of an Irish peasant
may be, whether rough and surly, or gentle and
amiable, still he is never forgetful of the sacred
duties of hospitality. They all have an instinctive
knowledge of the sacredness of their own roof-tree,
and act up to that knowledge with a sincere, unaffected
courtesy that is as graceful as it is ready
and spontaneous. This man was no exception to
this almost universal rule, and he made the newcomer
welcome in his own uncouth fashion.

You're heartily welcome, miss, an' you come in
good time, for the bruck'ist will soon be ready. I'm
sorry the place isn't more comfortable for you, but
we have a fractious baby that never lets the cry out
ov her mouth, an' as herself went out this morning',
the whole house is at sixes and sevens, for I'm a
poor hand at coin' women's work."

"I'll have everything all right in no time," said
Sally cheerfully, as she began bustling about to
prepare breakfast for the family, while her goodman
lighted his pipe, and sat smoking it in silence.
Oonagh sat silent too, watching the children as they
played about the kitchen, and wondering, with a
vague, sad yearning at her heart, if any of them was
the child of John Molloy. At last, unable to restrain
herself any longer, she suddenly said to Sally :

"Which of all these fine children belongs to the
poor couple that's lying' dead bryant there ? "

'^Nera wan ov them is little Johnny' replied
Sally. ^^ Them is all my own, an' though I say it that
oughtn't to say it, they're as strong an' fine a set ov
children as wor ever on a poor woman's flare. I wish
that poor little Johnny was only half as strong as any
ov them. He's delicate in himself, the poor little
scrap, an' no admiration in it, for since he was born
till he came to us, I don't think he ever had enough
to eat, surely not of the food that was fit for him.
He has a hard life on before him, if he's spared ; an'
I'm afraid he won't have any strength to fight the
battle that he'll have to fight. But come wit mean'
I'll show him to you, the poor little pdstlieen ! " *

Oonagh, rising up, followed Sally into an inner
room, where two children lay side by side in a wickerwork
contrivance that was half bed and half cradle.
One of them, the delinquent that had cried all night,
was fast asleep, fairly exhausted from crying ; and
the other, little Johnny, was awake, and fully dressed
in the poor clothes that he wore every day.

He was awake when I got up this morning,"
said Sally, " so I put his bits ov rags on him, for

Fdstlieen—Ch.M.

VOL. II.

I knew well that I never would have time to do it
when Vd come back. An I would him that I was
going' out for a starts an that he was to mind the
baby for me till I came back, an' you'd think that
he almost understand me, for there he is ever since
an' she's fast asleep alongside ov him."

'^ I'll take him outside wit me while you're giving
their bruck'ist to himself an' the childless' said
Oonaghj whose heart yearned to the desolate little
orphan. She bent down over him with her whole
soul in her eyes, and the child, seeing the loving
look in her face, threw his little arms round her neck,
and nestled his head in her bosom. Something in
her look and face might have reminded him of his
mother. With a great sob, she gathered him into
her arms, and passing swiftly out of the house, fled
away with her new-found treasure to a considerable
distance.

She sat down under the screen of a high thick
hedge, and wept passionately over the unconscious
infant. All the sweet pity of her woman's nature
went out to it; orphaned — deprived of both parents
in one day — flung helpless and forlorn on the cold
charity of a hard world in his very infancy, how could
she help pitying him with her] whole soul ? She
called to mind how dear his father had been to her

in the happy old times when her heart was as light
and as glad as the day was long. She had forgiven
him the cruel desertion, the heartless treatment that
had made even her trusting heart ashamed of ever
having loved so unworthy a man. But if any remnants
of anger remained in her mind, now, with the
child on her lap, she put it aside for ever ; all was
condoned. And it was Susie's child as well as
John's ! — Susie, who had been a true sister to her
in the days of her sorrow and adversity, and who
had said to her almost with her last breath: "Oonagh,
my own Oonagh ! '' They were both lying dead together
in the same miserable hovel, and in all the
world their orphan boy had no friend but herself.
If she failed him, he should go to the poor-house.

But she had promised the parents — one, when he
was dead, and the other while she still lived, that
their child should not be brought up in the workhouse,
and should never, while she lived, eat a morsel
of charity bread; and she would keep that promise.
A promise made to the dead was, or ought to bea
very sacred thing. It would be sacred to her.
She would never marry — on that point she had made
up her mind long ago ; — she was not destined by God
to be the joyful mother of any child. But for all
that, her work had been cut out for her, and lay

X 2

ready to lier hand. Had not God, the Father of the
fatherless, led her step by step to where this little
lamb lay, shorn to the very quick ? At this thought
her tears ceased to flow, and strength and courage
came into her heart. She bent once more over the
child, kissed its dewy hips with a solemn tenderness,
and raising her eyes to Heaven, she thanked God
for the blessing He had sent her, and resolved, with
voiceless lips, but a full earnest heart, that she would
be faithful to the trust He had reposed in her, and
to the voluntary promise she had made to the dead.
The child of John and Susie should be henceforth
hers, to love it, to toil for it, to garner her whole heart
in it. She was young, strong, and accustomed to
labour, and she felt sure that God would help her,
and smooth the path before her and the poor desolate
little one that He had sent to her.

Once more she wiped away her tears with a resolute
hand, and said to herself that she would cry no
more. The season for weeping was gone by, and that
for action was come. She would have no time, henceforth,
for weeping, for she had a great work to do, and,
God helping her, she would do it. She would work
hard, work untiringly, work in season and out of
season, for nothing less than downright hard, honest
work could ever accomplish the task that she had set

herself. If a week before that day anyone had told her
how soon and how greatly she would feel comforted,
what a new and absorbing interest would have entered
into her life, she would have listened with incredulity;
but now, not alone was she comforted, but a feeling
of exquisite peace and rest, to which she had been
long a stranger, filled her whole heart. She had
something now for which to live and work, something
to love, something that would be her very own.

When she returned to the house, with the child
asleep in her arms, she found Sally cleaning up after
having given her family their breakfast, and her husband
preparing to go off to his work. Oonagh sat
down beside him regardless of the frown that gathered
on his brow, for he imagined she was going to beg
from him something towards defraying the funeral
expenses of little Johnny's unfortunate parents.

I want to spake to you about the berlin' ov this
poor couple bryant," she said in a voice the calmness
of which surprised herself.

'^I don't know nothing whatsoever about it,"
was his surly reply. '^ I'm a very poor hard-working
man, wit a long family ov my own, an no wan hasa
right to expect me to lose be strangers. I suppose
the°poor.house people's sind coffins, an' do whatever
is riffht to be done."

'^ Tliej won't be ferric in poor-house coflS.ns, phase
God, nor will any wan be axed to lose as much asa
penny by them. I am the nearest relation ov the poor
girl, for I hear her father an' mother are dead, an'
her brother is gone to America, an' IVe money to
spare that will pay for a decent funeral without ain'
help from any person. The only charity I'll ax ov
you, is to go to the nearest town an' buy the coffins,
an' help me to bury the poor misfortune couple
decently, as every wan that ever came before them
wor ferric. An' I'll be just as thankful to you,
honest man, as if you wor to do it all at your own
expense."

As soon as the farmer understood that she had
money, and was willing to have everything at her
own cost, his manner changed, and he became quite
generous and amiable. He was not a bad-hearted
man by any means, but extremely penurious ; and
when he could do a kindness without being at a loss
by it, he was always willing, and gave his time and
trouble readily enough. He now professed himself
very glad to be of use, and prepared at once to set off
to the nearest town in order to do her errand.

"You can do me a great kindness, and a great
charity for God besides," she said. ^' It's to let this
poor little child stop here for a while, till I look about

me, an' see what I can best do wit Mm. I'll pay you
whatever is fair for his keep, and be very thankful to
you into the bargain. He's too young an' delicate
to take him away to a strange place yet awhile, an'
he'd be fretting' for the vanities that's so fond ov him,
an' for the children that he's used to. You see, I
couldn't look after him myself, for I'm only a poor
servant airnin' my wages ; but wit God's help, I'll be
able to pay you for him, an' I won't feel the loss at
the ind ov the year''

An' do you mane to tell me that though you're
only a servant, you'll take the whole care an' support
ov this strange child on your back ! " he exclaimed,
perfectly astonished at a disinterestedness that he was
himself totally incapable of, and could not comprehend
in another.

"Sure I am no stranger. His mother was my
cousin, an' his father—well, his father was a neighbour's
son, an' used to come to my father's house
when I was younger an' happier than what I'm now.
I can't bear to think that their child would be sint to
the poor-house, an' while I live an' have my health, he
never shall go there. I brought money wit mo here,
an' I have good wages from the decent woman I'm
in service wit. I don't wrong any wan in taking the
care ov this poor child on me, for all that ever loved ^

me are under the sod, former ! an' no wan now alive
has any call to my airnin's. Sure, if the child is a
care an' expense to me now, he'll be a comfort to mein
my old age, all wan as if he was own flesh an' blood."

'^ Say no more about it, honest woman, but make
your mind aise about the pdstheen leg. Sure, he can
have the run ov the place wit my own children, an'
get the same bit an' sup they get themselves. Say
no more about it."

Matters having been thus arranged satisfactorily
between them, the farmer deferred his work to
another toy; and getting ready his horse and cart,
went off to town with the money Oonagh gave him
to bring back the coffins. When he was gone she
went again to the poor cabin where lay the remains
of those she loved so well, and though she wept
over them once more, her tears had none of the
old passion and bitterness in them. The resolution
she had come to of adopting their child had taken
all the sting out of her sorrow, and given her an
unspeakable comfort that on the previous evening
she could not have imagined possible. It was not
that she loved the ill-fated pair less now than she
had done then, or felt less pity for their sad lives
and miserable deaths, but another and an intensely
human interest had arisen to fill up the void in

her life, and arouse lier from a grief that must now
give place to duty — a duty not the less imperious
and binding because it was self imposed. There was
a way now by which she could prove her great love
for the dead, the very way they would themselves
have chosen, and pointed out to her, had the choice
or opportunity been given to them. Their child
should be hers henceforth, and she would love him
as she had loved them, but with a more sacred and
unselfish love.

By-and-by, when Sally had time she came and
sat with her, and the nurse sent by t'^e Rector,
and the other women, so that she was not left anymore
alone with the dead.

She had also the satisfaction— and a great one
it was to the simple girl— of having the l^een cried
over her beloved dead. Without this mark of
affectionate respect, she would have thought proper
honour was not paid to their memory. It was a
wretched wake, held in a wretched place, but the
death-cry should not be wanting there. And as
it rose and fell, at intervals throughout the night,
Oonagh found a sad comfort in thinking that though
they had died poor, yet that the I'cen was cried
over them, as it had been cried over all "their
people ! '^

OONAGH BEGINS ANOTHER LIFE.

I hold it truth with him who sings
To one dear harp in divers tones,
That men may rise on stepping-stones,

Of their own selves to higher things.

Tennyson.

Next morning the funeral took place. The churchyard,
where the grave had been dug, was not more
than a mile away, so that the farmer's strong horse
was able to draw the two coffins laid in the cart,
side by side. They were cheap coffins of painted
deal, but they were not moor-house coffins, or paid forby
charity J but by her own money, and this thought
was one of very great comfort to Oonagh. The
farmer walked at the horse's head, and his wife with
the nurse, and a few other people came after the
cart with Oonagh. She held the child in her arms,
for she had the idea that young as he was, it was
right and fitting that he should follow the remains

of Ms parents to their last resting-place, and that
in after life when he would be told that he had
done so, he would feel pleased and gratified by the
knowledge.

This double funeral, in its great poverty and
simplicity, was in truth a melancholy spectacle as it
went slowly along to the country graveyard, that lay
on the sunny side of a rather steep hill. It excited,
however, no surprise in the minds of the people
who met it on the way; for scenes like it were
becoming so common in the country, owing to the
universal poverty and distress, that they had ceased
to elicit any special notice. All those whom they
met joined them, according to the invariable Irish
custom; and by the time they had reached their
destination there were many persons following the
coffins. This was fortunate, as they helped the
farmer to carry the remains to the grave without
requiring any assistance from the women. Oonagh
stood by with the child while the two coffins were
lowered into one grave, and laid one over the other.
^'They had loved in their lives, and in death they
were not divided' She wept very bitterly, as did
many of those present, for it would have been indeed
a hard heart that could see unmoved so sad a sight,
even though it was one that was unfortunately no

longer rare. Oonagh grieved too, that they were not
brought to rest with "their people' but it was not
possible to have it so. The family burial-place of
both was fully twenty miles away, and her limited
funds could by no arithmetical feat be made to
accomplish the expense of sending them there. She
wisely considered also, that even if she had the
money, it would be much better spent in caring for
the living child, than in burying the dead parents
in one place, instead of another. They lay at rest
together, that was enough, and she silently made a
resolution that as soon as she could afford it, she
would place a memorial stone over the grave, so that
in after time their son would know where his unfortunate
parents were lying in one grave.

Oonagh remained one night with Sally, to recruit
her strength before going back to her mistress, asher
return journey was also to be made on foot. On
examining her little purse she found that after paying
the funeral expenses — not a great deal in reality,
but a great deal to her just then — she had only
twenty-five shillings left. She gave a pound of this
to her host, as her first instalment of what he was
to get in payment of the child's board, and the other
five shillings to Sally to buy some decent clothes for
him, instead of the dirty rags he had on. Five

shillings was not a great deal; but a little mite like
him did not want much in the country, and Sally
promised that she would make the money go very
far, and add something to it " unknown to himself."

After breakfast next morning she took a loving
leave of the unconscious child, whom already she
loved very dearly, weeping over him, and begging
the Father of the orphan to protect and guard him.
Then she said good-bye to the farmer, and after
thanking him warmly for his kindness, she set
out on her long solitary walk. The good-hearted Sally
accompanied her for a mile of the way, for as short as
was their acquaintance, those two good women had
become fast friends.

^^ An' you have no call to be onaisy about little
Johnny," said Sally as they were parting. '' I give
you hand an' word, as a Christhen woman, that I'll
dale by him as I'll dale by my own children. I can't
go farther than that."

An' ril ax no more from you," replied Oonagh.
Lpt him take his share wit your own little ones, an'
run in an' out wit 'em. His poor mother will be
lookin' down on you from Heaven, an' when she sees
how good you are to him, she'll be praying' for you
an' your children. In three months now Til get
lave, I'm sure, to come again for a night. My wages'll

be risen', an' Fll have more money then to bring to
the man ov the house. He'll trust me till then, for
he knows by this, that I'm an honest woman that will
let no wan be at any loss by me while I have health
an' strength to work''

Don't think very bad ov him intirely, for taking
the money for Johnny out ov your hard airnin's,"
said the loyal wife, in a tone that was half deprecatory,
and half ashamed. " 'Tis a near mane thing I own,
but his rent is fallen' due, an' the times is very bad.
His own family is risen' up round him, an' he has to
work hard to keep the farm going' on, an' the roof
over our heads. But I'm sure ov wan thing, an'
that is, now that the bargain is made betune ye, an'
that he knows he won't be at any loss by having little
Johnny, he'll be fond ov him, an' make no differ
betune him an' his own children. He's a close-fisted
man is Jim, an' sure 'tis that he wants to be, wit his
long family, an' none ov 'em old enough to be any
help to him ; but still an' all, he's not bad-hearted at
all, an' he'd do a neighbour a good turn, if he was not
to be at all at a loss. Jim's bark is worse than his
bite any day."

I'm sure ov that, for I saw a dale ov good nature
an' feeling' in him, barren' where the money was concerned.
I don't blame him at all for been' a trifle

near. Sure 'tis only right an' fair that the honest
man would think ov his own family first ov all, an'
it would be well for many people if they had as much
sense as. what he has."

They parted as affectionately as if they had been
sisters. Sally turned back again towards her home,
and Oonagh pursued her solitary journey, the hood of
her cloak drawn over her head, and her shoes and
stockings in the basket she carried in her hand. She
did not walk as briskly now, as she had done two
days before, for her heart was very heavy. In those
two days she had gone through much suffering both
of mind and body, and it had left its impress on her
sad face, and in her slow and languid walk. But if
her heart was heavy, her purse was light, for all that
was now in it was a few coppers and her thimble !

She was received on her arrival at Mrs. Mulhall's
very kindly by that good woman, who told her over
and over that she was heartily welcome, and who
listened with much interest to the account Oonagh
gave her, of what had happened to her during the
short period of her absence.

'' Mushaa, but you put a great load on your back,
astJiore machine, when you took the care ov any wan's
child," she said gravely, when she had heard Oonagh's
story.

"So itself. I couldn't let him be sint to the
workhouse, the last ov all places, that, 'a vanities,
is the short an' the long ov it. I'd never have a
day's pace, or a night's sleep, if he was there, but
I'd be always thinking' ov him, an' breaking' my heart
about him. Oh ! if you saw him, the fair-haired
little darling' ! you wouldn't be surprised. He threw
his little arms round my neck when he seen me,
the very same way that his mother done, when I
walked into her, tired an' hungry, an' without house
or home. If you wor in my place you just do
the very same.'''

"Maybe so."

It isn't maybe so at all, but you'd do it out an'
out, you're the very woman that would. Any woman
would do it, barren' she was some Turk, or outlandish
heathen from fortin' parts. An' what odds does it
make? I have my health, an' I'm able to work
for him along wit myself. I'm alone in the world,
an' the good God sent this pdstheen beg to give me
something to love an' care for. No wan has any
right to rise up to me, an' say that I was spending'
on him, what they had a better right to. He is a
great care surely, but for all that, I'm not sorry for
takin' it on my back, an' if it was to be done over

again, I'd do it all the same; and so would you too,"
said Oonagli with a faint smile.

"Women is very foolish surely, an' I suppose I
wouldn't have more sense than the rest ; but now
that 'tis done, you will have to stand by it. But
God fits the back for the burden, ever an' always,
an' He'll help you in the good work that you took
in hand. Sure we'll all help you. It will bring down
a blessing' on you, an' moreover, make you very
thankful to yourself, when you are lying on your
death-bed."

Mrs. Mulhall was as good as her word. Many a
little present she gave Oonagh from that time, that
was very useful and acceptable, and enabled her to
spare her own money. Now, it was a petticoat cutoff
the piece of home-made flannel when it came from
the weavers, and again, it would be a large ball of
woollen yarn, to knit into stockings for herself during
the long winter evenings, when her day's work was
done. But Oonagh now never indulged in the luxury
of wearing shoes and stockings, but on Sundays and
holidays, when she went to mass, or was sent by her
mistress on an errand to the next town. Up to this,
she had always dressed very well for her station in
life, for she was young, and well aware that she was

Y

VOL. II.

very handsome ; what girl that is, can be ever quite
insensible to the value of dress as an accessory to
beauty ? She had always worn smart clothes neatly
made, and becomingly put on, and often treated herself
to a bright-coloured silk necktie, or a pretty-pattered
print dress, to wear going to mass. But
all those little harmless vanities were now discarded
for ever. She wore her clothes until they could be
no longer mended, and when she had perforce to
replace them, the bright colours and slight materials
were put aside, and nothing was bought but what was
dark and durable. If she ever felt herself tempted
to buy anything because it looked pretty, and would
become her, or that she did not absolutely require,
she put by that temptation at once, considering that
it was a robbery of what belonged to the child,
more than to herself. Her whole life was changed,
and all its aims, projects, and hopes were
turned into a new channel. She became in a
great measure a miser, hoarding up coppers, until
she could convert them into shillings, and again
shillings until she could make them pounds. She
denied herself everything that was not of the
most absolute necessity. She allowed herself no
recreation ; but worked on untiringly, cheered and
animated by the thought that quarter-day was coming

round, when she would be paid her wages. But little
of that money was for herself; it was all, or nearly
all, for Johnny, to pay for his board at the farm-house,
and keep him comfortably clothed. She did not care
how hard was her work, or how poor were her own
clothes, provided that all was well with him.

The only variety in her life, the only recreation
she ever required, was to get leave of absence now
and then for twenty-four hours, to make Johnny a
visit, and pay the farmer for his board. The widow
was very indulgent to her in this respect, never
grumbling at the inconvenience to herself; for,
besides being a naturally good woman, she was
sensible enough to know that a good servant deserves
a good mistress, and is none the worse for a little
judicious kindness.

The little f elbow was taught by Sally to call Oonagh
Auntie,'^ and soon learned to know and love her,
and look forward to seeing her as the great happiness
of his life, the one bright spot that he was always
to have in view. When she came, she was sure to
bring apples, or gingerbread, or a stick of candy,
which he was told to divide impartially with the
other children; and if she had a few pennies in her
pocket, they also were divided fairly, with the delightful
permission that each should do with his penny

as lie pleased himself. It was no wonder that her
visits at the farm were seasons of rejoicing, and that
from Jim, who got what was due to him, down to
the smallest child who got his penny, all were glad
to see her, and give her a hearty and uproarious
welcome.

And when Oonagh felt the child's soft little
arms round her neck, and his head laid to rest
on her bosom, she felt herself more than repaid
for all her self-denial, and happier than she
had ever thought she could be again. As Sally had
promised, there was no difference whatever made
between Johnny and the other children ; he got the
same food, and was treated like them in every way ;
the only difference was, that though they were often
slapped when they deserved it, he never was. " Whin
his father an' mother wor gone, why should any wan
raise a hand to the poor little rather ? '^ was the motto
of Jim and Sally, whenever they were told that the
child was naughty, and required correction. He was
a handsome boy, and Oonagh' s heart yearned to him
more and more, as she saw how like his father he
grew day after day. But the resemblance was only
in outward appearance, for little Johnny was a grave
retiring child, with none of the forward swagger and
plausible volubility that had been John Molly's

chief characteristics, and which in the eyes of the
poor simple girl, had been his great attractions. The
child, though not sickly, was very far from being
robust, and in any other hands would be a pining,
wretched creature, whose existence would have been
no pleasure to himself, and a source of grief and
trouble to all around him. But under Sally's care,
and in a wholesome country place where he was well
fed, he gained a fair share of health, and developed
an amount of intelligence that was far beyond that
shown by the other children, who all so greatly
exceeded him in health and strength. Nature, the
kindest of all mothers, is abundant in compensations,
and if sometimes she withholds with one hand, it is
only to give still more liberally with the other.
She had dealt in this way with little Johnny, for
if she had been sparing of her gifts of health and
strength, she had dowered his intellect with no
niggard hand.

As time went on, Oonagh, woman-Hke, became
more and more attached to the child of her adoption,
for whose sake she toiled and slaved, and put aside
all the enjoyment of her youth, and all consciousness
of her beauty, long before she had attained the ago
when woman is in her prime. He was a heavy care
on her mind, a great tax on her slender resources; but

her great love made nothing of all that. She had
loved him first for his parents' sake, and because of the
instinct of motherhood that most women possess in a
greater or lesser degree. All the pity of her soul had
gone out to him — forlorn and orphaned as he was — on
the morning when he had flung his arms round her
neck, and nestled his head on her bosom, as if led by
some subtle instinct to appeal to her for protection
and love. But soon she learned to love him for himselfe
he was so handsome, so affectionate and gentle.
The sense of protection, the knowledge that to one
living creature she was absolutely necessary, and
above all the goodness, the perfect unselfishness of
her own nature; these all combined, made her yoke
easy, and her burden light. Before very long, it had
ceased to be any burden at all. She devoted herself
to this child, not only willingly and cheerfully, but
with her whole heart and soul, until the thought of
him, the care for him, became almost second nature.
She worked on day after day, through winters cold and
summer's heat, with a patient self-denial that looked
for no reward but the consciousness that she was
keeping the promise made to the dead, and that
owing to her toil the boy was well, and kindly cared
for. Her youth, with all its gladness and elasticity,
passed away from her in the dull round of incessant

labour ; but sbe let it go without a sigh. The harmless
little vanities of a pretty girl were dead within lier
hearty which was now chiefly employed in solving every
difficult problem, of how three shillings could be made
to go as far as five. And everything considered, she
did pretty well. Not only was she able to pay for the
child punctually, and keep him and herself in coarse
but comfortable clothing, but she also managed to
make a little present to Sally, or one of her children
occasionally, just to show that she appreciated her
kindness to Johnny, and was not ungrateful for it.

In a little time she found, to her great surprise,
that she had some small surplus at the end of every
quarter. It might be sometimes a few pence only,
and sometimes a few shillings. These were carefully
put by until they mounted up to a couple of pounds.
This little hoard she was determined never to encroach
upon, but leave it to accumulate by the addition of
more pennies and shillings, until it should amount to a
sum large enough to lodge in the savings-bank, with
the .twenty pounds that had remained to her after the
sale of her father's land, and the payment of all his
debts, and which she had never touched. It was buta
small thing to lean on, yet now it became of great
value in her eyes. After all it was but a trifle, very
contemptible no doubt in the opinion of people who

are very rich ; but lie had put it together by hardwork,
and much self-sacrifice, and the thought that she
had it, and could draw upon it in case of sickness, or
any future emergency, made her heart feel very light
and happy.

END OF VOL. II.

Charles DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE Press.

mm

:^*. .



%.

\

'%

#^

x:

>

#^^i

■ ■MIIFiii'i'i imiiiNiiiiiH mini

3 0112 041414910

»

LIBRARY

From the collection of
James Collins,

Driimcondra, Ireland.
Purchased, 1918.

B75c
•U3

W. H

S^BSCpKCM LIBM^Y.
D U B L I N "A^ D BELFAST.

m

7:i^mii

m.

University of Illinois Library

v^"V 9

L161— H41

CHEOJJdCLES OF CASTLE Cloy.

OR,

Pictures OF TEE Munster PEOPLE,

BY

M. W. BREW,

AUTHOR OF "the BURTONS OF DUNBOI

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

HotttiOtt :
CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.

1885.
[eau Rights Reserved']

CONTENTS.

CHAPTEE I.

OONAGH 'takes TO THE ROAD " 1

CHAPTER II.

OONAGH MEETS WITH SOME OLD FRIENDS . . . .14

CHAPTER III.

A Friend IN NEED . . 29

CHAPTER IV.

THE PROSPECT BRIGHTENS . . .44

CHAPTER V.

THE DEATH OF BRAN . . 57

CHAPTER VI.

OONAGH IN THE POOR-HOUSE 80

CHAPTER VII.

THE LAST OE THE FAMINE C4

4f57300

CHAPTER VIII. ^'^^

MISS DILLON RECEIVES A VISIT 109

Chapter IX.

IN CALIFORNIA 121

CHAPTER X.

A CONFESSION 142

CHAPTER XI.

THE LAST OF HARRY DACRE 160

CHAPTER XII.

FAREWELL TO CALIFORNIA 178

CHAPTER XIII.

COMING HOME 189

CHAPTER XIV.

HYACINTH DILLON GOES AWAY AGAIN . . . . . 205

CHAPTER XV.

THE LAST OF ANOTHER DUMB FRIEND .,.,,. 216

CHAPTER XVL

SYDNEY DACRE . 229

CHAPTEE XVII. y^^j,

A YEAR or WANDERING 242

CHAPTER XVIII,

HYACINTH AGAIN VISITS MISS DACRE 253

CHAPTEE XIX.

TWO LETTERS, AND WHAT CAME OF THEM 267
CONCLUSION 286

Chronicles OF CASTLE Cloy.

CHAPTER I.

OONAGH

Love lightens every burden, and sweetens every pain,
And makes the weary-hearted feel their toil is not in vain.
It makes the homeliest face look fair, the poorest cot look

bright.
And gives even to the faint and weak, a majesty and might.

What cannot Love accomplish, what cannot Love endure ?
Where is the grief it cannot soothe, the pang it cannot cure ?
Oh Love ! oh sweet, all-mighty Love ! what a desert life would

be,
If we poor weary pilgrims were not cheered along by thee !

The emergency that Oonagh had so much dreaded,
and for which lie had made some small provision,
came in its own time, and sooner than she had
calculated on. Her kind mistress died after a short
illness, and the young men, her sons, decided on selling
the interest of their farm, and emigrating to America,
towards which country — in that sad time as ever

VOL. III. B

since — the heart of the Irish peasant turned, when he
could no longer find foothold on his native soil. The
Mulhalls sold their cattle and furniture, and after
paying Oonagh whatever was due to her, gave hera
small sum of money as a present, to mark their
appreciation of her long, faithful service, and help
her to live until she could succeed in finding another
place.

But to get another place was a thing much easier
said than done. By this time the farmers of the
country were all ruined and broken down; some so
completely that they were swept off the face of the
earth as if they had never existed at all, and those
who were able to struggle on, were obliged for the
most part to dispense with hired labour, and do their
own work. The gentry were just as badly off as the
class below them, for their rents were unpaid, and as
they had no money, and could not do manual labour
like the farmers, their lands soon became desola-te
wastes. There was therefore little or no employment
for the labouring poor. Such of them as could
manage it fled from the land of their birth as if it was
infected by a pestilence, and those who could not fly
were plunged in a sea of poverty and misery, of which
no man could see the end.

It was an unfortunate time for Oonagh to be once-more

cast adrift. She tried very hard to get another
place, but in vain. She had a first-class discharge
from the son of her late mistress, but that went for
nothing, when no one wanted a servant. In some
houses where she applied, she was told that she would
be taken if she was satisfied to work for her ''bit/^
and in others, though she was offered wages, it was at
so low a rate, that it was only one degree better than
working for her " bits"* Neither of these magnificent
offers could she of course entertain. If she was herself
alone in question, she might accept anything she
could get that would enable her to live until better
times came round again, but then there was the child
to be thought of ! What was to feed and clothe him,
if she were not to be remunerated for her time and
labour ? She was quite sure that once her payments
would come to an end. Farmer Jim would make short
work of the matter, by sending little Johnny at once
to the poor-house.

Then there was Bran ! Her father's faithful dog
was growing old now, and what was to become of
Mm ? Even little as he would eat, and coarse as his
food would be, no one in that hard time would employa
servant who had such a follower. It was a hard
case, and a sore dilemma, and as she revolved it all in
her own mind, her heart almost failed her.

B 2

But that heart was a stout one. It had borne a
great deal and it would bear a great deal more before
its native courage and energy could be stamped out
of it. For her own part, she could bear a great deal
but that the child should want, or should be hungry,
cold, or naked, was what she could not bear. Before
that should come to pass, she would work her hands
to the very bones. But then she knew there were
many others just as willing to work as she was, and
they could get no work to do. Every sort of business
and industry, both in town and country, had come to a
standstill, and was, as it were, paralysed. But still she
did not despair, though the problem to be solved was
very difficult, and had cost her many a sleepless night,
and sorrowful day. But at last like an inspiration
from Heaven a bright thought broke in upon her
mind, bringing with it hope and joy. She would
become a pedlar !

No sooner had this idea occurred to her, than she
hastened to carry it into execution, for there was
neither lassitude of body nor indecision of mind about
Oonagh. She went off to the nearest town, bought a
basket suitable for her purpose, and laid out part of
her little savings in furnishing it with an assortment of
such small wares as her own experience told her would
be most in request in the remote country districts.

This small beginning lie got on very reasonable
terms, as she was to be '^ in the trades and of course
likely to return for a supply again and again. She
had balls and skeins of thread, both black and white,
brass thimbles and wooden pin-cases, papers of needles
and hair-pins, pieces of tape and bobbin, and suchlike
cheap wares as she thought she could not fail to
sell, even among the very poor. She left her little trunk
with a kind neighbour who promised to take care of it
for her, and threw an old shoe after her when she was
leaving, for good luck, and with her basket on her
arm she set out on her travels, followed by her dog.

The constant walking was weary work at first ;
but in a little time she got used to it, as well as
to the weight of the basket. Sometimes, after long
miles of lonely travel, she could only realise a few
pence, but just as often she was more fortunate.
Gradually she became known in the country districts,
and the periodical advent of '^ the saline woman ^' was
looked forward to by the wives and daughters of the
farmers, with no small degree of interest. Her
arrival was a welcome break to the dull monotony
of their lives, and they were able to supply themselves
with small necessaries, without having the trouble of
going to the town for them. Everywhere she went
the country people were very kind to her, as far as

their limited means allowed, for lier story had gradually-oozed
out, and they were all both, glad and anxious to
help her, even in a little. She was always invited
to partake of whatever meal was going on whenever
she made her appearance at a country house, and her
dog got food as well as herself. If she came late
in the evening, or if the weather was bad, she was
kept for the night, had breakfast with the family
next morning, and very often was presented on
leaving with a piece of coarse brown bread to take
with her ^^agin the road," and of which she made
her dinner when there was no chance of getting
anything better. She won golden opinions as she
went along, for she was obliging and good-tempered,
while her strict honesty made her trusted and
respected.

Whenever the weather was too inclement to
permit of her being out of doors, she utilised the
time by making caps for the country women, and
clothes for their children, which were eagerly bought
up, and left her a fair profit for her trouble. With
Oonagh, either feet or hands were at work, and
whenever she felt tired and longed for rest, which
often happened — for human muscles are not exactly
like machinery that can go on for an unlimited time
the thought of the little child was at all times a

spur sufficient to give her fresh courage, and impel
her to renewed exertion.

By-and-by, as she got more accustomed to her
small traffic and became more expert at it, she
enlarged it, though very gradually and cautiously.
She added to her little stock some cheap calicoes,
muslins, and lace, check for aprons, and a few bright
coloured neckties both for men and women. Soon
she had cheap paper for copybooks for the children,
spelling-books, and catechisms, all of which she sold
easily. She trained her dog to watch the basket by
night as well as by day, and the intelligent creature
soon came to comprehend what she required him todo
; and woe betide the careless or unwary person
that came near his charge when his mistress was
absent, or otherwise employed.

It was a hard life, this perpetual trudging from
one farmhouse to another, in all weather, and alone,
for Bran, intelligent as he was, could hardly be
considered as a companion. Her fare was always
coarse, and often very scanty, her clothing of the
plainest kind, and her lodging as inexpensive and
humble as was consistent with cleanliness and
decency. To herself, she was a very hard task-mistress,
resolutely denying herself the smallest
indulgence or recreation, that would involve even the

most trifling cost. But her great love for the child,
a love that grew greater day after day, brightened
her weary life, and softened every privation. She
felt herself amply repaid for anything she suffered
or did, when she saw him growing daily in beauty
and intelligence. She saw also with much sorrow
that though tolerably healthy, he was of slight
frame, and had a delicacy of constitution that
would make him quite unfit for severe or continuous
labour. She saw him now more frequently than
when she was under obedience to another, and
her opportunities of observing him were of course
multiplied. Every time she saw him, it was
with dismal misgivings as to the future that
lay before him, and the fate that awaited him,
when she should be taken away. She and Sally —
whose opinion of the boys want of that robust
strength, possessed in such affluence by the other
children, perfectly coincided with her own — had
many long and anxious consultations on this all-important
question. Though the good woman did
not love him with the same intense and passionate
love that absorbed the soul of Oonagh, yet she had all
the affection for him that Irishwoman as a rule feel
for the child they have nursed and fostered, and the
little fellow had contrived to gain a place in her kind

motherly heart, only second to that occupied by her
own children. With his father's good looks, he inherited
his mother's affectionate disposition, and sweet
engaging manners, that won all hearts, as hers had
always done. And combined with this, he had a
grave thoughts nines s that was very unusual in so
young a child.

"I often puzzle my brains to find out what on
earth you are to do wit him,'^ said Sally one night,
when the two women were enjoying the rare luxury
of a sly cup of tea by the kitchen fire, after Jim and
all the children had gone to bed.

'^ I often think ov that myself, an' like you, I'm
fairly puzzled by it''

'' He never could do hard work, though he's bright
enough at other things. He'd do very well, if you
could manage to give him a thrace. A tradesman
has a fine aise life, an' as long as he has his health, he
needn't be beholden to any wan."

'^ Sure enough, 'tis a fine thing to have a thrace,
but I'm not thinking' ov that for Johnny."

*^ I suppose you couldn't afford it, an' 'tis a pity,"
said Sally, with a sigh. " A shoemaker aims a dale
of money, an' he needn't be out under the weather
to do it. An' I know myself ov a tailor that has money in
the savings bank, an' a nate little house well furnished,"

"Johnny shall not be either a shoemaker or a
tailors said Oonagli,, in a tone of decision. 'your
plan is good, but I have a better wan, an' it isn't
to-day, or istherday, that it came into my head, buta
long time ago."

An' what is that, ergo ? "

Johnny is to be a priest."

A priest ! ! ! ! " The four notes of admiration
can but feebly express the excessive astonishment
evinced both in the voice and manner of Sally at
this startling announcement.

^''Aye; why not? His father was intended for
the altar ; but you see he lost his vocation, an' instit
ov going' off to Maynooth, he got married to Shusy
Burke. This poor child will make a fine priest,
Sally; he's the very moral ov it, young as what
he is."

Sure enough ; he's the timbers ov a priest, every
inch ov him, an I'll go bail, he never will bring any
discredit on the clergy. But oh, Oonagh, woman !
how could you do it? It runs you hard to do what
you're coin' for him, an' not to break your poor heart
intirely, be thryin' to do what is out an' out bryant
you."

"God will help me," said Oonagh, raising her
eyes, that were shining with moisture, up to heaven.

Sure He helped me all along, an' now when
I want His help more than ever, He won't draw
back His hand. Oh, Sally ! if I could only live to
see Johnny wearing' the robes, an' going' up the steps
ov the altar, Pd die in pace."

"I'd be a'mosfc as proud an' glad as yourself to
see that day; but I don't well see how it can be
managed at all. It takes a dale ov money before
a boy is priest ; schooling an' books, an' decent
clothes, an' thin his board, an' lodging', in some place
near a good schoolmaster. Where is all that money
to come from, I ax yourself ? "

I have a trifle saved, an* my little dismiss is
improving', for the times isn't as bad as what they
wor, thank God. I'm used to the road now, an' the
people knows me, an' every wan is good to me. I'm
getting' on a dale better than I ever expected I
would. Don't go again me, Sally, in this, for my heart
is set on making' him a priest. Sure, if I'm notable
to do it, there's no harm done, an' he can get
whatever thrace he has a fancy for. But I'll be
able to do it, Sally ; my heart tells me I will."

God enable you, ashore. 'Tis a great undertaken',
surely, but you have great courage, an' God fits the
back for the burden."

He's not strong an' healthy, like them lads ov

yours, an' he never could get his bread by hard
labour."

'Tis hard to advise you, an' I'm no ways clever
in them sort ov things. But couldn't you make a
peeler ov him, or a dark making' up accounts ? Would
either ov them do ? "

'^No, Sally, they would not. To be ever an'
always stooping' down over a desk in a close, hot room
would very soon make an ind ov poor Johnny. An' I
have no friend in court that would get him into the
peelers for me. I hear that it requires great interest
intirely for a boy to be made a peeler. But if he
was a priest, he'd have fine fresh air always, betune
riding' an' walking', an' he'd have good nourishing'
food, an' bryant all, he'd be a gentleman, an' have
the life ov a gentleman, an' the respect ov wan. 'Tis
worth thryin', anyhow. He'd make a good holy priest,
I'm sure, an' if I didn't think that, I never would put
him into the Church at all. Johnny is so good, an' mild,
an' serious in himself, that he's for all the world
cut out for the clergy."

Faix, then, that's the lane truth ; tis himself
that is."

'^If I had to beg halfpence from dure to dure,
I'll do it, but I don't thread ever coming' down to
that. I'm a decent father an' mother's child, an' no

beggar, an' you'll see that 1^11 be able wit the help
ov God to sind my boy to schools an' to college,
at my own cost, an' by the profits ov my own honest
industry, without any wan's charity. See if I don't ! "

'^ Grod enable you, poor woman, an' lave you
your health, an' power a blessing' down on you ! It
would be a grand thing surely if you wor able todo
it. But I'm not in thread ov you, nor will I
ever again say a word that would put you off the
good work you have taken in hand. You're such a
brave woman, Oonagh, that when want you take a
thing in head, you'll be sure to carry it through," cried
Sally, in genuine admiration of the great boldness
and courage of her companion. " But it will be hardwork
on you, an' take a long time before it is
done."

So itself. I'm used to hard work, an' as long
as God laves me my health, there's no fear in life
ov Johnny. Oh, if I could only live to see my boy
wearing' the robes, an' hear his first mass, I'd die
happy. Then my work will be done, an' I can go
home to rest with all my people ! An' when I meet
his father an' mother, I needn't be in thread to
face 'em, for as well as I kept the promise that I
made to my mother, I'll kept just as faithful the promise
that I made to them."

OONAGH MEETS WITH SOME OLD Friends.

Famine is in thy cheeks,
Need and oppression starve in thy eyes,
Upon thy back hangs ragged misery,
The world is not thy friend, nor the world's law.

Shakespeare.

Fief by this new ambition, the heart of Oonagh
took fresh courage, and though she did not work
harder, or fare worse than before, for that was
hardly possible, she certainly in no respect relaxed her
efforts, or abated the rule of rigid self-denial she
had long since laid down for herself. The glorious
vision of the child of her love " wearing the robes,'^
and standing on the altar to preach the word of
God, was for ever before her eyes. The severe
hardship and incessant labour of her daily life were
all forgotten, when she pictured that brilliant future.
All she had hitherto suffered was gone, and done
with, and all that she would inevitably bave to

suffer, before that picture could become reality, she
determined to confront with a resolute and hopeful
spirit. She did not disguise from herself, that she had
entered upon what was for her a gigantic undertakings
one beset by great difficulties, and only to be
accomplished by long years of desperate effort, and
unconquerable will. But she was not dismayed by
the enormous difficulty of the task she had set herself,
nor by the great length of time that should elapse
before she could bring it to a completion, but she
kept that joyful completion ever before her eyes. Like
all the Irish peasantry, she had a strong faith in God,
and a child-like reliance on His mercy and goodness.
Her word was ever, " God will help me," and He did.
Regular exercise in the open air, to which might
be added an innocent mind, and the peace of a good
conscience, kept her in good health, and, little by
little, she was able to lay by money towards the
attainment of the great object that was now become
the sole purpose of her life.

One evening, at the close of a hard winters day,
she was walking along very slowly, for the basket
on her arm, being better stocked than it had been
formerly, was very heavy, and she had gone a long
distance since morning. Close beside her was her
inseparable companion Bran. A long stretch of

bleak mountain, road lay on before her, and as far
as her eye could react, sbe saw no bouse at any side
in wbicb she could seek shelter for the night. She
began to get much alarmed for to spend a night in
the open air, exposed to the action of a sharp frost,
was to court sickness, and probably death. She
trudged wearily on, but no house could be seen, and she
was almost in despair — if such a word as despair could
be found in Oonagh's vocabulary — when she came
to a most miserable-looking hovel, standing in some
boggy ground, a little in from the road. It was so
small and desolate, that she at first thought it could
be only a shed for cattle ; but shelter of any kind
was not to be despised on such a night, and to get
a corner among the dumb creatures of God, under
cover, was better than sleeping in the open fields.

She turned off the high road, and made her way
towards this cabin, but not without much difficulty,
owing to the increasing darkness, and the soft, marshy
nature of the ground. As she approached, she heard
the sound of some one coughing within, and cheered
by this token of human neighbourhood, she raised the
latch of the crazy door, and entered with her usual
password of " God save all here's

^' God save you kindly,^^ was the reply in a man's
voice, but who the man was, or where he was, she

could not make out, for the place was in almost total
darkness. There was no light but what came from
some sods of wet turf smouldering on the hearth.
Her heart sank within her , for the darkness and the
smouldering sods reminded her of the evening that
she had gone to the house of the Molloys. It was
the same thing over again, except that here a human
voice had replied to her salutation.

"tis a cold evenings she said, while she tried
as well as she could to make her way to this apology
for a fire.

I believe so," was the answer, in a weary, apathetic
tone, as if the speaker was ill, or weak, or
both.

If you have a bit ov candle, honest man, I'd be
very thankful to you if you would light it. I'm fairly
lost wit the cold, an if I could see where the turf
is, rd make down a fire," she said, after a short
silence.

I have no candle, but there is a smuthawn ov
bondage that'll do as well," and suiting the action to
the word, he took the smuthawn from a corner behind
him, and threw it on the hearth. Being very dry, it
blazed up at once, and then looking round she saw
the most wretched place that was ever inhabited by
human creatures. It consisted of only one room — if

VOL. III. c

it could be called a room — at one end of which was
the hearth, and at the other a bed of dirty straw, on
which, covered by some miserable rags lay some
person apparently fast asleep. There was no furniture
whatever but one old table with only two legs, that was
propped up against the mud wall by large stones, a
small iron pot, and a sugdn chair, on which the man
who had spoken to her was sitting. As soon as he
could see her he rose, and with the instinctive
courtesy of the Irish peasant, pushed the chair
towards her, and sat down again on an old turf-basket
turned bottom upwards. He was a tall man,
and might once have been well-looking ; but now it
would be indeed difficult to trace the least appearance
of good looks in the broken and abject wretch
that he seemed to have become. His face, which
was very thin, and lividly pale, was covered with
beard, his hair hung down in long matted locks,
and his body, which had been a powerful one, was
so destitute of flesh, so gaunt and bony, that it was
nothing but an animated skeleton. His bones,
covered only by shrivelled yellow skin, protruded
in many places through the scanty rags that hung
loosely around him. Up to this, Oonagh had thought
John Molloy's house the most wretched human
habitation she had ever seen — so very wretched, indeed,

that she never remembered it without a shudder
but she could no longer assign it that mournful
pre-eminence. There are degrees in misery ; and incoming
to this hut, she had reached the very lowest
depth.

Very soon Oonagh, with her usual energy, made
a good fire with some sods of turf she found in another
corner, and warmed her chilled hands and feet at its
welcome blaze. Then she took from her pocket a
small stone bottle containing milk, and some coarse
brown bread. She broke the bread into two equal
parts, and silently offered one half to her companion,
who looked positively starved. He snatched it eagerly
from her hand, and breaking off a morsel, put it in his
mouth ; but the effort to swallow it was too much for
the famine-stricken creature, and he fell down on the
ground in a fainting fit.

In a moment Oonagh had raised him up, and
placing him in a reclining position against the wall,
sprinkled him with cold water, and chafed his
temples, and thin, cold hands. When she saw he was
beginning to recover a little, she gave him some water
to drink, which revived him. Then she warmed the
milk in the old pot, and putting it to his lips, saw
that he drank it with all the avidity of one who was
perishing of hunger. When he had taken it, she

c 2

again offered him the bread, but lie could not take
it. So lie gave Mm the remainder of the milk in
her bottle, and she and Bran ate the brown bread,
with a drink of water to wash it down.

"You are very low an wake in yourself," she said
when she had finished her frugal supper. " How is it
that you let yourself down so greatly ? "

These two days I had nothing to ate," he said in
the same weary, apathetic voice, " an' before that I was
wake enough. tis a long time now since I had a
regular male ov vittles, only snapping' up a bit now an'
again, when I could get it. That's what run me down,
sure."

Fake an' sure, honest man, 'tis no admiration in
life that you're wake an' low. An' have you no wan
at all to take care ov you, an' see that you have some
food?"

Mushaa, while the wife was wit me, she managed
it, an' how she did it, or where she made it out, God
knows, for I don't. But she's gone now, former ! "

An' where did she go ? "

"She didn't go anywhere at all. She's in that
bed that you see bryant there."

Oonagh glanced at the heap of dirty straw at the
other end that he miscalled a bed, and now she
remembered that the person who was lying on it had

not once moved since lie had entered the cabin. A
horrible suspicion took hold o£ her , and though her
nervous system was perfect, thanks to her sound
health, and free, wholesome life in the open air, she
shuddered from head to foot.

'' Is she dead ? " she asked, in an awe-struck
whisper.

^^ She is,^^ he replied, in the same dull, monotonous
way in which he had hitherto spoken, and in a voice
that was a fitting accompaniment to his listless
manner. In truth the man was only half alive, and
all feeling and sense were crushed out of him; his
very heart seemed frozen and dead.

It is a very noticeable fact that in all the statistics
of the great Irish famine its wretched victims are
described as having succumbed to their dreadful fate
with a silent resignation that in some instances was
patient fortitude, and in others — and these last were
the greater numbers — with an apathy, a sort of dull
numbness, a moral paralysis, that made no complaint,
and asked for neither sympathy nor pity. They suffered
silently, and died in silence, as the dumb beasts
die. Provided they received the last rites of their
church, they were indifferent to everything else in a
world that had no life for them but one of misery,
and no death but the horrible one of famine. Their

native shrewdness was blunted, the humour and gaiety
that is an integral part of the Irish nature was totally
extinguished, and even their family affection, which
is their most shining quality, and one that ought to
go far in redeeming many defects, lay chilled and
dormant. Their minds were dead long before the
breath had left their wasted bodies; all feeling and
all sensibility, except alone to physical suffering, were
extinct long before they died. As a rule — which, like
all other rules, has its exceptions — the Irish people
are the most patient in the world, and the famine
years of '47 and H8 proved it. He who in that
calamitous time so sorely afflicted them, alone knows
how patient they were !

After a moment, when Oonagh had time to recover
herself from the horror of this dismal announcement,
she flung another large knot of bogwood on the fire
so as to shed more light around, and went to the side
of the miserable bed. There was no need to tell her
that the person who lay on it was dead, and had been
so for some hours. No attempt had been made to
straighten the limbs, or perform the last sad offices
due to the dead. The eyes, however, were closed, as
if Death for once had been merciful, and came when
his victim was asleep.

Oonagh knelt down on the damp floor, and drawing

aside the long, tangled dark hair, gazed on the
dead face. It was fearfully thin and worn, and one
hand and arm, without covering of any kind, lay
outside the ragged quilt, only bones and sinews, held
together by the livid skin that covered them. There
was something in that pinched, worn face that
attracted Oonagh's attention in no ordinary way.
She must have seen that face before. There was
something in it that reminded her of her youth, of
her old happy home, of the pleasant time when
people were not dying, inch by inch, of cold and
hunger. Where could she have seen that face ?
She looked at it long and earnestly, until at last
feature by feature, and line by line, the poor dead
face became familiar. Was this Judy ? Was this
squalid and emaciated corpse all that remained of
the bright eyed, joyous-hearted girl that was like a
sunbeam wherever she went, full of life, and gladness,
and laughter ? Here was one of the three merry girls
who had tried the charm of the Dumb Cake, and
had dreamed she was to be married to "Mad Dick
Considine ^' ! She had '^ creed her weird," had
married Dick, and this was the end of it ! Oonagh
covered her face with her hands, and cried as if her
heart was breaking.

Oh, Judy, Judy ! 'a grew gell, ages minima

relish ! * did it come to this wit you at last ? " lie
wailed out in the bitterness of that terrible surprise.

Her sobs almost choked her, shaking her whole
body with the violence of her emotion, while her
cries sounded strange and weird in their passionate
vehemence as she knelt on the damp earth of that
wretched cabin. But the husband — he whose animal
spirits, when he was young, were so high as to
get for him the nickname of '^ Mad Dick's — never
seemed to hear her cries, or be in the least disturbed
by them. He was too low for that now, too far
gone in the deadness of his great misery. He sat
on the old basket, with his head laid up against the
wall, as if nothing could ever again rouse him from
his stupid apathy.

When she had fairly exhausted herself crying,
Oonagh rose from her knees, went back to the fire,
and sat down beside the wretched man.

'soh, Dick, astlioTe\ I didn't know you at all
when first I came in," she said, still weeping. " Barra,
how could I ever think that it was yourself that
was in it at all ? You wor such a fine, clever, able
boy in the good ould times."

^A groAJo gell, ages minima relish! — My bright love,
and my dearest soul !

"Aye, in troth'

'^ An don't you know me Dick ? Don't you
remember me Oonagli MacDermott, that lived wit
my father on the Castle Cloyne estate, out westwards
? ''

"No, I don't remember you; but you're a good
woman, whoever you are, an' your cry is the only
keen that'll be ris over my colleen chas dhuv.^ It
was God surely that dhruv you in the dure to look
after her, for I'm not able to do it. She was a
party girl want on a time, though she hasn't much
the look ov that now, my poor Judy ! But sure
that's a long time ago now, an' I almost forget it."

How did it all happen, Dick ? What misfortune
was it that came down on ye at all ? "

Wish, the same misfortune that came down
on many a wan besides us. While the plates lasted
we wor comfortable enough, an' as happy as the
day was long ; but they all fell rotten in wan week,
an' then everything went wrong wit us. We had to sell
the three cows, wan after another, to buy male, an'
then the pigs, an' then there was nothing left to
pay the rent. When we owed two years' rent, we
wor put out ov the house, an' the spot ov land."

Colleen chas dhuv — Pretty dark girl.

'' An' how did ye get on af titer that ? ''
'^ Oyeh^ we didn't get on at all, nor never ris our
heads again ; how could we ? The labors all gathered
together wan Sunday after mass, an' built this little
cabin for us, an' I got a day's work here an' there, ov
an odd time. Ov late I was not able to work at all,
though I did my living' best, but sure how can any
wan work on wan male a day ov the alla stirabout,
an' no sort ov kitchen wit it but a grain ov salt ?
She," pointing to the straw bed, '^ did her best too,
but holy Mother ov God! what good was her best?
She was dying' ov hunger, an' she had an infant at her
breast that was also dying', for when her mother's milk
failed, there was no food for her but the alla male,
an' the poor little craythur was too young for that
stuff. Many a time poor Judy, though badly able,
would walk miles an' miles to beg a drop ov milk for
that child, an' then when she'd come back, it would be
to spend the night long by the fire wit it in her lap,
thryin' to hush it, an' keep it from crying', so that I'd
have some sleep after my day's work. You never
would believe, Oonagh, how quiet an' patient my poor
girl was, she that had such a high spirit, an' was so
proud in herself. I used to they an' coax the baby to
come to me sometimes for a start, to let Judy lie down
an' get a little sleep, but she was so cross an' fractious

wit the dintli ov linger , that lie could not bear to be
anywhere but in the mother's arms. It cried, an'
cried, night an' day evermore, till the sound ov its
crying' went through an' through me like a sharp
knife, an' I prayed to Grod, if it was His holy will, to
take it out ov its misery. But though I often lost
patience wit the poor little object, Judy never did,
but was patient an' loving' wit it, till it threw its last
breath in her lap. I think," added Dick reflectively,
'^ she might make a better fight only for that baby.
It wore her out to be without sleep as well as food, an'
then you persuade, she was fairly heart scalded to see
her wan little child dying' by inches, without been'
able to save it."

'' I often hard, Dick, that you wor always a very
good an' loving' husband to poor Judy," she said,
touched to the soul by his simple narrative.

'' Ah ! sure, 'tis all aiquil now. I might just as
well be the other thing for what odds it makes, now
that she's lying' out foment me, starved to death.
I'd give my life for her, but what good was that ?
I couldn't give her food for herself an' her dying'
baby, an' that was a smaller thing than given' my
life. Sure, 'tis all wan now; neither ov 'em, thank
God, will ever feel cold an' hungry again ! "

All this he said in a monotonous, droning voice.

and in a dry matter-of-fact way, as if lie was speaking
not of himself, his wife, and child, but of strangers
with whom he had no concern, and in whom he took
no interest. His great misery had, indeed, brought
him as low in mind as he was in body, and reduced
him to a state of passive, stolid indifference. He
had nothing more to lose now, for all that he had
valued and loved had been taken from him, and nothing
more to suffer, except the mere pang of death itself,
which could have little terror for one so wretched
and so abject, who might be said to have arrived
at the utmost limit of human sorrow and endurance.

A Friend IN NEED.

Better is a neighbour that is near, than a friend who is far
off.

Proverbs.

When the first faint light of the gloomy winter's day-stole
in through the crevices of the rickety door,
Oonagh went outside the hovel, for she was sick and
half suffocated from the foul air she had been breathing
all the night. Her eyes were sore and inflamed from
weeping, as well as from the smoke that had not any
outlet but a hole in the roof, miscalled a chimney.
Her head was almost bursting with a violent headache,
and she was feverish, and restless, from not
having lain down all night. She longed to lie down,
if only for an hour ; but there was no bed but one in
that cabin, and she could not go there. She remembered
that a new task had been given her todo,

that she could not, and would nt)t shrink from.
With her usual simple piety, she felt that God had
led her by the hand to do His own special work,
which must be done for Him, quite irrespective of
her own old love for poor Judy. To the clear, well-disciplined
mind of this girl, a sense of duty —-no
matter what amount of self-sacrifice it entailed on
her — was always paramount, and she never suffered
anything to interfere with it, or turn her aside
from it, even by a hairs breadth. She was as
faithful to this instinct — for it was almost instinctive
now, as she had been at any time of her life, and at
once she set herself steadily to think what she could
best do in this sudden and sorrowful emergency. To
an active, energetic woman like Oonagh this was not a
hard task, or one that took much time to think over.
She knew that whatever was to be done, should be by
herself alone, for that poor Dick was now too utterly
broken down, both mentally and bodily, to give her any
assistance whatever. Refreshed by the morning air,
and comforted in some degree by knowing that she
had the means in a small way of helping this poor
man, she went back to the cabin.

When she went in she left the door wide open, as
well to let out the smoke, and let in the fresh air,
as to give her light for the work she had to do. Poor

Dick was asleep, with his head against the wall, and
his face, seen now by the broad light of day, looked
even worse than it had done on the previous night —
old, shrunken, ghastly, the very incarnation of famine.
Making as little noise as possible, so that she should
not break this merciful sleep that gave him a temporary
oblivion, she made a fire, boiled some water,
and proceeded to perform the last decent offices of
womanly love towards the remains of poor Judy. It
was a hard task, alone as she was, but she had a brave
heart as well as a very tender one, and it carried her
through with it. With reverent hands she washed
and straightened the wasted limbs, smoothed back
the black hair that was once so glossy and abundant,
and taking a new muslin cap from her basket, tied
it on the head with a bit of ribbon. Then she took
off some of her own underclothing, and put them on
the body. Having performed all these womanly duties
of love and decency to a sister woman, she sallied
forth again to try and procure some breakfast for
herself and Dick. She bad to walk about half a mile
before she came to a house where she was able to
get some milk and a loaf of white bread. She offered
to pay for them, but when the owners heard her
dismal story, they refused to take her money, though
they were poor enough themselves. They had a

little sheen at the side of the road, and kept a
few loaves of bread for the use of their customers.

When Oonagh returned she found Dick awake,
sitting by the fire in his usual apathetic way, as if he
were only half alive. She boiled some of the milk,
and breaking a large slice of the bread into it, gave it
to, him, and she shuddered when she saw the almost
wolfish voracity with which the wretched man devoured
it. What was left, she divided as usual with her dog.

I have something to say to you, Dick," she said
when the simple meal was over. ^' You're stronger
now than what you wor last night, an' you can mind
what I'm tellin' you."

Folly on, I'm hearing to you' he replied listlessly.

Very good. Well, we must first ov all have poor
Judy ferric decent. It is time now, for you told me
last night that she was a good while dead, an' moreover,
neither ov us can remain another night in this
poor place."

But sure I have no place to go to."

Oh, yes, you have. There's an aunt ov yours
lives over in Ballycar, an' though they're only
struggling' people, she an' her husband will give you
a corner in their house, an' the bit an' sup, until
we can look about us a little. If you wor wit them
for a while, you'd recover yourself, an' be able to get

your own living' want more. Haven't yon a brother
well off in America ? ''

I Lave, sure, but what good is that to
me?^^

'^ Every good, wit the help ov God. Now, Dick,
listen whether to me, an you'll see what a fine plan
I have in my head for you. I'll write to your brother,
an' tell him all about poor Judy an' yourself, an' I'll
say that you'll go out to him as soon as ever he sends
you the passage money, an' a trifle to buy a shut ov
clothes, so that you won't be any discredit to him
when you land over. My hand to you, Dick, when
he gets that heather he'll sind you a cheque posthaste,
an' more money in it than what I'll ax him
for. See if he won't ! "

^^But I'll be dead long before his Settler comes,"
cried poor Dick, in a voice that showed he didn't
much care whether he was or not.

'^Eyeh! Fake an' sure you won't,'^ she said
cheerily. " I tell you now, that wit the help ov Grod,
this is the very poorest day you'll ever see. 'Tis
poor enough, dear knows," with a glance round
her, '' but so itself. You're not bound in any way
to this cabin, an' there's no reason in life why you'd
stop in it another day. This morning' while you wor
asleep I was puzzling' my brains to make out what

VOL. III. D

would be the best for us to do. Are you minding' me
Dick, arson ? '^

I am, sure. Go on."

Well, that's just what I thought ov, an' I hope
you'll like my plan. I'd like greatly to have poor Judy
ferric with her people, that wor ever an' always a
decent, honest ould stock, but I'm in thread we
couldn't manage that any way. Their berlin' place
is too far away, an' it would take too much money
to sind her there."

But if she could speak to us," he said, pointing
to the wretched bed, ^^ she'd tell us that she'd like
dearly to go to her little child."

An' where is that ergo ? "

Just hard by."

'' Oh, then, that settles it. Where her little child
is, we'll bring her, an' spare the money that could
be usefully laid out. I have a couple ov pound
sewed up in my bodice, an' that will pay for the
coffin, an' a few clothes that you must get before
you go to your aunt. Her people-inlaw is very
decent, I know, for I often go in their direction when
I'm on my rounds, an' there's no call for her to be
ashamed ov you when you walk in the dure to her.
She's a good woman, an' her husband is a very goodman,
but believe me, Dick, they'll give you a dale a

heartier welcome when they see you in decent clothes,
instit ov them dirty ould rags on your back. An'
whin the letter comes from America you'll be a fine,
strong, able man again, an' aiquil for the voyage out.
Phase God, you'll be writing' home some fine day to tellus
how well off an' rich you are."

But Judy is gone ! What good will it all be tome
when I can't share it wit her ? " he cried, with
more feeling than he had as yet exhibited.

She is gone, former ! but sure she's wit God
an' His blessed Mother. It was His holy will to
take her, an' we can't go again that. You must
put her out ov your mind, an' think ov her only in
your prayers, for you have yourself to think ov now,
an to they to get well an' strong again. An' now,
what do you say to this plan ov mine ? 'Tis the
best that I could think ov. The couple ov pound
is yours, an' heartily welcome. I'm sorry that I
can't give you any more. I won't deny that I have
it, but what I have I can hardly call my own. I
have a delicate little boy dipindin' on me, an' what
I have is for him, an' not for myself at all."

"I hard ov that child. But, Oonagh, ashore, I
don't like takin' your money, that you put together
wit so much hardship an' trouble, but it would be
foolish in me to refuse such a good offer. All I can

D 2

say is that if I reach. America alive, the very first
money I air will go to pay you back."

God enable you , poor man ! I'm no ways in
dread ov you at all. I won't deny that Pd like
to be paid back again, in regard ov little Johnny, but
sure if you're not able to do it, Fll never miss it,
an' it won't make no odds betune us."

'^ I had a couple ov pound ov my own want," he
said, with a far-off look in his dull eyes, 'ran' a dale
more to the back ov it, but that's along time ago now.
'Tis a power ov money — two pound ! Oh, Oonagh,
if I had it this time past, or even a small share ov
it, she an' her little baby wouldn't die ov could an'
hunger out before my face ! ''

He burst into a wild passion of tears, the first he
had shed since she came to the house. She was glad
to see it, for it showed that he was roused out of his
sullen torpor, and that his heart, that was almost
turned to stone, had become softened. She let him
cry on without any attempt at consolation, which
would be an interruption as unseasonable as it would
be vain. Time alone, she well knew, would be his
surest and best consoler.

After some time he stood up, and walked, or rather
tottered to the door.

Where are you going' now, Dick ? " she asked.

To see about the coffin''

Come back again ; that's all settled. When I
was out this morning' to get the breakfast I met a
smart little gordon, an' I promised to give him
sixpence, if he'd run off to the town an' tell the
coffin-maker to sind out the coffin. He'll be sure todo
my message, for he looked, poor boy, as if sixpences
won't over plenty wit him. An' as the graveyard
is so convenient, the person that brings the coffin
will take it there for a trifle. I wonder he's not
here by this ; but I'm sure he had no coffin made an'
it takes some time to put wan together."

^' Oonagh, ashore machine ! you're worth your
weight in gould," he exclaimed in amazement. " You
think ov everything, an' ov every wan but yourself.
It was God, sure, that dhruv you in the dure to us."

Ah ! but I didn't come in time. If I only came
a couple ov days sooner I might be able to do something
for her. But there's no use now in lookin'
behind us ; what we must do , is to make the best
fight we can, an' lave the rest in the hands ov God."

For a few hours, those two mourners — true
mourners they were indeed ! — sat together in that
wretched cabin, watching the remains of their beloved
dead. In the afternoon a cart containing the coffin
arrived, and with the driver was the little boy to

claim his sixpence. It was a very cheap coffin of
deal, with a little yellow ochre smeared roughly over
it by way of paint. But if it had been made of oak,
and silver-mounted, and lined with white satin, the
corpse could not be laid into it with more reverent
and gentle hands nor be bedewed with more bitter
tears. Oonagh put her own shawl round it as a
substitute for a shroud, and making a pillow of the
cleanest straw she could find, she laid the head down
on it very softly. Then kissing the cold blue lips
for the last time, she drew the corner of the shawl
over the poor dead face, and made a sign to the
man to nail down the lid.

The graveyard was very near, and a pauper funeral
is generally got through in an expeditious manner, so
that it was over in less than an hour. Then Oonagh
told the widower, who seemed perfectly dazed with
trouble, that he should come with her to the next
town, and not again go back to the cabin. On arriving,
her first care was to bring him — for he was too ill
and helpless to do anything for himself — to a pawn-office,
and have him fitted there in a suit of tolerably
decent clothes. Then she bought a hat, and shoes and
stockings ; all of which she got surprisingly cheap, for
the place was full of such things that would never be
redeemed, as they who had pledged them were dead.

or had left the country. Having seen Dick fitted in
this suit of second-hand clothing, and taken care that
he should wash and shave himself, Oonagh was
agreeably surprised to see what a vast improvement
was effected in his appearance by such simple
proceedings.

Next morning after breakfast, Oonagh made out a
carter who was going in the direction of the place
where Dick^s aunt lived, and this man, when made
aware of all the circumstances, offered to take him in
his cart to the very door of the house, and when she
offered him a trifle for his trouble, the honest fellow
refused point-blank to take even a penny. She
helped Dick into the cart, and though she tried to
look cheerful, and speak words of hope and comfort at
the last, her eyes were full of tears, and her voice
trembled a little.

An' now, Dick, mind that you get some wan
to write me a line just to say that you got safe to
your journey's ind, though I'm not a bit in thread
but this honest boy will take all the care in life ov
you. An' I'll call here at the post-office every day
for the letter, so be sure you don't forget to
sind it. I'll write to your brother to-morea, phase
goodness ; you can lave it to me, as you can't write
yourself, an' my hand to you I'll put it strong to

him. I'm very sure he'll sind me a letter wit
money in it in the course ov a couple ov montis ,
an' you may swear your davy, that I won't let much
grass grow under my feet till I bring it to you. An'
now, Dick, arson, good-bye, an' good luck, an' take
care of yourself, an' they to get strong an' well,
so as to be ready to start as soon as the money comes
from America."

The poor fellow wrung her hand, but he could
not speak a word. As he said afterwards, "there
was a big lump in my throat that a' most choked
me, whin I tried to spake to here's The carter gave
the reins a jerk, smacked his whip, and they were
off. They had gone a few yards when she ran after
them, and thrusting a shilling into the driver's hand
said : '^ Though you wouldn't take anything for
your trouble, you won't refuse the price ov a little
thrace for him an' yourself at Simon Doolin's public-house
at the four cross-roads. Faix, ye'll both ov
ye want it by the time ye come to it, for it's a good
seven miles off if it is a perch. I was very near
forgetting' that; faix, I think I'll be forgetting' my
own name soon wit the heighth ov trouble an' sorra."

The very next day, true to her promise, she wrote
to Dick's brother in America, telling him the " plain
unvarnished tale" of the poor fellow's losses and

sufferings, concluding by entreating him in the most
urgent manner to send lier the means, as soon ashe
could spare it, to pay Dick's passage out to him.
To make use of her own words, she ^' put it strong,"
although in truth her simple narrative could not
exceed the actual truth, or even come up to it. When
she had posted this important letter with her own
hand, she went about on her own business as usual,
waiting for the reply to her letter with the utmost
anxiety and impatience. Not that she was in the
least afraid that the manes heart would be closed to
her appeal; that was the last thought that could
occur to her. The vast amount of money sent during
the famine years by the Irish abroad to their poor
friends at home, proves, beyond all doubt, the strength
of their family affection, and the intense sympathy
with which they regarded the old land in the fearful
shadow that had fallen on it. It was indeed a
very touching and beautiful trait in the character
of those poor exiles ! They had brought the warmth
of their hearts, and the bright light of family love,
into the city of refuge to which they had fled, and
neither time nor distance could chill the one, or blunt
the sensibility of the other !

What Oonagh was really afraid of, was that her
letter might miscarry, or that Dick^s brother might

he dead, or that some other unfortunate casualty
might happen ; but she never for a moment doubted
receiving a favourable reply to her letter, provided
only that it came safely to hand.

It came even sooner than she expected, and
contained a cheque on the nearest bank for twenty
pounds to pay Dick's passage to New Orleans,, at
which port his brother would meet him, on the arrival
of the ship. She lost not a moment in bringing
him this welcome letter — she would not entrust it to
any messenger — and was both surprised and pleased
to see the great improvement that had taken place
in him, even in so short a time. He had got back
a little of his old strength, and was not altogether
the gaunt skeleton he had been when last she had
seen him. But the expression of his face was very
sad, and his manner so subdued, that it would be
hard now to realise the fact that he had once been
known as '^ Mad Dick Considine ! " The terrible
experience of the past few years had broken his
spirit completely, or as his aunt expressed it, " taken
all the fun an' frolic out ov him ; " and the memory
of his young wife and her baby dying of want before
his eyes, had thrown a dark shade over his life that
nothing could ever brighten or dispel.

Dick's aunt, who was very grateful to Oonagh for

all her kindness to lnm , made lier stay with them fora
few days, and bought from her a great part of the
contents of her basket ; she also gave her as a present
a good new shawl to replace the old one that she had
wrapped round the corpse or poor Judy, when she was
putting it into the coffin. She was but a struggling
woman, and could do no more to show the gratitude
she felt. Dick wanted to pay her what she had laid
out for the coffin, and his own clothes, out of the
twenty pounds, but she refused to take it from him.

'' No, Dick, you canst spare it now ; wait till you're
some time in America, an have money galore, an'
then you can sind it to me, an' I'll be glad to get it
in regard ov little Johnny. I'm not in thread ov that
trifle at all, an' there's no hurry in life about it.
Money is always in saison whatever time it comes."

"But, Oonagh, 'a rd gal, I may be lost on the
passage out, or I may die in America before I can
air anything."

^' Well, I'll be more sorry for that, than for the
money if it was twenty times as much, an' I'll never
give a thought to it. But all the same, Dick, my man,
I'm sure ov that money ; just as sure as if it was lying*
this mint on the palm ov my hand."

THE Prospect BRIGHTENS.

Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer.

Shakespeare.

It must not be supposed all this time that Oonagh
either forgot, or was forgotten by her foster-sister,
Miss Grace'' When in the neighbourhood of Father
O'Rafferty's house, she never omitted the opportunity
of spending a day or a night there, where she was
sure of receiving a warm welcome, not only from Miss
Dillon, but from Father John also. The good priest
had long felt the greatest respect and admiration
for a character such as hers ; so humble, and at the
same time so independent; so shrewd and hardworking,
yet so honest and unselfish. Whenever,
by great labour and self-denial, she was able to put
a pound together, she brought it to him to keep
for her, as she was afraid of being robbed, if she

kept it on lier person, and not having any settled
home, she had no hiding-place in which she could
stow away her money. The priest was too wise, as
well as too conscientious, to let her little savings
lie unfruitful in his hands ; he lodged them, according
as she gave them to him, in one of the local banks,
where they were bearing interest — not much, indeed,
but what in time became a very respectable
addition to the original deposit. By the help of
fresh additions constantly made to the little hoard, as
well as the interest and compound interest always
arising, it became a considerable sum of money in
some time. He did not tell her of this, as he wished
to give her a pleasant surprise. There was so little
joy in her hard life, that he felt quite pleased to think
how happy she would be, when she knew that a sum
of money — a very large one for poor Oonagh — was
lying in the bank to her credit.

One holy-day evening, on returning from singing
vespers in his chapel, he heard in the hall that
Oonagh MacDermott had arrived, and was taking tea
in the parlour with Grace.

On entering the parlour, he found Oonagh divested
of her travelling gear, and sitting to the table, where
Grace was presiding, and heaping her visitor's plate
with bread and butter, to which was added some cold

meat that was left after the early dinner. Tea had
just been made and would be fit to drink when the
cold meat had been disposed of. It was a homely
picture but a very pleasant one ! The high-born
delicate-looking lady ministering with affectionate
solicitude to the wants of her humble friend; the table
plain, but very neat, and plentifully spread with good
country fare, and in the grate a blazing fire, before
which Bran, now grown old, was stretching his limbs
in careless ease. Oonagh made good use of the
luxurious food before her, with the wholesome appetite
of one blest with perfect health, and with whom
good things were not usually found in her ordinary
bill of fare. "When she saw the priest she stood up,
and made her usual low curtsey.

Sit down again, Oonagh, sit down, my good girl,"
he said, shaking her kindly by the hand. '^ I won't
speak to you unless you go on eating, and that
heartily too, for I suppose you have put a good
deal of ground under your feet, since you heard mass
this morning."

^' Pretty fair, your reverence. I got the last
mass in the Ballycross chapel, an' then came on
heres'

'that's ten miles, Oonagh, if it's a perches

'so it is, sir, but you see Fm so used to be

on my feet that I don't think that a great walk
at all."

'^ Did you eat nothing since breakfast ? "

^^ No, sir, but you see I'm used to that, too. Sure
it isn't every day I get such a good dinner as thisbe
and with a smile she pointed to the plate before
her.

^'1 think, my dear Miss Grace, that there are
some mutton chops in the houses he said rather
dubiously. "I sent them home myself on the day
before yesterday. Could you desire Bridget to put
one of them on the gridiron ? It would be done ina
few minutes, and you know that poor Oonagh
does not get a mutton chop for her dinner everyday."


Don't you remember that we had the chops for
dinner on yesterday ? " replied Grace, laughing at his
look of blank disappointment. ^^But you' need not
be uneasy about Oonagh. She and I have had a
grand meat tea, and plenty of home-made bread
and buttered

I had full an' plenty ov all sorts ov good things,
before you came in," said Oonagh. '^ Miss Grace took
good care ov me, as she does always. I couldn't take
anything more, indeed. May God increase comfort an
plenty to both you an' her ! "

"When tea was over, Oonagh drew a little bag
from lier bosom, and took from it this time, not one
pounds but three. There was also some loose silver,
but this she put back into the bag.

'' I have three pound notes for your reverence this
time' she said, with a bright smile on her face
and a glad light shining out of her soft gray-eyes.


'why, Oonagh, this is a pleasant surprise you
have for me. How did you manage to have so much
just now ? '^

'*' Well, sir, the times is mending at last, an' the
people is not as badly off as they used to be, thank
God ! The country girls have a few shillings to spare
now an' thin, an they thrace themselves to a silk
handkerchief, or a bit ov lace for their caps, or a new
ribbon, when I have any that phases their fancy. Sure
'tis a new day wit the people when they're able to
lay out a little money want more on their clothes.
An' whenever I make a shilling I do my living' best
to put another on top ov that, an' you see, sir,
that's the way I'm able to put the pounds together
so regular."

Very logically put indeed. Why, Oonagh, you
will be a rich woman, one of these days''

Wish, sir, you're welcome to your joke. Rich,

inagh ! Och maroon ! tliaVs what I never will be
turin duration

^^I'm not so sure of that. Stay a moment, and Forgive
you as pleasant a surprise as you gave me just
now/^

He went to his writing-desk, that was on a side-table
, and taking from it a bank receipt, put it into
her hand.

Now, Oonaghj what do you say to that ? Is not
that a very pleasant surprise I have for you ? "

I don't rightly understand you, sirs

'^ Well, you won't be long so. If you look at that
bit of paper, you will understand it. It is a bank
receipt for fifty pounds that is lodged for your credit.
The interest is not much yet on so small a sum, but
it will be growing, it will be growing

He put his forefinger on the figures of each entry,
and the dates of the lodgments attached to them.
Her hand trembled so that she could not hold the
paper, and she said in a faint voice : '' I canst rightly
see it, sir. I think the sight is laving me."

There is no hurry, my poor girl ; the evening is
long, and we can go over it all at our leisure.''^

It is all right, dear Oonagh,^^ said the sweet,
sympathetic voice of Grace. "You are really and
truly the happy possessor of all that money, made by

VOL. III. E

your own honest hard work and self-denial. Don't
you understand, dear ? ^'

'' Well, hardly, miss. I know that I gave Father
John here a trifle now an again to keep for me safe,
but I never thought it could come up to all this
moneys'

'sit will be mounting up still more every year,"
said the priest. *'^You are getting a little interest,
which will be always added on to the original sum, and
bear interest in its turn. Do you comprehend ? ^^

^' Partly, your reverences

'^ You see, you will always be bringing me more
money to add to this nice little nest-egg, and you
won't know where you are, until it mounts up to
something handsome, that will astonish you. So
you see that I was not joking, when I said you would
be a rich woman one of those days."

Oonagh was by this time actually crying. The
joy and the surprise had been too much for her,
although as a general rule she was 'unused to the
melting mood," and was by no means troubled by
what fashionable people call '' nerves.''^

"tis for joy Fm crying'. Miss Grace. I can't help
it, your reverences she cried apologetically. " But
sure tis all o' count ov little Johnny. I never can
think ov him wearing the holy vestments, an standing

on the altar saying' mass, that the tears don't come
into my eyes, whether I like it or no/^

"Oh, Johnny is all right; there is no fear of
him/^

"There is not, father, with the help of God."

By this time he is old enough to go to a
classical school, and I must see to that for you.
There is a friend of mine, and under some obligations
to nie, keeping a good school in the town. He will
take Johnny into his house as a boarder, for a mere
trifle, to oblige me''

This assertion of the priest's was very much of
a pious fraud, as he intended paying half the money
for the child's board and education at this school,
and let Oonagh pay the other half, thinking at
the same time that she was paying all of it. He
remembered that once on a time, he was an orphan
like little Johnny, as desolate and poor, and like
him, would never have been a priest, or worn "the
robes," only that a kind hand had been held out
to him. As an offering of thanksgiving for the
great charity shown to himself, he was determined
to have a share in a similar charitable work for
another who was in the same predicament, and had
no one to help him to fight the battle of life, but one
poor, humble, hard-working woman.

E 2

She was pouring out her thanks, almost incoherent
from emotion when he interrupted her good-humouredly.


"Now I must be off to my room to read my
office, not a word of which I have looked at this
blessed day. You and Miss Grace can have your
chat without the old man ; I am sure ye have lots to
say to each, other about the news, and the latest
fashions and laughing at his own simple joke, the
good father went off to his own room.

^^ May God bless, an keep all the hurt an' harm
ov the year from him ! " said Oonagh, when he was
gone.

I say amen to that prayer, with all my heart ! "
said Grace Dillon.

When the two young women were alone again,
they looked at each other with curious searching eyes.
'^ Where is all your beauty gone to, Oonagh ? ''
said Grace.

"The rain an' wind ov winter, an' the sun ov
summer, took it all away wit 'em," replied Oonagh
with a merry laugh, '^ an' good security they are for
coin' the like, I'll go bail. Why, thin, the sorra take
it for beauty ! What good is it at all ? an' it don't
last any time."

The winter wind and summer sun had indeed

changed Oonagh^ and robbed her of much of tbafc
beauty for wliicli in lier youth sbe bad been so
remarkable. Her skin bad got tanned and weatherbeaten
from constant exposure to the weather; ber
figure bad lost the soft graceful curves of early
womanhood, and become angular and spare, from
abstinence and exercise. But there were some points
in Oonagb that neither time nor hardship could
deprive of their charm. The blue-gray Irish eyes,
shaded by their long black lashes, had their old calm,
fearless expression, and her mouth, with the well cut,
flexible lips, and pleasant smile, bad all its old grave
sweetness. Nothing could change those glorious
eyes, or take away the beauty of the sweet, sensitive
mouth.

Tbere was a very great change too in Grace,
which Oonagb could not fail to see, though she was
much too timid to make any allusion to it. Trouble
of mind, and illness of body, had done for her what
sun, and wind, and bard work bad done for her foster-sister.
Unlike the bumble peasant-girl, she had never
been handsome or healthy, and her natural delicacy
of constitution, inherited from a consumptive mother,
was making itself every day more dangerously apparent.
But Oonagb, though it made ber heart ache
to see the hectic cheeks, the hollow temples, the

wasted figure, could not bear to speak of the sad
alteration lie saw in her beloved Miss Grace.

You have a very hard, cheerless life, my poor
Oonagh ! " said the young lady, pressing Oonagh^s
brown hand between her own, that were so white and
thin, and looking still more so from the contrast.

^^ Oyeh, no, miss. I^m used to it now, an' I don't
mind it. I'm coin' for little Johnny, as well as for
myself, an' that makes everything come aise to me.
An' more than all, an' better than all, there's fifty
pound in the bank, waiting' for him' and she burst
into one of her old joyous laughs.

'' You never think of yourself at all, Oonagh, I do
believe. It is Johnny you think of, and nothing but
Johnny."

Eyeh ! what do I want now but a bit an' sup, an'
sixpence to pay for my lodging at night, when I'm
in a strange place, far away from the ould labors that
would give it to me, an' a head millia falthagh along
wit it ? Oh, Miss Grace, jewel ! if I want saw Johnny
saying' mass wit the vestments on him, I'd never give
a thought to the cold, an' hunger, an' hardship, if they
wor tin times as much."

All in good time, Oonagh. Keep up your heart,
for I'm quite sure you will live to see that happy day.

God is too good and just to refuse you the prayer
of your whole life, and the reward of all your patience
and devotion. I shall not live to see it, but you
surely will. It is borne in on me, that He will never
send for you, until He first grants to you your heart's
great desire.''^

Well, miss, I hope so ; but half the good will betaken
out ov it, if you aren't to the fore, to see it as
well as me. You'll be as glad almost yourself as what
ril be."

After a little Miss Dillon retired to her bedroom,
for the bad state of her health made early hours
absolutely compulsory on her. But before she left
the parlour, Oonagh said :

I was longing, miss, to ax you if you had any
letter ov late from Master Hy'cinth ; but in thread
it might be bad news, I didn't like mentioning' it.''^

'she writes regularly, Oonagh, and there is no
bad news in his letters, I am happy to say. He is
in good health, and though he has not made his
fortune yet, he is in good heart as well as health, and
in his last letter, he says he hopes to come home a
rich man in a few years."

They won't be long passion' over, miss, an' thin
you'll have him back again, an' ye'll both be as

happy as the day is long, phase God ! Oh, won't it
be the joyful day when Master Hy'cinth comes back
again to Castle Cloyne ! '^

Yes, Oonagh, a very joyful day indeed ; but when
it comes, I shall not be there to see it."

THE DEATH OF BEAN.

Now day may break, and bugle sound,
And whoop and hollo ring around,
And o'er his couch the stag may bound,
But Keeldar sleeps for ever.

Sir Walter Scott.

At the end of a year from the time that Dick Con si-dine
went to America,, Oonagh received a letter from
him, or rather written by some one in his name, ashe
could not write himself, though he had in someway
managed to read a little. This letter contained
a cheque on one of the local banks for ten pounds,
and was directed thus : " To Father John O'Rafferty,
Pap., Castle Cloyne, Ireland, for Oonagh MacDermott."
The letter is given verbatim, spelling and diction, asa
specimen of the greater number of letters sent at
that time by the Irish abroad, to their friends at
home.

"Dear Onagh,

I hope this letter will find you in good health
And spirits, as it laves me in at Present, thanks be
to God for the same, i send you in this a check
Tin pound, and you are to rite back post haste to
say whether You got it or no. dear Oonagh, I
never can put out of my Heart how well you behaved
to me when i wanted help in my sore distress,
and likewise to the poor girl thats Gone, May God
reward you for it. Dear onagh^ two pounds of this
money is to pay you back what you lent me, but
Dear onagh I never can pay for all your goodness,
but God will pay you, never fear. Three more is
to pay for a good tombstone to be put over Poor
Judy and her little baby, an' don't forget her name,
and age, and the day she died, and above all, Dont
forget to say that it was put over her By her
loving' husband, dear Oonagh. When people reads
whats wrote on that tombstone, they will never
know that my poor Girl that come of a good decent
Stock, dyed of cold and hunger. If i had Her now,
she and her child would have full and Plenty out
here, but That wasn't Gods will. Dear Onagh,
you are to buy yourself a shut of Warm close
coming on the winter, and then the rest is to help
you with little Johnny schooling. be the time he's

fit to go to college, more will be sent from whence
this comes. My Brother jack met me on the quay,
and brought me home to his place in the country,
a very long way off. he has a good farm of land
and is coin well, an has a fine set of boys an
girls grown' up to be a help to him. I'm coin
Well myself, and in constant work, an' getting good
wages, thanks Be to God for it. Dont be backward
in takin* the Trifle I send you, for I air more
in wan day here, than I would for a Week at home
Dear onagh, tell Johnny that I sind him my blessing',
and tell him that I hope when he's priest, that
he'll say a Mass for poor judy, and Another for
myself. Jack's Wife is a fine flahoolagh woman, and
an Irishwoman like himself. Give my Love to
father o'Rafferty, and to my Aunt, and all her
family, and remember me to all inquiring' friends.
So no more at present from yours to command,

"ElCHAED Confiding."

Oonagh was quite delighted with this erudite
epistle. To her simple, unlettered mind, it appeared
all that a letter ought to be. Every friend was
remembered, nothing was forgotten, and in all respects
it was most satisfactory. She lost no time
in carrying out Dick's instructions respecting the

tombstone for poor Judy's grave and when it was
erected no one who saw it could ever imagine that
they who slept beneath it were the victims of famine.
Oonagh was never tired of sounding Dick^s praises,
and she showed his letter to so many people, and sentit
to so many places, that at last it was worn to tatters,
and could no longer be deciphered. She bought a
warm cloak for herself, out of the money that was
left after paying for the tombstone, as she thought
it would be dishonest if she did not comply exactly
with the wishes of the donor. The remainder she
gave to the priest, to add to her other savings, which
by this time had mounted up to a sum that to poor
Oonagh seemed bewildering in its magnitude.

But the sky of Oonagh^s prosperity was not to
be always without a cloud. Dark days were in store
for her, as they are for all the human family in a
greater or lesser degree, and her brave heart was to
be once more sorely tried.

In the course of a very wet autumn, Oonagh got
a bad cold, which she found hard to shake off,
notwithstanding her robust health, and hardy habits
of life. But she did not lay herself up, or relax in
her appointed work. On one particular morning,
however, she felt so ill that she was tempted to
remain in the house where she had spent the previous

night, and try what a dayes rest and a little care
would do for her ; but when she saw a bright, clear
sky overhead, and every appearance of fine weather,
she rejected the temptation, and with her basket
on her arm set off, with her inseparable companion
the dog, trotting beside her. The country through
which she now travelled was bleak and wild, and
but thinly populated. Where houses had once stood,
were now but heaps of stones and rubbish, the
handiwork of the Sheriff and his officers, or as
they were called by the country people, " The crowbar
brigade ! " The lands through which she passed
were for the most part only half-cultivated, and in
many places were mere wastes, for when the former
tenants had been ejected, or had emigrated, few
persons could be found bold enough, or solvent
enough, to encounter the enormous amount of poor's -
rate that should be paid on them, to say nothing
of rent, and the usual county taxes. There were
few cattle on the fields, few haggard of corn and
hay for the coming winter, and few signs of human
habitation. The famine was all over but the sad
traces of it were not easily effaced !

She plodded on, very sick and weary, but hoping
to come to a house where she could get shelter,
for the afternoon had given the lie to the fair promise

of the morning, and had become bitterly cold, with
occasional showers of rain and sleet ; but no house
met her longing eyes, and she got so tired that it
was with diJ0B.culty she could carry the large, heavy
basket. But at a particularly bleak and lonely part
of the road, the rain came down, not in occasional
showers as it had hitherto done, but in a steady,
continuous downpour. Before long she was drenched
to the very skin, and her clothes became so sodden
with water that she found them very heavy; but
her sad plight grew worse and worse every moment,
as the rain came down pitilessly in perfect sheets of
water. However, there was nothing for it but to
stumble on as well as she could, until she could reach
some place of shelter, and be able to dry her dripping
garments. But she came to no house, for her progress
was very slow, and still the rain came down in the
steady, continuous stream peculiar to the South and
West of Ireland. They were indeed a very forlorn,
miserable-looking pair, Oonagh and her poor old
dog, who followed close at her heels, with head and
tail drooping in dumb, patient misery, while the water
ran down his coat in streams. Bran and his mistress
had been long together, and shared the inclemency
of many a winter's day, but this was the most

wretched they lead ever known since they first
'took to the roads as partners in the hard battle
of life.

At last, when the short autumn day was coming to
a close, and darkness was settling down on as dreary
and desolate a scene as could well be imagined,
Oonagh, to her great joy, saw smoke issuing from the
chimney of a rather decent house not far from the
road. Animated with fresh courage by the pleasing
prospect of warmth and shelter, she quickened her
pace, and was soon at the door of the house, which to
her surprise she found not alone latched, but bolted on
the inside. She knocked gently but receiving no
answer, did so again more loudly than before.

Soon she heard the sound of approaching footsteps,
and then the door was opened, not widely, as
is the custom in Irish rural districts, but only just
as much as enabled her to see the pale, careworn face
of an elderly woman, who had all the appearance of
having been crying very recently.

'what do you want ? ^' she said, without, however,
making way for the new-comer to enter, although the
rain was pouring down in torrents.

I'm a travelling woman' replied Oonagh, " that
was overtaken by the rain fairly in the evening', an

Fm fairly soaked wit weft, an' far from well besides.
I'd be thankful to get a bed for the night, an' lave
to dry my clothes by the kitchen fire."

I have no bed, an' you can't come in'' said the
woman, not in an unkind way, but as if she was
performing some unpleasant task.

'^ I'm no beggar, but a decent woman," persisted
Oonagh, '' an' I always pay my way in raison, whereever
I go."

'Isn't that I begrudge a morsel ov food an' the
shelter ov the roof to any poor traveller, such a
dreadful night as this," said the woman, " God forbid !
But, honest woman, I'm coin' it for your own sake.
The sickness is in the house wit me for the last three
weeks, an' now no one under the roof is able to
stand on his feet but myself, an' how long I may be
able to do it, God only knows. My only boy is lying'
dead in that room bryant, an' his father is so bad that
I'm in thread he won't get over the night. The
dispensary tother says 'tis the worst sort ov saver he
ever knew, along wit been' the most takin', an' when
my servant girl hard him saying' that, she run away
from me as if there was fire in her skin. You maybe
willing', honest woman, to chance it, but I wouldn't
have it on my conscience to let you do it, without
tellin' you. There's enough dying' an' dead here

without any more ; but if you like to come in after
getting the warning, sure you can tliry it."

'^I thank you kindly missis but Fm thinking'
that 1^11 take your advice, an' not face the sickness.
I don't care about the saver for myself, but I have
a child depending on me an' for his sake I must
keep myself on my feet as long as I can. If anything
was to happen to me it would be a sore story wit
him. Do you persuade ? ''

'' Yes. For his sake, then, don't come in here.
I don't like to let you go, for all that, for the next
house is a mile away, an' you'd be fairly drownded
before you could reach it. But if you'd be satisfied
wit that house bryant, there's plenty ov hay in
it an' you'd be snug enough there, only for the
wet clothes."

Eyeh ! I don't mind that at all ; Fm well used
to get a good wetting'. I'll be well enough in the
cow-house, an' if you sell me a loaf ov bread, ana
quart ov milk, I'll be thankful to your's

"The cow was sold a week ago, but I have the
milk ov a goat, an' I'll divide that wit you an' welcome.
But as for payment, I'll be poorer than what I am,
before I'd take the like from a poor travelling' woman.
I have only a little bread, but you can have it all, for
I couldn't ate it myself. I think a morsel ov food

VOL. III. F

would choke me.''^ Here lier composure wHcli had
evidently been only assumed, forsook her, and the
wretched woman flung her hands over her head with
a low, bitter cry that could no longer be repressed.

'^ Have you any wan at all wit you ? " asked
Oonagh, whose kind heart was touched by such
terrible distress, "for if you haven't, I'd go in, an'
stop wit you in the name ov God. Sure, He's aiquil
to take care ov me here, as well as in any other
place''

I have my poor ould mother wit me. When she
hard ov my great trouble she came to me, an' though
I wanted her to go away again, she wouldn't do it.
No wan can do me any good now, former ! but the great
God''

^^ Well, as you have your mother wit you, I won't
run in danger, for Johnny's sake. But I'd be glad to
get some ov the bread an' milk, as you say you can
spare them."

The woman went back into the house, and soon
returned with some bread, and a little jug of goat's
milk.

^^I brought you half ov what I had," she said,
the other half I kept for my mother's breakfast in
the morning', for 'twill be late before the baker's
messenger comes from the town. An' now the

sooner you can get out of the rain, the better for

you."

Oonagh was not slow to take her advice, and went
off to the cow-houses where to her great joy she found
plenty of good dry hay. She thought herself in
Paradise when she found herself under shelter from
the pouring rain, with a good bed of hay to sleep on.
As usual, she divided her frugal supper with her forfeited
friend, and then covering herself well with hay,
she said her prayers, and soon fell asleep.

When she awoke next morning, it was with a feeling
of deadly sickness, such as she had never before
experienced in the course of her healthy life. She
was shivering from head to foot; she had a racking
headache, grievous pains in all her bones, and a
general sense of nausea and feverish unrest. She lay
back in the hay for a few moments, trying to recollect
herself, and think what it was that had made her
so ill. She did not at all recognise the true nature of
her illness, which was due to the imprudence of
having slept all night in clothes that had been
thoroughly saturated by the heavy rains of the
previous day, and that, too, when she was suffering
from the effects of a neglected cold. She jumped
to the conclusion that her illness was typhus fever,
contracted by her visit to the house infected by it.

F 2

Typhus fever , or as they emphatically call it, "the
sickness'' is a word of terror to the Irish peasantry,
because they have been periodically greatly scourged
by it. It is, in fact, the only disease that they are
really afraid of. When Oonagh thought that she
had got 'the sickness a feeling of dismay came
over her so great as almost to deprive her of
consciousness. What — she said to herself — was
to become of her in that strange and lonely place, far
from all human care and kindness, with no one within
miles of her but two afflicted poor women, who were
complete strangers, and had, besides, care and trouble
enough of their own. By this time, probably, they had
altogether forgotten that such as she was in existence
at all. Like some poor, dumb creature that has been
grievously hurt, and creeps into a lonely corner to
die unseen, she feared she would die in that wretched
place, without doctor or priest, or any living thing
but her poor dog beside her. Bran sat upon his
haunches, looking into her face with that wistful, earnest
gaze in his dark eyes that gives to all his race an
almost human expression. He saw that she was
in some trouble, though he could not divine what it
was, and he whined mournfully, and licked her
burning hand, as if to show her that she was not
altogether alone.

But the feeling of terror that had for a few
moments almost paralysed her, did not last long,
and with her usual energy and good sense, she
set herself to consider what was best to be done,
while she still was left the power of thinking and
acting. Always self-reliant, she felt that in this
sore strait she must depend on herself alone,
and also, that whatever was to be done should be
done at once, while she had any strength or consciousness
left to her. With Oonagh, to resolve was
to act, and rising, she shook out her clothes, which
were still very damp, free from all the particles of
hay that adhered to them, and after a short time
spent in her morning prayer, she took up her basket
and left the cabin. She knew that a good large town
was within five miles of her, and ill as she was, she
hoped to be able to walk that distance in something*
like three hours. If she could only reach that town
all would be well with her, for she had a friend thereat
whose house she lodged whenever she passed that
way, and from whom she was sure of receiving every
care and attention during her illness. This thought
encouraged her to exert herself, and for a short
time she walked on slowly, but still making fairway.


But though the spirit was willing, the flesh was

weak, and Oonagli was soon compelled, sorely against
her will, to slacken her pace. The weight of the heavy
basket was too much for her, yet she struggled on
with it, for it contained her whole stock-in-trade, and
consequently was of great value in her eyes. She was
weak too from want of food, as well as debilitated from
illness, and by-and-by, instead of walking, she could
only creep along, faint, weary, and racked with pain.
The weather was very fine, notwithstanding all the
rain of the preceding day. The sun had risen high
in a sky without a cloud, showing her that the day
was far advanced, though she had accomplished but
half her journey. After some time, overpowered by
illness and fatigue, she was obliged to stop, and sit
down to rest on a large stone at the side of the
road.

At the end of half-an-hour she found that sitting
in the full blaze of the noon-day sun did not serve at
all to mend matters, and that she was not better, but
on the contrary was getting every moment more ill.
She rose up again wearily, and resuming her basket,
continued on her way. Slowly and painfully she toiled
on, until at last she approached the town. But though
the goal was almost in view, she was not destined to
reach it, bravely as she had struggled for it. A sudden
giddiness seized hers a sharp pain shot through her

whole being, the earth, as it were, slipped from under
her, and with a low moan of agony, she reeled and
fell.

True to his marvellous instinct, and to the training
he had received from her, the dog placed himself
beside the basket, to guard it from all strangers and
trespassers, who might be tempted to meddle with its
contents. He remained there very patiently, wondering
doubtless in his doggish mind, why it was that his
mistress lay so silent and prostrate, and feeling very
hungry, for he had got no breakfast that morning, and
very little for supper the night before. But still this
faithful sentinel never thought of deserting his post,
but sat quietly on his haunches, watching his mistress,
and the basket which he knew was his own special
charge.

By-and-by a farmer's cart, with two men sitting
in it, came up to this forlorn little group. They
came on at a moderate pace, and were evidently
returning from market.

'' Hullo ! there is some game or other going on
heres cried one of the men, jumping from the cart.
Heres a woman dead drunk. Begot ! she began it
fairly in the day, to be so far gone as this, an' it only
two o^ clock now.^'

The other man, who was the owner of the cart,

got down also, and after looking at Oonagli said ina
troubled voice : " I know this poor woman well,
an' I tell you. now, Bartle, that she's no more
drunk than what we are ourselves. I could a' most
take my oath that she never took a glass ov spirits
nate, in all her life. 'Tis Oonagh MacDermott, the
dalin' woman, an' as sober an' honest a poor woman
as ever broke the bread of life."

You seem to know her, Tom ? "

'' Fake an' sure I do, an' good cause I have ;
an' I know nothing ov her but what's decent to
the backbone. She is the woman that put Dick
Considine's wife into the coffin, an' paid for it out
ov her own airnin's, into the bargain. If I was
discoursing' wit you for a month ov Sundays, I never
could tell half her goodness to that poor boy an*
his wife, when none ov their own people knew how
it was wit 'em. My wife is Dick's aunt, you persuade,
so I ought to know the whole story. Whatever else
it is that ails Oonagh, you may take your davy, Bartle,
that it isn't in licker she is."

Faix, may be so ; you know best. But why is
she lying' here by the roadside in that state, an' in
broad daylight ? "

She must be sick, Bartle ; she has taken the
sickness, as sure as a gun."

The Lord save us ! An' what are we to do
wit her, Tom ? "

"tis aise settled. The cart is here quite convenient,
you persuade, an' all we have to do is
lift her in, an' bring her on another half-mile
to the poor-house infirmary. I'd bring her on to
my own place, dear knows, an' a hearty welcome
she'd get from the woman ov the house, as is well
due to her, but my place is too far away, an' we
have no doctor convenient. I know the doctor
ov the poor-house here, an' a nice civil-spoken man
he is, as you'd meet in a day's walk, an' when I
tell him that she's Oonagh, the dalin' woman, ana
great friend ov my own, he'll take the best ov
care ov her, I'll go bail."

Does that dog belong to her ? "

"Erra, to be sure he do. Poor Bran is as well
known all along the road as what she is herself,
an' the same shaver is as cute as a pet fox. He
knows me right well, for many's the time I gave
him his supper, when the pair ov 'em would rowl
in to us for a night's lodging."

An' what will you do wit him ? "

'' I can't do anything but lave him here minding' the
basket, till we come back from the poor-house, an'
then I'll bring the basket, an' himself, home wit

me. The youngsters will be glad to see the poor
fellow walking' in to ^em^ an' take good care ov Mm.
Herself will be the wan to take care ov the basket,
never fear, for sbe's very thankful to Oonagb. An'
"tis she that will be heart sorry when she hears
that the poor girl is in the poor-house, down wit
the sickness

"Begorra, you have settled it all finely."

But were losing' time, man alive ! " cried Tom.
^^ Come, bear a hand, an' help me to rise her into
the cart. Aise, aise, I tell you. Well, that was
lately done. Now, we'll cover her wit my ould
bloody, an' lay a handkerchief over her face, to keep
off the sun''

When Oonagh was laid in the cart, with a bundle
of hay under her head, the two men were ready to
walk beside it. But before setting off, Tom Whelan
turned towards the dog, and said in what he meant to
be a very solemn and impressive injunction :

Now, Bran, my good fella, you're to take good
care ov that basket till I come back again, an' I
won't let the grass grow under my feet, I can tell
you."

As if the intelligent creature had recognised a
friend who had come to help his mistress in her sore
need, and fully comprehended the charge that was

entrusted to him, lie wagged his tail, and settled himself
firmly on his haunches beside the basket.

"That fella is mighty known', or else his looks
belies him' observed Whelan's companion.

Sorra lie in that. Bran is game to the backbone,
an' he'd let himself be cut in pieces sooner than heed
sell the pass. You might dipind your life on that
dog. Poor Oonagh taught him to mind the basket
for her, an' 1^11 go bail that he'll do it handsomely."

They set off, walking slowly beside the cart. The
dog looked after them wistfully, as if he knew they
were taking his beloved mistress from him ; but still
he remained at his post beside the basket, watchful
and patient.

The men with the cart were not long out of sight when
a glad shout rang out on the air, and a crowd of boys of
all ages, just released for the day from the National
School, which was quite near, rushed out on the road
pell-mell. They scampered along, shouting, screaming,
and making all the noise that schoolboys think is
absolutely necessary to celebrate the joyful hour of
their daily enfranchisement. As soon as they came
to where Bran sat guarding his charge, they all came
to a full stop, and there was not one among them who
did not view the treasures contained in that basket
with greedy and covetous eyes. Treasures indeed

were there, that made their young hearts pant to
acquire, and their wistful eyes glisten even to behold.
There were picture-books, gaudy in bright colours,
tin trumpets, whistles, marbles, and many other things
that were very beautiful in their eyes, and which,
though they had often longed for, they had never
been able to call their own. They formed a circle
round the dog, although at first at a respectful distance,
which they lessened gradually, and he began
to growl, for his instinct told him that the new-comers
were not there with any friendly intentions.

'^'Tis the dalin' woman's basket'' cried one of
the boys, '' an' by Gouty 'tis her dog, too'

But where is the dalin' woman herself ? '^ asked
another.

Barra, what matter where she is ! She's not
to the fore, anyhow, an' oh, crikey ! wouldn't it be a
fine lark if we could get some ov her things before she
comes back ! Sure, she'd never miss them."

'^ She might, an' likewise she oughtn't, but if she
do itself, who's to tell her who took 'em ? Boys, I
hard people that knows it saying', that dalin' woman
has a crock ov good ferric down in the ground, an'
that she has five hunter pound in bank along wit
it. Sorra harm it would be to take a little out ov her
basket, as we have the chance."

Encouraged by this honest advice, the young
brigands came nearer to the basket, and one o£ them
more daring than his fellows, snatched a picture-book
out of it, and instantly the dog sprang up and leaped
at his throat.

I have often wondered why it is that of all humankind
schoolboys are so cruel in their instincts, and
so savage in their actions. They are cruel with a
cruelty peculiarly their own, and their delight is to
inflict pain on every creature that is weaker and more
helpless than themselves, and that can be tormented
with impunity. This is a problem that has often
puzzled me, and a fact for which I can give no adequate
reason, but a fact it is, nevertheless, and a very
hard and stubborn fact it is, too. If the average
schoolboy were to carry his savage instincts into a
more advanced period of his life, the friends of
humanity would be sadly outnumbered, and the animal
creation would be exterminated off the face of the
earth. Fortunately, however, this is not so. The
cruel schoolboy puts aside his cruelty with his books,
and, in nine cases out of ten, becomes merciful to the
animal creation, and gentle to those who are weak
and helpless ; and he learns to think that the wanton
infliction of pain is not only an exhibition of brutal
vice, but of vice as vulgar and mean as it is brutal.

But just now the schoolboy instinct was in full
swing, unchecked by any restraining authority, and
incited to show itself in its worst aspect by the
opposition that was made by the dog. Here was a
legitimate object on which they could exercise their
love of bullying, and of which they could make sport.
It would be pleasant to divide the contents of the
basket among themselves, but it would be still
pleasant to worry the poor, devoted guardian, and
see what fight could be got out of him. One of
those who were behind gave him a tremendous blow
on the flank, that compelled him to fall back with a
yell of pain, and another following that good example
flung a large stone at him, that broke one of his
fore-legs, and brought him helpless to the ground.
But the heart of the old dog was staunch and true,
and he made no attempt to retreat, but cowered
down over the basket, with an appealing look in
his face that would have melted any heart but that
of a schoolboy. Another and a larger stone was now
thrown, and it went so true to its mark that it split
his forehead open, and his eye hung down over the
jaw, a most horrible mass of mingled blood and jelly.
Their helpless victim was now completely at their
mercy, blind, lame, prostrate; and with a shout of
triumph, the young brutes closed in on him in a grand

onslaught, which had at least the good effect of
putting the poor, disabled, dying creature more
quickly out of its misery.

All honour to thy revered memory, Dick Martin
of Connemara ! It was thy tender heart and large
sympathy that first in a public manner brought into
notice the claims of the most helpless of all Grod's
creatures, and made it penal to treat them with
great or unnecessary cruelty. It was the work of
thy life to ameliorate the sufferings of the animal
creation, and place thy final triumph in the sacred
cause of humanity on the Imperial statute-book, in
the form of what has been ever since popularly called
^^ Dick Martinis Act " ! Conquerors and great men
have had statues erected to them, and magnificent
buildings called by their names, but when both shall
have been overthrown, and crumbled into dust, by the
unsparing hand of Time, thy monument shall still
endure, and thy name be held in honour. As long as
the " Act for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals "
shall keep its place on the British statute-book — and
that shall be for all time — thy good and Christian
labours in the interest of humanity, oh, gentle and
tender-hearted Irishman, can never be forgotten !

OONAGH IN THE POOR-HOUSE.

Certainly virtue is like precious odours, most fragrant
when they are incensed or crushed.

Bacon.

It was many weeks before Oonagh was sufficiently
recovered from the severe rheumatic fever, which
she had contracted by sleeping a whole night in
clothes that were sodden with heavy rain. During
those weeks she had endured much bodily pain, as
well as great mental distress. She was well cared
for in the poor-house infirmary, for the matron there
was an old friend of her father's, and the doctor — who
had been told her story by Tom Whelan — took a great
interest in her case, and attended to her as anxiously
and carefully as if he was sure of being paid a large
fee when she should be out of his hands.

But with all the care of the doctor, and the kindness
of the matron, her recovery was very slow ; for

lie was sure lie was dying, and lie did not want to
die — at least, not just yet. It was not on her own
account lie was troubled, for the grim conqueror of
all that is earthly had no terrors for her. Her life
had been a pure and innocent one singularly free
from sin, except such as all human creatures are liable
to commit. From the first dawn of reason her watchword
had always been ^' Duty' and she had earnestly
striven to the best of her lights to obey its dictates,
and to fulfil all that it enjoined on her, to the
very letter, and without thinking of the sacrifice,
or reckoning up the cost. For her, and for those who
are like her, Death has no sting, and when he comes,
he brings with him no greater terror than the natural
shrinking of poor weak human nature from. '^ darkness
and the worm'' For herself, then, Oonagh was not
afraid to die ; her conscience was at peace with itself,
and with all men, and her life was not so very happy
or comfortable as that she should cling to it, or fear
to lose it. Buigj^he did not wish to die for Johnny's
sake, not just yet. When she thought of what her
death meant for him, her heart quailed. If she died,
what was to become of him ? How was he to be
supported, educated, clothed, and sent to college ?
How short a way on all this what she had saved could
go, and if she died that was all he would have. It
VOL. III. a

would be enough, no doubt, to give Mm a trade,
and maintain and clothe him during the period of his
apprenticeship but it would not be enough to make
him a priest. Father O'Rafferty had promised to help
her, and would certainly keep his word whether she
lived or died, but he too might die, for he was an old
man, worn down by much trouble and hardship.
And if he were to die, little Johnny's last friend was
gone !

Oonagh suffered much in those days, but she was
very gentle and patient. She had been practising
patience for a long time, and she had, moreover,
an unbounded faith in the fatherly care and goodness
of God. Beside the love of life that is intuitive
to all sentient creatures, she longed most intensely
to recover for Johnny's sake, and she determined to do
everything in her own power to assist in getting back
her health. She scrupulously followed all the doctor's
directions, took everything that was ordered for
her, no matter how disagreeable it mi ^;,ht be, and tried
hard to keep her mind as calm and hopeful as possible.
The doctor said that he had never had so good a
patient, and the nurse in whose ward she was,
liked her because she was very quiet, and gave so
little trouble. It was a great loss, to her, that it
was not the workhouse to which "father O^Rafferty

was chaplain that she had been brought to by Tom
Whelan for it would have been a great comfort to her
to see him occasionally. But his district was in
another direction altogether, and she was obliged to be
content with the ministration of a strange priest, who
though very kind, could not possibly have the same
regard, or sympathy with her, that she would be sure
to receive from her own old pastor.

But even the darkest and dreariest night must
come to an end at last, and after many weeks of
intense suffering, Oonagh began to mend, very slowly
and gradually at first, but as time went on, steadily
and surely. Out of her great desire to live, life had
been begotten. With the return of health and
strength, came back the old energy and courage, the
old aim always before her eyes, and the old dogged
determination to accomplish that aim, in spite of all
the difficulty and the hardship that attended it.

Every market-day, honest Tom Whelan came to
the poor-house to inquire for her, sometimes alone,
and sometimes accompanied by his wife, who had
never forgotten Oonagh's kindness to her nephew.
As soon as they had ascertained that her illness was
not the dreaded typhus, they had asked to be permitted
to see her ; but while she was very ill, this for
many reasons was forbidden. But there came a day

when she was allowed to see them, and thank them
for their kind inquiries, of which she had been informed
by the nurse. She asked Tom for her dog,
and basket of goods, and then he told her with a
very cheerful countenance, that the dog and basket
were both at his house, and well taken care of by
herself ^^ and the children, a good-natured fiction
that could hardly be avoided, or blamed with much
severity. He told her, that as soon as she was well
enough to be removed, he would come with the cart,
and a feather-bed in it, so that she could " travel
fair an' aisy,'^ and bring her home with him to get
strong again in the fresh air of the country, and where
she could have " lashing's an ravines ov new milk, an'
fresh eggs, an' everything else that was handy an'
convenient''

On the day before she left the infirmary, the good
doctor paid her his last visit, and with her whole
heart in her swimming eyes, she thanked him for
all his care and kindness while she was ill.

"Pray don't speak of it'' he replied. "I only
did my duty, and what I am paid for doing. If all
my other patients were as reasonable and obedient
as you were, my office here would be much less disagreeable
than it sometimes is."

^^The Lord reward you, sir, an sind you a good
soother, that's in case you haven't got her already'

Well, I am still a bachelor' he said laughingly,
'^ but all in good time, you know. Perhaps you might
get the soother for me. Are you acquainted with any
very nice young lady, who would be satisfied to take
a poor workhouse doctor, for better and for worse ? "

Wish, I am not. I don't know any nice young
lady that I'd think was in any way good enough for
you, barren' Miss Dillon ov Castle Cloyne. But she's
very delicate in her health, /oree?' ! an' it isn't marriage
nor bachelors that's throublin' her at all. But," she
continued, chiming in with his little joke and pleasant
humour, " I'll be on the look-out for your honour, an'
who knows what a beautiful fine wife I might be able
to make out for you, doctor ? "

'that's right; and you. will let me know when
you find her."

"Fake an' sure I will so. You may dipind your
life on me."

And now, my good girl, I wish to give you a
little advice before you go away," he said, more
gravely ; " you are now quite well again, and require
nothing but change of air, and generous diet for sometime
to come, to help you to get up your strength

once more. But you must take more care of yourself
than you have hitherto done. I understand that you
are a pedlar, and in the course of your business go
through much hardship and privation, out in all
weather, and walking great distances. Now, if you value
your health, and wish for a long life you must avoid
such great exertion for the future. Your heart is not so
strong as it should be, and will not bear any overstrain
of body, or worry of mind. There is really
nothing radically wrong with it/^ he continued, seeing
the scared, terrified expression that had come into
her face, " but it is somewhat weakened by the
rheumatic fever, and may never again be as strong
as it was previous to that attack; but by giving up
your long walks, and taking more care of yourself
in a general way, you will, I make no doubt, live to
count up your three-score and ten years, and enjoy
good health all the time."

Well, sir, people used to say that I had a very
stout heart ; it was a saying that they had in regard
ov me.^^

They only spoke the truth, by all accounts ; and
you have the same stout heart still, but you must
have a little more mercy on it, and not give it so
much work to do. I am sure you understand what
I mean. An attack of rheumatic fever as severe

as you Lave had sometimes leaves a legacy behind
it in the shape of a heart affection; but it will be
nothing, nothing at all, if you are only moderately
careful of yourself

^' I thank you, doctor, for tellin me the truth.
Now that I know it, 1^11 take great care ov myself
intirely, never fear. An' that you' heart will never
have any trouble or sorra down on it, will be my
prayer to Almighty God evermore ! ''

Tom Whelan came next day with his cart and
the feather-bed in it, according to his promise, lying
on which, Oonagh made the journey to his house
in quite a grand and luxurious fashion. On her
arrival she met with a most affectionate reception
from " herself '' and the children, and the softest
chair, and warmest corner by the fire was at once
assigned to her. In a short time, when she was
a little recovered from the fatigue of the journey, her
eyes wandered round the kitchen as if in search of
something, and at last she said : '' Where is Bran ? '^

"Well, he's on a visit at present with wan ov
the labours. The schemer ov the world is for ever
running' about from house to house, for every wan
ov the labours is fond ov him. It was only istherday
was it istherday, Molly, or this morning ? — that he
was playing wit Patsey Roland at the turn ov the

road bryant there,, an I^m sure he followed the little
gordon home. Patsey is a great playboy intirely, an'
himself an Bran is great friends; he is always coaxing'
the dog home wit him, so he is. But Fll go myself
for him to-morea, if Patsey don't bring him back
betune this an then.^^

But in the morning when Bran did not make
his appearance, and when no one wondered at his
absence, or spoke of going to look for him, Oonagh
began to suspect that notwithstanding Tom's plausible
story, there was some unpleasant mystery connected
with him. Then Tom saw that the truth could not
be much longer concealed from her. But he only
told her half the truth, for though he owned that
her dog was dead, he never told her the manner
of his death, nor the shocking circumstances that
attended it. He led her to think that the dog had
died from sheer old age, " an' for all the world went
out like the snuff ov a candle, an' he lying' on a lock
ov straw at the fut ov my own bed. Sorra lie in it,
as herself there will tell you." He could not bring
himself to tell her, in her weak state, that her poor,
faithful old dog had been actually stoned to death
while keeping watch over the basket that had been
entrusted to his care.

The basket, an' what was in it wor safe enough.

but as for poor Bran , well lie fretted himself to
death af ther her " — in the previous account Tom had
declared that he died of old age — " an' all we could do
wouldn't comfort or cure him. Now that's the lane
truth for you, Oonagh, an' if you like, Til show
you the very place under the whitethorn bush,
that myself an' the children made a very party grave,
an ferric him in it. Sure herself there will tell
you how it was, an' be the same token, 'twas she
that handed the spade to me when I was going' out
to dig the grave for poor Bran."

Thus appealed to, 'herself" declared without
the least hesitation that she had certainly handed
the spade to Tom, when he and the children were
going out to dig the grave, and moreover that it
was little Mike that had carried it out of the house.
The good woman's statement was perfectly true, for
when her husband had gone back to where he had
left the dog beside the basket, he found poor Bran
shockingly mutilated, and quite dead, and the basket
perfectly empty. He put all that was left of the faithful
sentinel into his cart, and buried it under the
whitethorn bush, as he had told Oonagh. She fully
believed his story — for the truth in all its sickening
horror could never have occurred to her — and it
gratified her to know that her poor old Bran had been

cared for in the end. He lead been her father's dog,
and her own affectionate companion in all her
wanderings ; and she felt that it would be a long time
before she should be reconciled to his loss, for while
he was beside her, she would not think that she was
altogether alone.

In the pure air, and with the wholesome food of
the country, Oonagh rapidly recovered her strength,
and weary of inaction, to which she had never been
accustomed, she soon decided on resuming her travels.
But mindful of the good doctor's instructions, she
resolved not to do so on foot, even though this entailed
an expense on her which at the first view seemed a
large one. She bought a donkey, and a little cart that
she could drive herself, and so be spared the fatigue of
walking, and carrying her heavy basket. It would cost
almost nothing to feed a donkey, and she could now
enlarge her stock, and have besides a more varied
assortment of goods. She soon found that her new
plan answered well, for her profits increased in proportion
to the additional bulk and greater variety
of what she had to sell. And in addition to her own
greater ease and comfort, secured by driving instead
of walking, her savings bank book showed before long,
that in purchasing the ass and cart she had made a

most profitable investment, and one that returned very
good interest for Iter money.

The time lead now arrived when little Johnny was to
"be put to a classical school in the nearest town, the
master of which was that friend of Father O'Eafferty
before alluded to. Hitherto he had attended the
National School in the neighbourhood of Sally's
house ; but as " the Latin " was not taught there, she
was obliged to remove him. She did so with great
reluctance, for he had grown a strong, healthy boy
under the fostering care of Sally, who was almost as
fond of him as of her own children. However, there
was no help for it, and she soon had him comfortably
settled as a boarder in the new masters
house, on what she considered very reasonable terms.
In fact, they were absurdly reasonable, for Father
O^Rafferty paid half, with strict directions to the
master that he was to keep this part of the agreement
a profound secret, and let Oonagh think she was
paying all, when in reality she was paying but half.
So it was no wonder that she thought the new master's
terms were very reasonable !

As a matter of course, she never omitted going to
see her boy, whenever she came to the town. The
schoolmaster gave her the most favourable accounts

of his excellent capacity and aptitude for learning,
assuring her that she would yet have cause to be very
proud of him for that he was " a very bright boy, and
would be a credit to the Irish Church' Once he
persuaded her to remain for an hour after school broke
up, so that she could judge for herself of the progress
he was making. She sat and listened in silent awe,
while the boy went through a page of Latin ; translating
it apparently to the satisfaction of the pedagogue,
though it might just as well have been
Sanscrit as Latin, for anything the poor ignorant
woman knew of either language. But it all sounded
very grand, and she knew by the pleased countenance
of the master that the task he had set his pupil was
well and rightly done. She professed herself as being
perfectly satisfied with Johnny's progress, and with
many thanks to the master for doing such justice to
her boy, she went away, not much wiser than when
she came, as the reader may well suppose, but
infinitely more happy.

From that time everything went well with Oonagh.
Her little trade prospered, and her health, now that
she was spared much bodily fatigue, was good. She
was glad to remember now, how firmly she had persevered
in her resolution of adopting the child, who
but for her would have gone to the union workhouse.

and bringing him up for the Churchy in opposition to
all those who had prophesied a signal and ignominious
failure to all her plans. The worst of the storm was
over, and from henceforth she would be sailing in
comparatively smooth water. She would live to seethe
child of her love '' wearing the robes' and even
if she did not she had saved as much money as would
finish his education, and get him through his course
at Maynooth. Her good friend, Father O'Eafferty
would take care that all should be right with Johnny ,
whether she lived, or was laid at rest. The only
anxiety that was now on her mind was for her dear
'^ Miss Grace," who was every day growing more
delicate and frail. But in all other respects, Oonagh
possessed her soul in peace, and pursued her life of
labour and self-denial cheerfully and hopefully, always
looking forward to the joyful time in the far distance,
that was gradually but surely drawing nearer and
nearer, as the years went on.

THE LAST OF THE FAMINE.

Oh Death ! thy sentence is welcome to one in need, and
whose strength falleth.

ECCLESIASTICUS.

All this time our old friend Father O'Rafferty had
been fighting a gallant battle with, the giant demon
of the Famine. It must be confessed, however,
that from the very beginning the odds were fearfully
against him, and though his whole heart was in
his work, he was not a match for the foe that
confronted him at every turn, and who was " terrible
as an army in battle arrays The good priest did his
best, but that in truth could be very little, and for one
human creature that he was able to save, the Goliath
that opposed him slew his dozens and his hundreds.
The parish of Castle Cloyne, though large, was remote
and very poor, even in good times ; now it had become

almost a desert. The people lead all melted away, like
the foam of the sea. In the poor-house of the
Electoral Union of which this parish formed a part,
fourteen hundred human beings had died in the
year of grace 1847 ! Many of these unfortunates had
expired in the hall of the house immediately after
having been admitted; others lived on a few days
or weeks, as the case might be, but the case was a rare
one, for they never applied for admission until they
were dying and then said they did so to make sure
of being buried in coffins, which they could not hope
for, had they died in their own wretched hovels !
Against calamity such as this, so wide-spread in its
extent so gigantic in its operations, and so deadly
in its effects, the hand of man was powerless. The
Irish clergy of all denominations had put their
shoulders to the wheel manfully , and whatever were
their theological differences they willingly banded
themselves together in the sacred fight for suffering
humanity, and did good and valiant service, each in
his own way, and among his own people. Some
had more and harder work than others, for some
districts were poorer, and consequently worse off
than those in which the people did not depend
altogether on the potatoes for their food. But all did
what they could. To cope with the famine was like

trying to stem a torrent, or appease with soft words
the raging of an angry sea.

Father O'Rafferty had a bold heart, and iron
nerves, but they often almost failed him in that
terrible time. It was a time indeed to try menes
souls. He knew that it would never do to give
way, or let health and spirits go down before the
storm, so he tried hard to be as bright and cheery
as it was in his natural disposition to be. But it
was weary work. As a Catholic priest in a very
poor and remote district, he naturally saw the worst
side of the famine, its darkest colours, and most
repulsive phase, and wherever he went, he was always
in the shadow of its awful presence.

As the parish priest he was the chaplain of
the nearest poor-house, and in the performance
of his duty, he attended there every day, and often
more than once in the day. On one particular morning
when he arrived there, he was informed by one
of the nurses, that a gentleman who had been
admitted on the previous night, was dying, and would
require the ministrations of a clergyman as soon as
possible.

'^ A gentleman, did you say ! ^' cried the priest,
*' there must be some mistake. What could bring
a gentleman here ? "

Why, thin, father, 1^11 tell you that. He was
found on the road outside last night, without a stir
in him. I suppose he got a fit on the road, God
bless the hearers ! an them that found him brought
him in here, being quite convenient, you persuade,
sir. He's very far gone, your reverence, an' I was
longing for you to come o' count ov him."

'' But is he a Catholic ? ''

I'll go bail he is so. I found a lovely set ov
bates in his pocket, an' I'm sure that that's a good
token ov it."

'^Of course it is. I shall go to him at once,"
and suiting the action to the word, he walked on
briskly to the infirmary, with the nurse at his heels.
That infirmary was truly a dreadful place to visit,
for those who were there had no actual disease,
but were slowly dying of exhaustion, and the total
collapse of all the vital forces. The priest, however,
was well used to this sad place, and to all its sights
and sounds of suffering. The nurse stopped before
one of the beds, on which lay ^^ the gentleman "
she had sent for him to see, and in the strong
glare of the sun that streamed down through the
curtailed window overhead on the pallid face below,
the priest saw that the latest arrival in the infirmary,

VOL. III. H

was his old friend and genial companion, Terry
Macnamara !

And this was what one of the old gentry, "a
son of the Sea," had come to ; a death-bed in the
poor-house of the district where his ancestors had
once ruled as petty kings !

A swarm of flies filled the place, that buzzed
and hummed incessantly, and settled on the faces
and hands of the poor sick people, with an irritating
pertinacity that was almost maddening. There was
no attempt made to brush them away, or get rid
of them by any means, for the place was the sick
ward of a poor-house, and the patients were only
paupers ; the weather besides was very warm, and
it was no ones business, and so no one cared to exert
himself about such a trifle. Though the windows
were all open, the air was close and heavy, and
laden with that most sickening yet most indescribable
odour, the breath of decaying mortality. It was
altogether a very comfortless and dreary place to
which the poor gentleman had been brought to
die.

Go down at once to the porter, and tell him to
send the doctor here as soon as he comes," said the
priest.

The nurse hurried away on his errand, and ina

few moments returned with the doctor, whom she
had met in the lower hall.

^' I suppose this is some friend of yours ? ^' he said
to Father O'Rafferty, when they had exchanged a
hasty greeting.

'^ Yes ; a very old and dear friend, and one that
I never thought would fall so low as to be brought
here""

The doctor shrugged his shoulders significantly,
as much as to say such a thing was nothing new.

I am very much concerned about him, doctor,
for I have known him all my life most intimately,
and he is, apart from that, very nearly related to my
ward. Miss Dillon. I intend having him removed
at once to my own house, where she can attend to
him, and where he will be more comfortable than
he is here's

Impossible, my dear sir," replied the medical
man; "he would die most probably before he was
half the way to your house. It is not his days alone
that are numbered, but his very hours."

Is it possible ? "

Quite certain. I saw that last night when I saw
him on his admission."

Why did not you send for me then ? "

What was the use ? He was then as insensible

H 2

as lie is now and quite unable to recognise you, or
anyone else. He has had a fit of apoplexy

"It is dreadful that one of his name and family
should die in a poor-house ! "

'^^That may be a subject of grief to his friends,
but not to himself, for he is past all that now. He
will not recover consciousness any more, and it is
much better to let him die peacefully where he is,
than try to remove him. Nothing can ever grieve or
trouble him again in this world."

Then in that case I must go home at once, for
Miss Dillon. He shall not die without one of his own
blood and kindred to stand beside him. Her father
and poor Terry were first cousins. She would never
forgive me if I let him die here unknown to here's

The priest went away accordingly, and returned
in an hour, accompanied by Grace, who had but lately
risen from a sick bed. Weak and ailing though she
was, she did not hesitate for a moment when the good
father told his sad news, but came at once to attend
to her father's old friend, and not leave the task of
closing his eyes to a hireling. She did not look far
from the end herself, as she walked slowly up the
long room, leaning on the priests arm. She had
cried all the way since leaving home, and when she
came to the bed, and looked down on the gaunt frame

and haggard face of its dying occupant, and remembered
who lie was, and what he had been not very
long ago, she got into such a hysterical passion of
weeping, that the priest thought it would have killed
her. He called for a glass of water, and when she
had taken a little of it, he threatened in a tone half
soothing, and wholly authoritative, to take her away
again, unless she made some effort to control herself.
In a short time she became more calm, and
though she still wept, it was softly and silently.

But soon her woman's instinct came into play,
and she set about making herself of some use
to the dying man. She took off her shawl, and
with the help of a pair of iron skewers, brought
her by the nurse, she fastened it across the curtailed
window, to shield the moveless face
from the fierce glare of the sun. Then she saw
how the flies buzzed round the bed, and she was
equal to that emergency also. She again sent the
nurse downstairs — it is really wonderful how far a
shilling given in the right time and place will go
towards making persons of that class civil and obliging
for a plate heaped up with treacle, and she soon
had the satisfaction of seeing the busy little tormentors
fastened in swarms to the sweet, gluey compound.
Nothing then remained to be done for her

old friend, except to moisten this lips occasionally
with some wine and water, and lie sat down on
a low seat by the bed determined not to leave him
until all was over.

By-and-by, Father O'Rafferty brought her a glass
of wine and some biscuits-that he procured from
the matron. It was surprising how thoughtful and
gentle the bluff old priest could be where she was
in question. But though she drank the wine to
please him, she could eat nothing. Then he was
obliged to leave her, for he had many other sick
calls to attend to, but he promised to return as
soon as possible. Then Grace sent away the nurse,
and began her silent, lonely watch. She did not
remember that there were many other sick and
dying persons in that room, which contained two
long rows of beds, all of them occupied ; she neither
saw nor heard them, though some were loud and
voluble enough in proclaiming their sufferings, while
others lay perfectly still and quiet, as if they had
not sufficient life or strength left in them, to give
utterance even to a groan. But she thought of
none of them. Her mind was far away in the
happy home of her childhood, and in every scene
that her memory conjured up, Terry Macnamara
held a foremost place. Now, he was giving

Hyacinth his first lesson in riding, while yet the
child was so young that he had to be kept oa
the saddle with one strong hand , while the
other held the ponies rein. Again, he was
opening a mysterious box with the most tantalising
slowness and deliberation, from the depths of which,
after a little time, he drew forth a most beautiful wax
doll, with big black eyes that could open and shut,
and nearly as tall as the little lady who stood speechless
with surprise and delight on beholding this
magnificent gift. Another time, he was taking his
post-prandial glass of punch with her father and the
priest, discussing with them the news of the country,
and laughing heartily at some harmless jest. All
that was past and done with ; a dream that had been
very pleasant while it lasted, but from which the
wakening had been very terrible. Her childhood's
happy home had been bought by a stranger ; her dear
father was sleeping soundly in the family vault ;
Hyacinth was far away in a foreign land, eating his
bread in poverty and toil; and now, here was Terry
Macnamara dying on a poor-house pallet, after enduring
great privation and want, not the less severe
that they were endured in proud, uncomplaining
silence. She, herself, was fading slowly away, doomed
to die in the prime and glory of her youth. Even for

the shelter above lier, lie was indebted to the kindness
of one on whom she had no legitimate claim, one
who was the son of her father's poorest tenant.

When Father O'Rafferty returned, it was only to
receive poor Terres last sigh. As the doctor had
predicted, he never recovered consciousness, but passed
quietly away without knowing where he was, or
recognising the kind and true hearts that stayed by
him to the last.

When Grace had closed his eyes with tender and
reverent hand, the good father led her away. She
could do nothing more for her old friend, and it was
not a suitable place for her to be in, longer than was
absolutely necessary. When they arrived at home, he
insisted that she should go to bed at once, but she
said that before doing so, she had something to say to
him.

^'W^ell, my dear, what is it ? ^^ he replied, placing
a chair for her with the same respectful deference, as
if she were still Miss Dillon of Castle Cloyne.

'' It is about poor Terry ^s funeral. He must not
be buried in a pauper coffin, nor in a pauper grave."

Of course not. Miss Grace. No one ever even
thought of such a things

''^And, Father John, he must be buried in Quin
Abbey, where all of his blood and name have been

laid to rest for nearly a thousand years. Had lie
died rich it would be so, and now that lie lias died
poor, it Trnist be so."

"■ My dear young lady, I lead arranged all that in
my own mind, long before you spoke about it."

'^ Oh, dear sir ! a thousand thanks for your
kindness. ^^

Vm. not very flush of cash just now — what poor
priest is at the present time ? — but I have the young
colt ready for sale, and he is sure to bring a pretty
decent price, even in these bad times. I heard that
some of the army agents were at the last fair, looking
out for young strong horses for mounting the cavalry.
It is just in the nick of time for us. Yes, the colt
must go""

No, father ; I will not have anyone — not even
you — put a hand to this work, which of right is
mine. I am the child of his old and dear friend,
and his nearest relation; and while I can pay his
funeral expenses, no other person shall do it.^'

'' You, dear child ? "

'eyes, father, I! I was paid half of poor
Hyacinth's annuity only last week, and I have not
spent any of it. Twenty-five pounds is not a very
large sum of money, but it will be sufficient for this
purpose. It will not provide a grand funeral, but

it will send him to Quin Abbey, and that is all I
want. Besides," she added, with a fresh burst of
tears, " a grand funeral, such as all of his name had
that were ever brought home to Quin Abbey, would
be very much out of place for one who drew his last
breath in a poor-house ! '^

^^But that was not through necessity, dear Miss
Grace, not by any means he said, trying to give
her some comfort. ^^The poor old gentleman was
on his way, I'll be bound, to pay us a visit, and
he got a fit on the road, as old people sometimes
will, you know. The stupid people who found him
brought him to the poor-house, instead of bringing
him on here. That is just how it was, my dear, so
you may make your mind easy on that point. And
as you happen to have the money convenient, I
won't oppose you, partly because I think you are
quite right, and partly because I know it will bea
satisfaction to you to feel that he was buried, not
by a stranger, but by his own next of kin. You
are right in this, dear Miss Grace, and doing what
your worthy father would tell you to do, if he could
speak to you out of the graves

Accordingly, Terry Macnamara was brought to
Quin Abbey, and laid to rest with 'this people'
in the cloisters of that magnificent old ruin, as he

had always wished to be. It was of course a very
plain funeral, as much so as was consistent with
the respectability of the deceased, and the high
character that he had ever borne, without stain or
blemish. It was altogether a different funeral from
that of Dominic Dillon, his cousin ; for short as
was the time between the two, a wonderful revolution
had taken place in the interim, all over the
country. There were no mourning coaches, no long*
train of people on horseback and on foot, to follow
the hearse; for the people had all melted away,
and the carriages and horsemen had departed in
their wake. A distant cousin of poor Terres, who
had nothing else to give, gave his time, and stood
beside the grave as chief mourner, and Father
O'Eafferty read the burial-service. But though there
were no crowds of people, no long array of carriages
and horsemen, no white scarves and husbands, such
as was fitting at the obsequies of a 'son of the
Sea,^^ yet the " poor gentleman '^ was buried with
every mark of respect, and the due performance of all
Christian rites.

Now both reader and author can draw breath
freely, for we have come to the end of the
Famine. It was not an easy task to paint even a

feeble picture of that terrible time, and assuredly
it was not a pleasant or gracious one. Only the
pen of Dante could describe it; only the brush of
Rembrandt, in its darkest and most lurid colours,
could portray it !

MISS DILLON Receives A VISIT.

A tender creature, full of whims and charms,
A beauteous nurseling, fresh from parents' arms,
Who sought no business, no affairs she kite
Of thought or reason, and had nought to do.

George Crabbe.

Grace Dillon lead not received many visitors since
lie had come to reside in the humble cottage of
the priest for obvious reasons. No one cared to
keep up an acquaintance with one from whom no
advantage could now be derived, one wbo had so
greatly ^^ fallen from her high estates who was alone
and poor. At no time of her life had she many
friends of her own class, and not many acquaintances,
for her home was in a remote country district, and she
was both too poor and too proud to seek for them
outside it. The slight deformity of her figure, greatly
exaggerated by her own sensitiveness, had served

to make Iter sly and retiring, and this, added to a
state of chronic ill-health, made her think that
solitude was a lesser evil than mixing in a society
where she should stand on such unequal terms with
those who were more highly favoured both by nature
and fortune. She could hold her own well in society,
if she were as rich as she was proud, and as beautiful
as she was amiable and accomplished ; but situated
as she was, she shrank with all the proud sensitiveness,
which is always sure to be the peculiar dowry
of such as she was, f from all contact with the world.
She had but one friend and one acquaintance from
the time she had returned home from her Parisian
convent. The one friend was her foster-sister ; but
though Oonagh loved her very dearly, and thought
that there was no one in the world like her sweet
Miss Grace, she was too humble, too ignorant, and
differed so much from her — as was only natural she
should — in all her feelings and ideas, for any real
sympathy to exist between them. There could be
very little of what is understood by the word friendship,
which implies equality as well as sympathy,
between the long-descended educated gentlewoman
and the daughter of her nurse, a peasant girl, as
humbly bred as she was lowly born. Grace had
always loved Oonagh with a protecting, sheltering

kind of love and latterly lie admired and reverenced
her for the nobility of her character and the steadfast
fidelity with which she was performing the
labour of love that she had imposed on herself.
And on her side, Oonagh looked up to the young
lady as to a superior being ; humbly grateful for her
condescension, and made happy by even the slightest
token of her regard.

Graces only acquaintance was Caroline Wilson.
The two girls were about the same age, but otherwise
there was no great similarity between them. Caroline
was a mindless, vain coquette ; that Grace'had always
known, but she had never known how thoroughly
without mind or heart the spoiled, indulged girl really
was, until she had discarded Hyacinth, when he had
ceased to be the heir of Castle Cloyne. After that
episode in her history she came no more to visit
Grace. Even on Mr. Dillon^s^s death, she neither came,
nor wrote to express any sympathy, and Grace was
rather glad of this, as it saved her from a good deal
of painful embarrassment. Their paths in life were
now so far apart, and all their thoughts and feelings
ran in such different grooves, that Grace felt relieved
by the knowledge that it was not likely they would
ever meet again. Not that she envied Caroline her
beauty, or her prosperity, or any other advantage

lie possessed ; she was too meek to be resents ul^ and
too proud to be envious. But her heart was very
sore for Hyacinth's sake and when she remembered
how good, and kind, and handsome he was, she could
not help despising the silly flirt that had thrown him
over because of his change of fortune, and driven him
forth from his native land, a banished man. She felt
no enmity towards Caroline, but neither could she feel
respect or love.

Miss Wilson, however, was not all heartless, and
in the depths of her soul there existed a feeling that,
if it was not love for Grace, was not far removed from
it. For a long time she had been longing to pay the
sick girl a visit, but could never muster up sufficient
courage to do so ; for she felt that Grace could not
be otherwise than loyal to her absent brother, and
consequently could not receive her on the old affectionate
terms. But now the death of poor Terry
Macnamara afforded her a decent pretext for making
a visit of condolence, which she was not slow to avail
herself of. Besides her lingering regard for Grace, she
had a good deal of curiosity to hear how Hyacinth
was getting on at the Antipodes, and if he had
broken his heart for her sake, as in duty bound, and
according to all laws of romance, he ought to have
done. But her visit should ostensibly be one of condolence.

Poor Terry was Grace's nearest relative, and
lie would naturally be in great grief for him, and be
glad, no doubt, to receive one who had known him,
and who would come to sympathise with her in this
new trouble. It was a very transparent excuse indeed,
but the spoiled beauty was not accustomed to consult
the wishes or feelings of anyone, and in gratifying her
own, which she invariably did, she was not inclined to
be either bashful or delicate.

Grace was lying on a sofa before the open
window, when the pony-carriage from Beech Hill
drove up to the hall door. In another moment
Caroline came into the priest's modest parlour, which
seemed altogether too humble and mean a place
for her costly dress and stately presence. With
a bright, glad look on her face, she advanced to
the sofa, radiant and beautiful as of old. But the
smile died away, and she lost a great deal of her
self-possession, when Grace, who had risen on her
entrance, stood with outstretched hand to welcome
her. She looked so delicate, so frail, so shadowy,
so unlike herself, that Caroline's heart, selfish and
worldly as it was, felt both shocked and grieved.
It seemed but yesterday, Caroline thought, that
she was in reasonably good health and very happy,
and now, great Heaven ! what a wreck she was !

VOL. III. I

There was indeed a wonderful contrast between
the two girls, as they stood together. One in all
the bravery of the richest and most fashionable
attire, in the bloom of her beauty, and in the glory
of perfect health ; the other pale and wasted,, with
the shadow of the tomb resting on her, and
wearing a dress that was more remarkable for its
good taste and simplicity, than for its costliness.
And yet in that small room, standing to receive
her visitor, simply dressed, and with few pretensions
to beauty, she looked, Caroline thought, a gentlewoman
every inch of her, dignified, courteous, and at
her ease.

It was very good of you, Caroline, to take such
a long drive to see me,^^ she said, when they had
sat down. " I little thought when I got up this
morning, that I should have the pleasure of seeing
you so very soon."

^^ I am quite ashamed, dearest Grace, of not having
come to see you long since' replied Caroline, quite
confused by the kindness of her reception, " but it
is a long drive, and many things prevented me from
time to time. I was in Dublin for some weeks, and
when I returned home I had some visitors staying
with me, and it wasn't easy to leave them even fora
day."

'^ I can quite understand that — pray don't make
any apologies. Now that you are come I am very
glad to see you/^

'' Had I known you were ill, nothing should have
prevented me from coming sooner she went on,
encouraged by the gentle courtesy of Grace. '' I am
sorry, dear, to see you in such indifferent healths

'' Oh ! it is nothing — at least, nothing worth
making a fuss about. You remember that in the
best of times I was never as strong as other people.
You must not judge of me by this day, for I feel
quite weak from the great heat, but I shall be, I am
sure, much better tomorrow. ^^

Whether you are sick or well, you are a dear
good, lovable darling ! " cried Caroline, kissing her
with some of her old caressing manner, which few
could resist when she chose to assume it. For the
minute she was sincere, as she always was, for Caroline
was ^' everything by turns, and nothing longs' and
Grace wondered that she could have been so foolish
as to feel angry, for even a moment, with such a
frivolous, vain butterfly, as thoughtless as she was
beautiful.

"I have brought you some fruit and flowers,
Grace. You always loved flowers, and you will find
the fruit grateful this very hot weather. Now, no

I 2

thanks ; I am only too glad to have them for you'
And flying out to the pony-carriages she returned with
two large baskets, one filled with the most tempting-looking
fruit, and the other heaped up with bright,
beautiful greenhouse blossoms. The eyes of the poor
sick girl lighted up, and a glad smile broke over her
pale face, as she bent down to feast on the delicate
colours, and inhale the fragrance of the treasures
spread out before her. Flowers she had always
loved, and at Castle Cloyne had had them in great
profusion ; but since she had left it, she had to content
herself with the homely, old-fashioned productions
of the priest's small garden, and the wild flowers
brought to her occasionally by the children of the
neighbourhood, who, in scouring the meadows and
hedgerows, had a shrewd eye to the penny they were
sure to get from her, in return for their simple
offering. But primroses and cornflowers in their
wild beauty could not be compared with the exquisite
gems that she now touched as tenderly, as if everyone
was a living thing, and could feel how much she
loved it.

You have conferred a great pleasure on me, my
dear Caroline' she said gratefully. " You who live
always among the flowers, can hardly understand the
enjoyment of seeing some of my old favourites once

more. I shall have a very happy evening', arranging
and putting them all in water. And dear Father
John will be so pleased when he sees themes

When she had sufficiently admired the flowers,
Grace rang a handbill that was on a little table near
her, and desired Bridget, who answered her summons,
to bring some wine and biscuits. It was a very
inferior sort of luncheon to what she had been
accustomed to give her visitors, but it was the best
that she had, and she gave it simply and gracefully,
without apology or comment.

Caroline longed to ask some question about
Hyacinth, but her courage failed her, and Grace
never mentioned his name, and avoided any subject
that might have the effect of introducing it. Then
Caroline alluded to Mr. Macnamara's death, and went
through some of the usual commonplace phrases of
condolence. When this topic had been exhausted
she looked at her watch, announcing that it was time
for her to leave, as she had a long way to drive before
she could arrive at Beech Hill.

^^But you have not told me any news at all,
Graces she said, pretending to button her glove.

There is nothing in the way of news that I
know of, except your own marriage, which is the
chief topic of conversation just now. Am I to

congratulate you, or is it only one of the usual
idle rumours that are always floating about ? ^'

Miss Wilson's face flushed scarlet. She had not
anticipated this simple, direct question, and it came
on her by surprise. She laughed,, however, and
muttered something to the effect that matters were
not yet quite settled.

Then it is true, and no mere rumour. I can
only say, dear Caroline, that I hope you will be
very happy, and that you have my best and kindest
wishes, now and always. '^

"Grace, you are an angel ! '^ she exclaimed, quite
subdued by this unexpected kindness ; " but you were
always superior to any other woman I know. I
never doubted your good heart, and I thank you
very much."

"Indeed, I have every prospect of happiness'
she went on in a more flippant tone, for the softened
mood called up by the gentle tone and manner of
Grace was, like all her moods, very evanescent.
"Major Murray is quite devoted to me, and I think
if anything should happen to break off our marriage,
he would positively break his heart. Papa is quite
satisfied with his family and position, as well as
with the pecuniary arrangements, but all that is
papa's affair, you know. I love dear Edward for

himself alone, and not Ms family, or position, though
they are all that I could desire. If he were to become
a beggar tomorrow, and be stripped of all those
advantages, it would make no change whatever
in my feelings towards him. I should love him
all the same, and exult in my loves'

It was as much as Grace could do to keep silent
during this speech, which was wanting in all the
elements of refinement and delicacy, considering that
it was addressed to the sister of Hyacinth Dillon.
But though silent, a slight elevation of her eyebrows
expressed rather significantly her astonishment and
contempt. Miss Wilson was not slow in observing
the gesture, slight though it was, and she felt that
she had made herself ridiculous and contemptible in
the eyes of the grave, simple-minded girl, who was
herself so unworldly and so truthful. Glancing once
more at her watch, she started up, declaring that
now she must really go. Then kissing Grace in a
most demonstrative manner, and assuring her that
she would soon come to see her again, she sailed out
of the room, and mounting her phaeton, drove off,
waving her hand to Grace very graciously, as she
was whirled past the window.

"I hope she will not come here any more''
sighed poor Grace, as she lay back wearily on the

sofa. " The poor, vain fool ! How truly thankful
I ought to be that poor Hyacinth escaped her !
Whatever his lot in life may be, such a wife could
never make him happy, and that she is not his
wife, and never can be either, is the first ray of
light that has broken in on us, and an omen of
happiness for him in the future. That he should
be condemned to a life-long companionship with such
a girl, would be very dreadful. Poverty, and toil,
and California, are all very bad, but they are only
minor evils when compared with such a fate as
that would be. Still, I hope that she will be happy
with Major Murray. If he loves her all will be well;
but if he is marrying her for her money, as it is said
he is, then may God pity her ! '^

IN CALIFORNIA.

Entreat me not to leave thee, nor to depart from thee, for
whithersoever thou goes I will go, and where thou dwelled,
I also will dwell.

Book of Ruth.

Hyacinth Dillon remained standing at the stern of
the ship that was to bear him away to America, as
long as the English coast was in sight. When at
last it had faded away in the distance, and nothing
remained of it but a thin line, that in its turn vanished
altogether, he still stood on the spot from where he had
waved his hat in final adieu to Terry Macnamara^
quite absorbed in reflections that were none of them
of a very pleasurable nature. Now, for the first time in
his life, he was '' lord of himself, that heritage of woe,^^
but this did not appear to have added to his happiness.
But there is something in novelty and adventure so
delightful and alluring to the mind of masculine

youth, that it is almost an unfailing anodyne for every
care and trouble. Soon lie threw off his gloomy
sadness, and began to plan out his new life, and
calculate his chances in that wonderful auriferous
region for which he was bound. The sun had long
set, and darkness had settled down on the ship. But
though there was darkness there, there was no silence,
for the sailors all hurried to and fro, doing all those
things that are inevitably left to the last, and trying
to make some order out of the chaos of boxes,
hampers, and baggage of every description, that
lay strewn about the decks. There was, too, the
deep hoarse voice of the pilot issuing his orders to
the men, and the cheery ^^Aye, aye, sir'' of their
replies, rising at intervals over every other; sound.

After some time the pilot left them, and Dillon
felt sorry when he saw him going over the side into
the small craft that was waiting to take him back
again to the shore. That pilot was the last link that
bound Hyacinth to his home !

After the departure of the pilot all the passengers
went below but Hyacinth, and a person that he
had not previously noticed. This man stood near
him, as if he too felt lonely, and courted companionship.


'^ It is a fine night, friend," said Hyacinth

cheerfully, " and it promises to be a fine day
to-morrow.''^

Well, sir, it is party fair at the presents was
the reply, in a voice that Hyacinth Dillon knew
right well, " but as I never in all my born days
was at say before, I couldn't make any guess at allas
to the sort ov day tomorrow will he'

'^ Pat Flanagan, is that you ? '^ exclaimed Dillon,
laying his hand on his companion's shoulder.

Sure enough, sir, it is myself that's in it. 'Tis
very surprising' that you didn't know me before, an'
I standing' here foment you, ever since we lost
sight ov lands'

How could I ever imagine I should meet
you here, and how could I recognise you in the
dark?" •

'why, thin, Master Hy'cinth, you ought to
know my skin if it was hung upon a bush, let alone
when myself is inside ov it. I thought you'd be
glad to see some wan from home, an' you so far away
from it''

'sand so I am, Pat, very glad. I was just a
little bit low a while ago, but hearing your voice once
more has brightened me up wonderfully."

Ov course it did, an' why wouldn't it ? Do you
know, sir, that I had a notion that it would do that

same, an' that's why I'm coming' to America along'
wit you."

'^ I am delighted, Pat, to find that we are to be
fellow passengers. There are few in the world I
would sooner travel with than yourself.''^

Thanked, sir, but Fm not your fellow passenger
at all' said Pat gravely. " I'm your own man, as I
was own man to the poor ould master, God rest his
soul to-night ! '^

Hyacinth burst into a shout of laughter.

Fm very proud, sir, to see you in such good
spirits. You see I done well to folly after you''

'^ Pat, my good fellow, I am as poor now as you
are yourself — much poorer, in fact, for you have three
hundred pounds in bank, and I haven't as many
pence there. So far from being able to keep a
servant, the question is how shall I be able to
keep myself ? The very idea of such a thing is
ridiculous. You must be going out to your uncle and
his family.' '

My uncle is dead, sir, an' as I never saw any
ov his children, I wouldn't care to cross the say,
for nothing at all but to make their acquaintance."

'^ But you can't come with me, man ; certainly not
as my servant, for I have no pretension now to any
appendage of the sort."

''By your lave, sir, I am goiii' wit you, an Vm.
your boy, for want ov a better. As for diet an'
wages, they can hang on for the present. They're
bound to diet me in this ship as long as the
voyage lasts; for I paid for my passage honestly —
steerage, you persave/^ and he pulled a card out
of the breast-pocket of his coat, and flourished it
before Dillon's eyes. "tis time enough when we
get to the other side ov this big herring-pond, to
have any arguing or whole-tack on the head ov it.
Vittles is dirt chape, I hear, in America, an' as
for the wages, that's neither here nor there. When
you make your fortune out there, you'll pay them
all in a lump, an' if you haven't it, sure it will
make no odds whatsoever."

But I may never make my fortune, as you
call it, and I may die in that strange place."

"Fake an' sure, it won't be strange when Pat
Flanagan is to the fore. An' if you get sick — we
won't talk at all ov dying' — sure 'tis thin you'll want
me more than ever, to run ov messages, an' nurse
you, till you're well again. 'Twould be a quare
story, surely, if your father's son was to go to that
strange place, without having' his own man to attend
him ! "

'but, Pat "

Arrali , good lack to you, Master Hyacinths
an' have sense. I paid for my passage in this ship
an' you can't prevent me from going' in it, nor from
going' alongside ov you when we land. I mane to
see a dale ov the world by been' in service wit
you, sir."

'let it be as you like, Pat. I am glad to have
you with me as a friend and companion, though I
cannot afford to keep a servant."

Ah ! sir, 'tis all wan, sure, whatever way you
like to put it. As long as we're together, I don't
care."

But why did you keep in the background so
long ? You should have come forward, if only to
say good-bye to Mr. Macnamara."

"Well, sir, if I did, the:pair ov ye would bundle
me out ov the ship, neck and crop, or maybe give
me in charge to the nearest peeler. So you see,
I waited till I could slip on board unknown to ye,
fair an' aise. 'Tis myself was sorry that I couldn't
bid the poor ould gentleman good-bye, for he was
a rale gentleman to the backbone, an' neither a
shone nor a half sir, like a dale ov them that's
going' these times. An' he was mighty pleasant,
too ! Will I ever forget all he laughed that day ov
the Election, when I brought in that devil's limb

Peter Darcy, direst like an ould man, to vote for the
master, an' purtendin' that lie was poor Martin
MacDermott, that was more than a month dead an*
ferric. I must say of Peter, that it was very lately
done, an his vote passed all the same as if it was
ould Martin himself was in it/^

After a pleasant and prosperous voyage, Hyacinth
Dillon and his faithful henchman arrived in New
York. They had not much luggage, for they had
brought nothing but what was absolutely necessary,
and after a few days spent in seeing the city, proceeded
on to California.

To the young gentleman brought up in the
ease and luxury of his father's house, the rough
life and hard labour that awaited him at the diggings,
were extremely trying and distasteful. 'Now, for
the first time, did he realise what was meant by
the primal curse, that man should eat his bread in the
sweat of his brow. And when to the hardest toil
were added the coarsest food, and no better lodging
than a canvas tent, it may be imagined how very
strange it all was to the pampered heir of Castle
Cloyne. But he was a fine, hearty young fellow,
and determined to make the best of everything.
He was in for it now, and must go through with
it, as he best could. He had burned his boats

behind Mm, and must go forward at all costs, for
retreat was impossible. He lead no home to return to,
no father's bouse open to receive him ; he had come
there of his own free will, and he resolved to achieve
independence and conquer fortune, or leave his bones
in that foreign land. So he wisely tried to make
the best of his present life, hoping that it would not
endure very long, and bearing all its discomforts with
a cheerful patience, amazing to Pat, who remembered
the old days of Castle Cloyne, and the life of luxury
that his young master had led there. He saw
Hyacinth working day after day at the ^^ claim " they
shared between them, often up to his knees in water ;
his hands that were once so smooth and white, rough,
discoloured, and often bleeding from wielding the
pickaxe ; and never any better food after his hard
dayes toil, than the everlasting "damper** mutton
hastily broiled, and tea, always without milk, and often
without sugar. The good blood in his veins, and the
light heart and sanguine hope of youth in his bosom,
"bare bravely up his chins like the Roman "who
kept the bridge. In the brave days of old."

In those days he was very glad that Pat had come
with him to California, for without this humble friend
he would have been altogether alone. At the time of the
gold fever, as it was called, all the refuse of humanity

in the world crowded to the gold-fields ; all those who
were too discontented to settle down to any regular
business,, or had made their own country too hot for
them who had no brains to study or no homes to
cling to, all flocked to the diggings, 'not in single
spies, but in battalions The country was overrun
with adventurers of every class and nationality;
rowdies, whose belts held a pistol on one side and a
bowie-knife on the other, and who had as little respect
for the life of a man as for that of a prairie wolf.
There were drunken swaggerers who spent at the
whiskey-bars in one day the fruits of a weeks hard
toil, and then when all was gone, sneaked round the
huts and tents at night, to try if the inmates were ois
their guard, so they might be robbed, or just as
probably murdered, for, in case of discovery, or resistance,
one was as likely as the other.

Among this horde of desperadoes, gathered
together from every country under heaven, Hyacinth
found himself very much out of place. Not with one out
of every hundred of them had he a thought in
common. He could not drink, or stab, or fire a
bullet through a man's body for an awkward or an
untimely word. He would not consent to sit up all
night in a whiskey-bar, playing euchre and poker
with the roughest and most godless men that could

VOL. III. K

be found in any part of the world. He shrank from
them in disgust — from their coarse profanity and
vulgar slang, from their crass ignorance, and total
disregard of all the decencies of civilised life. He
made no acquaintances among them, and on their
side they avoided him, though they felt a sort of
contemptuous respect for him. He was just as
little to their taste as they were to his.

But there was one exception to this rule ; one
person that Hyacinth did not shun, and whose manner
and conversation rather attracted than repelled him.
This was a young man — hardly more than a boy —
who had come out from England in the same ship,
and in this way they had become acquainted. He
was a slight, delicate-looking lad, with a face of
almost feminine beauty, and whose every act and
word bore the unmistakable stamp of refinement
and culture. Hyacinth often wondered what reverse
of fortune could have brought Brown — that was the
name he called himself, but his new acquaintance
had shrewdly suspected that it was not his real one —
to dig for gold in California. He was so young, and
soft, and so unfit apparently for hardship of any
kind, that the rough life and wild company of the
gold-fields must have been as little congenial to his
taste as they were novel to his experience. They

were so to Dillon, but then lie was of a different
stamp altogether — in physique a perfect Hercules,
who had been taught courage and endurance by the
free, hardy, out-of-door life that he had led from his
very birth. But this poor boy was evidently either
fresh from college, or from some luxurious home in
town or city, far away from where men follow on moor
and hill the hardy pursuits that brace the nerves and
make the body robust and strong. But all this was
merely speculation, for Brown, though agreeable and
conversational enough on ordinary subjects, never spoke
of himself, nor said a word that in the slightest degree
could have touched on his antecedents. No one could
betray his confidence, for he gave it to no one. He
was fairly communicative as to his future plans, but
he jealously guarded the secret of the past, if it did
indeed contain a secret.

When they had arrived in New York, the young
men separated. Brown went off at once to the gold-fields,
and Hyacinth remained behind for some days,
as has been said in a former page. But, not having
much money to spend in the Empire City, he and Pat
soon set out on their journey, which at that time was
very long, and by no means safe. Now it can be
made by rail, both expeditiously and comfortably,
but at the time when the gold fever was at its height,

K 2

the road, or rather track, for it was little more, went
through dense forests, beset by hordes of Red Indians,
or, worse still, by people who were robbers by profession,
and murderers by instinct. They arrived,
however, in safety at the gold-fields, and were not
long in pitching upon a " claims and setting up their
tent beside it.

In a little time Hyacinth remembered Brown, and
after some search, found out that he too had got a
'^ claim," and was working it in company with a man
he called his partner, at no great distance from
Dillon's tent.

Brown was very glad to see Hyacinth again, and
very grateful to him for having sought him out so
soon. The poor young fellow looked ill and worn,
and it was easy to see that he was altogether out of
his element in the rude way of life that he had
chosen for himself. He was a strong contrast to his
partner — a long, lean, shambling-looking man — on
every line of whose ugly face the word ^^rascaP'
was imprinted in unmistakable characters. Where
Brown could have picked up this unpromising
specimen of the human family Hyacinth could not
imagine; still less, how he could have consented to
become his partner, and live in the same hut with
him. But such was the case, and he could only

wonder and prophesy all sorts of evil from such,
ill-assorted companionship. Bat it was no affair of
his ; the young man was old enough to manage his
own affairs, in which he, a comparative stranger,
could have no right to interfere. But he resolved
to keep an eye on the pair, as far as his own business
gave him leisure to do so, and to stand Browns friend,
if any occasion for doing so should ever arise during
his own stay in the place.

In the meantime he and Pat worked, as only
navvies and gold-diggers know how to do, from
sunrise to sunset. When it became too dark to
work any longer, they were so hungry and weary
that they could do nothing but eat a hasty meal,
and then go to sleep on the wretched mattresses
that served them for beds. The only day on which
they rested from this round of monotonous, and
as yet barren toil, was Sunday. It was a day not
to be found in the calendar of the gold-fields — not,
at least, in its character of the Lords Day. The
diggers worked away as usual— boring, shovelling the
earth out of their pits, and washing the gold-dust from
the clay. If they remembered the sacred day at all,
it was to spend the morning lounging about the
liquor-stores, and the evening in quarrelling over
a pack of dirty cards. It was a rare thing when one

of these evenings ended without bloodshed, or it
might be downright murder. But Dillon and his
"partner' could never put aside the reverence due
to the Lord's Dsbj, though far away from the old greenland,
where in churches of every creed , Christian
worshippers assembled for prayer and praise. There
was neither a priest nor a religious service of any
description in this godless place, peopled by desperate
and reckless men ; men who scoffed at every creed,
and with whom it was, not a word and a blow, but a
blow before the word. The incessant quarrelling of
those men, the drunken orgies, the midnight outrages,
the entire defiance of all law — the only sort
there being administered by a self-constituted tribunal
called the Vigilance Committee — made a perfect hell
on the one day in the week that should of right be
given to thoughts of peace and good will to men.

Hyacinth had not seen Brown for some days, and
on one particular Sunday, he thought he could not
do better than make some inquiries respecting him.
So leaving Pat smoking his pipe before the tent, ina
very lazy and contented fashion, he set out on his
voyage of discovery.

When he arrived at the tent of Hiram H. Jefferson,
as he styled himself, he found this last-named
worthy sitting on an empty cask, his legs resting on

the top rung of a ladder, and his toes on a level with
his eyes. He was reading a very old newspaper, and
as he read he chewed a large lump of tobacco, and expectorated
to the right and left with great perseverance.
When he saw the new-comer, he discharged a perfect
volley of saliva, sprang to his feet, and shook his
hand with as hard a grip as if he wanted to wright
out of the socket.

'^ Waal, mister, this air kind, I dew declares
he said, in a drawling, nasal accent. '^ I can't but feel
sorter glad, when you come to my lo-cation."

'^ Thank you'' replied Dillon, 'but I did not
come to see you only. I came to see your partner,
as well as yourself, to-day. You passed my tent last
evening in your usual good health, but I have not
seen him for some time, so I have come to inquire
for him''

He's not altogether very spry, those days, I
guess."

I am sorry to hear that ; what is amiss with
him ? "

He's got some darned sort of fever hanging
over him, and I calculate he'll just have to go through
with it. He's rather a poor sort of chap, without
any grit in him and I wouldn't be surprised if the
time was come for him to hand in his cheques."

By this figure of speech Mr. Jefferson would seem
to indicate that he thought his young partner was
in danger of death.

'^ I fear he is a bad subject for fevers'

Waalj boss, that's a fact. The poor cuss has no
grit in him , and I reckon that he had no business
to come out to these air digging, nohow. He may
die , or he may live, but whatever way you fix it,
he won't be worth moreen his salt for a long time
to comes'

'' Could I see him ? " asked Dillon.

'^ Certainly, if you like, but he's no great sight
to see. He warns much at any time, and that's a
fact, but he's suthin awful to see just now. You
can come through, right away' and discharging
another volley, he beckoned to his visitor to follow
him into the tent.

There, lying on a very dirty old mattress, and
tossing from side to side, consumed with what
promised to be a bad fever, lay the poor English
lad. It was a strange home for one so gentle and
refined, a miserable place for one who, if he were
in England, would be tended doubtless by gentle
and loving hands. He knew Hyacinth at once, and
held out to him a thin hand whose pulse was beating
quick and fast.

It is so good of you to come and look me up/^
lie said. " I am very ill."

'^ He is ills sire, and that's a fact," observed
Jefferson.

"Has lie no one but you to nurse him?" asked
Dillon, whose heart was full of pity for the sick,
friendless boy.

I guess I'm doing the best I can for him, mister,"
said the American, with an angry look on his face.

"But you canst be always with him, and he
is too ill to be left alone'"

Waal, I don't see how you can fix it any
better. There air no doctor fellows, nor nurses, in
these digging, so he must get on the best way he
can without themes'

Do you think you could walk as far as my
tent ? " said Dillon, bending over Brown. " My
man and I could look after you in turn, and your
partner here would be free to attend to his own
affairs."

"I could easily walk twice as far," cried the sick
youth eagerly, and with a most imploring look in
his soft eyes. " Oh, take me away, while I am able
to go ! "

"We could bring him between us; the distance
is very trifling," said Hyacinth to the American.

Waal, boss, if you air satisfied, so is this here
child. He's not much good as a partner now in this
here lo-cation, but don't say that I want to get rid
of him, nohow."

I shall say nothing of the sort. To take him
away is my own suggestion, and not yours."

All right, boss. Now go ahead.'^

He put his, arms under Brown, and raised him
to his feet. Hyacinth wrapped the blanket closely
round him, and between them they carried him out
into the air, which seemed to give him a little
strength. After a moment he was able to walk
slowly, while they supported him at each side. In
this way they brought him to Dillon's tent, where
Pat was still smoking his pipe. He at once comprehended
the state of affairs, and sprang up to
offer his assistance.

They brought Hyacinth's mattress to the opening
of the tent, so that their patient could have all the
air that was possible, and this done, Mr. Hiram H.
Jefferson took his departure. But, before going, he
said to Hyacinth, with a most diabolical grin on his
face :

'^I say, mister, you air the very softest piece of
dough that I ever came across, that's a fact. There

air not many such tarnation fools as you going, I
guess. But tis all the same tew the poor cuss inside
there, for I kin see that he's a gone coon, and no
mistake." And once more giving Hyacinths hand a
most energetic shake, he went away.

Dillon had soon reason to congratulate himself on
his promptitude, for next day his patient was delirious.
There were many phases in his delirium, and many
a scene long past and gone rose up again before his
mind. At one time he was once more a boy at school,
and another time he was going away for the vacation,
and bidding farewell to his companions. Soon he
was at home, and had another companion, not a boy
this time, but a little sister that he called Sydney,
and they were in a boat on a lake, or gathering nuts
in the woods. By-and-by his imagination would take
a different turn, and he was passionately imploring
forgiveness for some crime he had committed, or
thought that he had. Sometimes it was his sister,
and sometimes an uncle, and afc the feet of these two
he cast himself in his delirium, many times in the day,
beseeching them to forgive him for all the sorrow and
shame that he had brought upon them.

The two men on whose kindness he had been so
suddenly cast, nursed him in turn as long as it was

absolutely necessary tliafc lie should not be left aloiie ,
and if there was some awkwardness and want of
technical skill in their mode of nursing, it was amply
made up in kindness and tenderness. Not many
things fit for an invalid could be had in that wild,
rough place, but they got for him the best they could.
They had plenty of tea and mutton broth, and as luck
would have it, plenty of grapes and oranges were just
then to be sold by an enterprising Yankee pedlar,
newly come to the gold-fields. It was touching to see
how naturally the two great bearded men took to the
role of nursing, and how soon they learned to become
expert in their new task. They were patient and
tender with him, and thought nothing was a trouble
that helped to give him ease, or soothe his pain. They
often walked long distances to get a little white bread
or a bottle of good wine for him, as soon as he began
to mend, and had nothing worse to contend with than
extreme physical weakness and mental depression.
The first could be dealt with, and made to yield to
suitable treatment and generous food, but the latter
was more obstinate, because more intangible and more
deeply rooted. The prospect of renewed life and
health gave him no pleasure, and he regarded the
future without hope, a strange feeling indeed for one

so very young. There was no elasticity about him,
nothing of the natural rebound of returning health.
As may well be supposed, recovery, accompanied by
such a morbid state of thought and feeling, was both
difficult and slow.

A CONFESSION.

"Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel."

*you have been very good to me, Dillon," said the
ailing youth to Hyacinth, one day that they were
alone. "I often heard the Scriptural story of the
good Samaritan, but I could never realise the truth
of it until, in a happy hour for myself, I met with
you and Pat."

The day was Sunday, on which, according to their
usual custom, our " partners " had struck work. The
weather being very fine, Pat had gone off to amuse
himself ; but Dillon remained with his sick guest, and
amused himself in his own fashion by looking over
an odd volume of Shakespeare, the dilapidated state
of which showed that it had gone through much
service. Now and again he laid down the book, to
give his patient a little wine-and-water, that lay near

on an old box that, turned bottom upwards, did duty
for a table.

You are not attending to me' continued Brown.
^^You don't care to hear your own praises, and in
that respect you are rather singular."

I beg your pardons said Dillon, laying down his
book. "What was it you were saying? I was so
much absorbed by the woodland scenery of * As You
Like It,' that I quite forgot I was in hot and dusty
California, instead of the sylvan beauty of the forest
of Arden.^^

Put by Rosalind and Orlando for a little. There
is a melancholy Jaques here, that would like to have
a little conversation with you, if you would not
object."

This request was so unusual, that Hyacinth laid
by the book altogether. " Go ahead, old fellow ; you
spoke in good time, for I was just beginning to doze,
and a little conversation may take the cobwebs out of
my eyes."

I think, Dillon, that I am going to dies'

And I think that you are not going to do any
such foolish thing. On the contrary, you are getting
on famously, and there is not the slightest symptom
of death about you that I can see. So put that notion
altogether aside'

Never theless^ I have a presentiment that I am not
far from the end. Some philosophers say, that those
who are soon to die see many things that healthy
people, whose lives are all before them never see at
all. Now I can see the end coming; but when,
where, or how, I cannot sees'

My good fellow you are weak from illness, and
as a natural consequence, are talking perfect rubbish,
which you will help me to laugh at very heartily
this day month."

^'Don^t think for a moment that I cling to life's
pursued Brown, '^ or am in the least troubled because
the sands in my glass are running down so quickly.
Take up the book again, and read aloud what Orlando
says of himself, when he is advised not to strive with
the professional wrestler. That passage might have
been written for me, as it suits me exactly.''^

Hyacinth took up the book again, and read aloud :

' If I be foiled, there is one shamed that was
never gracious ; if killed, but one dead that is willing
to be so. I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have
none to lament me ; the world no injury, for in it I
have nothing; only in the world I fill up a place,
which may be better supplied when I have made it
empty .^ '^

The boy repeated the passage word for word

after Hyacinth, and there was such utter hopelessness
in his voice, such deep despair and sorrow in his
face that the kind heart of his auditor ached to hear
him.

Why will you indulge in such morbid, unwholesome
fancies ? '' he said gently. ^^ You are retarding
your recovery by it, and leaving yourself no chance
of health and strength. Cultivate a more hopeful
spirit; and some day — sooner perhaps than we
expect — you and I shall be leaving this wretched
place behind us, and making our way home to the
dear old country'"

'' I shall never see England again ! '^ cried the
poor young fellow,, bursting into tears. His sobs
became more violent every moment until at last
Hyacinth got seriously alarmed. He soothed the
poor J weak, hysterical creature as well as he could,
clasped his thin hand, and wiped the damps from
his clammy brow.

'' Oh, forgive me ! " cried Brown, when the
paroxysm had subsided, " but I am fearfully weak
and nervous.-'^

No doubt you are, but you are not going
the best way about getting strong again. You
must try to avoid everything that would have
the effect of exciting you in this way, And until

VOL. III. L

you are much better than you are now, I shall
not permit you to talk in this way again /^

"Look here, Dillon, you are the only one that
has spoken a kind word to me for many a day ;
that showed me any Christian kindness, or seemed
to care whether I lived or died. I was unknown
to you, and you took me on trust. I was perishing,
and you have saved my life. There is
only one other on the earth's wide surface, that
would do what you have done for me, and she, poor
girl, is far away, dragging out a sad and laborious
life, because of me. I would like very much that
you would write to her when I am gone. Will
you do that much for me, old fellow ? Here are her
name and address," and as he spoke he drew an
old tattered pocket-book from the breast of his coat,
and gave it to Dillon. "Do not open it until after
my death, and deliver the enclosures as directed
when you go home, for you lull be going home one
of these days. It won't put you very much out of
your way, for she lives near London. Do you promise
me''

"I promise."

That is enough. I may consider the thing
done. And now, having gone so far, I think it is
only right to tell you who and what I really am.

I suppose you knew from the first that my real name
was not Browns

'' Wells I suspected as mucli/^

^^No. My real name is Dacre, and I am one of a
very grand old family, the Dacres of Northumberland.
I don't look very like that just now ! Eh ?
But I am as well oK as I deserve to be, for if I only
got my due, I would be at this moment in a convict
prison ! "

'^ You ! My dear boy, you are not quite well
yet, and the delirium is hanging about you still."

'^ I am not delirious, but as sane as you are, and
all I am saying is perfectly true. Oh ! would to
God it were only a frightful hallucination ! But it
is all true, as true as that the blessed sun is shining
outside there. I am no boy either, though I look
so young ; I was twenty-three years old on my last
birthday''

"I would never have supposed it. You don't
look to be more than nineteen."

"It is the case, nevertheless. I am old enough
to have as much sense as would have kept me
from coming to lay my bones in California ; old
enough to have broken the hearts of all my family ;
old enough to find myself at twenty-three, a disgraced
and beggared man, by my own act."

L 2

"Pray do not excite yourself in this way'
said Dillon, alarmed by his vehemence. '' It can
do no good, nor change the past, whatever it may

be''

'' Eight you are, old fellow ; nothing can do meany
good, either now, or at any future time. I am
long past that, you see. But give me a drink,
please, for my lips are parched; not water, but
brandy, if you have any, for I shall want all the
strength I can get, before my story is told."

Hyacinth gave him half-glass of brandy, ina
tumbler of water.

"I have nothing very new to tell you, Dillon,"

he went on, after a little time. ^' I believe my

story is a common one, now-a-days. My father

was next brother and heir to Sir Ralph Dacre, of

The Elms, who was a confirmed old bachelor, and

a chronic invalid. When my father died, which was

when I and my only sister were mere children,

Sir Ralph stepped into his shoes, as it were, and

brought us to live with him, at his grand old

place in the far north. He got the most expensive

governesses for Sydney, and sent me to Eton;

treating us in all respects as if we were his

own children. It was a brilliant future that lay

before me, as the future baronet, and owner of a

fine old unencumbered estate, but I was not equal
to its nor worthy of it. You smile at that, but
when I go on a little farther, you won't smile at
all.

'' When school and college days were over, my
uncle got me a commission in a crack cavalry
regiment, settling a very handsome allowance on me,
to support the position that he thought his nephew
and heir was entitled to hold. Better, oh ! far better
for me and for all of us, if he had kept me at home
as his gamekeeper, or even as a helper in his stables !
Then I would not have broken his heart, nor disgraced
the old name and family that he was so
proud of.

From the moment I entered the army, my downward
course began. I had neither the common sense
to act for myself, nor the moral principle to avoid evil
company, but blindly followed the example of many of
my brother officers, men who were very wild and
dissipated. I don't say they were all that, but many
were, and unfortunately those were the men that I
admired, and attached myself to. They drank deep,
and played high, and went in for every folly and extravagance.
They were like me, fresh from home,
free from every salutary and restraining influence,
and not much troubled by scruples of any kind. I

was foolish enough to take one or two of the worst of
them as my models and companions, and to think that
I could not do better than follow in their footsteps.
I soon learned to drink, not that I loved drink for its
own sake, but because I thought it like a sneak not todo
what they did, and I took so kindly to gambling,
that in a very short time I found the handsome
allowance given me by my uncle, was wholly inadequate
to meet the debts I had contracted at the
card-table. I took to the turf, too ; it was the right
thing, they said, for a Dacre of the North, and as you
may suppose, I found myself before very long weighted
with debts that I had no earthly means of paying. I
tried to stave them off as long as I could, but my
creditors — the chief of whom were my brother
officers — became so pressing, that I saw plainly that
unless I could manage to pay up, I should leave the
regiment in disgrace. So I went down to The Palms,
and made a clean breast of it to Sir Ralph. The
old man, who had lived for the greater part of his
life in solitary state, was perfectly astounded at the
magnitude of my liabilities, and was grieved to
think that one of his name and race could have
entered, while yet so young, upon such a career of
folly and vice. But he paid the money — every
shilling of it, mind — and I was once more a freeman,

and able to hold up my head with, the consciousness
that I owed no man anything.

'Harry, my lad,' he said, when I went to his bedside
on the morning I left The Elms to take leave, and thank
him for all his goodness, ' you are now straight again ;
take care that you keep so. I shall not do this thing
a second time, be sure of that. Before you leave
me now, you must give me your solemn promise as a
gentleman, and a Dacre, that you will neither bet nor
gamble any more. That is not a very large equivalent
for yoio to give for all the money I have given to
clear you, and you should be glad to get off so
cheaply

'^I gave the promise that the good old man
required , and would you believe it, Dillon, I broke it
before that very week was out ! '^

Hyacinth started involuntarily.

'''You are horrified, Dillon, and no wonder; but
there is still worse than that to be told. I don't
think that in those days I was wicked all round , but
I was very weak and fickle, and with no stability
of character. The consequence was that I was easily
led, either for good or evil, and unfortunately the
people with whom I was mixed up, and whose
example I followed, were evil to the core, and tried
to make me like themselves in all things. I had now

and then some qualms of conscience, but they went
for nothing when opposed to the powerful influence
that was daily brought to bear on me. I sunk
gradually lower and lower down, losing all mastery
of myself in the frightful descent, until at last I fell
into the hands of people that could make me do anything
they chose. It was not my brother officers
now — for the very worst of them was a gentleman —
but card sharpers and blackness of the very lowest
class. They led me on, weak, senseless fool that I
was ! step by step, until at last my debts had accumulated
to such an enormous sum, that I went for
help to the Jews, and got it ! I was the nephew and
heir of Sir Ralph Dacre, of The Elms, who was old
and infirm, and in the course of nature could not
last very long. But going to the Jews did not, as
you may suppose, mend matters in the least, for sixty
per cent, interest on money would soon swamp an
income much larger than I possessed. I could not
meet a tithe of the demands that were made on me,
to say nothing of my current expenses in a fast
regiment; I was beset on every side by creditors
whose name was legion, and who were as pitiless as
they were importunate. I was without a friend in
the world who would advise, or stretch out a hand to
save me, and I became desperate. In an hour of madness

— for I must have been mad then — I forged my
uncle's name for ten thousand pounds ! '^

The wretched young man overcome by the recollection
of his crime,, covered his face with his meagre
hand, and big drops of perspiration stood out on his
forehead.

^^ You despise me now that you know what manner
of man I am in reality," he resumed — " unprincipled,
ungrateful, heartless."

"No, not that," replied Dillon gently, for how
could he break this poor bruised reed ? — " only
weak, and carried away by evil example. You
were led on to the edge of a terrible precipice, blindfold
as it were, and so swiftly hurried over the brink,
that you had no time to think until you found yourself
engulfed in the abyss of ruin below. You know
the proverb, ^Facilis descensus Averni.' "

I found it easy enough, at all events. Had I
then such a friend as you, I should have a different
story to tell to-day. I could have been led to good
as easily as to evil ; but I had no friend, and I was
lost."

'' Did Sir Ralph pay the money ? "

No. He was perfectly frantic when the forged
bill was presented to him for payment, and most
emphatically declared that the signature to it was not

his, or written with his knowledge. He swore a
fearful oath that he never would pay one farthing, and
that he would go into the witness-box to prosecute
the forger who had dared to put his name to such a
document. That very night he executed a will leaving
everything that was in his power, or could separate
from the title and estates, that were strictly entailed,
to a distant cousin, another Dacre, and a poor curate
with a long family. The will was not many days
executed when he was seized with a fit ; but lived on
for some weeks, if that could be called living, when
the mind was destroyed, and nothing was left but the
animated clays

Was the money ever paid ? ''

** Yes, by my sister."

Your sister ! '^

Aye. Did I not tell you that I had a sister ?
There were but the two of us — she and I. She was
two years my junior, and lived with Sir Ralph at The
Elms. She was not beautiful, only what people called
a pretty girl ; but she had the true beauty, that of a
lofty soul, and a warm, generous heart. She had in
her own right ten thousand pounds, the sum fixed
on for younger children in our parents' marriage
settlements, and as she was the only child beside me,
she was entitled to the whole of it. She had just

attained lier majority, and was the uncontrolled
mistress of this money, and to save her father's son
from figuring in the dock of a public court, and his
name from public infamy, she gave it up to pay this
accursed bill ! ''

'*■ She was a noble woman ! ''

^^ Noble! Oh, my God's' He uttered a low,
bitter cry, so full of despair, of intense anguish,
that Hyacinth saw that all attempts at verbal consolation
would be quite useless. But he held the
hot, thin hand between his own, and softly wiped
away the damps that perpetually were bursting out
on the hollow temples.

'you must not talk any more to-day's* he said
after a while; ^^you can tell me the rest at another
time''

^' Well, there is not much more to tell. Sydney's
having paid the money saved me from a criminal
prosecution, and I took my passage in a ship bound
for Australia, as I could not stay any longer in England.
But the very day before the ship sailed, my
foot slipped on a bit of orange-peel in the street, and
I was taken to the nearest hospital with a broken leg.
Accordingly the Celeste sailed without me, and everyone
thought I had sailed in her, for when I was taken
to the hospital, I gave my name as Brown, which I

have borne ever since. Before I could be discharged
from the hospital, an account came to England that
the Celeste had been burned at sea, and only a few
persons had been saved by a passing ship, who knew
nothing of me, and could tell nothing. I was glad
that my identity was so completely lost, as it enabled
me to sink out of the eye of the world, as if I had
gone down in the blazing wreck, for I felt that I
could never hold up my head as Harry Dacre in any
civilised land. My uncle died soon after the news of
the loss of the Celeste arrived in London, and as it
was supposed I had perished with the rest, my cousin,
the poor curate, reigned in my stead. The poor
parson had for many years fought a hard battle with
poverty, and it must have been a pleasant surprise to
the honest man when he found himself master of a
fine estate, and was called Sir John. He is a goodman,
I believe, and will do more credit to the old
name than I ever would have done ; certainly he will
do it no dishonour. So you see it was all as it should
be in the end."

'' And your sister ? "

^^ She is a governess in the house of a retired soap-boiler
at Clapham ! What do you say to that, Dillon ?
Sydney Dacre, with her old blood, her refined mind,
and brought up in all the luxury of her uncle's house.

being a sort of upper servant to the soap-boiler's cubs !
Of course she had to leave her old home when Sir
Ralph died, and Sir John came to reign in his stead,
and set about earning her own bread. And I, her
own mother's son, was the one who had brought her
to that ! ''

*' But you could have remedied all that, by making
your appearance, and claiming your rights as the next
baronet. Your sister would not have had to leave her
home, nor need you be here digging for gold.^^

^^ I^d have been sold up in three months, for I owed
more than what I would inherit twenty times over.
My uncle had left everything he could will away from
the title, to the parson, and all that would come to me
would be but a drop in the ocean of my debts. No,
that would never do ; it is far better as it is."

'' But at least you let your sister know that you
were not one of the passengers of the Celeste ? "

I did not. What would have been the use ?
She had gone through the horror of thinking I
had perished in the burning ship. That was
past, and done with. To inform her that I still
lived, and was in England, would, I thought, answer
no purpose but to open up afresh the wounds that
were beginning to heal, and bring back to her mind
the old shameful story. She would be worrying

herself about me, without having the power of
helping me, for she had already given me her all.
I sometimes think with you, that all this was wrong.
It may be so, I cannot tell, for my head gets confused
now and then ; but when I am gone, old fellow
you will go to her, and tell her the truth. If you
stay here long, write to the poor child; but if you
have any prospect of being able to go home soon, I
would prefer that you should give her the pocketbook,
and the little parcel that accompanies it, with
your own hands /^

'^ I shall make it my business to do so ; set your
mind at rest on that point.-*^

A thousand thanks. I have now told you my
whole sad, shameful story, and I am glad that I did,
though you cannot know what it has cost me to do
so. But your kind sympathy constrained me, in a
manner, to do so, and be open and frank with you,
as you deserved I should be. I could not bear to
sail under false colours in your ship. What the rest
of the world may think or say of me, is of no
moment to me. No one in the world can judge me
more hardly than I judge myself."

'^ I thank you for the confidence you have reposed
in me," said Dillon, " and you may be sure that I
shall respect it. Not even to Pat Flanagan will I

ever give a hint of your true story. Pat is a right
good fellow, and as true as steely but lie loves a little
bit of gossip in his soul; and that being the case,
it is just as well not to burden him with a secret
that he may not be able to keep. It would be
bursting out of him at every pore, and quite unknown
to himself, it would come forth at last."

THE LAST or HARRY DACRE.

In the fairest sunshine a shadow chases us ; in the softest
music there is a tone which chides.

TiECK.

Hyacinth Dillon and his partner — or " boys as Pat
persisted in calling himself — had now been at the
gold-fields for some months, working as men who
went out there should work, if their purpose was at
all real and earnest; but as yet their efforts had
produced no great results. They had got some gold-dust,
and at rare intervals a tiny bit of solid gold, so
very small as not to be of much value. But finding
those little bits gave the toilers fresh hope and
courage, and animated them to renewed efforts. Their
young guest was now well enough to be left alone for
the greater part of the day, and this enabled them to
devote themselves more entirely to their work than
they had done while lie was so ill. They had by this

time excavated so deeply that they were almost
hidden from the view of those who were walking on
the level ground above. They scrambled down
to the bottom of this pit and out of it again as
best they could, leaving their tools behind them
when leaving every night. During fine weather
they were pretty well off, for then their " claim "
was dry ; but when rain fell, it became full of water,
in which they worked, up to the ankles or knees,
as the case might be. Sometimes the pit got so
full of water that they had to bale it out, and this
was weary work, and attended with much suffering.
But they did not lose heart, but worked on as if
they were iron men, and not made of the ordinary
flesh and blood. Hyacinth persevered, because he had
a settled conviction, which grew stronger every day,
that the " claim '^ was rich in gold, if they could
only penetrate to it, and Pat persevered because he
would not desert his master, or allow him to suppose
that all this unfruitful, thankless labour could be able
to dissolve their partnership.

But the time came at last — truly it had been
long in coming — when the golden dream became
a palpable and positive reality. They arose one
morning, poor in all but health and hope, and when
the night fell, they found themselves rich beyond all

VOL. III. M

that their wildest imaginations had ever pictured.
They had come upon the gold at last, not in dust,
nor in the little bits scarcely larger than the grains
of dust, but in a great solid lump, or rather lumps,
for before they could scoop it out of the earth in
which it lay imbedded, it was unavoidably broken
in several places, the very smallest fragment forming
in itself a very respectable nugget. Long as they
had hoped for this good fortune, and hard as they
had worked for it, they were perfectly bewildered
by its magnitude. Neither spoke to the other, when,
after a long day of incessant labour, they had
disinterred the mass of glittering metal, but they
gazed on it lying at their feet," as if they were ina
dream from which they feared to awake, lest they
should find their treasure gone. Pat was the first
to find his tongue.

Hurroo ! Ould Ireland for ever ! " he cried, or
rather shouted, throwing down the spade on which
he had leaned, in the first moment of his great
amazement. " Oh barra ! to the civil I pitch
California an all the hard work I ever done in it.
Blast the spade Fll ever take in my hand again,
till I git home to Castle Cloyne ! '^

Hyacinth extended his hand, hard and sore
from incessant toil, and as he grasped that of Pat,

said in a voice overflowing with cordiality and
happiness : " Neither in Castle Cloyne, nor in any
other place shall you ever handle a spade again,
Pat Flanagan, unless indeed it may be for your
own amusement and pleasure."

I hope, sir, that you're not going' to part
wit mOj now that you're so riches said Pat in
dismay. ^^ Vd feel it very quare intirely to be
obliged to look out now for another situation."

"You shall never again be servant to any one,
Pat, but you will be my friend and true comrade,
as you have been for many a long and weary
day."

'^ Eyeh, Master Hyacinth ! sure tis your own
goodness, sir, that makes you say so."

"half this gold is yours,^^ continued Dillon,
'swell and fairly earned by your own hard toil.
When we go home to Ireland, you can purchase a
fine property, and live in clover for the rest of your
life."

By your lave, sir, tis nothing ov the kind. tis
all ov it your own, for sure I'm only your boy, the
same as when we wor at home in Castle Cloyne. I
hired wit you on board the ship, if you recollect,
an' you agreed to give food an' wages for my
service, the same as I had from the poor ould master

M 2

at home. Bat as for sharing the good, or setting
up for being an estate gentleman on the strength
ov its Fd have no call to that sort ov thing at all.
Fm a decent honest boy, sir an won't lay claim to
what's not my own, though it is a thing that you're
good enough to say that I have a share ov it. But
when I said that I'd pitch hard work to the ould
dhunnus for evermore, I meant that I'd go home
wit you to the ould ground, the same as when we
came out ov it, and be your servant boy all through.
Oyeh ! what else ? Maybe you'd give me a good
farm on the estate when you buy it back again, as
in course you will, phase God, That's what would
shut me, an' not an estate, that's not fit for me,
nor the likes ov me, but for born an' rare gentleman
like yourself."

'swell, Pat, we won't have any dispute about
it, but share our prosperity as we shared adversity.
What should I have done in this dreadful place
without you ? "

swell, sir, if you remember, I said that very
thing to you when you wanted not to hire me at
all, but come on here by yourself. Don't you recollect
how I fairly forced myself on you ? Sorra another
thing it was."

It was well for me that you did. You were right,
and I was wrong ; that is all I can says

"Faix, 'tis well that you own to it. An Miss
Grace, sir, the darling ov the world ! Won't herself
be proud to see us walking' in to her, wit drums
Abating an' colours flying' ; an shell be mistress want
more in Castle Cloyne, only a dale grander an richer
than she was before. Eyeh ! her namesake, ould
Grana Utile, was never half so great or so grand
as what shell be, phase God ! ^^

^' Miss Grace shall have her share of that gold,
Pat, never fear. And good old Father John, and
Mr. Macnamara also. I fear they were often hard
set, since you and I saw them last. But is there no
one you would like to share with ? Is there no pretty
girl you would like to make mistress of the farm you
are always wishing for ? ^^

^^ Sorra wan, sir,^^ replied the poor fellow, a
shade of sadness coming over his face. " I never
cared but for wan girl, an' she wouldn't have me,
former I ''

'' That, I suppose, was Oonagh MacDermott. She
was Miss Grace's foster-sister, and often came to see
her. She was not merely a pretty girl, but downright
beautiful."

Three for you , sir lie was that same, an a rale
good girl along wit it. But whereas the use ov
talking' ? an' I wouldn't spake ov it to any wan, barren'
yourself. But I never forgot her, an' I never
wills'

They remained a long time conversing in this way,
for Dillon thought it better not to take the gold out of
the pit until night had set in. But while talking in
this light, unsuspicious way, they had an auditor that
they little suspected. This was the American who
called himself Jefferson, although many a person at
the diggings said that he had borne various other
names before he came to California. He had been
prowling about, according to his usual custom, in
expectation of seeing or hearing of " something to his
advantages when his attention was attracted by the
glad shout with which Pat Flanagan had ^^ pitched
hard work to the devil. ^^ His instinct told him that
such a joyful exclamation could have proceeded but
from one cause, and that the workers at the bottom
of the pit must have come upon a vein of gold.
Determined to satisfy himself on this point, he crept
to the edge of the pit, in profound silence, and throwing
himself flat on the earth that had been flung out
of it, so as not to be seen by those below, he listened,
with his whole soul in his ears, to every word they said.

When darkness had completely set iu, Dillon and
Pat who had before that pnt all their gold into an
old sack used for various purposes clambered up out
of the pit with weary bodies but spirits that were
high and glad. They lost no time in bringing their
treasure to the tent where they found young Dacre
very anxious, on account of their prolonged absence.
He was both amazed and rejoiced when they told
him the cause of their long delay, and, opening the
sack, showed him its rich glittering contents. He had
never seen so much gold in its unrefined state, nor
had the others either, and none of them could forma
conjecture of its real value. They only knew that
it must be very great, and that not many who had
come to the gold-fields had got so rich a prize there,
but of its marketable value they had not the smallest
idea.

For a long time they were all too much excited
to think of sleep, and, after a hasty supper of broiled
mutton, '^ damper,^^ and tea, their usual fare, they sat
talking until it was pretty late in the night. Then
Nature asserting her rights in her usual peremptory
fashion, Hyacinth and Pat went to the extreme end
of the tent where they always slept, taking the precaution
of bringing the sack containing the gold with
them, while Dacre remained on his own mattress near

the entrance, for the advantage of being nearer to the
fresh air outside.

The night was very still and sultry, and excited
by the wonderful event of the day, and not having
yet got back his strength, Harry Dacre lay awake,
tossing restlessly from side to side,, while every
nerve and sense were strained almost to fever
pitch. Many thoughts, and none of them pleasant
ones, marched in procession through his mind at
that solemn midnight hour. There are few people so
fortunate as to be able to look back on their past
lives without remorse, or at best regret, and he
certainly was not in the list of that happy few. His
misspent life, old in folly though young in years ; the
crime he had committed in a moment of madness ;
and the dreadful consequences that had resulted from
it, not only to himself, but to his family, rose up before
his mental vision in all their darkness and deformity.
In the cheerful light of day, the whisperings of conscience,
" that voice of God within' may be ignored
and stifled ; but in the deep calm and holy silence of
night, it makes itself heard with a persistence and
importunity that cannot be evaded, and with a force
that bears down all before it, with a stern and
irresistible eloquence.

And now, he was about to lose the only friend that

lie had left. The man who had been so kind to
him, who had nursed him in sickness, and had had
compassion on him in his sore need; who had not
scorned or turned away from him on hearing his
disgraceful history; this one true friend that God
had raised up for him in a strange land, this friend
would soon be lost to him. He would go away, to
enjoy in his own country the fruits of his honest
labour and perseverance. He would of course leave
California, and they would never meet on earth again.
This was a bitter thought; but more bitter still was
that of feeling his own inability to show this true
friend the great gratitude that filled his heart, before
they were separated for ever; of proving to this good
Samaritan that the man who had fallen among thieves,
been grievously wounded, and would have perished
but for his great charity and kindness, was not
ungrateful.

In these dreary musings the night wore on, and
after some time, he thought he heard something like
the suppressed breathing of a wild animal before it
darts upon its prey. Slowly and silently he raised
himself on one elbow, in order to be ready for a
spring, and with every faculty strained to its utmost
tension. The gloom was so profound that at first he
could see nothing, though he felt that some Hying

creature, either human or animal, lead got into the
tent. When his eyes had become more accustomed
to the gloom, he was able to see that some dark body
was creeping stealthily along ; a little longer , and he
saw that this dark body was a man, who was step by
step approaching the two unconscious sleepers at the
end of the tent. Dacre almost held his breath in
the greatest astonishment, though he at the same
time stood upright, ready for the spring that he saw
now was inevitable. There was none of the weakness
of recent illness about him now ; all his energies
seemed to be preternaturally sharpened, and all the
strength of a strong man infused into his wasted
frame, as if by a miracle. He saw the robber — there
could be no doubt whatever of his intention — glide
noiselessly to where the bag containing the gold lay,
near the two sleeping men, and take it up, sling it
over his shoulder, and then turn round with the hope
of being able to depart as silently as he had come.
This was Dacre^s time for action. He sprang forward,
shouting, '^ Villain, robber, I know you ! " and threw
himself on the thief with such a sudden fierceness,
that he was thrown violently to the ground by the
unexpected shock.

The shout and the noise of the subsequent scuffle
at once roused the two sleepers. They started up, but

at first were so much confused and bewildered, that
they could see nothing, and could only guess at what
had occurred by the noise made by the two men who
were struggling for mastery on the ground.

Let me go, you tarnation fool, or I guess it'll be
all the fuss for yourself. Let me go, I say, before I
fires cried Jefferson, who spoke as if he was half-strangled.


Never, until you give up that bags' replied Dacre
firmly. " Help, help ! Dillon, Flanagan, awake, there
is a robber here ! ^' he shouted loudly.

'*■ You will have it, then, you infernal cuss ! '' and
as he spoke, or rather hissed these words through his
set teeth, the noise of a pistol-shot resounded through
the tent, that was followed by a piercing cry from the
unfortunate youth.

By this time Pat had managed to strike a light,
and at the first gleam. Hyacinth, being now sure of
his mark, flung himself on the American, and with the
grip of a giant held him fast.

Oh, be the piper that played before Moses ! ''
cried Pat, holding the light close to them, ^^'tis that
infernal laggard that spaces through his nose. Only
for this poor boy that he fired on, like the mane dirty
coward that he is, we'd be robbed an' murthered, an'
kilt intirely, as sure as that my name is Pat ! ''

"Bring me the strong cord tliat^s hanging at the
end of the tents said Hyacinth, with compressed
lips.

Oh Lord , Master Hy'cinth, sure you're not
going' to hang him ! Your father's son oughtn't to
dirty his hands wit the likes ov him''

^' Right you are, Pat, but I shall take good care
that the ruffian is hanged all the same. Help me to
bind him firmly' and this Pat did with great alacrity,
though he would not approve of the hanging.

"tis your turn now, boss," said the baffled miscreant,
" and I guess that I have no mercy to expect
from you, or any of ye. Damnation to the hull lot of
ye!"

Folly on," said Pat Flanagan coolly, as he
surveyed the wretch lying bound and helpless on
the ground, with an expression of intense satisfaction
on his face, " folly on, an' give us a little more ov
that Tcimash, will you ? Hard words break no bones,
is an ould saying' in the place where I came from,
an' a mighty three saying' it is, sure enough. Now,
my fine fella, if you remained at home in your own
digging to-night, fair an' aise, instit ov prowling'
about to rob an' murther decanter people than ever
stud in the shoes ov your mother's son, you wouldn't

be staring at me that a way like a stuck pig. I
ought to beg tke pigs pardon for comparing him at
all to the like ov you, the dirtiest an meanest laggard
I ever come across''

By this time Hyacinth had raised up the wounded
boy, with as much ease as if he was but a child,
and laid him on his mattress. Then lie drew back
the curtains of the tent, to give him air. The day
was breaking in the east, and as its pale, wan light
fell on the face of Dacre, it showed unmistakably
that he was dying. He had been shot through the
lungs, and life was ebbing away in short, painful
gasps. Hyacinth — strong man as he was — shed
bitter tears over the wasted face, while he wiped
away the mingled blood and foam that oozed from
the blue, quivering lips.

Oh ! my boy, my boy, it is for me you are
dying ! '' he exclaimed in wild anguish. " To save
that bag of dross, you have given your young-life
! ''

^^No, not for the gold,^^ replied the dying lad
with a great effort; 'but to show you my love, and
to prove that I am not ungrateful to you, and Pat,
for all your kindness to so very poor and worthless
a creature as I am."

^^You have paid a very heavy price, Harry,
for the very little we have been able to do for
you."

Ah ! no. Death for once is kind, and my end
is more worthy than was my life. When you go
home, go to Sydney, and tell her — tell her" — the
blood rushed so fast into his mouth, that he could
say no more.

Tell me, if you phase, Master Hyacinth, what
Fm to do wit this murdherin' vagabond ? " said
Pat. " Though he's tied fast neck an crop, I^m
rarely onaisy in my mind, till we get shut ov him
out ov our premises."

Hush ! ^^ said Dillon in a solemn voice, while he
raised a warning finger. A look of unspeakable softness
and tenderness came over his face, making it
for the moment almost woman-like. Then stooping
down he kissed the forehead of the dead boy,
as his own mother might have kissed it, and closed
the eyes with reverent and gentle hand. Then he
started up, and as he looked at Jefferson, every trace
of softness and pity died out of his face.

"Miscreant — robber — murderer — look at your
work ! '^ he shouted. '' He is dead, and slain by
your handel's

Waal, ef he is dead, lie brought it on himself,
I reckon. Yon canst deny that, mister, whatever way-yon
fix it. I spoke you mean to kill me, in revenge
for what was only an accident."'^

'* Me ! I would think my hand was contaminated
if it touched you. No, I shall leave you to the
common hangman; he is the proper person to deal
with you/^

Have mercy on me, boss ! ^^ whined the wretch,
now utterly subdued and beaten down. "All I have
is yours, ef you will only let me go."

You are a coward, as well as a thief and murderer.
All the gold in California could not buy your
worthless life. It is forfeited to the law, and to the
law I leave you.^^

The morning light was now streaming full into
the tent, and Pat snuffed out the caudle that he had
lighted a short time before.

"Pat, go off at once in search of some of the
Vigilance Committee, and bring one or more of
them here with you'' said Hyacinth. "Tell them
what a dreadful murder has been committed here,
and that we have fortunately secured the murderer.
Make no delay, as I am anxious to have the brute
removed from my tent as soon as possible. While he

draws the same air with me, I cannot breathe freely.
I shall remain here to keep guard over him until
your return. My task however, will not be a very
difficult one' he added, with a grim smile, " as his
powers of locomotion are rather limited.''^

Pat went off on his errand, and the prisoner,
seeing that no plea for mercy would soften the heart
of his pitiless guard, spoke no more; but, with the
mute doggedness of the dying wolf, awaited the
inevitable doom that was very near now, with all the
stoicism he could call to his aid. He was well aware
that so far from getting any mercy from the Vigilance
Committee, his sentence from that body would certainly
be " a short shrift and a long cord.''^ He had
been taken red-handed after committing murder, and
what was even a more heinous crime in the eyes of the
wild officers of Judge Lynch, he was an idle loafer
who had been caught in the act of stealing gold, the
fruit of another man's hard and long-continued toil.
Judge Lynch was not master of much law, in a
technical sense, nor was his court one in which good
manners went hand in-hand with polite speech, nor
the suavity in modo with the forester in re. But his
ideas on the subject of meum and tuum were generally
pretty correct, and but for his administration of justice

as swift as it was sharp — the gold-fields of California
or Australia would be hells where neither life nor
property would be safe, and where no man would
dare to dwell.

VOL. III.

FAREWELL TO California.

And ye varlet bound upon a carte,
Was dragged to ye gallows high.
And ye knight rode out to see him die.

Old English Ballad.

In a very short time after the events occurred, that
have been related in the last chapter, Hyacinth
Dillon and his man Pat found themselves on board
the vessel that was to take them back to Europe.
It was with feelings of the utmost joy and satisfaction,
that both bid adieu to that auriferous Western
land;, to which they had come poor and left rich
beyond all that they could have imagined in their
wildest dreams. The hard life of great privation
and incessant labour ; the wild, half-savage population,
of which drunkards, thieves, bullies, and rowdies
of every description, formed so large a part; all
was so entirely different from anything to which

they had been accustomed at home, disgusted them
and made them very glad indeed when they could
leave it all behind them. Dillon had borne it all
well and patiently, as long as there was no remedy,
but from the hour in which he had come upon
the gold vein, his anxiety to get out of the country
became a perfect passion, concentrating all his
thoughts, his energies, and feelings, into one groove,
to the total exclusion of all others, with only one
exception.

That one exception was the loving, tender memory
of the unhappy youth, who had lost his life in
saving the property of his benefactor, and to show
him that his kindness to the " stranger he had taken
in,^' had not been thrown away. Short a time as
Hyacinth had known him, he had learned to love
him, and to discern the germs of much good in his
nature, notwithstanding the grave errors — to put it in
the mildest way — that he had committed. He had
expiated those errors very dearly, and had paid a
heavy penalty for the crime of a moment of madness.
But with all the instability and weakness of his
character, his heart was affectionate and grateful,
and nervously sensitive to the slightest touch of
kindness or sympathy. Under happier circumstances,
he would have been a most lovable creature, but

N.2

with all his regret for him, Hyacinth felt that the
best fortune had come to him, and that the nameless
grave in which he had been laid, was the only
asylum where he could find peace and rest. He
had been already dead to all who had ever known,
or cared for him; home and fortune, and even his
own name, were all lost. He could never again
return to the civilised world whose laws he had so
recklessly violated. Haunted by that

Sorrow's crown of sorrow,
The memory of happier days ;

weighed down, night and day, by remorse of conscience;
with nothing bright or happy to look
forward to, and with nothing in the present but
want and toil, to which he was altogether unequal,
death had indeed come to him with the face of a
friend !

Very speedily the wild justice of the gold-fields
had sent the murderer to his well-earned doom. After
having given his evidence before the Vigilance Committee,
Hyacinth would have left the country at
once, but to his great astonishment, Pat demurred
to this hasty proceeding.

"I thought, Pat, that you were very anxious to
get back to Ireland,^^ he said.

'' Three for you, sir, I am ; but the year is long,
an we can take our time at it/^

^' Well, if you talk of time, we have spent enough
of it here, in all conscience. I hate this place, and
am anxious to leave it. I am, I confess, very homesick,
and have been so from the first ; but there
was no use in complaining or giving way until we
had the means of going back again, and of living at
home in comfort and independence. And now that
we have secured that means, I think that I never
can get soon enough out of this beastly place'"

'^ Begot, sir, you're not a bit fonder ov the ould
sod, nor gladder to get back to it, than what I am
myself. The very first look I get ov the green woods
ov Castle Cloyne, will warm the cockles ov my heart !
But what's the good ov hurrying any man's horse
in the hate ov the day ? "

Pat, you must have some motive for staying
here, that I cannot understand, ''' said Dillon, ^^ and
if so, you have only to declare it. I can wait fora
few days for your convenience, if you wish it ; and,
on the other hand, if you choose to remain in this
country and settle in it, I shall give you your fair
share of what you have fairly earned. '^

To go home without me ; is that what you mane,
sir ? '' said Pat, with an expression on his countenance*

half of astonishment, and half genuine distress. '^ Bethe
piper that played before Moses ! yoa^ll do nothing
ov the sort. We come out here together, an' we'll
go home together, or I'll know the reason why. Oh,
blood alive ! what would Father O'Rafferty an' Misther
Macnamara say, if I was to let you go such a long
journey by yourself, after all the years I was in your
father's house. ' Take great care ov that boy, Pat,'
ses Misther Mac to me at the Election, ^ an' remember
that he's the last ov an ould stock,' ses he, ^ so be sure
you bring him home safe to his father. You're a
study boy, Pat,' ses he, ^ so I know I can depend on
you to stand by him.' He said a dale more that's
gone lane out ov my head, an' so did the priest likewise
; but sure, 'tis all wan now what they said,
for though I forget the words, I don't forget the
main' ov 'em at all."

Hyacinth burst out into a hearty laugh at the droll
idea of Pat having constituted himself his guardian.

'^ Begot, sir, I'm proud to see you so pleasant ;
more power to you ! Well, now, I'll tell you why I
want to stay for another day or two. 'Tis just that
I want to see the hanging''

Can it be possible, Pat, that so brutal a sight
could give you any pleasure ? I would not have
believed it."

Troth, thin, you may, for His as tlirue as that
Vm. tellin it to you. tis roasted alive at a slow fire
he ought to be, instit ov hanged, the villain ov the
world ! for hanging is a dale too aise a death for the
likes ov him, that first thought to rob us, an then kilt
the poor fellow that took our part. Sure enough, His
myself that'll see him hanged wit all the pleasure in
life. By your lave, Master Hyacinth, I'll have the
great consolation ov seeing that infernal ruffian walking
in his own funeral, an dancing' a hornpipe on nothing
at all, to the ould tune ov the Rogues March. See
if I don't ! ''

And, as if to give greater force and expression to
his declaration, Pat burst out into the concluding
verse of a slang song that was written by Curran on
the execution of Jemmy O'Brien the informer, and
which at the time of the Union was very popular
among the lower classes in Dublin.

Then the hangman he pulled down his cap,
And turned his mug towards the Liffey,
And down fell the life ov the slap,
And he died wit three kicks in a liffey.

Pat, you are a perfect savage ! '' exclaimed
Hyacinth, in great indignation and disgust.

'may be so, sir. You have the best right to
know what I am, considering' that we wor never

parted since we wor boys together, an' that wasn't
istherday, nor the day before that, either

Fm sorry to have to give this against you, Pat,
but in this instance, you resemble a Need Indian
more than a civilised mans

"Wish, good luck to you, Master Hyacinth,
an' lay me alone. I have no patience wit you, for
shown' so much feeling for the blasted ruffian that
would have us robbed an' murthered intirely, only
for the decent boy that lost his life for us ; the light
ov Heaven to his soul this day ! tis a great wonder
to me, sir, that you haven't more sense. Be my soul !
'tis no surprise to any wan that Misther Macnamara
gave you in charge to me, tellin' me to keep a sharp
eye on you."

Well, have it your own way. You are as great
a savage now, as you were when you were brought
home to Castle Cloyne on a door, with your head
broken, in consequence of heading a faction fight
at the fair of Ballycross."

^^See now, how well you remember that, sir,"
said Pat, with a broad grin, '' Didn't we give it
to the Donnellys that day ; thogum cionne,^ and no
mistake."

Thogum cz'omie— Literally "take care of my head," but
intended to express, dramatically, having the worst of the battle.

"I rather think it was all the other way. You
got the thogum cionne, at all events, whatever the
other party got, for you were brought home to us
half-dead."

So itself, sir. Sure we gev the Donnellys such
a noble bating, that from that to this, they wor never
able to rise a stick in fair or market. I don't know
how they got on ov late," he added reflectively,
^^but sure, when we go home we'll hear all the
news for nothing."

Next day the execution took place, for justice
at the diggings was prompt and decisive, and after
Pat Flanagan had afforded himself the " consolation
ov seen' the hanging," he announced his readiness
to leave at once.

He was a great villain, that snuffling* vagabond,
an' now that he's gone, I can't but own that he
died game ! " was Pat's epitaph on the defunct
Mr. Jefferson.

All their simple preparations having been made,
both master and man bade farewell for ever to the
Golden State, where they had suffered much, but
where on the other hand they had won fortune and
independence. Their hearts were as light as the
bag that contained their gold was heavy ; they were
young, buoyant in spirit, with robust health, and

with nerves and muscles hardened by toil and
constant exposure to sun and wind. The ship in
which they sailed was one of the best and fastest
on the line, and her performance this time did not
give the lie to her reputation. But she was all
too slow for the eager hearts and straining eyes
of the two happy young fellows, who were going
home. At the sound of that sweet word home,
all the toil and suffering, the suspense and the
despair, were forgotten. In imagination Hyacinth
saw himself the lord of Castle Cloyne, with
the old property redeemed, the old house
renovated, and Grace sitting in her usual place,
presiding over the tea-table, as of old. Tony
Fitzgerald should still be in the stables, but with
several grooms under him to do all the hard work;
for poor old Tony was not fit for much now, but give
his orders, and smoke his pipe on the stone bench
outside the stable-door. Neither should Tearaway do
any more work. He would find out who it was that
had bought his father's old hunter, and buy him back
at any price. The paddock down by the river would
be the place for Tearaway in the summer, and in the
winter the cosiest corner in the stables. And what a
pleasant night they would have together — Father
John, poor old Terry, and himself ! Christendom

could not furnish a happier trio than they would be.
And in the joy of his heart the young fellow cried
out in the pathetic language of the Shunamite
woman : " Henceforth, I dwell for ever among mine
own people ! "

Pat Flanagan, too, was not without dreaming his
own dreams, and building his own castles in the air.
For the present he would remain with "Master
Hyacinth' and be after him, and his sister, the person
of most consequence in Castle Cloyne, and regulating
everything there according to his own ideas, without
let or hindrance from anyone. He would once more
swagger at weddings and wakes, and at fair and
market be the leader of his faction against his old
enemies the Donnelly s. And in the far-off distance,
when old age had at last overtaken him — now, in the
abounding affluence of youth and health, that seemed
a very distant time indeed — and he would be no
longer able to should the sticks he saw himself the
owner of a good farm and comfortable cottage on
the Castle Cloyne estate. By this it will be seen that
our friend Pat was not very ambitious. He had not
been born great, was in no way capable of achieving
greatness, and if greatness was thrust upon him, he
would be in truth very much out of his element
under such an intolerable burden. He would be

wise, though lie could not be great ; and be content
with happiness, leaving greatness to those for whom
it was better fitted, and who would wear it well and
gracefully, because they had been to the manner
born. It would be well for many restless and unquiet
spirits, if they were as philosophic and as wise
in their generation as Pat Flanagan, and, passing by
the shadow — glittering and seductive as it looked —
be content with the more homely, but more tangible
substance.

COMING HOME.

She's gone and left me, and the place she filled
In my heart is empty — empty. She has done
Her travail, but my task is still to roam
On through the world.

Barry Cornwall.

It was on a beautiful morning in early summer, that
Hyacinth Dillon, from his seat on the vehicle that
was popularly known in the district as the ^^ mail
cars beheld once more the green woods of Castle
Cloyne. He and his ^^ boy ^' Pat had arrived the
night before at the nearest railway station from
Queenstown, or, as it was called in those days, the
Cove of Cork, and at first he thought he should
have to remain all night at the hotel. But on making
inquiries there, he learned that the mail coach would
pass about midnight, which would bring him to
within twenty miles of Castle Cloyne, and the

rest of the journey he could make on the side-car
that would be in waiting to take the mail,
and carry it on to the country districts. His
impatience to proceed was so great, that he at once
abandoned the idea of taking a bed at the hotel and
spending the night there. The weather was very fine,
and the soft sweet air of the summer night on the top
of the coach was very grateful to one who had
endured being half roasted in the almost tropical heat
of the last three months he had spent in that far
distant land on the sunny shores of the Pacific.

Pat Flanagan parted company with his master,
when the latter exchanged the roof of the coach for the
side-seat of the mail car. The twenty miles Pat
preferred going on foot, to stretch his legs, as he said,
but in reality for the purpose of making sundry visits
to such of his old friends and acquaintances as were
living along the road, to hear all the news from them,
and in return tell them of all his own marvellous
adventures and great luck while living in ^^ foreign
parts. ■*' In adopting this agreeable way of travelling,
he did not expect to reach Castle Cloyne for a few
days, or probably for a much longer period. This
programme, however, depended very much on the
kind of reception he would get from his friends as he
went along, and whether they would be glad to see

him, and demonstrative in their welcome or the
reverse.

As the mail car — a very primitive, battered-looking
old vehicle, drawn by a pair of poor lean horses
that appeared as if a feed of oats was a rare treat
to them — went lumbering slowly along, Hyacinth had
full opportunity of seeing the great change that had
taken place in the country during the two years of
his absence. The teeming population that had once
made the air resound with the sounds of life and
labour, was all gone. Mile after mile was passed over
in the glad light of that summer morning, without
a human creature becoming visible, for the Famine
had done its appointed work with a resolute and
masterful hand. For want of labourers, there was
hardly any tillage to be seen, and the whole country
seemed to have become one vast grazing-field, wholly
given up to the use of cattle. Where Dillon had
once known snug farm-houses, and little hamlets
of a few houses grouped together, he saw nothing
now but heaps of stones and rubbish, tumbled about
in unsightly, lonely ruin. The country had been ina
bad way when he left it two years ago, and his
sister's letters had not prepared him for finding any
material improvement on his return, but what he now
saw as he drove along, was very much worse than

he had expected, and gave Mm a truer idea of the
fiery ordeal through which the country had passed,
than any verbal description could have conveyed.

When the car stopped at the little village of Castle
Cloyne to deliver the mails. Hyacinth, having given
the driver so large a " tip '' as to make the poor half-starved,
half-clad creature almost speechless with
joyful surprise, walked to Father O'Eafferty's house,
which was about a mile farther on. As he proceeded,
he saw many persons were going in the same direction,
and concluded that they were bound for some fair or
market in the neighbourhood. None of them recognised
him in the least, which was hardly a matter of
surprise, for he was indeed greatly changed. The
tall, slender youth had become a stately, well-developed
man, whose proportions were all enlarged by constant
exercise and labour. The upper part of his face was
browned almost to swarthiness by the fierce action of
the American sun, and the lower part was quite concealed
by a full tawny beard. He was another
manner of man now from the stripling that had left
Castle Cloyne, but the change in his appearance had
come on so gradually and imperceptibly that he did
not know how great it was until now.

When he came to the little avenue leading up to
the priests house, he noticed with surprise that everyone

halted on arriving there, and as he came in sight
of the hall-door he saw a good many persons lounging
outside, as if waiting there for something, or some one.

'' What is it has brought those people here, may I
ask ? ^^ he said to a decent-looking old countryman.
Are they waiting for anyone ? '^

'' For the funeral they're waiting, your honour. I
see that the hearse isn't come yet ; but it must be
here soon now'' was the answer.

*^ Whose funeral is it ? ''

Why, thin, Miss Grana's. Maybe, sir, you didn't
happen to know her ? Miss Grace Dillon, I mane.
tis a great pity, for she was very good and charitable,
an, moreover, was a rale lady, every inch ov her, an
come ov the ould stock ov the country. All the land
hereabout was the estate ov her family ; fine, spirited
people they wor, an twas aise to live under em.
They had the full hand an the warm heart for the
poor an' the dissolute, ever an always ; ay, had they !
an' 'twas a loss to the whole country when they wor
broke, horse an' fut. Och marine ! 'tis a new story,
an' a quare wan, too, to have a hotel-keeper from
London owning the estate of the ould Dillon ov Castle
Cloyne ! "

The old peasant, with the garrulity of age,
would have rambled on in this strain much honore,

VOL. III. O

but that lie saw this auditor become death pale,
and lean as i£ for support against one of the piers
of the gate.

"Va in thread, sir that you're not wells he
said kindly. " I'm sorry I told you about poor Miss
Grana so sudden like. Maybe, you're a friend ov
the family."

It is nothing," replied Hyacinth, trying to recover
himself. ^^I have been travelling all night, and am
much tired.^^

"That would tire you, sir, surely. An' then if
you knew the family, it would be no admiration in
life that you'd feel a trifle coldhearted. They
are all gone now, former ! the Dillon, I mane. Miss
G-rania an her brother wor the last ov em. He
went away to foreign parts, a good while back,
poor boy ! an' maybe tis dead he is this way, an' she's
to be brought to-day to her long home ! "

They had now arrived at the hall-door. The old
man joined the people waiting outside, and Hyacinth,
who felt as if his heart was turned to stone, entered
the hall where Father O'Rafferty was giving some
directions about the funeral. When he saw a strange
gentleman, bronzed and bearded, come in, he came
forward, saying courteously :

'^ Can I do anything for you, sir ? "

'"'' Oh, Father Holm ! don't you know me ? " burst
from the heart of the poor young fellow. Though
his outer man was so changed, his voice was still
the same, and the priest recognised him the moment
that he spoke.

Oh, Hyacinth, my boy ! My dear boy ! ^^ he
exclaimed, extending both his hands, while his voice
trembled with powerful emotion, '^^don''t speak a
word, but come in here out of this crowd, ''^ and he
drew him gently into the little parlour, closing the
door after them.

The unhappy young man sat down in silence, and
resting his head on the arm of the sofa, burst into
such a passion of sorrow, that it shook with the
violence of his sobs. And as if to have nothing
wanting to complete his misery, the wild, melancholy
notes of the heeii arose from the next room, shrill
and piercing. The women were crying the death-chant
for the last time, before the coffin should be
borne from the house.

And this was Hyacinth Dillon's welcome home !

I am better pleased than if fifty golden
sovereigns were put into my hand, that you came
home to-days' said the priest, " for I confess to
you, that it grieved my old heart to think that
not one of my poor child's own name and blood

o 2

would be here to-day to lay her in her last resting-place.
She was so long ailing, that I hoped she
would live until you came back. I knew well,
that if you were a living man, you would come back,
soon or late, to the old ground. ^^

^VVhy did you not write to tell me how very ill
she was ? Oh, Father John ! there were but the
two of us in the wide world, and yet she died while
I was so near. I never will forgive you for not
having written to me ; never, never ! " cried he,
almost frantic with grief.

What good would that have done ? What purpose
would it have answered, but to make you
miserable and restless, when you were thousands of
miles away ? Hyacinth, my boy, be reasonable, bea
man, as your worthy father's son ought to be, and
above all, be a Christian, and bow with submission
to the will of God.^^

"Forgive me, father," said Dillon, extending his
hand, which was affectionately grasped by the good
old man. '^I think I am half-mad, and I must needs
vent my madness on my oldest and best friend."

"Tut, tut, boy, say no more about it. You were
overcome for the moment, and surely that is not
surprising. But the case might have been worse
than it is. If you had not come to-day you could not

follow her remains to the grave, and this would be a
source of lasting regret to both of us for the rest of
our lives. And, Hyacinth, have no painful feeling of
any kind on your mind with respect to her lash hours.
She was very peaceful and happy ; the only wish she
had ungratified was to see you once more. She had
her foster-sister, Oonagh, to attend her, which she
did with a love and watchful tenderness, which no
professional nurse is capable of feeling ; and she had
every comfort she required, the same as if she was still
in her father's house. This poor place was not like
Castle Cloyne; but she was good enough to be
satisfied with it, such as it was, and make herself
happy there. She was a very sweet, amiable girl, and
God, to crown her good and innocent life, gave her
the greatest of all graces, a holy and a happy deaths
Before we start you had better eat something,^^
said the priest, after a little. " I don't suppose you
have had any breakfast, as you came by the mail car,
and you must be fairly famished. I'll tell Bridget to
get you some breakfast; I have had my own more
than an hour ago."

Thanks ; but really I could take nothing now.''^
'well, I dare say you have no great appetite; but
Bridget will have a comfortable breakfast for us when
we return from the churchyard in a couple of hours.

Fll have no objection myself to a second breakfast;,
for, like yourself, I bad no great appetite for the one
I went through the form of eating, just to keep in
countenance all the gentlemen who came from a
distance, and for whom breakfast was provided. We
have no time now, anyhow, for I see they have
brought out the coffin, and are putting it into the
hearse. Oh, Miss Grace ! my darling child ! ■'^ cried
the old man, unable, when he saw the coffin, to restrain
his sorrow. " You brought sunshine with you into my
poor house, and now you are taking it all away with
you. Oh, Hyacinth ! you cannot know what that
gentle saint was to the poor, lonely old priest, since she
came to keep me company. But she is now in heaven,
and it is selfish of me to grudge her the bright crown
that she is wearing there this day."

He wiped his eyes, and putting on his hat, drew
it down over his brows, so that no one should see
that he had been weeping. Then he took Hyacinths
arm, and they passed out of the house. By this time
the coffin was in the hearse, and the driver on his seat
ready to start as soon as the priest was seen leaving the
house. There were a good many people of all classes and
creeds, met to pay the last tribute of respect to one
whose good and blameless life deserved that respect,
and whose ancient lineage in some degree commanded

it. Not only were the country-people there — such of
the old tenants on the Dillon estates as were still
living — but the gentry also. Men whose fathers had
sat with the Dillon at the social board, contended
with them at the hustings, and grasped their hands
wherever gentlemen were wont to meet.

A whisper had gone round that Hyacinth Dillon
had arrived that morning ; and when the rumour was
confirmed by his appearance with the old priest on
his arm, every man in the crowd silently raised his
hat, partly in recognition, and partly as a manifestation
of respect and sympathy. He flushed up for a moment
as his eye lighted on many a familiar face, and he
acknowledged the courtesy by raising his own hat,
and looking round with a melancholy smile. Then he
and the priest took their places immediately behind
the hearse, and the funeral procession moved on slowly
down the avenue.

More than two years before he had been the chief
mourner in his father s funeral, and now again he
was fulfilling the same sorrowful duty by his sister —
the one ewe lamb of that father's flock. Henceforth
he would be alone on earth, for he was the last of his
race. He had worked hard for gold to redeem his
father's property, and give a home to his sister, and
now a London hotel-keeper was the owner of Castle

Cloyne^ and he was following lier to the grave. That
was all that lie could do for lier now ! Lie was
beyond all human care, deaf and blind to every sound
or sight of human love or sorrow. On his poor
mattress on the clay floor of his tent, in the far-distant
Golden State, he had pleased himself by thinking how
happy he would one day make her — the poor ailing
girl ! — and how carefully he would shield her from
every suffering and care. When he had found the
vein of gold the time seemed insupportably long, until
he could return to provide her with a home befitting
her name and birth. He had come at last, and was
now bringing her horne !

When all was over at the graveyard, and the
vault closed, the priest drew Hyacinth aside from the
crowd, for, under a plain exterior, he had a good deal
of tact.

"Let us go round by the other gates' he said;
there are many people here, and they would all becoming
round, and doing their very best to upset
you. It is rest and quietness you want for the rest of
this day, and not excitement. The week is long for
them to come see you, but this day they must leave
you in peace. We will slip away quietly, before anyone
misses us."

Mechanically Hyacinth went with him, through a
grassy path leading to a side entrance, at the other
end of the churchyard. This entrance faced the parish
church, and was the one used by people going toit,
either to attend divine service or for any other
purpose, while the other entrance, which they were
avoiding, was never opened but for funerals. Hyacinth
was glad to avail himself of the priests suggestion,
and turn aside from the crowd.

But before they had arrived at the gate they were
stopped by another procession, altogether different
from that in which they had taken part. A marriage
had been celebrated in the church, and just as they
were passing the door, the bride came forth, leaning
on her husbands arm, and looking radiant with
happiness, youth, and beauty. The bridegroom wore
the uniform of an artillery officer, and was wholly
unknown to Hyacinth, but one glance enabled him to
recognise the bride. It was Caroline Wilson, the
woman he had once loved as his own soul. She
was in his eyes the fairest woman he had ever seen,
and now she was proving that she was as faithless as
she was fair. Never had she looked so beautiful as
she did now, in her trailing satin dress, and on her
neck and arms gems that flashed and quivered with

her slightest motion. Her lovely face, shaded, but
not concealed, by a long veil of the richest lace, was

Kindled by a conscious glow,

As from the thought of sovereign beauty born.

As the bride passed close to where Hyacinth stood,
he raised his hat by a sudden impulse, and saluted her
with a grave but courteous bow, while he fixed his
eyes on her with an expression in them that she could
not possibly mistake. In that gaze was recognition,
was silent reproach, and above all, an expression of
proud, cold, concentrated scorn. Changed though
he .was, she knew him at once. There was no
mistaking the flash of his bright blue eyes, the
withering contempt that filled them as they were
fixed on her steadfastly. That gaze was too much
for her, and she quailed visibly under it. The bright
smile died out of her face, which became as pale
as marble, and as if conscious of her own embarrassment,
she put up her bouquet to hide it. But it was
all over in a moment, and she swept on, followed by
her train of bridesmaids and wedding guests, all
laughing and talking gaily on their way to the gate.

In trying to avoid Scylla, we have come upon
Charybdis," observed Dillon with a smile.

'^ Well, my boy, we have survived it," replied the

priest in ?.s cheerful a tone as lie could command.
It did not, I suppose require the spectacle we have
just witnessed to show you what stuff that young woman
was made of. You found that out for yourself, you may
remember ; and all the better, I say. It is well to
find out what people really are, even at the eleventh
hour ; and you may be very thankful, my lad, that you
found her out before you had the great misfortune of
being her husband. What a horrible fate it would be,
to be tied for life to such a vain, silly, heartless thing
as that woman is ! Thank your stars, or rather the
goodness of God, that you escaped that fate. Come,
now, don't you agree with me ? ''

Yes, fully. But I confess that until this moment
I still cherished the hope of winning her, and was
foolish enough to imagine that when I came home
rich, her father would again consent to our marriage.
I thought she would have been true to me, as I have
been to her; have trusted in me, and waited for me.
But you see, that was only a dream, and like every
other dream, has faded into air. I am not the first
man that was made a fool of by a woman, nor do I
suppose I shall be the last either."

Don't waste another thought on her, my good
fellow. She's not worth fretting about, and the man
that has got her, has his own dear bargain in her,

i£ site was twice as handsome as she is. Take my
word for tliat/^

^' She has spoiled my life ; that's all'
Rubbish ! " cried the priest sturdily, " she has
done nothing of the sort. You are not your father's
son, nor the boy I take you to be, if at seven-and-twenty
you let your life be spoiled by a jilt. She is
not the only woman in the world ; there are many
there just as handsome, and a great deal more amiable
and true-hearted. I will say without flattering you,
that there are few women, Hyacinth my man, that
would say you nay, and if any such there be, I have
no great opinion of her good taste or discernment.
I am an old man now, and my time here can't be
greatly prolonged, but before I go, I hope to read the
marriage service over you, and some good girl worth
a hundred such as Caroline Wilson. She is gone now
out of your life; let her go. Hyacinth, my lad, let
us never mention her name again ! "
And they never did !

HYACINTH DILLON GOES AWAY AGAIN.

Master, go on ; and I will follow thee
To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.

Shakespeare.

Beeoee they retired to rest that evening, Father
O'Rafferty told Hyacinth of the death of his last
relative, poor Terry Macnamara. It is the last straw
that breaks the camels back ; and, weighed down
with sorrow and the total failure of all his hopes, the
unhappy young man felt as if there was now nothing
to live for. On returning from the funeral he thought
that Fate had done its worst, but another pang was
added on to all the rest, when he heard of Terry's
death, and the melancholy circumstances that attended
it.

Next morning, at breakfast, he announced to
the priest his intention of leaving Ireland again; a

communication wliicli the old man received with
surprise and displeasure.

How is this, lad ? You are only just returned to
the poor old country, when she badly wants all the
help she can get from her children ; and you want to
turn your back on her after one night in your native
place. The country has passed through a terrible
ordeal, and is still reeling from the shock, and you
and all her other sons should stand by her manfully,
until she recovers herself somewhat. If you were
poor you could do even a little, but being rich, you
could do an amount of good among the poor, sorely-tried
people that could hardly be too highly estimated.
Your duty, my good fellow, is here at home, and you
have no right to shirk it'"

'^ You will be my almoner. Father John ; that is a
duty you won't shirk, whatever I do. I shall give
you a sum of money to dispense for me, and you
will know how to do so, better than any other
man I know. But I cannot stay in Ireland; I
could not settle down there, at all events not now.
I could not do it, Father John, and that's the truth.
All that I ever loved, or who loved me, are lost
to me, with the sole exception of yourself. My
inheritance has passed into the hands of strangers;
there will never again be a Dillon of Castle Cloyne.

Disinherited and alone on earth, what tie have I to
bind me to Ireland ? Don't you understand my
feeling ? ^'

I think I do, but still I confess that the resolution
you have come to, has grieved me very
much, though I ought to be used to grief by
this time. But I have not the heart to blame
you. Young as you are, life and the world have
dealt hardly by you. Have you traced out any
definite plans for yourself ? ''

'^I canst say I have any fixed plan laid down for
the future, except that of leaving Ireland for sometime.
You know, I am not the first Dillon who
visited foreign countries, and there must be many
of the descendants of those who did go, scattered allover
Europe. There are many places abroad, either
beautiful in their scenery, or famous in their history,
that are well worth a visits

"There is no harm in that, and it maybe productive
of much good. To travel enlarges a young
fellows mind, and gives him a knowledge of men,
and the world, that he could never gain by remaining
stationary. It gives him an opportunity of making
friends, that may stand him in good stead another
day, and of storing up a fund of pleasant recollections,
that will give him food for thought when the time

comes when lie must settle down at last. Two or
three years will give you quite enough of roving, and
then you may be glad to come back to the old manif
indeed I shall then be to the fore'

*■' I shall return probably in a year, if only to see
you, and I may remain then, or I may not. But I
must go away at once, for another week here just
now, would, I think, set me mad.-''

Where do you mean to go first ? "
^' To London. I must see a lady who lives there,
the sister of poor Dacre. He gave me some few
trifles — all the poor fellow had in the world — to bring
to her, and I made him a promise that I would
deliver them to her myself. I shall fulfil my promise
passing through London, and after that cross over to
France''

'you are quite right. A promise made to the
dying is a very sacred thing, and should be sacredly
kept; that is, of course, when it is practicable todo
so."

On the following evening, Pat Flanagan arrived at
the priest's house, and heard with much surprise of
this new resolution that had been taken by Hyacinth.
Oh, blood alive ! but this bates cock-fighting,"
he cried. " One would think that we had our share,
an' more than our share, ov travelling', an' that we

could rest our bones now for a while; that we're among
our own peoples

I am going alone Pat ; so that there is nothing
to prevent your having rest. You have earned it well,
I must owns replied Dillon.

'^ An' are you discharging me, sir this away, without
no faut ? ''

''1 am not discharging you at all. Though you
call yourself my servant you are not such in reality ;
at least; you have not been such for a very long time.
You are a rich man now, Pat, and need not be servant
to anyone.''^

I make no doubt, Master Hyacinth, but you'll
pay whatever is due to me in the matter ov wages,
fair an honest, but bryant that I have no claim
in life on you, sir. I took service wit you in the
ship when we wor going to Calaforny, if you don't
forget, an ever since I was working' for my hire
wit you, an I have no call in life to ax for more
than that."

You stupid oaf ! don't you understand how it
is ? Of the money we brought home from the gold-fields,
half belongs of right to you."

Be your lave, sir, it don't, not contradiction'
you, though I'm after coin' it. I won't deny but
that I'd take a present from you, sir, if you wor

VOL. III. p

kind enough, to give it to me, an many's the fine
present you ever ga' me, but that's neither here
or there. If you phase, sir, Fd take a shut ov
new clothes, an' dear knows, they wor never more
wanting' than what they are at the present, for I^m
nothing but a stack ov rags, savin' your presence.
An' if you have no complaint to bring again me,
out morning his reverence here, I'd rather hould onto
my situation, than be hunting' for another wan wit
strange people, that I oughtn't like at all. So
be your lave, while I keep any master, Til keep
the wan I know, an' that knows me. Sure 'tis an
ould saying', that the dive you know, is better
than the dive you don't know ; wit pardon from
your reverence for drawn' down that ugly man's
name art all."

The priest, with his keen sense of native humour,
could hold out no longer against Pat's eloquence, but
fairly roared with laughter, in which even the sad
Hyacinth was forced to join.

"Look here, Pat," he said, when the mirth had
somewhat subsided, " I am quite resolved that you
shall take your fair share of the wealth that you toiled
to win equally with myself. You may call it wages,
or a present, or what you please. You can buy the
farm that you were always longing to rent, and be a&

happy as your heart can desire, and as you well
deserve to be. Your old sweetheart, Oonagh, is still
unmarried, and may marry you now, though she
refused you before ; and you know it is a woman's
privilege to change her mind. Take courage, man,
and try against''

Well, sir, so I did, no later than this very
morning'. I met her sitting on her donkey-car on the
road bryant after laving this, an I walked on a couple
ov miles alongside the car. I put the ould question to
her, an' twas the same ould answer I got. spat,' ses
she, you're a good decent boy, an well worthy ov a
good wife, an' you'll get wan, too,^ ses she, but it
won't be Oonagh.' So when I parted her I said to
myself, that I had no wan now but Master Hy'cinth
in the whole world, an' if he turns again me, what
am I to do at all?"

'^ I am not turning against you, on the contrary, I
have a very great regard and affection for you, Pat,
and not greater than you deserve; so great, indeed,
that I could not bear the idea of your being my
servant. I am going abroad, where not a word will
be spoken that you can understand, so that as a servant
you would be quite useless to me, and your own life
would be very lonely and wretched."

'useless is it? Begin' your pardon, sir, I'd be

p 2

nothing ov the kind. Arrah, who would yon have to
brush your clothes, an' polish your boots, or spake a
civil word to you in them outlandish fortin parts, if
myself wasn't to the fore. I tell you now plainly, sir,
that you couldn't do without me at all, though you
think you could, an' 'tis sindin' for me you'll be after
a while, as sure as that my name is Pat. Faix, 'tis
truth I'm tellin' you."

'^ All your arguments, Pat, go for nothing : you
cannot come with me abroad."

'^ Oh, wish. Father Rafferty, do you hear him ?
Sure 'tis himself that's arguing' all along, instead ov
me. I'm very fond ov the Dillon — sure all the world
knows that — but, egg an' bird, I'd back 'em up
for conthrariness wit any other family on Ireland
ground."

^'^ You'll have to give in. Hyacinth," said the
priest, with a smile. "Pat's eloquence hasn't left
you a leg to stand on. Give in, man, at once, for I
see plainly that you will have to do it later on."

Well, settle it between you, you and Pat. I see
that he is determined on coming with me, whether I
like it or no."

"That's the very thrust word, Master Hy'cinth,
that you ever spoke, for I surely am. Whether you
took me as your boy, or not, I'd folly you all the

world over ; an' low could you prevent me ? Answer
me that sir, if you phase. I'd take passage in the
same ship wit you an stop at the same hotels an'
brush your clothes before you wor out ov bed in the
morning', an how could you prevent me ? Oh, Master
Hy'cinth ! '^ exclaimed the poor fellow with a faltering
voicOj " I was born on your father's ground, an'
rare on his Sure ; the only home I ever had was the
kitchen ov Castle Cloyne, an' a very good home it
was to me — hot an' comfortable, an' wit lashing's an'
latin's ov everything that was good. We wor ov wan
age, yourself an' myself, an' great playboys intirely
when we wor little monsoons, an' wor never parted
yet. An' now that Oonagh won't have me, sure I
have no wan in the world but you. An' still an' all,
you're wanting' to turn me off, without as much as by
your lave, or a single ha'porth."

^^ You're all right, Pat," said the priest, as soon
as he could speak, for he was half convulsed with
laughter. '' He is satisfied to keep you ; indeed, I
don't see that he has any option left him, since you
positively refuse to go. And now, my good boy, you
may as well commence your new term of service by
bringing in the small copper kettle with the hot water,
and tumblers and glasses. Both Master Hyacinth
and I want something: to raise our hearts before we

go to bed. He wants it poor fellow, and in good
truth so do I."

'along life to your reverence ! '' cried Pat, and lie
was off like a shot.

You will find him more useful than you think'
observed the priest when he was gone. "You are
too lonely now, and your heart is too sore, to find
strangers attractive, at least for the present. And
if you were to get ill, which is not unlikely, after
all you have suffered both in mind and body, you
would find him invaluable. I confess I was by no
means reconciled to the idea of your wandering about
from place to place, quite alone; but now that I
know Pat will be with you, I shall feel quite satisfied.
His fidelity to your family and attachment to yourself
personally, are more like the instinct of a dog
than the reasoning powers of a human being; and
I really think it would come under the provisions
of Dick Martin's Act, if you were to drive him away
from you. You won't be long away when you will be
sure to come round to my opinion."

*^ That may be. Though he calls himself my ' boy,'
I feel that he is a true friend, upon whom I could
depend to the last drop of his blood. As you say,
his attachment to me has something dog-like in it.
While he was pleading there, it went to my very heart

to refuse him, but I thought I lead no right to take
advantage of his unselfish devotion. There is a very-great
incongruity in a person so rich as Pat is, being a
servant to any ones

'^ But apart from you, the poor fellow would be
perfectly miserable. When you return home in a few
years, and settle down, he may be glad to settle down
too, in a little place of his own. By that time, he will
have got over his disappointment about Oonagh, and
marry some good girl that will make him very happy."

THE LAST OF ANOTHER DUMB Speedwell

do I recollect that long-past day,

When thou and I were young, my gallant bay !

Full of proud jure you led the headlong chase,

And distanced all thy comrades in the race.

With quivering nostril, and with straining eye,

And hoof that spurned the earth, you passed them by.

Victor in every field of equine fame,

There was no prize too great for thee to claim.

And now thou lies old and broken down,

The jest and scorn of every gaping clown !

The sun of a more than usually warm day in July
was shining down from a cloudless heaven, over
the fine old city of Dublin, as Hyacinth Dillon
was strolling through Dame Street, on his way to
the Bank of Ireland. His '^ boys Pat, who had never
been in Dublin before, except for a couple of hours
en route to Liverpool and California, followed him at a
little distance, staring about him at all the strange
sights and sounds of a large city, with the utmost

wonder and admiration, wliicli he was at no trouble
whatever to conceal. Nevertheless he took care to keep
his master well in sight, for he was afraid that if he
lost him, it would be no easy task to come up
with him again in that wilderness of brick and
mortar. As Dillon emerged from Dame Street, and.
came right opposite the principal entrance of
the Bank of Ireland, formerly the Irish Parliament
House, he stood still for a little to admire the
exquisite beauty of a building that has been called
more than once a poem in stone ! From the front the
two sides sloped back with a curve, the grace and
elegance of which can scarcely be surpassed. It has
been objected, that the roof is too low, but the columns
that support it with such apparent lightness, but real
strength, are so beautifully moulded, and all the
different parts of the structure are so justly and
harmoniously proportioned, that the objection seems
quite groundless, for roof and sides and facade seem
blended into one graceful and beautiful whole. In
any city of the world it would be hard to find a modern
building superior to that which, less than a century
ago, witnessed the last expiring struggles of a nations
independence, and whose walls have so often echoed
to the voices of her most gifted and eloquent sons.
As the young man stood in front of the old

Parliament House, admiring its perfection as a
building — both, in detail, and as a whole — his
thoughts, by a very natural though imperceptible
transition, passed from the present bank to the
old Senate in the days of its greatest glory.

Within its walls, some of the most eloquent
men of a country to whose children eloquence comes
almost as a natural gift, won their spurs, and fought
a gallant battle for the land of their birth.; while
many more of them, like her faithless sons in the
days when ^^Malacby wore the collar of golden'
basely ^^ betrayed her." There the chief traitor,
Castlereagh, plotted and carried out the political
annihilation of his country ; and not only secretly
bribed, but openly bought votes, on a scale, the
largeness of which was only equalled by its infamy.
There Grattan, " the father of his country's' pleaded
ber cause sitting — for, having come from a sick bed,
he was unable to stand — and cried aloud in accents
of indignant, though impotent, sorrow : " I have
watched by the cradle of Irish independence, and I
now follow its hearse ! "

Hyacinth was well acquainted with the history and
incidents of that memorable time. His father had
never been a member of the Irish Parliament, for
though his birth, and fortune were superior to those

of many who had seats in it, yet his creed as a
Catholic debarred him from the privilege of assisting
in the councils of the nation. But he was in Dublin
when the Act of Union was passed, and well remembered
all that had been said and done there during
that period of great excitement. He was never
weary of going over his recollections with the old
priest and Terry Macnamara, and as his son was
generally present during these conversations, the
subject became quite familiar to him, even while
he was still a boy. How often had he heard the
old gentleman, with the force and vigour of one who
had both seen and heard what he was describing,
go over again the scene that was enacted in the
streets of Dublin, on the last night that a native
Parliament had assembled within those walls. Every
foot of ground in front of the Senate-house in College
Green, and even far along down Dame Street and Westmoreland
Street, was occupied by an eager, excitable
crowd, that stood there through the long weary hours
of the night, patiently waiting to know whether Ireland
was still to continue a nation, or to be henceforth
nothing but a province. As each of the small band
of members who were known to have resisted both
the threats and bribes of the minister, and remained
faithful to their sense of duty and the

popular cause ascended the steps of the portico
he was greeted by the most enthusiastic and
vehement cheering, which was prolonged until ho
had disappeared into the House. On the other
hand, when any member made his appearance who
was known to have sold his vote for a peerage,
a lucrative situation in the Customs, or the Law
Courts, or a large sum of money, the base traitor
was saluted with hisses and yells of scornful execration.
And in the wild excitement, the stormy
passion, the agony of suspense, the people — not
merely the populace, for all classes were represented
there — all swayed to and fro in the mighty emotion
that stirred their hearts, but still stood patiently
waiting through the long hours, until the light
of dawn broke over the city.

Within a certain radius of the House, they who
stood outside could hear a good deal of what
was passing within its walls; the wild, enthusiastic
cheering, the scornful repartee, the ironical applause,
the loud laughter, the fierce denunciations, the
passionate shouts of hatred and revenge ! Now and
then, some one would come out, and announce
with sorrow, that things were looking badly for the
old green Isle, and that though the patriots were
fighting bravely for every inch of ground, yet that

gradually they were being outnumbered, and beaten.
Still the people kept their place in feverish anxiety,
hoping on, even against all hope, until the dawn
stole softly into the sky, and morning succeeded
to dawn, and then they learnt with bitter rage, that
their country was no longer a nation, and that their
native Parliament was henceforth but a question of
history, a thing of the past !

Suddenly Hyacinth was roused from his reverie,
by a commotion that took place not many yards
from where he was standing in College Green. He
saw a crowd running towards a certain spot, and
led by the general impulse he also ran, and soon
forced his way into the centre of the crowd. The
commotion was caused by the fall of a poor old
worn-out cab-horse, that from hard work and harder
usage, had become completely exhausted, and now
lay on the ground, between the shafts of the cab,
that had fallen over him. The driver stood over
the poor animal, lashing him with a heavy whip
to compel him to rise, while he swore the most
frightful oaths, by way of an accompaniment to the
flogging. The wretched creature quivered as the
cruel lash fell on his sore sides and bleeding
shoulders but was utterly unable to rise. The
spectators, though probably well used to such brutal

exhibitions, began to cry shame on the fellow, who,
finding his blows were of no avail, kicked the poor
animal in the stomach, with a savage ferocity that
was almost enough to have put him out of his
misery.

'sis there a policeman here, to whom I could
give this fellow in charge ? ^^ cried the indignant
Hyacinth.

'' Mind your own affairs, an lay me to mind
mine," replied the cabman, who appeared to be
intoxicated.

By this time, Pat Flanagan had come to the scene
of action, and looking fixedly at the prostrate horse,
said in a whisper to Hyacinth : '^ Oh, tare an' 'noun's,,
sir ! 'tis poor Tearaway, the ould master's own
hunters

Oh, Pat, are you sure ? ''

*' Sure is it ? Begot, I^d take my oath in it, on all
the books that wor ever shut an opened."

"I believe you are rights said Dillon, looking
more closely at the poor creature. " But what are we
to do ? "

"E/ise him first, sir, an"* then buy him from that
dirty baste that owns him. I wish I had that ruffian
where bating was chape ; oh, barra ! wouldn't I give

him enough ov it, without as much as by your lave
either'

The two young men at once advanced and began
to unbuckle the harness that attached the horse to
the cabs and then, aided by several among the crowd,
they raised him from the ground. When, after a
good deal of trouble, they had him upright once
more, he could only stand on three legs ; the fourth —
one of the hind ones — hung down, limp and powerless,
and Hyacinth saw that it was broken. At once his
resolution was taken, and he proceeded to act on
it with as much temper and calmness as he could
command at the moment by a strong effort of self-control.


"Look here, my man'' he said to the tipsy
cabman, " I mean to treat you much better than
you deserve ; and instead of giving you in charge
to the police, I will buy this poor old suffering
creature from you."

*^ Oh, then, begorra, if you do, you'll pay for
him, so you will. He's a good horse, an' has a
dale ov work in him. A couple ov days' rest will
set him up again, as well as ever he was."

Don't you see, man, that his leg is broken ? "

Well, be the tare ov war, so it is ! But so

itself, ni take five pound for him, not to be
onraisonable/^

There was a roar of laughter among the crowd,
when cabby made this magnanimous offer.

He'd be dear at five shillings," said one.

Well, his hide is worth a couple ov bobs mores
observed another.

"Split the difference," cried a third ironically,
^^an^ let the gentleman have him for two pound
tin.^^

ni never break your word, for you're a decent
man by all appearances said the cabman, who knew
well that the poor creature should be destroyed, and
consequently was worth nothing but the price of his
hide. "Til take two pound tin for him, though
be the virtue ov my oath he's worth double that, if
the bargain was to be betune two brothers."

Without another word Hyacinth took out his purse
and paid the fellow, who though he affected to
grumble, was secretly delighted to get so well out
of a business, that but a few moments previously
had promised nothing better than making his
appearance at the nearest police-station, and the
infliction of a fine in punishment of a gross case of
cruelty to animals. Dillon having paid the money,
desired Pat to lead away the poor old horse to the

livery stables adjoining the hotel at which he was
staying. Slowly and painfully the poor worn-out,
ill-used creature limped off on three legs his flanks
and shoulders covered with bruises and sores, his
bones protruding from the skin, and the long, lean
head hanging down. It was a miserable sight, and
Dillon's heart sickened as he gazed at it !

He went back to his hotel, and in a short time
Pat Flanagan made his appearance.

Master Hy'cinth, have you that pistol that
you had out in California, at all convenient ? Becase
if you have, I want it."

'^ You are going to shoot poor old Tearaway, I
suppose ? ^^

Sure enough, sir. I think every minnie a
year till I put him out ov his misery.''^

Hyacinth went to a table where a brace of revolvers
lay in a case. He took out one of them, and after
seeing that it was loaded, put it into Pat's hand.

'^ "tis little I thought want ov a time that so
hard a piece ov work was before me. But it must
be done, an' no hand would do it as quickly or
kindly as my own''

With the revolver in his hand, he returned to
the stable with a heavy heart, and a set, stern face as
if to nerve himself for the hard task he had to do.

VOL. HI. Q

It was dinner-hour, and all the men had left the
stables, which now contained no living creature
but a few horses in their stalls. Pat at once
went to that in which he had left his old dumb
friend but a few minutes before, and laying the
revolver on the ground, put his hand gently 'on the
animal's shoulder, and with his heart beating hurriedly,
and his eyes full of tears, spoke to him as he had
been accustomed to do in the old times. With the
sagacity and tenacious memory of his race, the horse
recognised the kind voice and affectionate caress,
and with a low faint whinny, laid his head on Pat's
shoulder in the old fashion. This broke down the
man's firmness completely, and throwing his arms
round Tearaway's neck, he burst into a perfect
tempest of sobs.

*' Ah, Tearaway, my poor fellow ! '^ he cried,
^'^tis little I thought that it's this way we'd meet
again, an' that 'tis this way we'd be martin' wan
another at the last. But oh, coppul machree!^ it
would be only poor friendship that would lave you
to drag on in the way that you're in now. Many's
the time I seen the poor ould gentleman on your
back, an' it was himself sure that was proud ov you,

^ Coppul macliree ! — Horse of my heart !

an thought that there wasn't your acquits in the
three baronies ; an' he wasn't far out in that same.
Many's the cousin' gallop yourself an' myself had
on the sly, whin the company wor takin' their wine
in the parlour ov an evening an' I knew I wouldn't
be wanted until it was late. Och marine ! them
wor the happy days for both ov us, though we saw
hard days since then, both you an' me. But sure
I have wan comfort now, my poor fellow, an' that's
that no wan will ever again kick you, or flog the poor
ould heart out ov you wit his heavy whip. Oh,
Tearaway ! ould friend an' comrade ! I often groomed
an' fed you wit my own hand, an' now, former ! 'tis
wit that same hand I must take your life ! "

Once more he wept passionately, and pressed
his lips long and lovingly on the animal's forehead
and eyes. Then, once more bracing himself up for
the final effort, he took up the revolver, put the
muzzle to the horse's ear, and fired, with such true
aim and steady hand that the creature must have
been actually dead before he fell to the ground.

Thank goodness, 'tis over ! " he gasped, with
a honor-drawn breath of relief. "I was in thread
that I couldn't bring myself to do it ; an' if it
had to be done over again, I'm sure my courage
would fail me. We wor ould comrades, poor Tears

2

away an myself, an we wor fond ov wan another.
He had as much nature as any Christhen, an more
than many a wan ov 'em has. Aye, in troth. But
sure, where is the use ov talking' ? It was the
hardest job that was ever put on me, an I wouldn't
do it over agin^ no, not if Ij'got the estate ov Castle
Cloyne for coin' it ! '^

SYDNEY DACRE.

How sad appears the vale of years.
How changed from life's too fleeting scene ?

Where are her fond admirers gone ?

Alas ! and shall there then be none
On whom her soul may lean ?

Gyntliia^s Grave.

In less than a week Hyacinth Dillon found himself
wandering from one house to another in the streets of
Clapham in search of Alban Villa, at which place the
sister of Harry Dacre was residing, as a governess to
the children of the retired soap-boiler.

The day was oppressively hot, and the air was
actually stifling. The place seemed almost uninhabited
for he met very few people in the streets,
and the blinds of all the houses were drawn down,
which led him to think that the inhabitants — or at
least all of them that could afford it — were absent at

the watering-places scattered along the coast. He
went patiently up one street, and down another, in
search of Alban Villa, but could not find any villa o£
that name. Thinking that he must have made some
mistake, he looked at his pocket-book, and the name
was written on the back of poor Dacre^s little parcel
in very clear and legible calligraphy. So he continued
his search, determined not to spare either time or
trouble in obeying the last wishes of the ill-fated
youth who had died under his roof, and in his
service.

At last when quite weary of trudging up and
down,, he turned up what seemed to be a by-street,
but was in reality a cul de sac, having no outlet but
that by which he had entered it. When he came to
the end/he found a ponderous iron gate, on the middle
of which was a brass plate with " Alban Villa " engraved
on it. He looked through the gate, and saw
at a few yards' distance a square white house of two
stories in height, and so surrounded by trees, that any
view of the road outside was quite impossible.

Hyacinth rang a bell that was attached to the
gate, and after a delay that he thought interminable,
an untidy-looking, slip-shod girl appeared in answer
to his summons.

Is it here Miss Dacre lives ? " asked Dillon.

Yes, sir, but the f amply isn't at 'one at present ;
they are gone to Margate."

Is Miss Dacre gone also to Margate ? '^

Law ! no, sir," she replied, apparently not including
the governess among the family. ^' She is
within, and in the school-room, all alone''

'^ Will you take her that card, if you please, and
say that I wish to see her on very particular business,"
and with his card, he put a shilling into her hand.
The effect of the small offering was magical, for she
opened the gate at once, with a broad grin on her
face, and led the way into the house. Showing him
into a sitting-room at one side of the hall, and raising
the window-blinds, so that some light was admitted
into the dingy apartment, she went off to Miss Dacre
with his message.

He sat down on a hard horse-hair sofa, and looked
about him, while the silence was broken only by the
ticking of a bronze timepiece that was on the mantelshelf.
The furniture, though not actually shabby,
was very old-fashioned, and of that substantial kind
that people buy who always sacrifice the dulce to the
iitile. It might as well have been the sitting-room
of a lodging-house, as that of a private family, for
any attempt that had ever been made to give it a
cheerful or habitable appearance. No newspapers

or books were to be seen; no woman's needlework
was lying about ; no indication whatever that the
people who inhabited that house, and spent ten
months out of every year there, possessed one ray
of refinement, or one trace of gentle breeding, or
intelligent culture.

^' And this gloomy, sordid place is the home of
Miss Dacre ! ^^ he said to himself with a shudder;
of the girl who was brought up at * The Elms,' and
the owner of ten thousand pounds ! How can she
live in such a place, or find companionship with the
people who live there, with whom she can have no
earthly sympathy ? ^'

The door opened while these and similar thoughts
were passing through his mind, and a young lady,
dressed in deep but very plain mourning, came into
the room. He at once knew her to be Harry Dacre's
sister, from her resemblance to him — a resemblance,
too, all the more striking, as she seemed to be indelicate
health. She was pale and thin, and might
have been handsome but for the delicacy of her
appearance, and the look of settled melancholy which
seemed to be the habitual expression of her countenance.


He rose on her entrance, and placed a chair for
her.

I am Miss Dacre," she said, in a low, sweet voice,
and with a pretty English accent that was rather
new to him. " The servant told me that a gentleman
wished to see me on particular business'

"Even if you had not told me you were Miss
Dacre, I should have known you, madam, from
your great likeness to your brothers' replied Hyacinth.

Did you know my poor brother, sir ? " she asked,
while a red flush mounted to her pale face.

"Yes, madam; and it is by his desire, and incompliance
with his last wishes, that I have the
honour of calling on you to-days'

She made no reply, and he saw that she was
trying to master her emotion. She thought he
was one of the false friends that had led on her
unfortunate brother to his ruin and death.

It was only a short time before his death that
I had the privilege of making his acquaintance,"
he went on, divining her thoughts ; " I never knew
him while he was prosperous and happy''

'^ Pardon me, sir, for doing you an injustice, even
in thought; but you will allow that it was natural,
under the circumstances. But I cannot think with
any patience of those to whom the poor boy owed
his destruction, nor would I willingly hold the slightest
intercourse with any of them, if I could help it."

^^Praj say no more, Miss Dacre; I understand
your feeling, and fully sympathise in it. It was in
America I knew your brother, 'and when he died,
I was kneeling beside him, and holding his hand
in my own."

^^I fear, sir, that there is a great mistake somewhere.
My dear brother was never in America. He
sailed for Australia in the Celeste, which was lost
at sea, and all on board, with a very few exceptions,
were lost also. Therefore it could not have been
my brother whom you met in America."

'^ It was your brother. Miss Dacre. He was not
lost in the Celeste, for the simple reason that he
never went to sea in her at all. He missed that
ship in consequence of having met with an accident,
and then changed his mind as to his destination,
going to America in another ship, in which I was
also a passenger. We went to the gold-fields when
we landed, and it was there he died.^^

I do not quite understands she said in a bewildered
way, while the flush faded out of her face,
leaving it of a ghastly paleness. He took the little
parcel that Harry had given him from the breast-pocket
of his coat, and laid it on the table before
her.

These are the few trifles that remained to your

poor brother out of the wreck of his fortune and
before he died he requested me to take charge of them,
and deliver them to you with my own hand, when I
should have returned to England's

She tried to open the parcel, but her hands
trembled so much that she was quite unable to do
so. He took it from her silently, and with his penknife
cut the cords and wrapping's that enveloped
a little box, containing a watch and chain, a set
of handsome shirt-studs, and a letter. That was
all, but still enough, for at the first glance she
recognised those things as having been the property
of her brother. The studs she had given him herself,
as a birthday present, and the watch had the Dacre
crest engraved on it. The sight of those things
was too much for the poor girl, and broke down all
the proud reserve which, since her great change of
fortune, she had wrapped round her like a garment.
A flood of old tender memories rushed upon her
souL She thought no more of Harry's crime, or of his
shame ; of the frightful poverty to which she had
been condemned by his reckless misconduct. She
only remembered that they were the children of the
same mother, that they had been young together,
and that he had thought of her and loved her to
the last. She bent her head down on the table.

and cried over the trinkets as if lier heart would
break.

Hyacinth rose, and walked to the window, where
he stood with his back to her, until she had fairly
exhausted herself, and could cry no more. Then
he went back to his seat without noticing her emotion,
and also to give her time in which to recover a
little, and began telling her all about her brother,
as Harry had told it to himself. How he had taken
passage for Australia in the Celeste ; how, when he
had recovered from the accident that had prevented
him from sailing in her, and heard that she and
almost all on board of her had been lost at sea,
the idea came into his mind of letting his sister
and everyone else believe that he had gone down
in her with the rest; that to strengthen that belief
he had assumed a false name, which he had borne
up to the time of his death. He told her of how
he had imperceptibly been drawn towards the refined,
delicate-looking youth who was so sad and reserved ;
of how, when he got the fever, he had brought
him to his own tent, where he had died. The only
thing he concealed from her, was the manner of her
brother's death. She took it for granted that he
had died of the fever, and Dillon thought it would
be great and unnecessary cruelty to undeceive her.

She heard him silently to the end, and when he had
nothing more to tell her, she said :

I thank God, Mr. Dillon, for what you have been
so kind as to come to tell me about my poor brother,
for it has taken a great weight from off my heart. I
know that my poor Harry is as surely dead as if he
had gone down in the Celeste ; but he died with a
friend beside him, and kind hands gave his remains
Christian burial. Oh, Mr. Dillon ! it is a great comfort
to me to know this ; to be able to put the horror
of that fearful shipwreck out of my mind at last, for
it weighed me down like a horrible nightmare. I
have no words in which to thank you for your great
kindness to my unfortunate brother ; but I do not
feel it the less, though I cannot give fitting expression
to it.^^

'' Pray do not make so much of very trifling
services. I was very glad indeed to have him with
me; for the people there were a rough lot, and I
could find no companionship with any of them. But
with him it was so different, that it placed the
obligation on my side altogether. To converse with
him was my only recreation in that uncivilised place,
and gave me something to think of now and then,
besides gold-digging; something better and purer.
r dare say, that but for his companionship, it would

have made me as great a savage as most of those
men who were at she gold-fields. We were all a
very queer lot out there, Miss Dacre/^ he said with a
smile.

She had never seen this man, nor heard of his
existence till that day, and now — not a little to her
own surprise — she found herself conversing with
him in as easy and familiar a manner, as if she
had known him for many years. His gentleness
and sympathy had put her quickly at her ease,
and added to that, he was the friend of her poor,
unhappy brother, and had come to her with a message
from his death-bed.

Hyacinth would have gladly prolonged his
interview with the poor, solitary girl, but he felt
that it would be a great intrusion. His acquaintance
with her was too slight, and of too recent a date,
to permit him to take so great a liberty, and with
reluctance he rose to go away.

"I am now going abroad for some times he
said, "but on my return will have the honour of
calling on you again, on my way through London,
if you will allow me."

I shall be much pleased to see you, Mr. Dillon,
then, and at any other time that it may suit you to
call," she replied with a faint smile. 'show could

I be other than glad to see my poor Harry's kind
friend ? ''

She gave him her hand with a simple frankness
that was very engaging. As he felt how thin was
that hand, and how frail and delicate she looked, and
thought how very unlikely it was that she would ever
be any better in the uncongenial, sordid atmosphere
of Alban Villa, and weighted by the never-ending
drudgery of her daily life, his very heart ached for
the solitary, desolate girl.

'^ By the way," he said suddenly, when he had
reached the door, as if he had remembered something
forgotten until then, ^^ one part of my message, and
not the least important, I have yet to give you. I
am surely the most absent-minded fellow in the
world, and this very awkward peculiarity of mine
has tried the patience of my friends on many
occasions. Poor Harry had got together a little
gold at the diggings, which he gave me to have
converted into money for you. It was little better
than gold-dust, and only realised fifty pounds, but it
was all he had to send.-'^

He took five English bank-notes for ten pounds
each from his pocket-book, and laid them on the
table before her, with as business-like an air as if
the whole transaction was a truth, and not a pure

invention of his own, concocted on the spur of the
moment. It was a pious fraud on this part as the
reader need hardly be told, for poor Harry had not
given him anything for his sister, but the little parcel
and its contents.

But his funeral expenses should be deducted out
of thisbe she said, quite unconscious of the trick he
was playing on her.

His funeral expenses were very trifling, I assure
you, Miss Dacre ; for things of that sort are done at
the gold-fields in a very primitive and inexpensive
fashion. Poor Harry was laid in his place with all
love and reverence ; but, beyond a coflB.n, and simple
head-stone to mark the spot where he lies, there
was no expense, and what they cost was a mere
trifle, which I am sure you will not offend me by
alluding to."

Her eyes again filled, and he turned away, and
left her without another word ; left her to spend the
rest of that bright summer day with her own bitter
and sorrowful memories; to bear the keen smart of
a freshly-opened wound without one kind word or
sympathetic look, that would help to lighten her
pain, or get through the weary monotony of the long
hours spent in that cheerless place. She had said
nothing that could be construed into a complaint

of lier surroundings, or associations; although, they
must have been intolerably galling to such as she
was ; nor of her duties, though they must have been
very irksome to one of her delicate, weak health.
The woman who had unhesitatingly surrendered ten
thousand pounds to save her brother from the horror
of a public trial for forgery, and the honour of her
family from disgrace, could not condescend to be
irritated by minor vexations. But though she did
her best to ignore them, they still must have pressed
heavily on her, taking all the joy out of her young
life, the light from her eyes, and sapping with slow
but sure hand the foundations of her health and
strength. What chance was there — in that gloomy,
dismal house — of regaining her health, and that
gladness and elasticity of spirit that is always its
accompaniment, at least with the young? These
were all questions that passed through Hyacinth's
brain as he walked on towards the railway-station, but
for which he could find no answer. It was a perplexing
labyrinth in which he found himself suddenly
involved, and whatever way he looked at it, he saw noway
by which he could get out of it satisfactorily,
as far as regarded Miss Dacre, or as it regarded
himself.

VOL. III. a

A YEAR OF WANDERING.

The quiet lake, the balmy air,
The hill, the stream, the tower, the tree.
Are they still such as once they were,
Or is the dreary change in me ?

Sir Walter Scott.

Hyacinth Dillon and his man Pat Flanagan proceeded
with as little delay as possible from London to that
most charming and seductive Circe of modern cities,
the pleasure-loving and pleasure-giving Paris ! They
arrived there not long after the establishment of the
Second Empire, and when Napoleon III. had the
good fortune to win for his bride one of the most
beautiful women in the world, as she was without
doubt one of the most virtuous and amiable. Paris
was then at its gayest and brightest, full of joy that
was never-ending, and yet always was fresh and new ;
Paris the Happy ! Paris the Beautiful !

Hyacinth lead letters of introduction to several
families holding a good position in Parisian society,
and by that means was enabled to see a good deal of
the inner life of the gay city. He was also careful to
get himself presented at Court by the British Ambassador,
and consequently was a sharer in much of
the amusement and courteous attention that the
Emperor made it a rule to snow to all the subjects
of the Queen of England, who presented themselves
to him properly accredited. There were also many of
the descendants of the men who had composed the
famous Irish Brigade living in Paris, who recognised
in him a member of the family of that Dillon who
led the regiment he had himself raised into action on
the banks of the Boyne ; of that other Dillon who
had died at Fontenoy, and many another Dillon
besides, who were hardly less renowned in the annals
of the Continental wars of the seventeenth century.
All who had ever heard, or read of them, as well as
their descendants, now came forward to welcome
Hyacinth with the true courtesy of their French birth
and breeding, joined to the warmth of the old Celtic
blood, that neither lapse of time, nor long naturalisation
in a foreign land, could wholly eradicate.

It is not therefore a matter of surprise, that under
such favourable conditions, Dillon made a much

E 2

longer stay in Paris than lie lead originally intended.
He lead arrived there late in the summer, when all
who were worth knowing were either at their
country chateaux or at the sea-coast, but though
he was told that Paris was nearly empty, he found
unfailing amusement in strolling along the boulevards,
and visiting the theatres and fine art galleries.
The return of the cold weather was sufficient to
bring back the birds of passage to their old quarters,
and Paris the Beautiful was her own joyous self again.
In the perpetual whirl of her amusements, in the
exuberance of her delight, and the intensity of her
vanity and self-conceit, in that time when 'the
Empire was peace,'^ it was not possible for her to
imagine that the time would come — and that before
a second decade was over — when her fierce enemies
should surround her walls, and thunder at her gates j
when her children should cry out for bread, and get
hard bullets in return, and totter rather than walk
through her streets, pale and weak from famine;
when her bravest and best should be slain in her
defence, and when she should be no longer called
Paris the Beautiful, but '' Paris Infelix ^^ ! But then
no prophetic Cassandra went crying through her
streets, warning her of the wrath to come; no
Daniel whose inspired eyes were able to read the

handwriting on the wall, that in less than a score
of years was to be made manifest to all the world.

Fresh as he was from the rough life and rude
manners of the gold-fields of California, Dillon entered,
with all the eagerness and zest of a young man as yet
not spoiled by satiety, and blessed with rude health,
into many of the pleasures that so abound in Paris,
that the difficulty is to make a choice among them.
But it must not be supposed from this, that he had
forgotten that all the friends of his youth were lost
to him for ever. He often thought of his indulgent,
white-haired father, of his gentle sister, and of the
good old man whose kind face was the last he had
seen when he sailed for America, and who was waving
his hat in farewell to him until he was lost in the
distance. He forgot none ; but remembered each
and all with a tender, reverent regret, that had in it
no touch of bitterness. All was well with them now.
They were resting peacefully, free from all care and
sorrow, and they had gone down to their place
blameless, and without reproach. No invidious or
hostile tongue had ever dared to whisper a word
derogating from the stainless honour of their lives,
and for the loss of such as these sorrow will not
refuse to be comforted.

When the second winter came round again,

Hyacinth began to think that he had given more
time to Paris, and "the cup of her enchantments
than he had originally meant to do, and that there
were many other places well worth a visit, which it
would be well to see before he should once more
turn his face homewards. He was for a long time
undecided as to where he should go next, but as the
winter promised already to be an exceptionally severe
one, he decided on going to some part of that sunny
shore of the Mediterranean Sea that is now known
as the Riviera. No sooner did this idea enter his
mind, than he hastened to put it into execution. Ina
pleasant nook, that commanded a lovely view of
the divinest of seas, he pitched his tent, and settled
down for the winter months. After the incessant
activity and variety of Paris, he found a very agreeable
change in the dolce far niente of that soft
Southern land, with its freedom from care, and delicious
climate. There was for him a novelty in the
country and its people that was very charming, and
in a short time, owing to his knowledge of Latin, he
learned not only to understand the language, but even
to speak it with tolerable fluency.

But every medal has its reverse. It was sad to
see, as the winter advanced, the great number of
weak, ailing people, who came crowding into the

country in search of the health that was denied
them in the severe climate of their northern homes.
Some of them came hoping to recover their health
completely in the pure, genial air, while others came?
merely to prolong for a few months, or even weeks, a
life, whose sands had run so low that the end could
be only a question of time. Hyacinth felt almost
ashamed of his own great strength and vigorous
health, as if it were an insult to those afflicted ones
to meet him day after day, wondering what it was
that had brought him there. The sight of those
people often made him think of the pale, 
girl — poor Harry Dacre^s sister —
who was all that time dragging out a weary existence
in the dingy, unsympathetic atmosphere of the soap-boilers
house, in the cul de sac at Clapham.

He was surprised to find that wherever he went,
the remembrance of those unfortunate Dacres
haunted him with a persistence, that neither the
excitement of travel, nor the novelty of new scenes
and faces, could wholly erase from his mind. Two
years before he had never seen or heard of them, and
now they had obtained such a hold on his imagination,
that the very slightest circumstance always served to
remind him of them. There was something so sad in
their history, although he was sure that it was one

common enough in the world, that attracted him,
especially as he had been mixed up in it himself, in
no slight degree. He often thought of the poor dead
youth, whose head had been as weak and foolish, as
his heart had been affectionate and true ; whose career
might have been so different, and whose fate less
ignoble, had he selected his associates with more care,
or been under the control of some firm, judicious
hand. It was a common case, but that did not make
it a whit the less painful or deplorable. But as for
poor Harry, the fever of his life was over ; so were
his agonies of self-reproach and shame, his horror of
the irrevocable past, and vain yearnings for a bright
and peaceful future that could never again exist on
earth for him. Nothing more could be done for
Harry; he had sinned, had paid his full penalty of
suffering, and was at rest.

But it was not so calmly that Hyacinth thought
of the poor girl who had suffered, and was still
suffering, although she had not sinned. The image
of Sydney Dacre far away in England, and patiently
bearing her triple burden of poverty, sorrow, and
ill-health, was always before him. All the joyous,
pleasant surroundings of his daily life could not
suffice to make him forgetful of her pale face, her
sad, wistful eyes, her drooping figure, that seemed

bending towards the grave. Even if lie were inclined
to forget lier , the place in which tie was, filled
with invalids from every land, would prevent it
effectually. And all his meditations on the subject
ended always by asking himself the question : " Why
should Miss Dacre be dying at Clapham, when a
winter spent in the Elvira would give her health
and life ? Ah ! why indeed ? '^

Dillon pondered over this abstruse problem until
it became the dominant idea of his life. Caroline
Wilson, her beauty, her grace, the passionate love
he had once felt for her, and the pain her inconstancy
had inflicted on him, were all now forgotten.
Miss Dacre was so very poor that she was obliged to
earn her own bread. She had no pretensions whatever
to the imperial beauty of his first love ; she had
nothing to recommend her but her gentle birth, her
patient meekness, and the proud self-respect that
had preferred poverty to dishonour. It so happened,
however, that it was of her, and not of Caroline,
that he thought in those days ; of the poor solitary,
delicate governess, and not of the rich fair woman,
whose love had been a sham, and whose hand the
prize of the highest bidder.

From constantly dwelling on this and similar
thoughts, Dillon became impatient and restless. He

ceased to take any pleasure in she great natural
beauty that was so profusely spread around him, orin
the companionship of the gay and glad-hearted
people of the country, that had previously afforded
him so much delight.

I am thinking of leaving this place' he said one
day, to his faithful adherent, Pat Flanagan.

That's no news to me, sirs' replied Pat. " I
knew that for some times

Knew it ! How on earth could you know it ? "

"Begot, I could hardly tell you that; but I did
know it all the same. You wor lookin' mighty quare
of late, just as if you neither lost nor won, an didn't
care a thrawneen for any diversion in life. An' see
here, Master Hy'cinth, I med up my mind to talk
to you on the head ov it, only that you're after
drawn' it down yourself to me. Yeh, 'tis no admiration
in life that you'd be sick ov the place, an'
ov the outlandish people that lives in it, wit their
quare ways, an' curious lingo, that has neither sense
nor main' in it."

Italian is a most beautiful and musical language,
Pat, as you would admit if you understood it."

"Why thin, sir, without main' any offence at all
to you, I'm very glad that I don't. I lave it, an'

the likes ov it to the quality, for I'm no great
shakes ov a scholar, an' I'm in dread Til never
be wan now as I didn't take very kindly to the
larnin' when I was young."

"Well, at any rate, I see that you have no
objection we should be moving homewards' said
Dillon, laughing.

Objection is it ? Oh, tare an' 'noun's ! Wouldn't
I be the proud an' happy boy this day, to find
myself rowlin' into Castle Cloyne on the side ov the
ould mail car, or latin' my share ov a dish ov smoking'
hot murphies, austin' out ov their skins, an' laffin'
wit rale delight to see me out foment 'em, all the
same as if they wor saying', spat, my fine fella,
you're heartily welcome home.' Verra, lay me
alone, Master Hy'cinth ! Be this book," and he
gave a sounding smack to the back of his thumb,
*' I never got a male ov vittles fit for a decent man
to ate, since ever we came to this outlandish
country ! "

"It is quite evident that you feel no regret in
leaving it. We shall start, then, tomorrow, so you
may as well set about packing up, while I go off
to reckon with our landlord, and pay him his
bill."

'' Never say the word again, sir. An' I hope an'
pray that we'll never see this curse o' God place
again, nor the sky over it."

"Don't be too sure of that' said Hyacinth
Dillon, with a smile.

HYACINTH AGAIN VISITS MISS Dace.

I can see thee wasting,
Sick for thy native air.

L. E. L.

When our travellers landed in England, Pat's homesickness
had become so great, that Hyacinth, sent him
off to Castle Cloyne for a short time, promising to let
him know when he had decided on his next move.
He had not by any means settled on his future plans ;
indeed, he was very much at a loss himself to know
what they were, or if even he had any plans at all.
It would all depend, he said to himself, on the visit he
should pay Miss Dacre, and the reception she might
give him. On that point, however, there was much
more of hope than of fear. Why should she not
receive him well ? He had been her brother's friend,
and he would be hers too, if she would only let him
be such.

Very soon after landing in England, Hyacinth
found himself ringing the bell at the gate of Alban
Villa, and his summons was answered by the very
same untidy-looking girl, who had appeared to him
on his first visit.

Is Miss Dacre at home ? ^^

"Noa, she's gone, and we have another young
woman in her place'

"Has she been long gone''

"Well, it be a matter of three months or soit
may be nigher to four, now that I think of
it."

Why did she go ? "

^^ She was very sick, and twining away for a longtime.
She looked just orful, and Missus said as she
weren't no longer able to do her booty; leastways
she weren't strong enough to manage the children ,
which they were that torment, that they were enough
to dorrit a Samson, not to speak of a pore young
lady, that could hardly stand on her feet, she was
that weak and hill. And I'll say this for Miss
Dacre, she were a lady that never grumbled, nor
made no complaints, nor gave no trouble to a pore
servant; and she tried hard to do her booty by
them inherent children, as long as she could."

Here was a blow ! He had been learning to

love this poor forlorn girl, whom lie had never seen
but once, and that a year ago; had been longing
to gather her tenderly to his heart, for they were
both of them alone on earth, and he had come all
the way from Italy, only to hear that he had come
too late ! He put a crown piece into the girl's
hand.

^' I am a friend of Miss Dacre^s,^' he said, ^' almost
the only one she has in the world. Could you tell me,
my good girl, where I am likely to find her ? "

The woman's face brightened up at the touch
of the coin, and though up to this point she had
been perfectly civil, which was probably due to
her recollection of the former "tip,"*^ she now became
quite friendly and demonstrative.

If you walk on a little to the right, sir, you
will come on some small cottages, which the name
is Prospect Row. In the first of them Miss Dacre
lodges; leastways, she lodged there a month ago.
She may have gone away since then, but if she did,
they may know where she is gone — that is, supposing'
she isn't dead, as like enough she is, pore creeper !
The first cottage, sir, mind ; it has a green hall-door.''^

Thus directed, Dillon went on to Prospect Row,
which consisted of a few cottages, looking out on
no prospect whatever more attractive than the dusty

street. He stopped at No. 1, with the green hall-door,
a sraall, poor cottage, but neat and tidy-looking,
as English cottages generally are. It belonged to
very humble people, who lived themselves in the
basement story, and let out that above it to lodgers.
The mistress of the house, a decent-looking elderly
woman, opened the door, and, in reply to his inquiry,
told him that Miss Dacre was at home, and sitting
up in the parlour. As the parlour was separated from
the hall only by a very thin partition, every word that
was said in one place must have been quite audible
in the other. Dillon gave the woman his card to
take in to Miss Dacre, and desired her to ask that
lady if she would see him. She returned almost
immediately, and opening the parlour door, said Miss
Dacre would be very glad to receive him.

The parlour into which he was shown, was a very
small room, scantily furnished, and in a tiny grate
were a few coals, the very ghost of a fire it was.
But he saw neither the mean, shabby room, nor the
poor furniture, nor the wretched fire ; he only saw
Miss Dacre lying on a hard horsehair-covered sofa,
which, though drawn close to the window, yet took up
half the space of the little room.

She sat up when he came in, and extended both
her hands, while a look of glad surprise lighted up

Aber face. But it soon passed away, and then he
saw how very ill she was, and how sadly altered since
the first time he had seen her. Over the hollow
temples the blue veins wandered in a network that
was only too apparent, while the thin, waxen hands
she held out to him were almost transparent. She
seemed so ill, so frail, and withal so poor and desolate,
that his whole soul was stirred with inexpressible
compassion.

'this is really kinds she said; "and I am very
grateful to you for this visit."

I was in the neighbourhood, and could not think
of leaving it without inquiring for you,''^ he answered,
in a dry, matter-of-fact way, just as if he had not
come all the way from the shores of the Mediterranean
for the very purpose of seeing her.

Yes ? It was fortunate, too, that I was sitting
up, for I am often troubled with a cough, and take
an invalid's privilege of having my breakfast in bed,
when I have had a worse night than usual.'^

'^ I fear. Miss Dacre, that the confined air of this
small room is not suitable for an invalids

She made no reply, but shrugged her shoulders
slightly, which gesture might mean anything, or
nothing. It might have been intended to show
that she acquiesced in his opinion, and at the same

VOL. III. s

time intimating that the matter did not admit of a
remedy.

"I think we could manage to get more suitable
rooms for you in Clapham," he observed, charger,
and more airy and cheerful. You know, as poor
Harry's friend, I must claim the privilege of being
of some use to you'

You are very good. But the place is not
uncomfortable, I assure you though I must confess
it is small''

^^ Pardon me, my dear Miss Dacre, for taking the
liberty of dictating to you, but you must have
better air than that of these rooms. I shall be
detained here for some days on particular business,
and it would be a great amusement to me to look
about, and try to get rooms more fit for an invalid,
if you would honour me by accepting such trifling
service."

Oh ! it does very well, and suits me in many
ways. The people of the house are very civil and
quiet, and that is a great deal. My landlady herself
is a motherly, kind woman, and her care and attention
go far in reconciling me to many things that are
not all that I could wish. I might be much worse
situated than I am here, I assure you."

'^ I see that I must take Harry's place with you.

my dear Miss Dacre, and act as lie would have done'
said Dillon, in a voice that was half playful, and
wholly in earnest. ^^ I must see about more suitable
lodgings for you, and a nurse and a carriage and "

She interrupted him with a pleasant laugh.

'the very thought of all those fine things is
enough to make me well again ; but you forget, Mr.
Dillon, that I am poor, and that I cannot afford such
luxuries. But for my poor brothers fifty pounds,
I could not pay for even this cosy little room, that
you despise so muche''

How glad he was now, that he had thought of
giving her that fifty pounds, and pretended that
it was poor Harry's last gift to her !

I hope you have had a pleasant time while you
were abroad' she said, as if to change the subject.

"Yes. I enjoyed Paris immensely. It is a
wonderful city, full of fife and sunshine. I went from
Paris to the Elvira, which was also very pleasant,
though of course in a different way altogether." And
then he began giving her a lively description of everything
that had amused and interested him while he
had been abroad, partly, to give himself an excuse
for staying with her, and partly, because it seemed
to please her.

I was in Paris for some weeks at one time," shes

2

said ; '' my uncle brought me there, and when we left
it we went on to Rome. I was much pleased with
Rome, for we were there during the Carnival and
everything was so strange to me, and so unlike
anything that I had imagined. I was very sorry when
we had to come home to bleak Northumberland again,
and leave the sunny South behind us.'^

After a little more of this kind of conversation,
he felt that he had trespassed too long, and rose
to go away.

I am really very grateful to you for this visits'
she said ; " it has been a great pleasure to me to see
poor Harry's friend once mores

Then I hope you will allow me to repeat my visit
on tomorrow. I am obliged, as I told you, to remain
for a short time at Clapham, and as I have no friend
or acquaintance here but yourself, I will consider ita
great privilege indeed if you would permit me to
come to see you during the idle hour that I have
every day at my own disposal.^^

'^ I shall be very much pleased to see you for poor
Harry's sake, and for your own sake too,'^ she added,
with all the naivete of a guileless, innocent heart.

He thanked her, and went away. All the rest of
the day he spent in wandering through the streets of
Clapham, full of love and pity for the poor desolate

girl who in all the earth had no friend but himself.
When first he saw her, he had pitied her with that sort
of pity we feel for a dumb creature wounded beyond
hope of cure ; but now he loved her with the unselfish
love that is born of that pity, and is its noblest outcome.
He felt that for him there was but one woman
in all the world, and that was the one so sorely stricken ;
stricken, it might be, unto death, if some speedy way
of saving her was not resorted to. He was her only
friend, and yet what could he do for her ? He was
rich, and what better use could he make of his money,
than to take her out of the grime and penury of her
present abode, to the bright, sunny land he had left
behind, where alone she could get a fair chance for
health and life, if indeed there remained for her even
a chance ? But it was only as his wife that he could
bring her there, or that she could go. For himself, he
asked no happier lot than to have the right to transport
this poor drooping flower to a brighter sky, and
a more genial clime ; to watch over her, and win her
back to health, and by the devotion of his life to
make her some atonement for all that she had
suffered.

If this poor girl had a mother, or sister, or even an
old servant, any one other than a stranger, who would
take care of her in her illness and loneliness, not for

money but for love lier case would not be so hard.
But lie was quite alone, with no mother's heart to
lean on, and no hand save that of a hireling to
minister to her in this her day of sorest need. The
paupers who lived in alms-houses, and ate the bread
of charity, were better cared for than this poor
gentlewoman, who was long-descended, and had been
tenderly bred !

Again, what could he do ? He asked himself this
question over and over, as he paced the streets hour
after hour in feverish restlessness. He could not
presume to offer her pecuniary assistance, for he was
neither kith nor kin, and even if he were bold enough
to do so, he made quite sure that his offer would be
rejected by her promptly and decidedly. And in the
meantime she was slowly dying, and though the means
of giving her health and life were in his hands, he
should stand aside, and let things take their course.
It was murder, he said to himself, merciless, downright
murder, and that murder would lie at his door for ever
and ever !

He went again next day to see Miss Dacre, and
many days after that he went also, still pretending
that he was detained in Clapham by indispensable
business. Whether it was only fancy, or because it
was really the case, he thought every time he saw hers

that lie was worse than lie had been on the day
before. She did not complain; on the contrary, she
brightened up when he came, and declared that his
visits roused her, and gave her something to think of
besides her own ailments. Each time that he came, he
remained longer with her, and every day she became
more dear and precious to the heart of the solitary
man.

However, this state of things became after a
little time intolerable to him, and he resolved to
end it, in one way or another. He went to London
and brought back with him a physician, who was
celebrated for his successful treatment of diseases
of the lungs. He brought this gentleman to see
Miss Dacre, and introduced him to her as an old
friend of his, who had come to Clapham that day
professionally, and having met him, came at his
desire to pay Miss Dacre a friendly visit. He had
made up this story with the doctor on their way
from the station, and the credulous, innocent girl
believed the fiction to be truth, because it was
told to her with grave faces. This artful young
fellow was now so great an adept in deception, where
she was in question, that it came quite natural to
him, and he managed to make it look so like truth,
that she took the counterfeit for reality.

He waited at the end of she street, until lie saw
the great physician leave the house where Miss
Dacre lived.

'^ Well, doctor," he said, in a voice that he tried
to make appear calm and unconcerned, " what is
your opinion of Miss Dacre? Be candid with me,
I entreat you ! '^

"Certainly I will. The young lady is without
doubt in a very precarious state of health, and
requires great care and constant watchfulness.''^

^' Is she in consumption ? ^^

swell, not exactly in consumption, but she is
rapidly drifting towards it. Her lungs are still
sound, but I cannot answer for how long they may
remain so. At the end of the winter, if I should
see her again, I should in all probability find the
germs of consumption, not only fully developed
in her system, but so far advanced, as to render her
recovery almost hopeless."

Oh, doctor ! is there no help, no remedy ? "

'undoubtedly there is. If she could be removed
to a milder climate than that of England for the
winter and spring, it would give her a chance of
life. I will go even farther, and say that it would go
very far towards effecting a complete recovery."

"You think, then, that it would give her a chance
of regaining her health ? '^

'' Oh, much more than a chance. Her illness, like
a thousand others like it, is owing to a neglected
cold, which was aggravated by want of care. I
fancy, too, that mental trouble of some sort had
previously broken her down. As yet there is nothing
more seriously amiss with her than what a winter
spent in a warm climate — say Egypt, or Cannes, for
instance — will be sufficient to set right."

'' Would any part of the Riviera suit her ? "

You could not have thought of any place more
exactly suited for a person in her state of health."

On hearing this good opinion from the great
oracle. Hyacinth's face expanded into a smile that
lighted it up from chin to brow. The physician
looked at him steadily for a moment, and then indulged
in a low, but very expressive whistle.

^^I have given you my professional opinion, for
which you have paid me," he said with a smile. " I
shall now give you another opinion, for which I shall
not require any fee at all ; and as it is the cheaper of
the two, it is also the more pleasant."

'^ And what is that, doctor ? "

'rit is to marry the young lady, if she will have

you, and take her off at once to Cannes or Mentioned.
Either place will do for her very well. Now, my
dear sir, I must say good-bye ; the train will leave in
another minute, and I am due in London for a most
important consultation in an hour. But take care
that you follow my advice — I mean that for which you
gave me no fee," and the genial physician, laughing
very heartily, shook hands with Dillon, and jumped
into a first-class carriage just as the train began to
move off.

TWO LETTERS, AND WHAT CAME OF THEM.

And the night shall be filled with music,
And the cares that infest the day,

Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
And as silently steal away.

Longfellow.

The next day Hyacinth Dillon wrote two letters.
The first was written in the morning, and was intended
for Miss Dacre, and this he left himself at the
door of her lodgings , with directions to have it given
to her after she had had her breakfast. It was as
follows :

^' My dear Miss Dacre,

My business in Clapham being now concluded,
I have made arrangements for leaving it ina
day or two, and it depends on you, whether I shall
leave it a happy man, or one sorely wounded and

disappointed. In the course of our late intercourse, you
must have seen that I have become deeply attached to
you, and that I regard you with feelings of tenderness
and affection such as I shall never feel for any other
woman. When first I sought you out, it was for
your brother's sake and in fulfilment of the solemn
promise that I made him before his death; but a
warmer and deeper feeling rose out of that visit,
and I learned to love you for your own sake, more
than for his. That love has taken such possession of
my whole being, that I cannot any longer remain
without declaring it to you, and telling you that you,
and you alone, can be the companion of my future
life. I want you, dearest Miss Dacre, and you want
me, for it is only as your husband that I can restore
you to health, or, at least, use my best endeavours
to do so. As your husband only can I take you
out of England to a warmer climate, snatch you
from disease, and win you back again to health.
Give me the right to stand between you and the
world, and to make up to you in some degree for
all that you have lost. Do not reject me, I beseech
you, or send me forth to wander over the earth a
lonely and disappointed man, for, if you say me nay,
no other woman shall ever be my wife.

^^I have not the courage to say all this to you.

for I am a very blundering, matter-of-fact sort of
fellow, and I fear would plead my own cause but
badly in a personal interview. And, besides this,
I think it would not be quite right to take you by
surprise in your present weak health. I shall await
your reply with the utmost anxiety, for upon it will
depend all the sunshine of my future life. If it is
not a favourable one, I shall not pain either you or
myself by asking to see you again. But oh, dear
Miss DacrC; be pitiful, as I am sure it is in your gentle
nature to be, and remember that he who sleeps in
his foreign grave would join our hands together, if
he still lived, for we two were all he loved.

^^H. Dillon'

In a couple of hours the answer to this letter
came. He laid it down on the table before him,
and looked at it for some moments before he had
the courage to open it, not knowing what his
sentence might be. At last he tore it open, and
found that the sheet of note-paper in the envelope
had but one word written on it. That word was
'' Come''

It need hardly be said that he was not slow in
obeying this short but expressive invitation, and went
at once to see his beloved; so soon to be his wife. In

the evening when lie returned, lie wrote another letter
addressed to the parish priest of Castle Cloyne.

My dear Father John,

I hope you don't forget that it was always
an understood thing between you and me, that whenever
I should enter into the holy estate of matrimony,
you and no other priest should perform the ceremony.
The time has now arrived for the fulfilment of your
promise, as I mean to be married as soon as you can
conveniently come to London. Pray forgive me forgiving
you such short notice of this great event ; but
you can well understand that I could tell you nothing
about it until I first knew whether the lady would
accept me or not. The marriage must take place with
as little delay as possible, for my dear girl is not in
very good health, and has been ordered to a warm
climate for the winter. This must be my excuse for begging
you to come to me very soon. I think every dayan
age until I can bring her to the sunny land, wherewith
God^s blessing a new and a happier life is waiting
for her ; so like the good old friend that you have
always been, make no unnecessary delay in coming tous.
You baptised me, dear Father John, and you
know I would hardly think myself rightly and really

married, if any priest but yourself were to tie the
knot.

'' I know you will grumble and growl a great deal
because the future Mrs. Dillon is not an Irishwoman,
but it will be some consolation to you to know that
we are of the same persuasion in religious matters.
Her family, the Dacres of the North, were always
Catholics, and clung to their faith through all the
bitter severities of the penal laws. Tell this news
to Pat Flanagan, for he would think it unkind of
me not to let him know it ; and if he cares to come
and see me turned off, bring him with you. I am
quite sure he will come, for it would not be like Pat
to absent himself on such an occasion. I dare say
he will want to come with us ; and I shall not object
to it this time, as I shall, I am sure, find him very
useful. He was so when we were in Italy before, and
not a little amusing also. I shall meet you at the
Euston Square Terminus on whatever day you appoint,
and meanwhile remain yours affectionately,

"H. Dillon.'^

Father O'Rafferty was not slow in replying to
this letter, and, on the day he named. Hyacinth met
him on the platform when ^' The Wild Irishman,^^ as

the train from Holyhead is called, shot into Euston
Square Station. As Dillon fully expected, the priest
was accompanied by Pat Flanagan, dressed in a brand-new
suit of " broadcloth," in honour of the approaching
wedding, which he imagined was to be on a very
magnificent scale.

When the first greetings were over, Hyacinth said
to Pat, with an arch glance at Father John :

Why, Pat, this is a pleasant surprise. I thought
you hated Italy, its people, and food, and all belonging
to it, so much that you would never consent
to go back there again, on any terms, or under any
circumstances."

*^ Folly on, Master Hy'cinth ; folly on, sir. What
else would I do, but go there when you wor going?
Blood an 'noun's ! did you think you wor to get
married, an myself not to be to the fore ? Faix, that
would be a quare story to have would at the home in
Castle Cloyne ! "

Father O'Rafferty had never been in London
before, and as he had arrived early in the morning.
Hyacinth proposed that when they had breakfasted
at the Railway Hotel, the rest of the day should be
devoted to sight-seeing; a proposal to which the
old man assented with all the eager gladness of a
boy. He had come to the modern Babylon to enjoy

a brief holiday, due to Iii after several years of
mental trouble and bard work of body, and for a
short time to leave care and sorrow behind. They
first went to see the Houses of Parliament, and then
they took boat, and went down the Thames to the
Tower. These and similar other places were more
to the good father's taste than the fashionable parks
or centres of public amusement ; for though he was
only a plain country priest, he was a learned man,
and found much pleasure in visiting those famous
historical landmarks, of which he had read so much,
though he had never seen them until now. However,
when they sat down to dinner at the hotel, he confessed
that both eyes and brain had had quite enough
of sight-seeing for one day, and that he was then
very glad to sit down in quiet, and " take his ease at
his inn."

^' Now, Hyacinth, my boy, tell me all about it," he
said, when they were alone after dinner. '' Tell me
all about this bride of yours, and how you found her
out''

So Hyacinth told him of 'this whole course of
love," beginning with his first meeting with Harry
Dacre on board the ship in which he went to America,
and continuing, until he brought down the story to
the present time.

VOL. III. T

Sydney is not as beautiful as Mrs. Murray was'
he said in conclusion *' but site is good and true, and
worth, a thousand such as Mrs. Murray. She is not
rich, as Caroline was ; but what of that ? Money is
the last thing to be thought of in marriage by any
true man, and I have enough for both. If it pleases
God to restore her to health, I shall esteem myself
one of the most fortunate men in the world's

^^ Oh ! you are as wild about her, I see, as you
were about Caroline Wilson's said the priest slily.
^' You were quite crazy about that girl, man ; you
can't deny it."

*swell, if she gave me the poison, she was good
enough to supply the antidote. I do believe she
really never cared for me, and I was able to read her
true character before it was too late. You were more
clear-sighted about her. Father John, than I was, for
I don't think you ever liked her."

"No, my lad, I never did. That match was
altogether against my advice and judgment, but poor
Terry Macnamara — the Lord be good to him ! —
humbugged your poor father into it. Bat he did
it for the best, poor man, I'll say that for him. She
had a power of money, and the two estates lay
alongside each other very handy. To keep up the
old family, and clear the property from debt, was

what poor Terry was thinking of ; so lie never
pulled bridle until lie lead it all settled, and between
you and him, the old gentleman couldn't hold out.
And see yourself what a house of cards it all turned

"Well, I bear Caroline no malice for having
thrown me over, for as you see, father, I am none
the worse for it. I hope she has nothing in her
new life, that makes her regret the old one.^^

"I hear her bargain is anything but a good one,
and that she is far from being as happy as she
expected to be. Her fine spark of a husband was
up to his eyes in debt when she married him,
and her father was obliged to pay large sums for
him more than once. The last time he paid, he
took his oath on the Bible that he never would
do so again, under any circumstances."

Poor Caroline ! I loved her once very much,"
said the young man, with a sigh.

"Nonsense, man. It was only calf love, and
that's a disease every boy is bound to take, like
the measles, once in his life. I must say that you
had it very badly.^^

Hyacinth laughed, for the humour in the priest's
face was contagious.

"I am sorry to hear poor Caroline's great

marriage has turned out such a bad business.
Evidently she made a great mistake. What is to bethe
end of it ? ''

'the end of it is as clear as that two and two
make four. She will have to come back to her father,
sooner or later, for no decent woman could live with
the fellow, if only half of what is said of him be true ;
and then he will go headlong to destruction in his own
fashion. And you need not have so much pity for
her. She will be comfortable enough at Beech Hill
while her father lives, and at his death she comes in
for all his property, as it is settled on herself, absolutely.
She has the whip-hand of Murray there ; her
father took good care of that, small blame to him for
that same, I says'

In another week, as soon as the necessary formalities
had been arranged with the Catholic bishop
of the diocese, for the proper solemnization of the
marriage, the good old priest had the pleasure of
uniting the son of his old friend to the bride of
his choice. The ceremony took place in the house,
for many reasons. There were no bridesmaids, nora
"best man,^^ nor any witnesses, except the landlady,
Pat Flanagan, and a respectable young woman
that was to go with them in the capacity of lady's-maid.
It was the very quietest of all quiet weddings.

though a very happy one. There were no tears,
for the simple reason that there was no one thereto
shed them. Hyacinth was radiant with happiness,
so was his bride, and the only feeling of regret
they had was that poor Harry Dacre was not there to
share in their gladness.

But there was one person present at the marriage
that was not content, and that was Pat. The extreme
quiet, or, as he expressed it, the great '^ manners ''
of the whole affair, thoroughly disgusted him ; and
he had the satisfaction of giving full expression to
his feelings on the subject, when, after the simple
wedding-breakfast, he walked to the railway-station
with the priest, carrying his portmanteau, a thing
he would not entrust to a porter, lest it should be
considered not respectful enough towards "his
reverences

Oh ! begot, sir, it isn't like a wedding' at all''

I don't agree with you, Pat. I think it was a
very nice quiet wedding."

Faix, it was quiet enough, surely. No wan can
deny that. But still an' all, it wasn't the sort ov
wedding' that his father's son ought to have."

'^ What do you mean by that, Pat ? "

'^ Wish, your reverence knows right well what I
mane. Augh ! 'tis little the ould master — the

heavens be his bed this night ! — would like to see
his only son married in such a hole an corner sort ov
way. If them is the new-fangled ways that's coming
into fashion, I put the back ov my hand an' the sole
ov my fut to 'em. If he could see the kind ov wedding'
we had this blessed an' holy morning', it would make
the poor old gentleman turn round in his coffin, an'
it would be no admiration in life if he did. I never
hard ov a Dillon ov Castle Cloyne married in the way
that I seen the last ov a good ould stock married this
day. There wasn't a bridesmaid, nor a best man to
give him up, unless you call Pat Flanagan wan, for
want ov a better, an' all the company that sat down
to breakfast — if I may call it a wedding' breakfast ; it
was a mighty quare wan, in troth — was their two
selves an' you. Sure, if two beggars wor married by
a common tacJcem, it couldn't be more disrespectable
every way."

It was a very suitable wedding, Pat, when
we take all things into consideration. Mrs. Dillon
was .very delicate, poor thing, and very friendless,
for all her relations are dead. His friends are all
dead, too, or far away at home in Ireland, so a quiet
wedding was what suited them. They are as firmly
married as if the ceremony was performed in the

church of Castle Cloyne, and all the idle ragamuflS.ns
of the parish were shouting after their carriages

"Yeh, good luck to you father, an' don't be
drawn' down such compartments. To be comparing'
Castle Cloyne to this laggard hole ov a place,
an' thin to stand up for a wedding' that a hucksther
at home would be ashamed to have over her little
girl. Och marine ! God be with the fine ould
times ! ''

"There was much, no doubt, that was good in
them, but we must own, there was also much that
was very bad."

Oh ! good or bad, I wish that we had 'em back
again. I remember when ould Mihi, the huntsman
down at the lodge-gate, got his little girl married,
an' that the ould master hard ov it. Fake an' sure,
'twas himself that sint the grand an' the plentiful
wedding' down to 'em — tay, an' sugar, an' loaves ov
bread, an' a ham, an' a fine piece ov roasting' beef.
An' my hand to you, the company wouldn't be dry
no more than hungry, for he sint down two gallons ov
whiskey ; Parliament, no less. I needn't be reminding'
your reverence ov it, for sure it was yourself that
sat at the fut ov the table. An' the ould master
ordered me to put the horse to the austin' car, an'

scour the whole country, till I got Jack Hennessy,
the blind piper an' bring him back wit me. ' And,
Pat, my good boy ses he, ' don't come back to me
without you bring that schemer ov a piper wit you,
dead or alive ses he. ' Bead, sir ses I, ' I'll bring
him, sure enough, if he has only as much life in him
as will blow the chanter ; but what am I to do if
he's dead?' 'Well, then ses he, an' never as much
as a smile on his face, ' you can bring him dead.' Them
was his very words, your reverence, as sure as that
I'm standing' here foment you. God rest his soul !
the poor ould gentleman, 'tis he that had the pleasant
way wit him, ever an' always. He had a great
respect for his ould huntsman, an' wished that his
little girl should have a decent wed din', an' full an
plenty at it. An' see yourself, the sort of wedding'
his own son had to-day; just as if your reverence was
a common sachem — skin' your pardon for mentioning'
you in wan breath wit a suspended priests

That very prodigality that you admire so much,
was one of the causes of the downfall of Castle
Cloyed' said the priest with a sigh.

"May be so, sir, I don't like contradiction' you.
I know well how the thing is, but I'm not scholar
enough to put it into good English. Augh ! if it was
only a peeler that was married in the ould times, he'd

have a decanter wedding than what we lead to-day.
Times is changed so they are ! ''

"And all the better, Pat. Oiir wedding to-day was
a religious ceremony, conducted with proper respect
and decorum and was not made an occasion for waste
and folly'

Still Pat looked incredulous and discontented.

^^ril tell you what you had best do/^ said the
priest, trying to look grave : '^ come back with me to
Castle Cloyne, where I know a nice little girl that will
just suit you; and next Shrove-tide, we will have a
wedding after your own heart's

"I wish I could,, Father John, but you see
Master Hyacinth could never do without me. If
you saw an' hard him for awhile, 'tis then you'd know
how it was. 'Tis only Pat here, an' Pat there, an'
Pat, you villain, why isn't such a thing done ? An'
now he'll be so taken up wit his wife, that sorra
thing he'll do at all, only lave it all down on top
ov poor Pat. So you persuade, sir, why I can't go
wit you. The pair ov 'em would be lost intirely in
fortin parts, if myself wasn't to the fore wit 'cm."

The priest laughed heartily at the mixture of
ignorance, conceit, and dog-like affection for his
master, that were all jumbled up together in Pat's
head. While he was still laughing, the train came

into the station, and lie had to take his place in it.
In another moment it began to move, and Pat,
following the example set him by the country people
at home, kept running along the platform waving
his hat. But iron machinery is more than a match
for human nerves and muscles, and he was very
soon left behind, still waving his hat, with much
affectionate demonstration.

I must hurry back now, an see to the cordon' ov
them thrunks,^' he said, half aloud. " As they're bint
on travelling' to-night, I have no time to lose. 'Tis
well for him, that he has a wally de sham that will
look after his traps for him. Augh ! I often seen
new-married people, an' what rale fools they make ov
themselves ! I'm thinking' Master Hy'cinth will folly
the lade given him by all the rest, an' that it will be a
while before he'll rise out ov it. It won't last always,
that's wan comfort. The honeymoon sometimes lasts
a month, an' ov an odd time a little longer ; 'tis all
according' to the nature ov the people," added Pat
reflectively. '' I seen some, an' it didn't hould a week
wit 'em. I remember when Jim Cusack married the
widda woman that kept the little sheen house at the
cross roads, an' three days after the wedding', he gave
her such a mortal slain' that she had to take the law
ov him, an' all because she wouldn't give him up the

relate for the little trifle lie had in the bank. But
there are two sorts ov husbands, like everything else
in the world. That drunken savage Jim Cusack was
wan thing, an' Master Hyacinth Dillon, Esquire, of
Castle Cloyne, is another thing ! "

There are two kinds of sunshine, one natural and
the other social, and the latter acts upon the mind
with the same healing and curative effect that the
former exercises over the body. And as mind and
body are inseparable, and linked together in some
mysterious way, that which confers pleasure or inflicts
pain on one, reacts in a similar way on the other.
When the two are combined in the reception of a
beneficial influence, how harmonious is the effect
produced, how happy is the result ! Under the life-giving
sun of the Genoese Riviera, and breathing its
balmy air ; cared for with a sleepless, untiring vigilance
that watched every look, anticipated every desire, and
loved with the tenderest devotion, the young wife of
Hyacinth Dillon recovered her health slowly and
gradually, but not the less surely. The sunshine of
love and home was just as effectual in promoting her
recovery, as the sunshine that streamed down on her
from the bright Italian heaven. And as health and
strength returned to her body, so did her spirits
regain elasticity and gladness. In nine cases out

of every ten, happiness is the great physician —
as it is also the great beautifier — and where that
is wanting, sunny skies and genial air cannot do
much.

Do the good-natured readers who have accompanied
me thus far in my Chronicles, feel any desire
to know what the future held in store for Hyacinth
Dillon and his fair young English wife ? In thankful
return for their courteous companionship, I shall
slightly lift the curtain, and try to put into words
the outline of some fantastic visions respecting them
which have passed across my mental gaze, not all
at once, but one by one, at various intervals of
time. The first is, that the person to whom Miss
Dacre had given her fortune to save her brother
from a public prosecution, died after a few years
and left her in his will half the amount of the money
she had so unselfishly sacrificed. It seemed that the
man had some conscience hidden away in a hiding-place,
of which none but himself possessed the key,
and that at the last it would remain no longer hidden
and silent, but with clamorous, importunate outcry
imperiously demanded to be heard, and to have its
requirements complied with.

The second vision shadows forth the bankruptcy
of the London hotel-keeper who had purchased Castle

Cloyne, and the sale, for the second time, of the old
estate in the Encumbered Court. It was bought by
one of the local solicitors, " in trust' for Hyacinth
Dillon, the last of the old family that had owned it
for ages.

"My dream was past, it had no further changes'
I could see no further into the future — dim, and far
distant; and even what I did see might have been
nothing but a dream. It might be so, or it might, on
the contrary, be a pleasant reality. Who can tell ?

And though the day be never so long,
It bringeth at last unto even song.

Queen Elizabeth's Both of Hours.

I HAVE lost sight of Oonagh for a long time— my
sweet, unselfish Oonagh ! — so strong and yet so tender,
so loving and gentle, and yet so brave — but I have
by no means forgotten her. Now after the lapse of
many years I take up the thread of her story once
more, albeit the end is very near. I began with
Oonagh, and it is only right I should end with her.
She was a true heroine, the type of all that is most
worthy and admirable in womanhood. She was
endowed with much personal beauty, yet she was as
humble-minded as she was lowly born, and her life
was beautiful in all things ; full of unselfish goodness,
blameless purity, and an undeviating adherence to
what she considered was her duty.

There are many women in the world like Oonagh —

thank God for it ! — although the world knows them
not. It does not sound their .praises, nor glorify
them, nor does it in fact, notice them at all, because
it cannot understand them. This is in no way strange.
Their forgetfulness of self, their fidelity to duty,
their untiring devotion to causes that are not
their own, though they have made them so, are
all silent though emphatic protests against the
hollowness and self-seeking of its creed. The world
utterly ignores such women while they live, and
forgets them when the grave has closed over them.
But as their work is not done for the world, so neither
do they desire its sympathy, nor covet its applause.
They go on their quiet way, looking neither to the
right nor left, and enjoying a peace and inward
happiness that the world can neither give them nor
take away. They may be poor , and very generally
they are so ; they are ridiculed, and laughed at, and
pitied by turns, as being the victims of some Utopian
craze; or their motives may be misunderstood, or
their lives may be calumniated. But they are proof
against the ridicule, and they live the calumny
down.

It was a bright and sunny Sunday in the early
summer - time, and the scene is laid in a small
country town in the South of Ireland, with which

I conclude my story. This town, the centre of a
large rural district, was on this particular Sunday
in a state of great and unusual excitement ; unusual,
because in its normal condition it was a very quiet
place, a sort of Sleepy Hollow, that never woke upto
anything like a stir, except on rare occasions,
such as fair days, and Sundays. A deadly sort of
little town, in whose streets the small boys that
played at marbles, and whipped their tops on the sidewalks,
had it generally very much to themselves,
and where births, marriages, and deaths, were the
only subjects of conversation.

But on this special Sunday morning, something
of more than ordinary interest occupied the thoughts
of the townsfolk. The streets were thronged with
people of all ages and classes, dressed in their best
clothes, and all wending their way towards the
Roman Catholic church. The event that caused so
much, excitement, and called together a more than
usually large congregation, was to be a solemn
service for the repose of the soul of the late curate,
who was just one month dead. Mass was to be
celebrated by his successor, the Reverend John
Molloy, who was that day to officiate for the first
time in the parish. It was the young priests first
curacy.

As soon as lie had been ordained, he had induced
his foster-mother to give 'up business altogether,
for she had laid by, not wealth indeed, but quite
sufficient to supply her own simple wants, now that
he would be no longer a burden on her. He had
taken a very small cottage for her near the town,
where they could live together, and the evening of
her life go down in peace. It had a little garden
attached to it, as well as a field for a cow, which
he knew would afford her occupation and amusement,
to take care of. He had furnished it comfortably,
but plainly, on economical grounds, as well
as that he knew it would please her best, as
being what she was best used to. When all
was ready, he went to bring her home to her new
house, where in all probability the rest of her life
would be spent. Very proud, as well as very happy,
was Oonagh to find herself, after all her weary
travelling, in this harbour of refuge, the home she
had so often dreamed of, and longed for, and where
she and her boy were to live together.

On the following Sunday he was to say his first
mass in the parish, and she was dressed very early,
so that she would not delay him when it would
be time to set out to church. A very proud
woman was Oonagh, when she walked up High Street,

VOL. IIJ. u

with the new curate by her side, and saw all the
people they met touching their hats to him with
the utmost respect as they went along. Even the
children were eager to show him reverence, the
boys by pulling at their front locks of hair, and the
girls by dropping a timid curtsey, which made up
in respect for what it might have wanted in grace.
Oonagh was now an elderly woman, but notwithstanding
the hard life she had led for several years ^
retained many traces of the comeliness of her youth.
Her skin had of course the hard, weather-beaten look
that constant exposure to the air is sure to give, and
the once thick dark hair was interwoven with silver
threads. But nothing could destroy the beauty of the
sweet, flexible mouth, or the calm, candid expression
that shone out from her soft gray eyes. The look of
perfect content and happiness that pervaded her face, the
light that beamed around it coming from a heart at
peace with itself and with all the world, brightened,
glorified and made it look young again, and beautiful
with a better and nobler beauty, that youth alone
could never give it.

Oonagh had that morning put on a suit of new
clothes, of a kind superior to any she had worn since
she was a girl, so that she would do no discredit to the
young priest in the town in which he was to commence

his ministry. A dress o£ dark cashmere, a plain
black shawls and a straw bonnet trimmed with, grave -
coloured ribbons, were what became her station in
life, and yet looked well and respectable. She was
sensible enough to know that she was not a lady, and
had not the least resemblance to one, so she did not
make herself ridiculous by adopting a style of dress
that would be very unsuitable to her position, as well
as unbecoming to her age and appearance. She was
quite satisfied with herself when she looked in the
glass before leaving the house, and apparently her
foster-son was well satisfied too, to judge by the bright
smile with which he received her when she came out
of her room, prayer-book in hand, to the little parlour
where he was waiting for her. Not in that little
country town, no, nor in broad Ireland, was there a
happier pair that bright day in June, than issued
forth from that modest cottage, with all their
hopes realised to the fullest extent, and all the old
days of hardship and privation passed away like a
dream.

As soon as they arrived at the church, he brought
her to a quiet corner, where she could have a view
of the altar, and still hear mass unobserved by anyone
; as he knew she would prefer being left to herself
at such a happy time.

'don't leave this until I come for you," lie said;
and that will be immediately after mass'

He left her, and as soon as lie was alone lie fell
on her knees, and covering her face with her hands,
poured forth her full heart in fervent, though voiceless,
thanksgiving. How good God had been to
her ! she thought ; how good and merciful, beyond
all her deservings ! He had sustained her through
many trials, comforted her through many sorrows,
and, to crown all, had now given her the desire of
her heart, and brought the work of her life to a
successful conclusion. What more could she ask of
Him ? what more had she to live for ? She was
well content now to die, for her day's work was
done, and the shadows of evening were gathering fast
around her.

The church soon began to fill, and the persons
composing the choir went up to the organ-loft. They
were all good musicians, sent for to a distance to help
to give additional solemnity and lustre to this important
requiem mass. But the stir caused by their
arrival, or the noise made by the people taking their
seats in the different parts of the church, did not
disturb Oonagh in the least. She was too much
absorbed in her own happiness, to take heed of anything
that was passing around her.

At last the bell rang,, and preceded by many
white-robed boys, a number of priests filed out from
the vestry, and ranged themselves around the altar.
Last of all, and attended by two deacons, the new
curate came forth to say or rather sing High Mass.
Among his other gifts, he had a fine voice, which made
him be specially selected for the celebrant on this
occasion. As he went up the steps of the altar,
Oonagh in her remote corner half raised herself from
her knees to have a good look at him. But a mist
came over her eyes, and her head got so giddy that
she could not see, and she felt so weak that she had to
grasp the railing before her to keep from falling. She
was roused by the clear, fresh voice so dear to her,
giving out the first strain of the Kijrie Ellison, and
taking up her prayer-book she endeavoured to join in
the service. But it was in vain. She tried to read,
but could not distinguish one word from another, so
she laid down the book, and once more fixed her eyes
on the altar, with her whole soul in her gaze.

There was her boy standing on it, and ^' wearing
the robes," at last ! He had been born in the direst
poverty, his parents had both died on the same day,
in the last extremity of want and disease that
humanity could suffer, and no other fate remained
to the only child they had left behind, than the

cold shelter of the workhouse in Ms youth, and in
his manhood to earn his bread by the sweat of his
brow. But she had rescued the weak, delicate child
from so hard a fate ; made a gentleman of him,
and given to the Church a good and pious minister.
And then again she bowed her head, and gave thanks
to Him who had made her the humble instrument in
doing His own work.

In a little time she felt so weak that she was
obliged to rise from her knees, and sit down at the
back of the pew. And then as she looked again
at the altar, she remembered her dream ! There was
the fair-haired young priest standing on the altar,
and celebrating mass, exactly as he had appeared
to her on that past All-Hallow Eve, after she had
joined in the Dumb Cake with the two other girls.
Their dreams had been fulfilled long ago, and lo ! so
now was her own !

At that moment the wailing notes of that noble
piece of sacred music, the Sequence for the Dead,
was poured forth by a solo bass voice, which,
though solemn and melodious, was yet laden with
sorrow and regret for the lost :

Dies free, dies ilia
Solve speculum in camilla
Teste David cum sybillge.

As a matter of course, Oonagh had often before
heard the grand old hymn, but now it went to
the very depths of her soul. The verses were sung
alternately by the solo bass and by the full choir ,
and were done as much justice to, and produced
as fine an effect, as if they had been sung in some
lofty old Gothic cathedral, instead of the modest
little church of an obscure country town. Again, as
she listened, the feeling of faintness came over her,
and she leant her head against the wall for support,
just as the choir sang out the verse :

Ex tremendEe majestatis !
Qui salvador, sylvas gratis,
Salve me, fons pietatis.

The strain rose and fell, and floated in solemn
music through the church, filling it with waves of
sound j and still Oonagh, with a look of ineffable
joy and peace on her face, remained silent and
motionless, with her head resting against the wall
of the pew.

When mass was over, the priests filed back into
the vestry in the same order in which they had
left it, and the congregation began gradually to
leave the church. The young celebrant was disrobing
himself in the vestry, when the clerk rushed
in to him in the most excited manner, and cried out :

^^ Oh ! Father Molloy, come out, sir, if you phase;
there is a woman in a dead faint outside, an' Fm in
thread that she's dying' — if she isn't dead by this'

Quickly the young priest followed the clerk
back into the church, and over to the quiet corner
where, but so short a time before, he had left Oonagh
apparently in perfect health. Now she was leaning
back against the wall, perfectly still, while an ominous
pallor was spread over her face. He bent down and
took her hand, calling on the crowd of idlers that
had gathered round, to fall back a little, for God's
sake, and let her have some air.

Is there a medical man in the church ? " he cried
out aloud.

As he spoke a gentleman sprang down from the
gallery, saying : "I am a medical man, father. Fall
back there, my good people, and let me see the
patient."

He laid his hand on the wrist of the motionless
woman, and then on her heart.

She is quite dead, and has been so for more than
half-an-hour, I should say," he cried, with the decision
of a professional man. " Disease of the heart, I am
almost sure, but that can be more accurately ascertained
by the post-mortem examination, for of course
there will be an inquest."

^' There is no necessity for an inquest' replied
the young priest with a quivering lip. '^ I am her
adopted son have all my life known her, and I can
certify that she had disease of the heart of many
years' standing. She had a severe rheumatic fever
at one time, and her heart became affected by it.
The doctor who attended her then is still living, and
can tell you the same thing. The excitement of this
day has, I am sure, hurried her away. I might have
known that it would be too much for her. Ah, well
I might have known it ! '^

He fell on his knees, and kissed the dead hand.
Oh, mother ! more than mother ! " he exclaimed, ina
burst of sorrow. '^ You have left me just when I
could have helped to make you happy. The great
loss is mine, but the great gain is all your own ! ''

THE END.

Chapter DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PBB8S,
