^ A '' ^^'<^■«*3x*Ki•V< ■■'!'^'- '■'■'-'--v'^^^^

Hm^E I

f"^'/. y^vv/ > 'yy-i^ , '^ ^, . ^/i^ .

^x ^ ■^ '^

'■«^Atf((^ii^-<* *

V ,K-U^' / i

3 ^Toi^el.

By B. H. Buxton

Author OF "Jennie OF THE Prince's," ETC.

AND

W. ^\. FEXX

Author OP "Half-hours OK BLIND MAX'S HOLIDAY," "The
PALETTE AND THE TEN," ETC.

WITH OTHEE Stories

By W. W. FEXX.

ly THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, Stand.

188-,.

i
^

B38Gn

Preface.

To me-it has been a true, albeit a
somewhat sad pleasure, to prepare for
republication " A Noble Name," the tale
with which these volumes open.

It was written, alone of all the stories
here brought together, in conjunction
with Mrs. B. H. Buxton, author of
Jennie of the Prince's."

She had made her mark some time
before our acquaintance began, and although
she had always ample employment
for her clever pen, she was never too
busy during the period of our brief friendship,
to aid me with her bright suggestions
and willing hand.

Coming one day upon the early chapters

of this tale, she insisted on our working
on it together ; I gladly consented : for
when and under what circumstances does
not a blind man welcome real help and
sympathy ?

She entered warmly into the scheme,
and so, after many a pleasant evening's
labour, " A Noble Name " was completed,
—with what success others must decide.

But only a few days after the last words
in the last chapter were penned, the busy
brain and tender heart of my kindly,
genial fellow-worker were at rest. On the
evening of the 30th of March, 1881, without
pain, without warning, spared all
sorrowful farewells, she passed, in a moment,
away.

A more sympathetic friend it would be
hard to find, and in our home she leaves a
blank which my wife and I shall never
cease to feel.

I have only to add that the short

stories contained in these volumes are
similar in character to those which have
found such favour with the readers of
Half-hours of Blind Man's Holiday."

W. W. Penn.

Great Marlborough Street,
January, 1SS3.

HAP. Page

I. — A Catastrophe . i

II. — A Letter from England . 19

III. — After Seven Years , . .-38

IV.— Misgivings . 56

V. — Homeward Bound . . , . .81

VI. — First Impressions lOO

VII. — Under-Currents . . . . .119

VIII. — Art Progress . . . . .136

IX. — Heart Progress . . . . .167

X. — On the Heights of Hampstead . . 194

XI. — The Course of True Love does Run Smooth . 224

XU. — Revelation and Disaster . . , 264

SELECT NOVELS

Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series a'-e now ready : —

MY SISTER the ACTRESS. By Florence Market.

'" My Sister the Actress," is the best novel wc have bad the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — John Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. Bv Mrs. Eiloart.

'Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly vvcil told cannot do better
than read " The Deans Wife." 'john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — John Ball.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

'Compared with the former works of the authoress of 'the Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be prone meed second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review,

CHAPTER I.

A Catastrophe.

r^LOEIOUS ! positively glorious ! The
only suggestions of discord, in the
harmony of peace and beauty, are the
shrill voices of those children at play
below. Poor little imps ! Perhaps noise
is as essential to their happiness as perfect
tranquillity is to mine ! "

Arriving at this charitable conclusion,
Hubert Northcroft sighs profoundly; but
he does not look at all sad as he
stretches himself at full length upon the
elastic carpet provided by generous
Dame Nature, and leisurely proceeds to

VOL. I.

fill and light his long china-bowled pipe.
He is a good-looking man ; indeed, he
may fairly be described as handsome,
and though far on the road to forty,
is evidently in his prime. He wears a
loose coat of brown velveteen, and a
broad-brimmed Tyrolean hat is set on his
head with a nonchalant air, which suits
the man admirably. His bright blue
eyes betray a mirthful spirit, which
oddly enough is at variance with a
melancholy note in his musical voice.
His utterance is slow and deliberate;
he has a habit of sighing profoundly,
and yet he is of a contented nature, and
thoroughly cheerful disposition. It is
time, not trouble, which is leaving silver
traces in his thick brown beard and
curly hair.

The first part of the speech above

recorded is addressed to Nature, who
certainly merits the apostrophe, for she
is showing herself at her brightest and
fairest here. The grumbling addendum
is intended for the sympathetic ear of
Hubert's wife, who sits on the grass by
his side, plying her knitting-needles with
an amount of energy that bespeaks an
active temperament. Mrs. Northcroft is
decidedly a handsome woman still ; though
not much younger than her husband.
She also has " worn well." Her soft
brown eyes are clear and bright, her
hair is plentiful, and, as yet, without a
trace of the snowy passage of Time. Mrs.
Northcroft is energetic by nature ; Hubert
is indolent. She acts, while he pauses to
reflect, and her promptitude and rapid
decision invariably come to aid his more
deliberate method of thought and action.

B 2

Most travellers are familiar with the
scene on which this pleasant-looking couple
are gazing. The picturesque village of
Meyringen lies just below the grassy knoll
on which they have seated themselves. It
is a lovely evening towards the end of
June, 1850, and the setting sun is already
sending a rosy flush to warm the dazzling
whiteness of the eternal snow-peaks on
the horizon.

The shrill voices of the children playing
on the slope below are the only sounds
that jar upon the sense of universal peace
and quiet ; for the distant thud-like echo
of the great Eeichenbach Fall, and the
occasional tinkle of cow and goat-bells
harmonize so pleasantly with time and
place, as to create no disturbing element.,

It's that small creature with the yellow
hair, the baby of the party, that makes-the

greatest noise," observed Mrs. North-croft,
after an interval of silence. She
has been eagerly watching the merry group
beneath her, and this is the conclusion she
arrives at.

Look, Hugh ; is she not a little darling,
I wish she would come up here. Her
hair is just the colour of Lina's. I wonder
if her eyes are brown, too."

I wish our Lina was as active as that
pretty romp," says Hubert, sending the
blue tobacco smoke upwards in delicate
cloudlets, and leaning over to get a better
view of the children below.

What a contrast that nimble fairy
presents to the rest of the vulgar brats,"
he says. " This Canton is justly famed
for the squat ugliness of its female population,
and that makes a golden-haired
baby a welcome and delightful exception

to an odious rule. I often pondered on
Nature's want of generosity to the Swiss
girls, when I was painting here as a
student years ago. I little dreamt then
that the time would come when I should
have a lovely wife and daughter of my
own. Height ! " Hubert's customary
sigh ends his complacent oration, and his
blue eyes rest on his comely wife with
exceeding tenderness. " I suppose we had
better go in and see after our own baby
now"' he adds, puffing more smoke into
the air, and evidently most reluctant to
move, though he suggests the desirability
of doiiicr so. " What would I not give to
see Lina as merry and active as that child
below. Do you think she is really better
for the change, wife ? " The sigh that
follows this question in due course is
fraught with a certain anxiety this time.

and something that might be a tear gutters
in Hubert's eyes.

I hope so," says his wife, promptly,
and reassuringly. " Lina's health, I think,
has improved every day, since we have
settled in this glorious mountain air. I
fancy she seems to benefit by every breath
she draws up here. Do not let us hurry
home just yet, Hugh. You know how
attentive and devoted nurse is, and I am
anxious about you, my dear. I want you
to glean fresh inspiration from this magnificent
sunset. Take a good long look at it.
I confess to being a little disappointed that
you have not even begun a sketch this
afternoon ; but now if you wish it, I will
pack up your ' traps ' and we will hope
for as fine a day tomorrow. Then I think
you ought to accomplish something."

Che sara sara' says Hubert, dubiously,

and his wife busies herself in collecting
the sketching paraphernalia which litters
the grass. " Thanks, my dear," he remarks,
presently, quite content to leave
all exertion to his wife, " I knew I should
do no good this afternoon ; I might just
as well have left all my traps at home.
Painting out of doors is very troublesome.
You must be thoroughly at your ease
and undisturbed to do any good work at all."
Looking at Hubert, it seems impossible
that he is ever otherwise than at his ease,
aud the excuse for idleness appears untenable.
While Mrs. Norther oft is engaged
with her packing, her husband's
attention wanders from the wide landscape
back to the children below, who
have formed a ring and are dancing around
the fair-haired child standing in the centre.
The game evidently entitles her to some

show of adulation ; for her companions bow
the knee like courtiers, while she stands
in calm superiority, until the pantomime
of the others leads to a little merry burst
of song from her. Her sweet child-voice
rises pure and clear in the still air, and
to Hubert the piping treble of the Swiss
melody sounds delicious.

When you have done packing, Letty, I
wish you would go and catch that musical
fairy and bring her up here. I should like
to know what that song is about, and I
should like to see if she is as picturesque
as she appears at this distance. Perhaps
I might paint her. I think she would
make a pretty picture if I took time and
trouble about it, and I have nothing
particular to do here. What a ruddy
contrast to our pale maiden at home,
eh, wife?"

This time again Hubert's sigh is regretful
; fur his only child, as has been
hated, is very delicate and causes her
parents constant anxiety. Mrs. North-croft,
conscious of the gloom settling on
her husband, hastens to divert his attention
by obeying his behest. She is lithe
of limb, strong and active, and runs
nimbly down the slope to where the
childish party is assembled, and after a
short confabulation with the eldest of
them, she returns, leading the " fairy "
by the hand. Hubert has watched all
her proceedings, with a lazy patient air
of interest, so she leads the little girl
towards him, he raises himself, and
leisurely taking his pipe in one hand, he
stretches the other towards the small
child, whom he welcomes with a beaming
smile, and addresses in perfect German.

He lias spent so many years of
his life abroad, that he has mastered
many continental languages.

What fine games you have been
playing all this long sunny afternoon,
little one'' he says pleasantly. "Do you
think you can give me a kiss now, to
thank me for not scolding you when you
made such a terrible noise down there ?
You disturbed me so much that I could
not work at all. Are you not sorry ? "

The child laughs saucily. '• You must
play too," she lisps. " All work makes
Peter discontent!"

Hubert is intensely amused by this
gravely delivered speech.

"This is Miss Precocious," he says to
his wife in English.

Speak ee-ze English," announces the
fairy." She has a sweet, merry face,

and looks very kissable. She stretches
up her small hands now and begins to
play with the great bunch of seals and
trinkets attached to Hubert's Avatch-chain.
He regards her attentively the while, and
says to his wife, " She is a juvenile Hebe.
What limbs she has, and what a bonnie
face. Pity soap seems an unknown
quantity in her toilette arrangements. I
should like to see her properly groomed,
her hair is as silky as Lina's and quite
as bright ; but what a tangle ! "

"I am sure she has no mother to look
after her, poor mite," says Mrs. North-croft,
with ready compassion. " I shall
go into the village and inquire about her
belongings. How old art thou, Hebe
Klein

I am three years old to-day ; that is
why I was made into a birthday queen,"

says Kleinee, with an air of conscious importance.


Just Lina's age," remarks Hubert, pondering.
" And where dost thou live ? "
he asks, presently.

Why down there ! " she says, promptly,
and points to an isolated chalet beyond the
village beneath them.

Is that your parents' house ? " asks
Hubert.

Father's house," says the child ; " dear
mammy's gone away to heaven." The
little lip quivers and sudden tears cloud
the bright eyes.

•^Tlie tear down childhood's cheek that flows
Is like the dew-drop on the rose ;
A\'hen next the summer breeze comes by,
And shakes the bush, the flower is dry."

You were right, as usual, wife," says
Hubert, and stoops again to kiss the pretty
blonde head.

And what is your name, Kleinee ? "

'Lisbeth Freundlein," says she, nothing
loth to answer questions, while she is
permitted to play with those marvellous
trinkets on the watch-chain.

'Lisbeth Freundlein — Freundlein —
Freundlein," repeats Hubert, making the
harmonious syllables into a phrase of
song.

"It is a quaint euphonious name," he
says to his wife, and she replies " It suits
the dainty maid exactly."

Hubert has lifted the child on his arm
now, and her head nestles against his
shoulder with the ease of perfect confidence.


Adieu, Hebe 'Lisbeth, Hebe, Hebe Kleinee,
'Lisbeth Freundlein," he whispers. " It is
time to go home now. Will you run down
to your friends, birthday queen ? " As he

speaks he glances at her playfellows on
the lower slope.

But what is happening there?

A sudden stampede has occurred. The
children are rushing away in all directions,
scurrying down the further slopes as fast
as their feet will carry them. Away,
away towards the road which traverses
the valley and leads to the Grimsel Pass.
Along this path a man is running at full
speed. He shouts vociferously, he waves
his arms, and seems carried on by a very
whirlwind of excitement.

'Lisbeth must run too," cries the child
decisively, and slipping out of Hubert's
arm she in her turn scuds away, down
one slope after another.

"What can have happened to cause all
this commotion ? " says Mrs. Northcroft
anxiously, and both she and her husband

me.

watch the proceedings of that eager,
excited messenger, who is gesticulating
fiercely as he tells his tidings to the
interested villagers in the street below.

The men, when they have heard him,
disappear within their houses, only to
return a few minutes later, laden with
poles, ropes, and ladders.

Thus armed, eight or ten of them return
with the herald of danger, and in a body
they hurry away towards the Grimsel Pass.
The women and children follow at greater
or less speed.

Hubert has taken the burden of traps
from his wife's willing hand. " Let us
go and inquire what has happened," he
says ; but it is the lady who sets forth at
a brisk pace, while he follows leisurely.

I do hope it is nothing very dreadful,"
she says, looking grave. " You follow.

Hugh, dear. I must hasten to see if I
can be of any use."

Some of those fool - hardy climbers
come to grief again, no doubt," says
Hubert, sighing in commiseration. "What
a deplorable mania people have for getting
a-top of every mountain they see. And it
all looks so much better and is so much
more satisfactory from a reasonable distance.
I should like to put a chain round
their legs when they talk of . . . ."

Hubert, who had been soliloquizing in
his usual meditative fashion, now perceives
that his wife is already quite out of earshot,
and actually prepares himself to catch
her up by quickening his easy stride.

They reach the long, narrow street, the
one street of the village, just as the last
rays of the setting sun fade from the surrounding
snow-peaks, leaving them pale

VOL. I. c

and ghastly, like dead embers of the great
crimson fire, which but a moment ago
had expired on their crests. The grey
shades of evening are creeping upwards
from the valley, and approach the sides
of the mighty mountains tenderly.

But the peace which usually settles
down upon the homes of the frugal
Sitters at this hour, is wanting to-night.
The villagers are met in the street, the
women's voices sound shrill and eager,
wild exclamations and sharp replies rise
above the murmur of the expectant crowd,
and at the entrance to the courtyard of
their hotel, the Northcrofts find that the
hubbub is greatest, and opine that hereat
last the nature of the catastrophe will
be revealed to them.

A LETTER FROM ENGLAND.

TN crossing the Grimsel, one of a party
of adventurous climbers had fallen
over a precipice. That is all the news
the Northcrofts manage to obtain on their
return to the hotel. The guide, who had
been sent down to the village for assistance
had not stayed to give any details.
He realized the urgency of what was required
of him too thoroughly to lose anytime
in explanations, and he may have
been animated by the conviction that the
practical aid he carried to those in distress
would avert fatal consequences after all.

Hours must elapse before the reef party

c 2

could return to Meyringen and bring more
detailed accounts of the calamity which
had befallen one of the travellers. Mrs.
Northcroft, having brought little Lina to
father for a good-night kiss and blessing,
expressed an earnest desire to sit up in the
nursery all night, so that she might be
dressed and ready to help whenever the
sufferer should be carried home ; but
Hubert vehemently opposed this " folly,"
and, by dint of quiet coaxing, persuaded
his energetic wife to go to bed and leave
philanthropy to others on this occasion.
Hubert slept soundly all night ; but his
wife listened anxiously for the footsteps
that never came. Towards morning she
fell into an uneasy slumber and dreamed
she was back in her cosy artistic home in
Munich again, and that she rushed to the
rescue only just in time to catch little Lina

in her arms, who was falling out of the
nursery window.

Mr. and Mrs. Northcroft had journeyed
to Switzerland by easy stages and with a
double purpose. The old doctor recommended
mountain air for delicate Lina, and
Alpine scenery was the one thing needful
(so he said) to make Hubert attack his
work with renewed vigour again. During
the previous spring and summer he had
painted some admirable landscapes in
Tyrol ; but the autumn and winter were
spent in making plans, and his wife
ardently desired to see these visions
assume a more tangible shape at last. The
happy trio had but lately arrived at
Meyringen, and so early in the season there
were but few tourists abroad. Thirty
years ago their number, at the most
crowded part of the year, was far less

than in these days of mountain railroads
and easy locomotion, and it was quite
possible • to enjoy peace and quiet, even
at the principal hotel of this, one of the
chief starting-points for Alpine . climbers.

No further news of the accident reached
Mrs. Northcroft in her room, and when she
went downstairs she was glad to hind that
she and her husband where the sole occupants
of the large salle a manger ■; for Karl,
the active kellnei\ would be able to devote
himself to them and could surely tell them
all the news of which he was the chief
purveyor.

A letter, wife ! " cries Hubert, in
evident astonishment, as he takes up an
envelope that lies beside his breakfast
plate. " A letter from home — my old
home, I mean, and forwarded from Munich
by Schmidt."

A letter from your brother Stephen ? "
asks Mrs. Northcroft, surprised in her turn,
but not pleasantly, and as she speaks there
is a slight compression of her full, sensitive
lips. " What can he want from you,
Hugh, after these years of silence ? ' '

You were going to say neglect, wife,"
remarks Hubert, with his easy smile and
deliberate tone of conviction. " Well, if
he has neglected me, voila the amende
honorable. Behold ! one, two, three sheets,
six pages, and all clearly written. Dear
wife, take pity on me. I hate reading
letters, as you know. I wonder what
could have induced Stephen to take so
much trouble. Do you think it was done
to give me trouble in my turn ? "

Hardly," says Mrs. Northcroft, smiling
pleasantly at her husband's appeal, and the
melancholy look which accompanies it.

Take your coffee, Hugh, and I will read
you the wonderful epistle, while mine
cools.

Pine ridge Priory, Yorkshire,

"June Pith.
Dear Hubert, — Yesterday, I read in
the Torshire Chronicle with strangely mixed
feelings, an account purporting to be extracted
from the Cologne Gazette, Which
gives an elaborate description of a landscape
painted by you and now said to be
publicly exhibited in Munich. 1 repeat,
I read this account with mixed feelings,
but I must at once admit that I was not
agreeably impressed. For though the
critic quoted spoke in such laudatory
terms of your work that 1 could not fail
to be somewhat gratified, 1 certainly
should have desired that our name might
never be publicly associated with any such

labours as yours ; indeed, it caused me a
pang to think that the editor of our leading
county paper should have the power
to draw the eyes of the world to this
derogatory fact — here, on my very threshold.
I still maintain, as I have ever
done, that one descended from so proud a
line of ancestors as ours, is degraded by
pursuing the trade of a painter. Diplomacy,
the Army, or the Church, can alone
afibrd such opportunities for distinction as
petit a younger son of the Xorthcrofts.
However successful you may eventually
be in the calling you have chosen to adopt,
I shall never cease to regret that your
tastes should have led you to so lowly — I
may even say so unworthy a pursuit."

Mrs. Northcroft pauses, and that odd
compression of her lips is more evident

than before. " Am I to read any more of
these insults, Hugh?" she asks, her fine
eyes flashing and an angry frown contracting
her brow.

If you please, my dear," says Hubert,
with a weary sigh and an amused smile.
^' There must be some motive for so much
brotherly display of interest. Let me hear
the rest of the good wishes and backhanded
compliments."

With an impatient gesture, Mrs. North-croft
continues —

As you certainly have made some
mark, however, I thought I should be
wanting in that courtesy which I esteem
my first duty to friend and foe, if I failed
to acknowledge what you no doubt consider
a triumph. I cannot honestly say
that I congratulate you ; but I wish you

to know that I am aware of your success,
such as it is. I address my letter to
Munich ; but as I have not heard from
you since you wrote to tell me of your
marriage, and the subsequent birth of
your daughter, it is doubtful whether
this epistle will ever reach you. I hope
it may do so, however; for I shall be glad
to hear that you and yours are well, and
I also wish to assure you that if you at
any time feel inclined to return to England,
a welcome and a suite of rooms are ready
for you in the old home. That at least is
unaltered. It looks much as it did in
the life-time of our honoured parents. I
always objected to change, as you know,
but in these levelling days it requires a
strong will and a resolute hand to ward
off the baneful spirit of innovation.

You will be sorry to hear that 1 can

give you no better account of my son's
sight. Indeed, the first prediction of the
oculists consulted in his infancy is
realised ; he is absolutely blind now. This
is a source of infinite trouble to me, for
he is a handsome intelligent boy, and in
course of time might have become a creditable
heir to the high position his name
entitles him to take. But alas! what
chance is there for him > He has to be
educated through his sense of hearing,
and his fingers are his eyes. Instead of
being taught to use the cricket-bat, or
ride to hounds, he will grow up as helpless
and useless as a baby, and even a
daughter might eventually be better able
to manage these great estates, and to uphold
our noble name in the county, than
my unfortunate son will ever be. He
does not appear to suffer any pain, or to

be personally distressed by his affliction.
This seems the more extraordinary to meas
I find his helplessness and inactivity a
continual source of o-rief and vexation.
Let me hear from you soon, and believe me,
Your affectionate brother,

Stephen Nokthceoft."

A very affectionate brother, eh, wife ? "
says Hubert, setting down his empty coffee-cup,
and sighing as he smiles ; " and lie
actually wrote all that because the sight
of my name in a newspaper reminded
him of my existence ; well, well ! "

I think it is bad — bad," says Mrs.
Northcroft, sharply. " He has surely
lived long enough to know better. Wary
does he not enlarge his cramped provincial
ideas? Why does he not learn that
painting is a noble and elevating pursuit?

Why does he . . ? . . . Why does he
not love and pity that poor dear blind
boy of his ? "

Hubert interrupts her with more eagerness
of speech and mind than he is wont
to show.

Why ? Because Stephen Northcroft
is as little able to understand and sympathise
with his son and his affliction as
with his brother the artist, and with an
artist's aspirations. Diplomacy? A fine
diplomatist I should have made, indeed.
You know, Letty, what a capital hand I
am at managing my own affairs. Eh ? "

'• Yes ; I know," she answers, laying a
caressing hand on his. " You have not
even learnt to check your own bills yet,
and if I did not look after you, you would
always pay anything that anybody asked
you."

So long as I had the money, I certainly
should," says Hubert. " It would save a
lot of trouble in the end and avoid all
sorts of discussion.

The alternative your generous brother
suggests is hardly a suitable one either,"^
says the loving wife, looking proudly at
her husband. " Your figure would never
have appeared to such advantage in a
shell jacket as it does in your painting
coat."

I cannot fancy myself in a cut-throat
collar, either," says Hubert, putting his
hand under his beard and grasping the
bare muscular throat which rises above
the artistic turn-down strip of linen.

I fear this aristocratic, high and
mighty Sir Stephen will have to make
the best of his noble name being dabbled
in paint, after all," says Mr. Northcroft^

and with some bitterness she adds : " Your
brother writes as if you Avere a house-painter,
instead of ranking you among
the first of living landscape painters."

Ah ! there's no knowing what 1 may
do with a fond, encouraging wife to pat
me on the back," says Hubert, chuckling ;
*' but there is little doubt that Stephen
does consider a picture painter, and a
putty and glazier chap as very nearly
akin. Well, wife, if we ever do makeup
our minds to go to England, we will
stay at the Priory, and convert this inartistic
heathen, but that won't be for
some time yet."

At this moment, Karl, the dapper little
kellner^ makes his appearance to clear
away the breakfast things. The Herr-chasten
were too much engaged with their
correspondence to heed him when he

brought the coffee ; but now he has a
chance of imparting the news he has
just heard in the courtyard.

"The Herrschaften will be grieved to
hear," he says, speaking in his own tongue,
that the bad news brought last night
was only too true. A life was lost on
the pass, but not the life of one of the
strangers ; it was a guide who was killed."
And then, with exceeding volubility and
lively pantomime, Karl relates the tragedy
as he has just heard it.

It was in saving the life of a reckless
alas ! a too fool-hardy Englishman that
the brave guide was killed. The gentleman
had set his heart on plucking a
spray of edelweis, which only grows at a
certain altitude, and perceiving the flower
in question, he determined to defy the
cautions of his guide, and risk crossing a

VOL. I. D

certain ledge which he was told was
dangerous. When he had reached the
spot where the flower grew, he saw a
finer specimen beneath him and he bent
over to seize that also ; but the place
was a horrible one — quite a precipice
they tell me. I do not know, I never
visit these traps for human lives myself.
Of course this obstinate Englander lost
his head and he became too terrified to
move. His guide, seeing his distress,
made haste to go to his rescue ; but the
ledge of rock is narrow, and there is not
room for two upon it. Then the guide,
who was a brave noble spirit — ah ! I knew
him well — he was full of a great courage
balances himself on a sharp point of
overhanging rock — a piece like a knife,
they say — ugh ! and he leans over, holds
a helping hand to the traveller, and so

saves him ; but as he himself turns, his
foot slips. Ah ! . /'

Here Karl pauses for a moment, noting
the effect he produces with critical appreciative
eyes.

*' And he falls ? " cries Mrs. Norther oft,
whose face has become very pale.

That would not have mattered, not
at all, Madame," says Karl, enjoying her
emotion ; " for, of course, the poor fellow
is tied by a rope around his waist. But,
ah ! the rope is rotten, and the jerk he
gives it when he almost loses his balance
breaks it in two, and he falls, falls thousands
of feet — down, down, only to be
picked up, crushed — bleeding — dead."

Mamma, mamma, why are you so

frightened ? " lisps a small voice at Mrs.

Northcroft's elbow, and loving arms are

lifted to the mother's neck. It is little

D 2

Lina who has crept into the salle-manger
unperceived, and who knows too little
German to follow the patois in which Karl
relates his tragic history.

"The guide, he leaves a poor little
girl — a pretty child with hair like your
little Fraulein's there," says Karl, sorrowfully.
" And now that poor orphan is
all alone in the world."

"What was his name, poor fellow —
poor fellow ? " asked Hubert, compassionately.


Oscar Freundlein," answers Karl. " A
friend of mine, and a noble man in his
life — good, brave, and true ; indeed he
deserved a better fate. And now that
little orphan is without kith or kin, and
almost friendless in the world."

Not friendless, surely, while we can
help," says Hubert to his wife in English.

And as though realizing the loneliness of
the orphan child, he takes his own little
daughter in his arms and briefly tells her
the story ; then he kisses her tenderly
and adds, " We will be the lonely maiden's
friends, won't we, Lina darling ? "

And Lina, with her gentle smile and
her old-fashioned grave manner, answers :

We will do whatever you think best,
dear father."

-m

AFTK1{ 8EVKX YKAIiS,

nPHE fame of the great picture painted
by Hubert Northcroft, a faint echo
of which had reached England, and the
ears of his brother Stephen, was but the
first of a series of triumphs. Cheered
and encouraged by the reception of more
ambitious efforts on his part, Hubert continued
to paint and exhibit with repeated
and increasing success. Some record of
his achievements always found its way
into the TorsJiire Chronicle now, and thus
came under the notice of the owner of
Pineridge, and was remembered, if not
remarked upon, by that austere personage.

Having broken the ice of estrangement
by recognising his brother's existence
in the letter received at Meyringen, Sir
Stephen felt that he had amply fulfilled
the requirements of that courtesy which
he made a point of practising towards
friend and foe." Hubert responded to
this considerate advance on the part of
the county magnate by a short letter
in which he stated that his time was fully
occupied by the pursuit of that profession
which was now a joy as well as a necessity
to him. For the present he said he could
neither spare the time nor the money
required for a journey to England. In
the course of a few years, however, he
hoped to re-visit his old home and would
then thankfully avail himself of his brother's
proffered hospitality. To write a letter
required a far greater effort than Hubert

at any time felt himself equal to ; but that
useful help-mate of his was as ready With
her pen as with any other assistance
required by her indolent and exacting lord
in all practical matters. He was always
at work now ; he painted all day and everyday.
What more natural than that she
should undertake all other duties for him ?
Sir Stephen was inclined to resent the
fact that Hubert dictated his letters instead
of writing them ; but then the elder brother
always cavilled at the short-comings of the
younger. He read the frequent accounts
of Hubert's artistic successes in the same
deprecating spirit in which he received the
first mention of his brother's name in print.
The fact that a JSTorthcroft had turned
painter was in itself derogatory ; but the
younger Northcroft's distinction in his
profession made the thought of it less distasteful

after a time. In some measure
Hubert's success now began to atone for
the years of idleness, the careless Bohemian
existence he had led during his protracted
stay on the Continent. To the grave owner
of Pineridge, the time his brother spent
abroad appeared recklessly dissipated, and
he never anticipated any but bad results
from it. It was that laudatory paragraph
in the Tor shire Chronicle which first
opened his prejudiced eyes to the fact that
some sort of distinction might be obtained
even by a painter. The subsequent accounts
of Hubert's reception at the court
of Bavaria, and of visits paid to his studio
by Serene Highnesses, Titled Excellencies,
and other exalted personages, served to
reconcile Sir Stephen still more to the profession
his brother had adopted. But even
in these pleasing details the proud senior

found a source of shame and annoyance ;
for they were followed by statements of the
important commissions undertaken by the
artist, and the high prices he now obtained
for his work.

To Sir Stephen the fact that his
brother actually worked for money, was
paid for the labour of his brain and
hands, Alas intolerable. It appeared a
positive degradation, and painting seemed
even less dignified than trading. In the
latter case a merchant simply handled
money ; in the former, he actually
worked for it like any mechanic.

Time, the universal healer, and Hubert's
continued prosperity, served, in due
course, to overcome the first violence of
Sir Stephen's displeasure, and finally he
came to allude to " my brother the
artist," or " my brother's successful picture,"

with something approaching satisfaction.


It was twenty years now since young
Hubert, in a fit of desperate rebellion
against his exacting father and prim
dictatorial elder brother, had fled from
his home and his country, and sought
refuge from the tyranny which bound
him hand and foot, in the delightful
freedom of the laisser-aller existence led
by art students on the Continent. The
news of his father's death and his
brother's inheritance of the title and
property did not tempt Hubert to return
to England ; but the small ]patrimony he
now inherited as younger son enabled
him to live in comparative comfort, and
to pursue with ease the profession to
which his taste and inclination led him.
The monetary arrangements were conducted

by Sir Stephen's solicitor and
bankers in London, and their agents in
Paris, and there was little or no communication
between the brothers for
years. It was the announcement in the
Times of Sir Stephen's marriage, with the
daughter of a neighbouring landowner
and J. P. of Torshire, that brought a
letter of congratulation from Hubert, and
soon after this epistle had been answered,
the artist again broke the silence which
was lengthening into estrangement, by
the announcement of his own marriage
to Letitia Bryant, the daughter of a
retired English officer, who lived in
Munich on half pay. This communication
was followed a year after by another
letter in which Hubert, proud and exulting,
informed the head of the family
that a daughter had been born to the

house of Norther oft. As Sir Stephen
answered but coldly to these ebullitions
of feeling, a fresh silence ensued, and all
the brothers knew of one another's
doings were the important facts that
both were married and each had a child.
Joy in the advent of an heir at Pineridge
however had been damped at once by
the sad revelation that baby Philip,
whose birth had cost his mother her
life, was likely to lose his eyesight
before he could know what eyesight
was.

The next news that the wanderer
Hubert received from England was in
the letter which we have read, and
which followed him on his Swiss tour,
and contained those left-handed congratulations
which provoked the ire of high-spirited
Letitia. Formal as it was, that

epistle had certainly narrowed the breach
between the brothers ; and during the
six years following its receipt, letters
occasionally passed between them.

Those six years had been spent by
Hubert in ceaseless and arduous work ;
for though he lost much time in theorising,
and more still in grumbling
amiably, he managed to work as well.
The holiday he spent in Switzerland
seemed to have given him fresh impetus,
and the cheering companionship of his
high-minded, energetic wife encouraged
him to persevere now, where he would
erst have yielded to his natural indolence.
He was thoroughly acclimatized
in Munich by this time, and it was from
this quaint home of Teutonic art that
the Englishman sent forth those pictures
to the exhibitions in Paris, Vienna, and

other Continental centres, which, in time,
secured for him an European reputation.
It is a bright, clear, January morning,
between six and seven years since we
first saw our friends on the slopes at
Meyringen. It is frosty, keen, and inspiriting
out of doors, snug and comfortable
within the capacious light studio,
heated as it is by the china-tiled stove
in the far corner. Close by the fire,
Mrs. Northcroft is sitting, busy with
her knitting as usual. (How many pairs
of socks has she made since first we
beheld her thus occupied among the
Swiss mountains ?) Hubert, palette and
mahlstick in one hand, brush in the
other, stands before the large, half-covered
canvas to which he devotes
every hour of the now precious daylight.


This clump of firs in the foreground,
and the path that leads away towards the
stream, always remind me of Torshire," he
says, as he examines his work. " When I
was a small boy, I used to go fishing in a
brook something like that, which is within
a mile of the Priory."

"I wonder if I shall ever see your old
home, Hugh," says his wife, smiling up at
him ; " I know you would like me to visit
all your old haunts with you."

Indeed I should, wife," said he, straightening
himself and adjusting his palette ;
and there are times when the thought of
my brother all alone in that great house
with his poor blind boy, makes me quite
melancholy. It does seem sad that Stephen
and I, brothers as we are, and the only
two representatives left out of a once large
and united family, should be permanently

estranged. He, living in England in solitary
grandeur, I, leading a busy, happy
life in the home made so cheerful for me
by you, wife, and our Fairy. I really
think it is quite time now that we should
take some active steps towards a reconciliation,
and since Stephen has offered us
hospitality in the old home, let us accept
it. I think I can manage to get away this
year, and as soon as I receive the money
from Gras von Stein for this commission, I
should like to try my hand at English landscape
for a change. Let us settle to leave
Munich in May, wife. Lina will enjoy the
journey, too, and her bathe companionship
is sure to be a pleasure and comfort to
that unfortunate blind lad. It positively
makes my heart ache to think of him."
This speech is followed by a profound sigh,
of course, and Hubert's blue eyes turn

VOL. I. E

towards his wife in wistful appeal. There
is more white hair on his head and in his
beard, and a slight increase of emhoniDoint
and wrinkles, but there is also the same
neglige style of attire, and quite as bright
and kind an expression on the pleasant face
as ever.

I fear you and your brother are not at
all likely to agree, after all these years,"
says Mrs. Norther oft, anxiously. " Your
views on all subjects seem so dissimilar
now."

They always were, my dear," says
Hubert. "And upon my word it is only
natural," he adds with a laugh, " that
Stephen should be horrified with my mode
of life. The sole aim of his existence has
always been to keep up the dignity of the
Northcroft family, and my erratic existence
and devotion to a profession have outraged

his fine old provincial prejudices, of course.
It was trying for him no doubt that I, his
only brother, should prefer a continental
life and the society of slovenly artists, with
long beards and short pipes, to the stilted
respectability of the county folks with
whom it is his ' pride and pleasure ' to
associate. Oh ! Letty, what a stupid lot
those provincial magnates seemed to me !
Never a word to say except about horse-racing,
fox-hunting — scent, coverts, coveys,
turnips, or partridges ! Can human ingenuity
devise a more terrific ordeal of
boredom, eh ? "

And you are willing to expose yourself
to such suffering again, Hugh, and all for
your aristocratic brother's sake ? " Mrs.
Northcroft looks up with a questioning
smile, and her husband goes near to where
she is sitting and possesses himself of her

E 2

,Y OF lUlfiUU

hands to the serious detriment of her
knitting.

"I long to show you the old home, the
old ancestral home of the North crofts, as
Stephen so proudly calls it," he says, and
looks tenderly into the quiet earnest face
of the woman he honestly loves and
respects ; "it certainly was a wise dispensation
of Providence," he says meditatively,
" that gave Stephen the priority
in our distinguished family. He is the
right man in the right place. The title
and the estate both fit him admirably.
Responsibility is the salt of his serious life.
I could never have kept the place up
properly, or the tenants, or the accounts,
in proper order ; but I admire the man who
can, and who does do all these things, and
I really believe that he is mollified about
my Bohemian tendencies, since people have

begun to make such a fuss about my
pictures. We shall get on better now than
ever before, my dear anxious wife. And I
should like you to write to Stephen this
very day, and propose our visit to him.
Letters are no trouble to you, are they ? "

If I do write, I had surely better
explain the whole truth to him, Hugh,"
says Mrs. Xorthcroft, with a rapid glance
towards her husband, which looks almost
like entreaty.

Tut, tut, my dear," says he promptly.
What is the use of bothering. You don't
know the man, or you would never suggest
any sort of explanation. Leave well
alone ! "

"Ah! but will it be well?" queries
Mrs. Northcroft, and this time the sigh
and a very deep one — is hers.

"Here is our darling, our Fairy and

Sunshine ! " exclaims Hubert, evidently-relieved
as he hears the patter, patter of
Lina's little feet on the polished floor of
the corridor without.

*rand how went school, and the
lessons, and the pastors, and masters, and
missiles ? " he asks the little one, whose
rosy cheeks glow with health and frost,
and who jumps into his arms with alla
child's glad abandon at a real homecoming.


My darling — my sweet little Lina,"
he says, kissing her fondly. "Tell me,
would you like to go a long journey with
mother and father — a journey to old
England?"

Oh ! yes ; yes ; yes ; " cries the child,
delighted. All children love change and
look forward to it with happiest anticipations.
Of the trio in the studio at

Munich, Mrs. Northcroft is the only one
who thinks of the journey to England
with unspoken, but ever-increasing doubts
and fears.

M^f

MISGIVINGS.

A Though Sir Stephen Northcroft
received the announcement of his
brother's intended visit to the home of
his fathers with more complacency than
might have been expected some years
previously, the subsequent telegram, which
told of Hubert Northcroft's safe arrival in
Dover, produced considerable trepidation
in the well-balanced mind of the baronet.
A meeting between brothers so long
separated, and whose parting had been by
no means amicable, could not fail to
agitate a person with so profound a regard
for conventionalities. Sir Stephen,
after much hesitation and with many misgivings,

had resolved to acknowledge his
brother's success in that derogatory profession
of his ; but the general invitation
to the Priory, with which he had wound
up more than one of his " courteous "
letters of late, had been but an expression
of polite consideration, and he was
greatly surprised and not a Httle perplexed,
when, after a lapse of years, he
found that invitation cordially accepted,
and heard to his dismay that the Hubert
family would probably appear at Tor-chester
station on a certain day in the
approaching June. Had Sir Stephen ever
seriously contemplated the actual arrival
of these unwelcome relations, he would
certainly have been more guarded in his
expressions of hospitable intent. Now, as
the telegram told however, they had set
foot on English soil, and no alternative

me.

was left to the baronet but to meet his
self-exiled brother as pleasantly as possible.
The prospect was in no sense an agreeable
one. Indeed, Sir Stephen mentally-shuddered
as it so closely confronted him.
He had exposed himself to receive and
to entertain these strangers for an indefinite
period perhaps, who certainly could
have nothing in common with him personally
; nor with any of the county people
who were his usual associates. The
habits, manners, and customs of these
quasi savages would be utterly distasteful
to him, of course. They would offend
against his rigid notions of decorum every
hour. Hubert had always been utterly
regardless of appearances m the old days,
and the unsettled manner of life he had
led was not likely to have improved him
in any way. He never could be brought

to pay that deference to the small proprieties
of daily life, which to Sir Stephen
had become as precious as religious observances.
If he was a harum-scarum fellow
when he lived with gentlemen in a refined
home, what would he be now after
associating for years with those rebels
against the social code yclept artists?

Sir Stephen was absolutely horror-struck
as he contemplated the proximate
invasion of his stately home by these ill-mannered
savages. They would probably
expect to dine at mid-day, and would
regard the choice evening repast by
which the master of Pineridge set great
store as — supper.

Atrocious ! And they would have disgusting
German notions anent the preparation
of those dishes for which the
baronet's cuisine was justly famed throughout

the county. They would add sugar
to their cutlets perhaps, and vinegar to
bread sauce. The dinner-hour, which was
wont to be a very welcome one in the
baronet's monotonous life, was now likely
to turn into a social martyrdom, and
the presence of a lady at his table, which
ordinarily afforded pleasure to the courtly
Sir Stephen, was now anticipated with
misgivings akin to dread. For what manner
of person was Mrs. Hubert likely to
be?

An English woman by birth, yes ; and
the daughter of an officer ; but then she
had probably spent the greater part of
her life in Germany, and the fact of her
accepting so uncouth a husband as Hubert
spoke little in favour of her refinement,
according to Sir Stephen's views. At best
she would turn out an unpresentable

laus frau., having foreign predilections
for safer-kraut and black bread, and
addicted to the frequent exercise of domestic
and even menial occupations.
These were favourite pursuits among the
female Teutons, and they actually prided
themselves on rivalling their cooks.
Miracle dictus Would Mrs. Hubert think
it a part of her duty to go down into
the kitchen, to interfere with the maids,
and, perhaps, even to dictate to the formidable
Mrs. Musket herself?

Mrs. Musket was housekeeper at Pine-ridge,
and, having managed matters entirely
to her own satisfaction for many years past,
was little likely to brook any interference
with her prerogatives now. She, at all
events, would be quite able to hold her
own, thought Sir Stephen, with a deprecating
shrug of his shoulders. The question

was whether he should succeed as well
vis-a-vis with this strange sister-in-law of
his.

And how about the ladies in the neighbourhood
— the wives and daughters of his
friends ? They would be sure to call upon
this Mrs. Hubert. Women are always so
meddlesome and inquisitive — what sort of
impression would the strangers make upon
them? A faint perspiration broke out on
the high white forehead of the aristocratic
master of Pineridge as he conjured up
these terrors in his well-regulated mind,
and then he bethought himself of Hubert's
daughter Lina, an unkempt little brat,
no doubt, as German in her manners as her
name sounded. How old was she now?
About four years younger than Philip,
and he was just fourteen. They would be
playfellows, these cousins !

At the remembrance of this relationship.
Sir Stephen came to a sort of halt in his
dreary reflections. It was quite distressing
to think that this little foreigner, child of
an unknown mother, could claim blood
relationship with the sole heir of the
Northcrofts. Perhaps this girl might turnout
a very doubtful associate for the lad.
But then, alas! nothing mattered much
where helpless, useless Philip was concerned.
His keen dislike to society, and inability to
join in its ordinary pursuits, always kept
him entirely in the background.

Such was the tenor of Sir Stephen's perplexing
thoughts as he realized the now
approaching consequences of his ill-considered
offers at hospitality. His brother's
telegram had been handed to him in ,
and he had to make quite
an effort to conceal the agitation with

which the sudden announcement had filled
him. It had taken away all appetite for
his breakfast ; and, as he entered the
oak-panelled morning-room in which it was
laid, he was still too pre-occupied by the
contents of the pink paper he carried in
his hand to heed or reply to the gentle
Good-morning, father," which came from
the occupant of a chair at the further end
of the table.

There was a slight acceleration in Sir
Stephen's long, slow steps, and perhaps
there was a degree less steadiness in the
measured footfall ; for, after a moment's
attentive pause, Philip, who had been
listening anxiously, asked —

"Are you not well, father, or are you
troubled ? "

This gentle inquiry immediately recalled
the baronet to himself, and with a peremptory

movement, which seemed to indicate
displeasure, he answered, " Don't talk
nonsense, Philip. I wish you would not
give way to such ridiculous fancies. Of
course I am quite well, and there is
nothing whatever the matter."

Philip was silenced, but not convinced ;
and the stress his father laid upon his last
words confirmed the sensitive lad's previous
impression.

Sir Stephen then rang the bell for
prayers ; and while the servants, led by
imposing Mrs. Musket the housekeeper,
assemble in due form, a few words about
the head of this well-organized household
and his son, may not be out of place.

Sir Stephen's marriage, like most of the
actions of his decorous life, was an affair
of keen reflection and ample consideration.
His bride elect was an only child, heiress

TOL. I. F

to an old and wealthy landowner, and
herself by no means in the first flush of
youth. Aware that the head of the
house of Northcroft had married her
chiefly with a view to perpetuating the
time-honoured noble name, Lady North-croft
soon began to fret at the non-fulfilment
of her grave husband's hopes, and
he did not scruple to reproach her for the
chagrin this disappointment caused him.
Proportionately great was the joy manifested
at Pineridge when, after some
years of weary waiting and ceaseless
disappointment, I^ady Xorthcroft discovered
that there was at last a chance
of her presenting Sir Stephen with an heir,
and greater still was the rejoicing with
which a son was welcomed in the 'ancestral
halls of his fathers" — (this was Sir
Stephen's favourite formula). But, alas ! his

arrogant satisfaction was but of short
duration; for Nature resented the cares
of maternity which came so late in life
upon Lady Northcroft, who only survived
the birth of her boy a few weeks, and
was fortunately saved from hearing the
terrible doubt whispered by the nurse
and doctors as to her little one's eyesight.
The best skill that London could afford
was sought to bring the light of science
and experience to bear upon those sightless
orbs. Many experiments were made,
many hard names were pronounced in
diagnosing the disorder, but the result
was ever the same. The child's sight was
failing him already, and in course of time
he was doomed to be blind.

This verdict plunged the unhappy
widower into the depths of despondency,

and, in addition to his ordinarily morose

F 2

qualities, he now exhibited a futile but bitter
resentment, the brunt of which fell upon
the luckless boy who was its innocent
cause. For a time proud Sir Stephen refused
to believe that he, the head of the
house of Northcroft, could be subjected to
so cruel a subversion of all the laws which
govern existence; and when the fact was
brought home to him by the vacant staring
of those wide-open sightless baby eyes,
he still thought that money — omnipotent
money — could surely exempt so wealthy a
man as himself from the afflictions to
which less distinguished mortals are liable ;
and he was fairly astounded (as well he
might be) that in the nineteenth century
the resources of science were powerless
when brought face to face with this particular
form of the grave affliction of
blindness.

Sir Stephen's secret but growing resentment
at the mysterious ordinations of Providence
unfortunately merged into cold
indifference towards his unlucky son. He*.
soon taught himself to regard the blinds
boy as a nonentity, and at times seemed
scarcely aware of his existence. It was
unnatural, and pitiable at the same time .
to note the cruel indifference which Sir-sir
Stephen showed to the child who so
patiently endured a lasting loss which
nothing could replace, and which would
surely have entitled him to universal compassion
and the sympathy of all his fellow-creatures.
But the child's affliction hardened
the father's heart instead of softening
it. He was too dignified, and far too
courteous a person to manifest the resentment
slumbering within him by any outward
harshness of speech or manner. The

owner of Pineridge was always too much
on his guard to speak harshly, and would
as soon have thought of getting into a
third-class railway carriage as into a passion.
He contented himself with evincing
his disgust passively only, but
often and often he wished that the
boy lay buried beside his mother, and
wished it with a concentrated passion that
would have amazed himself had he realised
its intensity. If Philip were dead his
father would be free to wed again, and
then a son after his own heart might be
born to him. But neither words nor wishes
kill, and Philip, having been tenderly
nursed during his infancy by a healthy
foster-mother, grew stronger year by year ;
and, while Philip was alive, he, and he
only, could be the heir to the baronetcy.

Sir Stephen stands prepared now to
read prayers to the domestic circle, who
have gathered around him in so quiet
and orderly a fashion. The bright morning
sunshine, which streams straight into
the room, throws his tall, well set-up
figure into strong relief against the background
of dark oak-panelling. The lines
of his face are as hard and firm as those
of his form, and neither relenting nor
yielding seem possible to either. His
features resemble those of Hubert, but
are cut clearer, and with more decision,
and he is like his plastic brother in no
other respect. He wears no beard, for
he belongs to the old school, which deems
a moustache foppish, and condemns a
beard as the sign of a ruffian. He cultivates
the precisely cut mutton-chop
whisker, however, as emblematic of the

English gentleman, and he has never discarded
the high-collared coat and satin
stock, which dates back to the Regency
of " the First Gentleman in Europe."

Serious of aspect, unbending in manner,
the master of Pineridge receives the Family
Bible and Prayer Book from the hands
of Mrs. Musket, the housekeeper, and he
reads the comforting words of the simple
service in a hard mechanical voice that
robs them of half the thrilling meaning
they are intended to convey to those
'Svo have ears to hear."

Has the true import of such words as
Yea, like as a father pitied his children
even so is the Lord merciful unto them
that fear Him," which he has been reading,
ever occurred to this cold, cruel
man ?

Prayers over. Sir Stephen makes but a

poor pretence at breakfasting. He is alone
with his bUnd son ; but he does not neglect
to make a clatter with knife, fork, and
spoon, in order to deceive the lad, who
has reminded him of the acuteness of his
hearing by the pertinent inquiry with
which he received his father this morning.
Philip shall not be allowed to suspect
the agitation which possesses the dignified
head of the house, who rather overcomes
that clatter and rattling, and who, dien
]ie does speak, uses a louder tone than
usual. This raising of the voice, when
addressing blind persons, is a mistake
constantly made by the unsympathetic,
as well as the vulgar, who seem to
think that loss of sight is accompanied
by loss of hearing also. Philip's father,
who neither understood nor compassionate
the affliction of the blind boy,

nie.

certainly did all that most jarred upon
his sensitive feelings this morning. Ordinarily
reserved and taciturn, he now
sought to cover his perturbation by loud
and lengthy speeches, delivered in much
the same style as those he addressed to
the prisoners brought before him in his
magisterial capacity. Philip, whose instincts
(by the law of compensation) are
unusually keen, is by no means deceived
by his father's exaggerated attempts to
appear at his ease, and sits lost in silent
wonder as to what all this covert excitement
portends. He is not left long in doubt.
You will be surprised to hear that
your uncle Hubert is coming to see us
at last," says Sir Stephen, breaking a
prolonged silence with this jerky announcement.
" I have read you extracts from
the Chronicle occasionally, as you no doubt

remember, extracts about — about his pictures
— you know. He is a painter by
profession (deprecatingly), but he has had
an enormous success, and that reconciles
me to the fact of his being an artist."

PhiHp vaguely wonders if artists, as a
race, differ from other men and deserve
contempt as a class. He knows very little
of men or their pursuits, poor lad ; for no
one has ever taken the trouble to teach
him the general facts of life. To his rustic
nurse, the stepmother who saved his life
as a baby, he owes such knowledge of the
people and things about him as helps him
to struggle through daily life with his
crook-handled stick. His father's peremptory
tone encourages no questions this
morning, and Philip therefore resigns himself
to wait for any further information
that may be forthcoming.

My brother Hubert and I have not
met for many years," resumes Sir Stephen,
after another thoughtful pause, " and you
may imagine the gratification his advent
will cause me. He will arrive with his
wife and daughter this afternoon, and of
course we shall all dine together at eight
o'clock. I thought I would tell you the
news in order that you might be prepared."


Having delivered himself of this weighty
piece of information, Sir Stephen rises
from the table, and pulling his chair over
to the open window, he establishes himself
there, unfolding his newspaper with
considerable rustling, to impress upon
Philip that he is reading, and does not
wish to be disturbed.

The poor blind boy stifles a sigh and
resigns himself to circumstances, which in

this case mean hunger. The breakfast
methodically prepared for him by the
butler, who emulates his master in the
austere gravity of his demeanour, has not
sufficed to stay the cravings of the growing
lad's hearty appetite. His father has
offered him nothing, and has just intimated
that he does not wish to be asked
for anything either. Philip now uses his
long delicate fingers, hoping to find some
further provision within his reach. His
hands have never been browned or hardened
by handing an oar or a bat, but
their gentle, sensitive touch often stands
him in very good stead.

He now feels about his empty plate in
vain, and without putting his cup to his
lips he knows as he poises it on his fingertips
that it will not yield another drop
of tea. And he is so thirsty !

He leans this head on one side, listening
eagerly for any sympathetic crackle of
that engrossing newspaper ; but there is
not a sound. His father is still intent
on the news, and must not be asked to
lend a helping hand as yet. Disappointed,
Philip again tries to place his hands on
the toast-rack or milk-jug, but failing to
find anything more satisfactory than a
loaf and a sardine tin, he rises, and
guiding himself carefully by the edge of
the table, he finds the corner in which
his crook-stick is resting, and eagerly
seizes this guiding friend.

A bright ray of sunshine gilds his
waving chestnut hair as he crosses the
window, and brings the golden gleams
hidden in its brown shadows to light. He
is but a stripling as yet, slim and lithe ;
his well-knit , frame, and honos hands and

feet, give promise of height, however,
and the bright colour in his pretty young
face speaks of sound health. He presents
an amazing contrast to his hard-looking,
austere father ; for the lad's appearance is
gentle, almost to girlishness, and the unusual
length of his hair, which no one
seems to think of cutting for him, adds to
this impression. In watching him as he
cautiously moves along in blind helplessness
a feeling of intense compassion would
possess most beholders, but to his father
he is an eyesore only, and the servants
in the house, taking their cue from the
master, treat his poor son with scant
courtesy and very little consideration. It
is the general immobility of the lad's face
which suggests his blindness ; not the eyes
themselves, for they are Avide open, and
bear no outward sion (jf the cruel infirm.



city which has rendered them useless.
As he reaches the door of the breakfast-room,
PhiHp tarns towards the window
once again, and hastens wistfully for some
detaining word or sisfn. But his father
is still absorbed in that interesting newspaper,
and the boy leaves the august
presence with less notice than a dog
might receive.

^^MS

HOMEWARD BOUND.

TT7HEN once the journey to England
was definitely settled on, it became
the all-absorbing topic of conversation
in the happy little artistic home in
Munich. Lina was to leave the German
Jay-school she had regularly attended
for the last four years, and would henceforth
be taught entirely by her devoted
mother. This was a task the latter
undertook very gladly, as the child's
English had been somewhat neglected.
This had been a matter of regret to 'Mrs.
Northcroft, and she was pleased to think
that under her own tuition this great
need in her child's education would be

VOL. I. G

rectified. The lessons were commenced
with additional zeal now that a visit to
England was in prospect ; for Lina was
most anxious to meet her new cousin on
equal terms. About this cousin the
child asked about a thousand questions.
Father had told her that Philip was
blind.

Blind ! What did that sad sounding
word, so gravely spoken, really mean ?
It was blind in English, and blind in
German ; but the sound conveyed no
definite impression to the anxiously-inquiring
Lina. Wondering, and seriously
perplexed, the child consulted her
mother on the subject so entirely preoccupying
her. And Mrs. Northcroft,
with patient seriousness, explained the
sad nature of PhiUp's affliction.

Full of sorrow, and keenly sympathetic,

the little girl resolved on teaching herself
practically what she found it so
difficult to realize from the descriptions
given her. She tied a handkerchief over
her eyes, and thus blindfolded she felt
her way about the rooms, stumbling
often on her experimental journey.
Once she tried to dress her doll with
the bandage over her eyes ; but finding
herself quite at a loss, she jumped up
in a state of mind bordering on despair,
and flinging the toy on one side, refused
to play or to be pacified. " It is dreadful,
too dreadful," she cried. On another
occasion she endeavoured to eat her
dinner with her eyes closed ; but she
suddenly burst into a flood of tears, and,
sobbing, exclaimed, " Oh, my poor darling
cousin Philip, how unhappy you
must be.

After this final and convincing experiment
Lina tried no others. The sad
reality had come home to her with a
grievous shock ; the child's sensitive
nature suffered under it. Her next absorbing
idea was to find out how she
would best be able to help her cousin,
and with this end in view she studied
English, reading so diligently that before
she left Munich she could manage to
read, page after page, of any easy book
fluently and with little or no foreign
accent.

"And how can he do his lessons,
mother ? " she asked one day : " Should
I be able to teach and help him with
them ? "

Mrs. Northcroft explained the mystery
of the embossed letters, &c., and subsequently
took her daughter to the blind

school, where she beheld the practical
teaching of the afflicted ones, and
wondered greatly at their skill, and at
the cheerful way in which they spoke.
Do you think Philip will be happy,
and laugh as they do, mother ? " she
asked, wistfully, and mentally resolved todo
all she possibly could to please and
amuse that poor dear cousin, who could
not see the bright sunshine, the birds,
the trees and flowers, nor even the
faces of those about him.

When the actual preparations for the
long and anxiously anticipated journey
were commenced in right earnest, Lina
had less time to ponder on the all-engrossing
subject of her afflicted cousin ;
and the child's high spirits and natural
vivacity caused her to find endless
amusement in the trouble and discomfort

attendant upon the break up of a home.
It had been settled by Hubert (who on
this occasion displayed unwonted energy
and decision) that the studio and " flat "
in the old house in Munich should be
let to an artist and his family for one
year certain. Hubert had actually made
up his mind to reside in England for
twelve months at least ; if not with his
brother, at any rate in some separate
establishment. At the end of that time
he would be in a better position, no doubt,
to arrive at a further decision. Mrs.
Hubert, who never opposed her husband
when she found him resolved on a point,
yielded, as usual, though with inordinate
misgivings. But she wisely refrained
from obtruding these upon her easygoing
lord, and as he was more than
usually occupied just now in finishing a

pet picture, which he was bound to
denver within a certain time, she had
the more leisure to devote to Httle Lina,
whose marked intelligence and sensitive
temperament were a source of lasting
pleasure and interest to the high-minded,
simple-hearted mother. She influenced
Lina's every thought, and fostered the
child's natural spirit of unselfishness with
tenderest care. She never repressed the
exuberance of Lina's child-like gaiety ;
nor did she check the high spirits
which made her a very sunshine in her
present home. Hubert, who was of a
calm, equable temper, as we know, was
not likely to display much emotion as
the time for migration arrived ; but
though outwardly quiet and indifferent,
as usual, he was in reality more perturbed
than he cared to let his wife

know. A variety of novel sensations
were at work within him, and he
scarcely knew himself whether he was
most glad or sorry at the thought of
revisiting the home of his boyhood.

By the time the family party was
fairly en route, he, who was never very
talkative, lapsed into a silence that in
another man would have seemed sullen.
And the placidity which was his chief
characteristic disappeared altogether as
soon as he set foot on English soil.
His wife noted these odd changes of
mood in her calm and hitherto unimpressionable
lord ; but she was too wise
a woman to trouble him about them.
She knew if she left him " to work his
way round " unmolested, he would the
sooner return to his normal condition
of cheerful content, and she gladly resigned

herself to bide her time. Meanwhile
she really had little leisure to
think about her husband's vagaries ; for
Lina's eager excitement grew with every
passing hour. It was with the greatest
difficulty, and only " to please dear
mother," that the child could be made
to sit still. In the train, on the steamer,
and also in the carriage that met the
party at Torchester station, her constant
impulse appeared to be to jump out of
the window, and run to the goal of the
long tiresome journey.

Pineridge Priory is pleasantly situate
in that part of Torshire where the trees
from which it takes its name abound.
And as the carriage enters the outer
gate of the plantation which leads onto
the home park, Mrs. Hubert realizes
the accuracy of the descriptions her

husband has so often given her of his
old home.

Oh, pine trees ! Christmas trees ! "
cries Lina, inhaling the luscious scent of
the plantation through which they were
driving. " There is no smell I like better
than that. It is so sweet and so strong
too, and it makes me remember "

The bright childish face is lifted, the
delicate nostrils inhale the grateful perfume
with delight, and into the large
thoughtful eyes there comes a longing,
dreamy look — a look so full of tender
recollections as to be almost sorrowful.
She says, " Tanneiihaum ! " as German
children utter the magic word which is
so pregnant of Christmas delight to them.
Her life among the fair-haired Teutons
seems to have made her one of them.
Instead of responding to her delighted

exclamations with cheerful encouragement,
Hubert, who is decidedly " odd " to-day,
shakes his head and frowns.

Tut, tut, tut !" he says, in what sounds
almost like reproof, " Don't be so romantic,
Lina, and pray don't talk nonsense.
We have come into a land of
prose and matter of fact, where my pictures
and your reminiscences weill not be
appreciated at all." He laughs, but the
laugh is a forced one, and sensible Lina
feeling herself rebuked, becomes silent.

Mrs. Northcroft glances uneasily from
father to child, and again a shade of
anxiety clouds her frank, handsome face.
Hubert perceiving it, takes an extra long
whiff from the pipe he has just lighted.
Hugh, dearest," says his wife, entreatingly,
" pray put your pipe out of sight.
We shall be at the house in a minute.

and you really must show a little consideration
for your brother's prejudices.
What will he think if you arrive smoking
in that way ? In Some you must do
as Some does, surely. What is accepted
in Germany may, perhaps, seem atrocious
here."

She speaks with the utmost gentleness,
but Hubert does not like the implied
reproof. He shrugs his shoulders impatiently,
and his sigh is decidedly petulant.
He adopts his wife's suggestion
nevertheless ; and having knocked the
glowing tobacco out of the obnoxious
pipe, he endeavours to hide it in the
breast-pocket of his coat. But the stem
which is long, persists in protruding, and
it is Lina's ready little hand which carefully
hides it under the broad collar of
the brown velveteen garment. Mrs. Hubert

is now becoming nervous in her turn.
She cannot conquer a certain dread of
the consequences of the meeting between
brothers so long estranged. Personally
she has no pleasure in the idea of spending
weeks — months, perhaps, under the
roof of prim, prejudiced Sir Stephen; but
now as ever, her husband's will is law to
her, and she is determined to do all she
can to add to the harmony of the meetings.
When the brothers come to know
one another better, all is sure to go well.
The overbearing spirit of the elder, the
wild impulse and passionate action of the
younger, are all matters of the past now,
and the present will surely be productive
of that kind and cheerful intercourse
which Letitia, who is a true, loving
woman, deems essential to the well-being
of those about her. She is quick-sighted

too, this clever Avise of Hubert's, and fully
aware of the value of first impressions.
Therefore she is doubly anxious that a
good one shall be made now.

Sir Stephen hears the carriage wheels
upon the gravel drive, with an amount of
trepidation that dismays him. He calls
himself an idiot in the faintest of whispers,
and mastering his agitation by a strong
effort, he leaves his library with a feeling
akin to sickness which makes his pale face
livid. " Courteous " he must ever be, that
is his creed, and it demands that he shall
receive these unwelcome guests with every
outward show of hospitality.

He meets them on the threshold, and
so accurately times his movements that he
holds out welcoming hands just as Hubert
and his wife pass in between the footmen,
who open the wings of the old-fashioned

oak door. Mr. Grind, the butler, is at his
master's back, and the whole ceremony is
made as imposing as possible. Mrs. Musket,
from a distant point of observation, is also
taking stock of the strangers, whom she
angrily dubs " intruders," and a crimson
flush dyes her round face as she comes to
the conclusion that Mrs. Hubert North-croft
is a lady.

Leastwise she behaves herself as such."
This is the housekeeper's confidential
verdict, whispered to austere Mr. Grind
later in the evening.

The first glance at his brother convinces
Sir Stephen that, beyond looking older,
Hubert is Hubert still, to all intents and
purposes, unchanged. But the baronet is
agreeably surprised to find that his sister-in-law
is an elegant, lady-like woman, who
wears her simple but well-made travelling

dress with grace, and bears herself as
though quite accustomed to the honour of
shaking hands with a county magnate.
His quietly observant eye falls on the
child too, and he is struck by the bright
beauty of the intelligent little face, though
the slight trace of a German accent somewhat
jars upon his sensitive ear.

They all stand at the foot of the broad
oak staircase unconsciously absorbed intaking
stock of one another, while they
utter vague remarks upon the length of
the journey, the beauty of the weather,
the country, etc., etc.

Suddenly, with a cry of pity and alarm,
Lina darts from Sir Stephen's side, and
before any one has ascertained the cause of
her distress, she is bounding uj) the stairs
two steps at a time, to where Philip, with
slow caution, is commencing his descent.

He holds the balustrade with one hand and
his crook-stick in the other.

Oh ! let me guide you ; pray, let me
help you ; mind you don't fall," cries the
eager little maid, and she lays her cares s-
ins hand on his arm with the utmost

o

tenderness. " You are my dear, dear
cousin," she whispers close to his ear,
'• and I am going to stay with you and
help you in everything, just as much as
ever I can. Mother has told me many
things I can do for you, and you will
always let me try to be useful to you,
won t you :

Poor Philip stands quite still ; he is first
startled, then amazed. The sweet, strange
childish voice close to his ear, the gentle
pressure of those tiny fingers on his, and
above all, the electric sympathy which
thrills him as he becomes conscious of

VOL. T. H

lier loving presence ; all these new sensations
bewilder him. He stands waiting
irresolute. He is dazzled, poor lad, by the
first sunny ray of the love which lights
up the double darkness of his sad young
life ; but it soon produces a delicious
sense of warmth and animation within
him, and he clasps that soft tiny hand
closely, firmly with his long supple fingers.

I shall be so glad and so thankful if
you will help me a little, my dea?^ cousin,"
he says eagerly, and, as he speaks, a flush
of shyness steals slowly up into his pretty,
refined face.

"He looks like a sorry angel," she tells
her mother, by-and-by. Meanwhile she
leads him gently, step by step, down to
the lofty hall, where his kind-hearted uncle
clasps him fondly in his arms. Philip
feels that this is a day of glorious revelation

for him, and that such happiness
may be in store for him yet, as he, with
his sightless eyes, could never have ventured
to anticipate.

B 2

FIRST IMPRESSIONS.

nPHE Master of Pineridge, a little impatient
of the demonstrative greetings
bestowed upon his son, leads Mrs. North
into the library, and the rest of
the party follow. Presently a gong
sounds.

"We dine in half an hour," says Sir
Stephen ; " so I suppose we must separate
for a time. Grind will wait upon you,
Hubert, and Mrs. Musket has told off a
maid to attend to the ladies. Shall we
adjourn?"

You are not expecting any guests tonight,
are you, Stephen?" asks Hubert,
with evident anxiety.

Guests ? J^o. Is there any one you
desire to meet ? " Stephen speaks in a
tone of protest, as though accused of
neglecting a duty.

Not in the least, my dear boy ; not in
the least," answers Hubert, with a sigh
of relief; "and that being so," he adds
eagerly, " there will be no occasion forme
to dress, eh ? "

"Do just as you please, brother, just as
you please," says the host ; but, though his
words are amiable, his tone is by no means
encouraging there is a ring; of cold displeasure
in it which does not escape the
quick ear of Letitia.

If you dress, Hubert will do the
same," she says, glancing at Sir Stephen
and bowing her pretty head.

"I invariably dress for dinner," he says
in his most pompous tone. " With me it

is a matter not of inclination, but of principle.
A change is requisite after a day's
exercise, and it is the rio^ht think? to do.
It is impossible to keep up the dignity of
your position if you do not impress your
servants. If you make it a rule to dress
for dinner, your valet is kept up to the
mark, and you reduce your butler to his
proper level. If you neglect appearances
the man who waits upon you is apt to
look down upon you in every sense. But
pray do not let my rules interfere with
your convenience, Hubert. Do just as
you please, I beg of you."

He might have spared us that oration,"
the artist mutters below his breath, and
turns appealingly to his wife.

You are afraid you cannot lay your
hand upon your dress clothes, dear," she
says, with her pleasant smile ; " but I can

unpack them for you in two minutes. I
know exactly how they were stowed away.
Come, let us make haste." She puts her
hand on his arm, and so compels him to
leave the room with her.

What a confounded nuisance ! " he
mutters, as soon as the door is closed behind
them. " This is the sort of penance
expected and dreaded all along. Stephen
is just the same stilted prig as ever. reproaches
about manners and morals ad
nauseam, and he practises "

Hush, Hugh, hush, dearest," whispers
his wife in a tone of entreaty.

"Well, it is disagreeable, deuced disagreeable,"
says he, by no means pacified.
"I have not had a dress coat on for months
and months. The livery of society ! Ugh !
I hate society, its liveries, and the rest
of its shams. The idea of wearing a coat

me.

that lias not even a pocket for one's
pipe in it ! If Stephen chooses to dress
and to be a humbug, let him ; but why
should I be bothered ? I shall pretty soon
get tired of him and all his dignity, I know.
I'm sorry I came; and I most certainly
shall not stand this sort of thing very
long."

Nonsense, my dear old grumbler,"
says his wife, cheerily ; " your vexation
is actually making you eloquent. I have
not heard so lengthy a speech from you
since "

Since I proposed the health of our
dear old Reuter at that jolly festival of
artists ; eh, Letty ? Yes, I certainly did
make a good speech that day."

"A splendid speech !" she replies, gaily.
She has diverted his thoughts from a disagreeable
topic, and she has succeeded

in laying all the things needful for his
toilette, ready to his hand.

When Mr. Grind knocks at the door of
the dressing-room to offer his services, he
is considerably startled to find that "artist
chap " looking as much like a gentleman
as his own dignified master does.

Before descending Hubert presents himself
at the door of his wife's room for
inspection and approval.

"If it were not for a whiff of something
rather like smoke you would be perfect,
my dear," she says, smiling, and begins to
sprinkle some lavender water on his coat,
while she adds : " Dare I paraphrase Moore
for your benefit, and suggest :

*•' You may wash, you may comb the beard as you will;
But the scent of tobacco, it lingers there still ' ? "

Hubert is always docile under his wife's
management, and her sweet temper and

ready wit have driven all storm-clouds
from the domestic horizon as usual. He
himself is amazed at his personal transformation,
of which he becomes suddenly-aware,
as he enters the drawing-room,
and beholds a good-looking, well-groomed
Hubert in the long glass which faces the
door.

I had no idea I was such a presentable
fellow," he whispers to Letitia, and she nods
smilingly in confirmation. Hubert feels a
little disappointed to find that Sir Stephen
forbears to make any comment on the
favourable change in his appearance. The
host is agreeably impressed by the concession
his brother has made to the customs of
the house ; but he is far too dignified to
remark on the transformation. Personal
comments in any case show a want of
breeding, and familiarity, even towards a

brother, would have been detrimental to
that stately courtesy on which Sir Stephen
especially prides himself.

Philip usually dines in the middle of
the day," says the host, in answer to an
anxious question from little Lina, " but tonight
he shall join us, as you will be with
us also, and his cover shall be laid beside
yours, as you wish."

Thank you, dear uncle," cries the child
eagerly, and she put up her rosy face for a
kiss. She is the only one of the party who
is not overawed by the oppressive dignity
of the host ; indeed, she is far too much
engrossed in watching and attending upon
her cousin to spare a thought for herself or
any one else. But that evening, when she
had said her prayers, and Mrs. Xorthcroft
bent over to e^ive her the last o-ood-nio-ht
kiss, the child whispered the impression her

me.

new relations had made on her. " Uncle
Stephen is a grand, fine gentleman," said
this acute observer, " but he is a little too
proud of himself. Don't you think so,
mother ? ■"

And what do you think of your poor
cousin ? " asks Mrs. Northcroft, smiling.

Oh ! Philip is a darling."

Hubert, who sits opposite the children at
dinner-time, watches them with a smile of
happy content upon his pleasant face.

That's right, Lina, take care of your
cousin," he says approvingly. " Arrange
his plate like the face of a clock, cut everything
up very small, put the meat at six,
the potatoes at twelve, and the peas at
nine. There, that's capital ! Now, Phil,
you will very soon find your way."

Nurse taught me the clock face," whispers
Philip, shyly, to Lina.

He lives in constant dread of a sharp
silencing word from his father But the
baronet makes no audible sign of disapproval,
though he raises his eyebrows and
curls his lips. These random suggestions
of Hubert to the blind boy sound like nonsense
to the unsympathetic parent, who is
quite unable to appreciate the practical
value of his brother's remarks. But to
Lina and Philip both those lightly spoken
words present a feasible hint, and the
clever, observant little maid arranges the
viands on her cousin's plate as if it were
the face of the clock as her father has
proposed. Then she guides the hand that
holds the fork, and points successively to
meat, potatoes and peas. Philip endeavours,
with the quick sensitiveness of
touch and apprehension which are given
as a merciful compensation for the sad

absence of starlit, to seize on his uncle's
suggestion as still another of those wondrous
revelations with which this strange
and delightful day seems fraught. And
so useful is the simple method indicated,
that the blind boy, with his cousin's kind
assistance, easily finds out and distinguished s
the various contents of his plate, instead of
floundering hopelessly with his knife and
fork among the unsorted food. He presently
begins to eat his dinner with nearly
as much facility as though he can see
what he is doing, and as they rise from
the ceremonious feast, to which the presence
of the children has given its sole
redeeming feature, Philip glides his hand
gently under Hubert's arm, and whispers
gratefully —

"Thank you so much, my dear uncle.
I shall know how to manage my meals

much better now, and I shall think of
you whenever I have my diner." Then,
led by Lina, he follows his aunt into
the drawing-room, and the brothers are
left to their port and their confidences.

Mrs. Xorthcroft is tired, and seats herself
in a lounging-chair by the window that
opens on to the broad stone terrace She
is content to rest now, for the ordeal of
the first stately dinner is over, and has
been passed satisfactorily. This bodes well
for the future peace of the establishment,
and Hubert's wife is thankful for his dear
sake.

"Do let us go out into the garden,"
says Lina, placing her hand on Philip's
arm, "and pick some flowers for mother
while she is resting. She loves roses,
and so do I." The cousin assents, and
they wander forth together out of theme.



open window, across the terrace, and
down the broad flight of steps that leads
to the well-kept paths of the flower
garden.

"Will you sit here and wait for me
while I get the roses ? " says Lina. And
she establishes Philip on a bench. Having
gathered a bunch of early roses, Lina
looks across at the blind boy, and stands
still, eagerly watching him. He has relapsed
into his usual attitude, which is
one of profound melancholy. It is only
when he is spoken to or interested that
he rouses himself. Nov his chin has sunk
upon his breast, his hands hang listlessly
by his side. Lina is transfixed by an
impulse of intense pity, of overwhelming
tenderness. Tears fill her eyes. Oh!
would that she might give him the sight
she has never valued until now! Poor,

sad, and much-to-be-pitied Philip! How
good, how very, very patient and good
she must be to him always — always. How
hard she will strive to brighten his dreary
days!

"I am coming, cousin," she cries, brushing
her tears away, and making an effort
to speak gaily. She is immediately rewarded.
A smile, so sweet and bright
as to gladden her heart thoroughly, is
his response, as he rises, stick in hand,
and guides himself to meet her, following
the sound of her gentle voice.

She lays her hands on his shoulders
when she meets him, and, putting her
sweet child's face up to his, kisses his lips.

I want to promise you, cousin Philip,
to promise you faithfully, dear, that I will
always love you, and always be good to
you, if I can. I want to take care of

VOL. I. I

you and help you, more than I want
anything else m all the wide world."

Thus earnestly, solemnly, the child Lina
sets her seal to the bond between them,
which in the time to come holds her
through storm and trouble, through misfortune
and trial, steadfast, devoted, and true.

The impulse in the child's heart, though

it throbs on earth, is prompted by a spirit

Divine, for it is dictated by a pure and

perfect love.

* * * *

A great sense of peace and content
steals into the hearts of the children as
they walk onward, hand in hand. They
are silent, but their hearts are lull to
overflowing ; tears stand in Lina's eyes,
tears of a holy and infinite compassion,
and two glittering drops roll slowly over
Philip's cheeks. His heart is melted within

him. The dawn of a new Hfe of
bright and beautiful days seems to him
to be beginning with this sunset hour —
the hour in which words of devotion,
of precious promise, have been spoken to
him, the hour in which gentle hands
have guided him cautiously, and the
sweet pressure of a small child's hips
upon his own has revealed the first
glimpse of a new and wonderful world
to him — the bright world of love.

"Let us go back to mother, and ask
her to play us soft music," says Lina,
at last. The prolonged silence is becoming
painful to her. She has no clue
as yet to her companion's thoughts, and
whenever he is silent she fears he is
unhappy. Music is always soothing and
delightful. Philip surely loves music too,

and mother plays so sweetly !

I 2

When the children return to the drawing
room, they find the gentlemen there.
Lina lays her roses on her mother's lap,
and makes her petition, " Philip would
like it so much," she says, " and you
and I will teach him to play ; won't
we, mother ? "

The fine old Broadsword, that has
scarcely been used since Lady North-croft's
death, is readily opened by Hubert
for his wife, and the baronet looks on
at all these innovations with considerable
surprise, but without any protest. In
truth he finds his brother's wife admirable
and is not inclined to quarrel with
anything she does. And she plays exceedingly
well. She abstains altogether
from musical fireworks, but her touch is
exquisite, and she renders some lovely
melodies with a grace and purity which

even Sir Stephen appreciates, and which
lead him to signify his approval.

Philip sits perfectly silent, far away ina
corner by the window. It is only
when Lina, in obedience to her mother's
behest, begins to sing that he creeps
slowly, cautiously' across the room, until
he stands by her side. She sings in a
clear, childish treble, and the ditties she
has learnt are simple German volhslieder ;
but to Philip it seems as if heaven has
opened, and her voice is the voice of
an angel.

How happy you are all making me
to-day ! " he whispers to his uncle, as he
bids him good-night. " I have thought
it very hard to be blind at times, but
I shall never think so again if you will
all stay here and make life glad and
bright for us."

Will you come down at six and
walk in the garden with me, cousin ? "
asks Lina, as she turns to follow Mrs.
Northcroft out of the room. "It is so
beautiful out of doors in the early
morning."

I shall not sleep at all, for fear of
being later than you are," says he,
smiling ; and thoroughly satisfied, they
all take leave of one another for the
the night.

1,

UNT)EE-CUHIIEXTS.

nPHE first few hours of his intercourse
with his newly arrived relatives
were sufficient to lift a great weight
from Sir Stephen's mind, and to relieve
him of the growing anxieties which he
had spent the last day or two in conjuring
up to his own torment. Like
many imaginary evils, these disappeared
the moment they were confronted in the
flesh, and his first interview with his
relatives over, Sir Stephen breathed freely
again. Hubert was certainly still the
same easy-going pipe-smoking Hubert as
of yore ; but even he was improved in
many respects. Matrimony had certainly

had a highly beneficial influence upon
him. It was evident that he was ready
to submit with a good grace to the
practical suggestions of his discreet wife,
and though himself as regardless of les
conveyances as of yore, he obeyed her
well-timed directions without much protest.
As to Mrs. Hubert herself, Sir
Stephen was fairly amazed, and pondered
With increasing surprise on the startling
fact that so refined and well-bred a lady
should have condescended to marry so
harum-scarum an individual as his artist
brother. The owner of Pineridge felt
almost inclined to pity his sister-in-law ;
but as she was evidently quite content
with her lot, and very much attached to
her erratic husband, compassion was out
of place : a shrug of the shoulders, a
curl of the thin lips, and a muttered

unaccountable beings are women, "
sufficed to express his astonishment.

That Lina showed signs of great promise,
and was in every respect a charming
counterpart of her mother, was natural.
The excellent influence of the latter was
already visible in all the child said and
did. Sir Stephen regretted that so foreign-sounding
a name had been given to his
niece, and he hoped that in the course
of time she would overcome the slight
German accent with which she spoke her
native language. But what faults he had
to find were all due to Hubert's eccentricity,
as he had already ascertained in
questioning his brother during their first
confidential post-prandial chat. Hubert
had insisted on the child's having a German
nurse during her infancy, and Hubert
had chosen the objectionable German name,

because it belonged to his first love — a
dear little German maid he had met asa
student, and whom he would have
married, had she not died.

And does your wife know all this
romantic folly ? " asked Sir Stephen, poising
his wine-glass daintily between his
long slender fingers.

My wife knows the true story of my
life," answered Hubert, with a deep sigh.
"She was thankful to find that so heedless
a fellow as her artist husband was
capable of a lasting and grateful memory.
It seemed a guarantee of my constancy
in the future. Letty is a very sensible —
perhaps a remarkable — woman, Stephen;
when you know her better, you will find
out that I have had the good fortune to
draw a prize in the great lottery called
marriage."

''I have arrived at that comfortable conclusion
already," said Sir Stephen pompously.
He seemed to think that his
approval put the necessary hall-mark upon
what without it would have been but a
poor imitation. Hubert hid a smile under
his beard as he responded to some further
laudatory comments on "that exceptionally
charming woman, my sister-in-law ! " " He
evidently forgot that she had to be my
wife before she aspired to that honour,"
thought Hubert ; but he drank his wine
m silence, and was content to know that
his Letty was appreciated at head-quarters,
even if he were still disapproved of.

Of Philip's delight at the coming of his
kind relations there could be no doubt.
So great was his happiness, poor lad, that
he really could not sleep ; but, as the
thoughts crowding one after another into

his active brain were essentially pleasant
ones, he rose quite refreshed in the morning,
and awaited the chiming of the great
hall clock, which would proclaim the hour
six, with intense eagerness. There was
neither dawn nor rousing morning sun
for him ; but a new day was shining in
his heart, and he longed for a repetition
of the sweet experience of that bright
yesterday. He felt sure that he should
fid all he was seeking? as soon as he was
in Lina's presence again, listening to the
musical sounds of her soft speech, feeling
the encouraging pressure of her small
guiding hand, knowing that at last he
had found some one to care for — to love
him, some one who thought it a pleasure
to come to his aid, and v/ho would pity
rather than condemn him for his helplessness.


But there was another and a very important
personage m that oddly assorted
household, on whom the arrival of the
Hubert Xorthcrofts had by no means so
tranquilising an effect. This was Mrs.
Sarah Musket, the housekeeper. On the
death of her late mistress, Lady J^orth-
croft (fourteen years ago), Mrs. Musket
had assumed the reins of government as
far as the domestic establishment at the
Priory was concerned, and no one had
questioned her absolute authority in the
slightest degree ; but the advent of Mrs.
Hubert filled her suspicious soul with
instant and insurmountable misgivings.
Who could tell the upshot of that lady's
arrival at the house of her brother-in-law?
She was sure to be of the
interfering inquisitive sort. And a former
experience of the housekeeper warranted

her in dreading the power of female
relations where bachelors or widowers
were concerned. They always made a
point, those " benevolent " ladies, of peering
into the private affairs of their lonely
relatives, which was apt to result in all
sorts of unpleasantness. For the devoted
housekeeper had done her very best
for the bereaved gentleman, " that she
had."

The chances were that Mrs. Hubert
would discover some flaws in Mrs.
Musket's domestic management ; or, at all
events, she would make a point of saying
that matters were not as they should be.
"It's always the way with those ladies
that come interfering in other people's
houses," thought anxious Mrs. Sarah,
wearily. And then she wondered if Mrs.
Hubert would have the bad taste to confide

her disapproval to the master of the
house, when she felt herself more at
home there. She seemed to be quite at
her ease with Sir Stephen already, and
his high and mighty manner, which
chilled most people, had evidently not
had the effect of subduing that lady, or
that forward little child, who seemed to
have taken the most wonderful fancy to
the blind boy from the first, and who
showed no more fear of the haughty
baronet than she did of his silly, helpless
son. There was no knowing where all
this wonderful friendliness and sudden
intimacy might lead.

Mrs. Northcroft might actually go sofar
as to question the extent of the
household expenditure. She might even
presume to interfere in this sacred matter
personally, or worse still, to suggest theme.



propriety of doing so to the austere
master of the Priory.

The thought of that forward Miss Lina,
was a terrible thorn in the flesh to the
greatly perturbed housekeeper. The lad
was still very young, and the girl a mere
child ; but he was heir to the baronetcy,
to all his father's wealth too, and she was
evidently a very knowing young lady.
Perhaps she had actually been taught to
play her cards already ; much as Mrs.
Musket had taught a similar lesson to
her own daughter, black-eyed, bouncing,
loud-spoken Miss Isabel. Was this fair-haired,
soft little cousin about to interfere
in schemes so ambitious, so fraught
with exceeding importance, that Sarah
Musket herself hardly dared to confront
them in all the possible magnitude of
their results ?

Like ago she might have whispered —

'Tis here ; but yet confused —

Knavery's plain face is never seen till used."

That she had made wondrous plans for
the future of her only child was an undoubted
fact. She was educating Isabel
up to some destiny far beyond what her
present position implied, and to further
her ambitious views, now that the girl
had turned fifteen, she had sent her to a
ladies' school at Brighton, where a heavy
fee entitled her to share the lessons of
those who socially were immeasurably her
superiors. Mrs. Musket was determined
that, come what might, Isabel should at
least be capable of holding her own, both
as regards manners and accomplishments,
with any real-born lady in the world.

Now the sudden and unwelcome advent
of these bothering relations of her master

VOL. I. K

seemed to act as a check on the housekeeper's
covert aspirations, and she could
not subdue the fear that their visit, if
prolonged, would prove detrimental to
her Isabel, who was only about eighteen
months older than Mr. Philip. Some
years ago this girl had been allowed to
play with him occasionally. Sir Stephen
would not have sanctioned the constant
companionship of his son with Mrs.
Musket's daughter, but, under the circumstances,
there was no valid objection
to her taking the place of his guide and
attendant at times. The girl, however,
who was naturally selfish and hot-tempered,
found no pleasure in a task which, above
all else, required gentleness and patience,
and she fiercely resented her mother's
constant behest to go and look after
Master Philip. She certainly did not add

much to the poor lad's comfort or happiness
while she was a resident at Pineridge,
and yet his affectionate nature and sad
helplessness had taught him to cling to
and depend upon her to a great extent.
And when her mother despatched her to
the boarding school at Brighton, Philip
fretted considerably, and often lamented
her absence. This parting had taken
place at the end of the last Christmas
holidays, just a few months before the
arrival of Lina.

The only other individual who to any
extent was concerned in ministering to
the wants of Philip after Isabel's departure
was a Mr. Blunt, who came over twice
a week from the School for the Blind at
Torchester. He taught young Northcroft
to read by the aid of embossed letters,
and otherwise educated him as far as the

K 2

schoolmaster's very limited powers permitted
him to do. For the greater
portion of his long lonely days, poor
Philip was left to his own devices entirely,
and it was an optional matter with coachman,
housekeeper, or butler to allow one
of the lower servants to take the son of
the house for his walks abroad. If their
services were required by their superior
officers, neither footman nor groom was
allowed to attend to the blind boy, and
he was far too gentle and resigned to his
hard fate to rebel openly against the
decrees issued from the housekeeper's
room.

Sir Stephen never took the slightest
trouble about his boy, beyond ostentatiously
leading him in and out of church
every Sunday, and this he did as if he
would say to the admiring on-lookers,

"Behold the devotion of the greatest
among you to one hopelessly afflicted,
who would be helpless but for this condescension
!" When he and the boy were
alone he scarcely rendered him any assistance
whatever ; but (if the butler were
present) he would occasionally read scraps
of news aloud from the morning papers,
or in the evening would pretend to listen
to a chapter from the Bible, which the
blind boy was at such infinite pains to
fumble out with puzzled and weary fingers
on the embossed pages. Sir Stephen had
come to regard his son as a useless encumbrance
only, and it never occurred to
the selfish, inconsiderate elder that other
resources than those of field sports were
available to the blind boy.

Had it been possible to send Philip to
a ]public school, the father would have

deemed distinction in the cricket field or
with the oar far beyond any academic
success. His ambition had been that his
son should grow up and follow in his own
footsteps. Prowess in those sports, identified
with the typical gentleman of provincial
England, ranked above " book
learning " in the narrow mind of the
baronet.

It was probably the deplorable fact
that Philip was considered a nonentity at
Pineridge which first suggested an amazing
scheme for his future subjection to
Mrs. Musket. But, however events might
turn, a " first-class education " could not
do otherwise than redound to her own
and her daughter's credit in the years to
come. It was on this account she had
resolved to invest a portion of her considerable
savings (?) in procuring Isabel's

admission to the fashionable school of
the Misses Price, of Adelaide Square,
Brighton. Had Mrs. Musket foreseen the
possibility of Lina's advent on the scene
she would most assuredly not have sent
her daughter out of the way at so critical
a juncture. But that young lady was
already learning to ape her betters and
wear her new handsome dresses with
infinite arrogance, when simple, affectionate
Lina arrived at Pineridge. Meanwhile
this sweet-natured child devoted herself
solely to her afflicted cousin from the
first hour of their meeting, and she soon
became eyes, hands, and feet, to him.

The light of her love brought sunshine
into his existence now, and with every
passing day he felt the sorrow of his
benighted state less acutely.

ART PROGRESS.

TTUBEKT's unquenchable love for his
art revives, and begins to show
itself strong as ever a very few days after
his arrival at Finer edge. The characteristics
of the English scenery attract and
fascinate him. He wanders away into
the open, sets up his easel and campstool,
and goes to work with his usual
undemonstrative enthusiasm and concentrated
energy. He soon completes some
happy sketches and studies of foreground
and bramble, sandbank or rural road.
The running brook up beyond the plantation
makes a charming " bit," and
especially delights admiring Lina. The

baronet regards his eccentric brother's
proceedings with mild deprecation. There
is no harm in this mania, and it does not
interfere in the least with any of Sir
Stephen's farming occupations, and, as
most of the county families are away in
London at this time of the year, he has
nothing to fear from their criticisms of
his brother's undignified and trivial pursuits.


Hubert had established his reputation
chiefly by the portrayal of foreign scenery,
and now he was determined to prove to
his admirers that he could deal with the
peculiar beauties of his native land as
successfully as with other subjects. His
desire was to paint a notable picture in
Torshire this year, which he might afterwards
send or take to Munich, and thenceforward
to other continental exhibitions.

Philip displayed the keenest interest
about this sketching and painting of which
he heard his uncle talk, and asked a
thousand questions of Lina on the subject.
He felt all the brushes, the palette, the
cleaning knife, the colour tubes, canvas
and mail-stick. The whole procedure was
a subject of profound interest to him.

"You shall come out sketching with
father to-day," says Lina, one morning
when Hubert had just declared his intention
of taking up some outdoor work. " I
often went with him when we lived abroad,
and now we will both go. We will sit
behind him very quietly, we won't disturb
him a bit, and I Avill tell you all he does
in a whisper. That won't worry him. I
will tell you all he does, and what colours
he uses. When you are tired of hearing
all about that — and its only the same

thing over and over again, but just with
a different colour now and then — I shall
read you a pretty story. Mother says I
can manage almost any book now. What
have you heard, and what would you like
best?"

I don't know," says Philip, with a
deprecating movement of head and hand.
I don't think I have ever heard any
real stories."

What ! has no one ever read you
Andersen's lovely Fairy Tales, or Grimm's,
or the stories from Shakespeare ? "'

Philip listens to her eager questions in
evident dejection.

I know none of them," he says, " but
I remember some one once told me I
ought to hear Sir Walter Scott's novels.
Have you ever read those, Lina ? "

Not all of them," she answered, pleased

to confess that she also is ignorant, since
this will reconcile him to his want of
information, "but I know 'Ivanhoe' and
The Talisman ; ' mother read them tome
: they are such beautiful stories ; and
I have read part of them again to myself
since. I have the books, and we
will take one of them out with us, and I
will try and read it to you ; won't that be
nice ? How very glad I am that you have
never heard them ! You will like them
so much, I am sure — only they are very
long, and some of the words are very
hard. You will not mind my being rather
slow in pronouncing them, I hope, dear
cousin ? "

I shall indeed like to listen, and I will
be very patient, I promise you," says
Philip ; " I have never heard any story
read steadily through from beginning to

end yet. Martin, the groom, once began
to read me a book called ' The Old English
Gentleman,' but that was all about
horses and dogs and farms. I did not care
much about it, because I could not understand
it. I begged him to read ' Robinson
Crusoe ' to me, and I gave him all my
pocket money, for I dearly wanted to
hear that story ; but he said it was
rubbish, and only fit for babies. If I
wanted to read that sort of stuff, he said,
I had better get it in the print I could
understand myself. He thought it might
be done in embossed letters ; but it turned
out that nothing really worth reading was
ever printed in them except the Bible.
It appears Mr. Blunt gave him this information
when he drove him over from
Torchester one morning, and Mr. Blunt
has certainly never got me any book

except the Bible, and oh, how often have
I been thankful for that ! "

Lina looks wistfully at the boy ; her
large, loving eyes fill with tears. The
compassion she feels for him grows with
each passing hour, there are moments
when she feels as if she must take some
instant and forcible revenge on the cruel,
cruel people who have so long and so
terribly neglected this patient, uncomplaining
sufferer. But he shall not know
that his trouble makes her cry. She
brushes her tears away hastily, and clears
the choking sob in her throat as she says
with admirable cheerfulness —

So much the better, Phil dear, there
will be all the more for me to read to
you. I can tell you ' Robinson Crusoe '
right off; I have that in German and
English too ; you will like it, and we can

act it ! We will play at it in the garden,
and fancy we are wrecked on the grass-plot.
What fun we shall have ! But
besides our games we will do all sorts of
learning too. I mean to teach you German,
and mother and I together are going
to give you splendid music lessons. We
both know how you love music, and so
we are sure that will be a very great
pleasure to you. My only fear is that
we shall never find time for half we want
to do."

Oh ! dear yes ; " says Philip wearily.
The days are very, very long and I
never know what to do with myself when
Mr. Blunt has gone, for I learn the little
lessons he sets me very quickly ; but I
cannot manage my music alone. That
vexes him, he cannot understand why I
should be so stupid, he says." Then the

patient boy bows his head in sore dejection,
and the profound sigh he breathes
comes from a very heavy heart.

As yet he has not realized the possibility
of any one taking a lasting and active
interest in him, his sorrows and his needs.
That Lina intends to be so devoted a slave
to him, as to render time short, and
weariness a thing unknown, is a benefit
beyond his powers of conception, and his
smile still has a tinge of sadness in it,
which lapses into absolute melancholy
when he is left alone to ponder on his
helplessness. But when Lina appeals to,
rouses and encourages him as now, he
turns so bright and happy a face upon
her, that she feels no sacrifice on her part
can be too great if it secures such cheerful
satisfaction on his. The unselfish little
maiden has no notion of calling her simple,

pleasant duty by so grand a name as a
sacrifice ; but such it decidedly is. And
her total self-abnegation and sweet subjection
to her helpless cousin is a bright
example that many of us might be proud
to follow in the service of our friends.

The first sketching expedition proved
so pleasant to all concerned that it was
followed by many others. The cousins
set forth hand in hand, gaily following
genial, even-tempered Hubert to the spot
selected by him as suitable for artistic
purposes. Lina did all and more than
all she had originally promised. She told
Philip accurately how the painting progressed,
and she read him the stories of
the great Magician and many others —
indeed she seemed fairly on the road to
the bright climax of her ambition ; for
even now she often made Philip forget

VOL. I. L

that he was bUnd, and she certainly had
a way of shortening the hours so effectually
that he began to wish there were
more of them in each quickly passing day.
Hubert JN'orthcroft and his wife watched
Lina's devotion to her cousin with
intense sympathy and profound interest.
It was a subject of constant rejoicing
to them that this bright little maid
should prove herself as steadfast and
thorough as she was fascinating. Her
sweet unselfishness more than fulfilled
their ardent wishes as to her moral
strength, and there were moments when
their pleasant impression seemed to cast
rays of light upon the undefined disc of
the distant future. As years went by it
seemed more than probable that Lina
would become daily of greater use and
service to her cousin, and thus, in due

course, each would find a willing and able
helpmate at hand. What more natural or
more satisfactory for all concerned than
such a sequence of events ?

A couple of months had been spent at
Pineridge before either husband or wife
dared to speak openly of the thoughts
thus preoccupying them. Meanwhile the
children had become constant and inseparable
companions, and it would have been
strange indeed if the strongest affection
had not grown up in Philip's warm heart
for all his newly-found relatives. Their
unfailing solicitude for his welfare and the
ceaseless trouble they took on his account
evoked the utmost gratitude from him. His
uncle, absorbed as he was in his painting,
was never " too busy " to reply to the
boy's eager questions, and though never

talkative, seemed always inclined to afford

l2

Philip some information which would interest
or amuse the attentively listening
boy. His aunt had a special claim on his
affection and gratitude, because she personally
superintended the music lessons
which Lina now gave him every day.
Music held the blind lad enthralled. His
aunt's playing and Lina's singing were the
chief delights of his life, and the promise
that he also should play with perfect ease
some day led him to practise very patiently
whenever he had the chance of doing so.
It was very, very hard work, painfully
wearisome and discouraging at times, both
for pupil and teacher ; but both Aunt
Letty and Lina were too well aware of the
pleasure which would reward the lad's
perseverance to suffer him to yield in face
of the first difficulties. The matutinal hour
spent at the piano, by her cousin's side,

every day, was probably the greatest test
of Lina's affection and patience ; but she
bore herself bravely, and by degrees the
hardship of tuition was lessened. Everything
had to be fumbled out by finger
and ear ; but the fingers were acutely
sensitive, and so was the sense of hearing.
And it was so pleasant to watch his evident
improvement in the art which roused
him more thoroughly than anything else
he tried to do.

But best of all was it to see the smile
of perfect content which gladdened his
gentle face if, after ceaseless repetition, heat
last managed to render a difficult phrase
accurately. That was Lina's reward ; she
cared for little else now, so long as Philip

was happy.

Thus days went by, making weeks, and

weeks months, and three of these had

brought and taken the bright summer
with them, and still the Hubert North-crofts
were staying on at Pineridge, and
any suggestion of their departure was
instantly and peremptorily silenced by
Sir Stephen, who was more than reconciled
to their presence now, and regarded
it with calm but lasting satisfaction.
The concessions which under his wife's
firm guidance Hubert made to the
formalities of the house had overcome all
Sir Stephen's objections, and he had taken
an early opportunity of presenting him to
the neighbouring families, who at the close
of the London season returned to their
country houses. Hubert could not forbear
to comment on the absurd fashion which
kept the grandees prisoners in town during
the sweetest and brightest months of the
year, and sent them flocking back to the

country just as the glory of summer was
on the wane and autumn tints began to
show upon the falling leaves.

To Sir Stephen routine was the Alpha
and Omega of social existence, and the idea
of Hubert questioning the decrees of
fashion appeared unseemly, not to say irreverent.
But, then, Hubert always was so
painfully unconventional.

The artist worked away, absorbed in his
progress, and heeding outsiders or their
comments not at all. He had used his time
and the fine weather to the best possible
advantage. He was already well forward
with a large picture, and had successfully
completed two smaller ones. Anxious to
finish all the work begun on the spot, the
painter willingly acquiesced in his brother's
repeated invitations for his prolonged stay
at the Priory, and made himself thoroughly

at home there. The only grievance Sir
Stephen now had against Hubert was anent
that absurd apparatus, that gipsy-ike tent
which the painter had erected on a convenient
mound close to the entrance of the
home park. It would be positively embarrassing
when the county people began
to call on their return to have them gazing
at Hubert as he sat at his work out of
doors.

There really seemed to be very little
difference, the baronet thought, in the
labour of an artist and of ordinary painters
who came to renovate houses, and brought
ladders and scaffolding with them. Still
for the sake of charming Mrs. Hubert and
her pretty child, Sir Stephen resolved to
put up with his brother's vagaries, and
devoutly hoped that his friends would do
the same.

Little Lina, whose sunny influence was
felt by all who came in contact with her,
was gaining a remarkable ascendency over
her seemingly forbidding uncle. He seldom
met her on the stairs or in the
passages without a smile or a word of
recognition, he kissed her paternally night
and morning, and when he drove to Tor-chester
he mostly brought some souvenir
home to the bonnie maid.

Far beyond all this overt recognition of
her amiable spirit was the profound influence
of the child on her austere relative,
for he was at last, though but slowly,
awakening to his son's needs.

One day he remarked to little Lina, " It
is very kind and most civil of you to
give yourself so much trouble about Philip,
and to take pains with him as you do, but
I really must protest against your inconveniencing

yourself. Mr. Blunt is a very
able instructor ; I informed myself accurately
upon that head before engaging
him, and I am fully persuaded he does all
that can be done."

He always addressed the child with that
pompous, magisterial air of his, but that
was a sign of his courtesy, and by no
means implied reprimand.

Dear uncle," she answered promptly,
I quite believe Mr. Blunt is a good
teacher, but he is only a stranger, and he
does not love Philip. I do ; so it is no
trouble to me to try and help him — indeed,
it is the greatest pleasure I have."

This ingenuous rejoinder fell like a ray
of light on to the baronet's dull intelligence,
and he began to observe Philip and that
charming guide and companion of his with
quite a new interest. One day he actually

commented on his son's manifest improvement
by this surprising speech —

I declare you are making quite a bright
boy of him, Lina. He is as different from
the dull lad you found him when first you
came as day is from night."

On another occasion he repeated his
satisfaction at the change effected by
Lina's presence, and added —

"I could not possibly agree to your
parents taking you away from us yet. The
old house would be but a sorry abode if
our bright fairy departed from it."

Mrs. Hubert heard this auspicious speech,
and rejoiced exceedingly over its import,
which she at once confided to her husband,
and when the baronet, referring to it himself,
suggested a compromise, by asking
them all to stay over Christmas, and begin
the new year at the Priory, Hubert, bearing

his work in mind, assented cheerfully to
his brother's gracious proposition. By the
end of January the great picture would
certainly be completed, and if the artist
himself could not take it over to Munich,
as he desired to do, it was quite possible
to send it.

Mrs. Northcroft, who always gave the
decisive vote on questions regarding the
well-being of her family, was inclined to accept
her brother-in-law's invitation, which
had been repeated with unusual warmth
this time. She herself had no particular
desire to return to the old quasi-bohemian
existence in Munich. She was a practical
woman, and a comfortable existence in a
well-appointed home Alas thoroughly to
her taste. She had perfect faith in her
husband's genius, had clear-seeing Letitia,
and the conviction that his work could not

fail to fetch very high prices in England
(when once he was duly recognised there),
may have influenced her decision. From a
business point of view, wealthy England
was certainly preferable to impecunious
Germany.

And then there was Lina's future to be
considered. A return to Munich would
certainly not further the plans steadily
growing in Mrs. North croft's mind, plans
which assumed strength and importance
with each passing month. Hubert himself
was cheerful and contented anywhere, so
long as he could work in peace and was
not bothered about practical affairs. He
abhorred " business " and responsibility of
all kinds, and invariably handed over any
mental burdens thrust upon him to his
willing wife. She was brave and strong,
and assumed them with perfect goodwill.

ane.

How would it be to send this picture
to the Eoyal Academy, and give up the
idea of sending it to Germany, Hugh ? "

This was Letitia's pregnant suggestion
one morning, after a long and critical
study of her husband's most ambitious
painting.

It certainly was an admirable picture.
The effect of the sunset on the sturdy
pine trees which formed the foreground
of the landscape was marvellous. The
naturally brilliant hue of the straight
stems was intensified by the mellow light
of the sinking orb, in which they literally
glowed again, while the purple hills in
the distance were sharply silhouetted
against a golden sky.

Hubert was very comfortably established
in a large disused room in the old wing of
the Priory, which his wife had converted

into a convenient studio. The small-pane
window duly facing north was enlarged to
a light of artistic dimensions, a good heat-giving
stove was procured from Torchester,
and fitted into the old-fashioned fireplace,
rugs were spread here and there upon the
stained floor, and all the appliances required
by the painter were provided for
him by that clever, thoughtful helpmate
of his. Settled in this comfortable studio,
Hubert felt very much at his ease, and he
worked with surprising diligence throughout
the short winter days, appreciating
and doing full justice to the precious daylight
hours.

That well-considered proposition of his
wife's anent his last and greatest effort
roused the artist's dormant ambition. To
have painted a Torshire landscape in England
and to send it straight to London for

exhibition was indeed a happy and inspiring
thought ; and with that end in view
Hubert's remarkable zeal and freshly-aroused
energy grew in proportion to the
lessening number of days left him for
completing his masterpiece.

Thus all went brightly and prosperously
at the Priory, until a sudden gloom was
cast over the inhabitants by the severe indisposition
of cheerful Mrs. Hubert. The
winter was most inclement, and in her
frequent visits of charity to some of the
old and sick in the village, the kindhearted
lady had caught a severe cold,
which led to rheumatic fever, and prostrated
her completely. She kept her bed
throughout the month of January, and
when she at last reappeared at luncheon
Sir Stephen expressed himself profoundly
shocked by the change in her appearance

; indeed he displayed the greatest
concern about her, and solemnly adjured
Hubert to get better advice. The easygoing
artist was suddenly amazed and
alarmed. No anxiety had hitherto penetrated
his great love for his wife. He
had a vague impression that nothing
could ever ail her or seriously interfere
with the manifold services she rendered
him. But when his brother drew his
attention to the fact that Mrs. Hubert
was undoubtedly very ill still, and that
the doctor from Torchester could not
have understood her case, then Hubert
instantly desired to consult the first physician
in England. Was not Sir Joseph
Barry a great authority, might he not
be telegraphed for at once ?

The great physician speedily answered
Hubert's urgent summons. He arrived

VOL. I. M

at Torchester by the express train that
afternoon.

There is no immediate danger," he
said, compressing his thin hips and knitting
his brows mysteriously, " and there
was certainly not the slightest necessity
for a telegram, a letter would have been
as effective, and spared me a considerable
amount of inconvenience."

The master of Pineridge apologized
with the greatest courtesy for his
brother's " inconsiderate precipitancy,"
and blamed himself for leaving Hubert
to do anything on his own account. He
was bound to blunder whenever he
attempted to follow his rash impulses.

There are no grave symptoms at
present," repeated the oracle, when he
had paid a second visit to the patient,
who had retired to her room again, and

was seated in an arm chair by the fire
there. Sir Joseph Barry had been
mentally and physically refreshed by a
few hours' rest and an excellent dinner,
and he evidently took a more cheerful
view of things in general. " At the same
time," he continued, fixing Hubert with
that solemn penetrating gaze for which
he was famous, " at the same time I
am bound to tell you that your wife
requires the greatest care and attention.
It appears to me "' — and here the grave
physician became doubly impressive,
" it appears to me that the lady has
some mental preoccupation, some occult
anxiety which weighs on her spirits and
deprives her of the tranquillity so essential
to her perfect recovery. Are you
aware of any reason whatever for the
mental distress I apprehend ? "

Hubert declared himself quite ignorant
of any such disturbing influence in his
dear wife's case, and the doctor, perceiving
her loving husband's evident
trouble, changed his portentous tone, and
briefly repeated certain directions as to
the patient's present treatment. " I will
see her again in a week or two," he
said. " I wish it were possible for you
to bring her up to London for a time.
I could form a more decided opinion
if I saw her frequently. Meanwhile
keep her from fretting. She must have
no anxiety, no brooding. That is a
sine quel non for her ultimate recovery.
After so severe an attack of rheumatic
fever, we may always fear for the heart.
A cheerful mental condition is the safest
and surest antidote. Care kills more folks
than statisticians have ever heard of."

Poor Hubert ! it was not destined that
he, more than the rest of mortals, should
lead an untroubled existence. He complained
bitterly of the " terrible things "
that were always happening to somebody.
There was poor old Stephen,
who had a blind son ; now there was
dear •' useful Letty " a helpless invalid.
Why should people have so much bother
in this troublesome world ? Why could
not he at least be left to paint in
peace ? But what was the use of
fretting and worry?

Meanwhile he contrived to get rid of
his particular share in the world's
troubles by issuing tremendous sighs and
volumes of tobacco smoke ; and what
was far more effectual in dispersing the
clouds of perplexity which so suddenly

overwhelmed him, he worked on with
unremitting assiduity, and actually succeeded
in completing his great picture
within the time he had allowed himself.
A move should be made to London,
and — at once, if it were only for the
sake of proximity to the skilled physician
who had undertaken to watch Mrs.
Hubert's perplexing case.

HEART PROGRESS.

'TnHE picture was sent to the Eoyal
Academy, and, strange as it may
seem for those days (being " only a
landscape "), it was well hung. More than
that, it brought a crowd of fresh commissions
to the painter. Letitia's foresight
was gratefully acknowledged by improvident
Hubert, and the thought of returning
to the Continent finally abandoned.
A house, with a good studio as annexe
was secured on the breezy, and then
thoroughly rural, heights of Hampstead,
and as this house had been built and
furnished by a painter, who was taking
his work and his family abroad for

some years, the Northcrofts found their
new home thoroughly suitable in every
respect. The change was evidently beneficial
to Mrs. Hubert, whose health soon
showed signs of improvement, and
though a strange languor and a striking
pallor remained to tell of the shock
her system had received in the course
of that prolonged, wearing illness, she
was gradually returning to her former
condition, and soon managed to fulfil
her onerous duties with the old zealous
spirit, if not with her wonted activity.
Peace of mind, cheerful society, no
fretting, no brooding, " repeated Sir
Joseph Barry, again and again, and he
always looked at Hubert with that
grave, penetrating gaze which was more
eloquent even than his impressive words.
He was constantly assured that there was

nothing, nothing indeed, to disturb his
patient's security ; but there was an air
of incredulity in the shake of his venerable
head, and his reply was the frequent
repetition of his first warning to
Hubert — " Keep her mind at ease, and
above all else remember that any sudden
excitement, or any severe mental shock,
might bring about the most disastrous
consequences."

Hubert heard ; but his was not an
anxious disposition, and he thought he
could see no cause for alarm, while his
dear Letty herself endeavoured to assure
him that she was getting on splendidly,
that she had never been better, and that
doctors always liked to make a fuss, of
course, or else their skill in curing people
would not be sufficiently appreciated.

The parting between the cousins was

a terrible grief to them both, and the
sorrow consequent upon it was lasting.
All the elders did their utmost to comfort
the children, and repeated promises
were made as to Philip's coming to stay
at the new house in London, and Lina's
speedy return to the Priory on another long
visit with her parents. But the blank
she left in the lad's life completely
prostrated him for a time. The sad
helplessness of his condition was a thousand
times more painful to him now
than it had ever been before. As a
child he had borne his affliction with a
patient and not uncheerful docility ; but
Lina's tender care and patient devotion
had aroused all the responsive faculties
of his nature, and these loving instincts
refused to be quelled now. He positively
rebelled against the terrible pain Lina's

absence gave him, he cried out about
his suffering as though it were causing
him absolute physical pain. What was
to become of the studies on which they
had so earnestly entered together ? Were
all the numerous pursuits and occupations
to come to a sudden end ? Those happy
pastimes, in which Lina had lent him her
eyes, her hands, and the most watchful
attention, until he often forgot that he
was not as others were ; was he to give
up all that made life worth living, all
that compensated him for the beauties of
nature, the delights of study, and the
relaxation so necessary to the young ?
Oh ! it was sad, sad, terrible, not to be
endured. The only resource left him
was his music, and even there Lina's
sudden absence checkmated his efforts.
How could he go on working, improving.

since he was deprived of her watchful
surveillance? So morbid, so profoundly
melancholy, was the lad, that it was
well the thought of suicide never presented
itself to him. In his condition
of mental desolation death would have
seemed preferable to life without Lina.

"What comfort he did find, poor fellow,
was in the diligent perusal of his precious
Bible, the comforting truths of
which had become better appreciated by
him since Mrs. Northcroft had had many
a loving, serious, but hopeful talk with
him on matters she deemed of the
highest importance herself, and which
she firmly believed necessary to the
peace of mind of every human being.
She was indeed a truly religious woman,
and her life was an embodiment of that
sweet charity which she so urgently and

persistently strove to inculcate in everyone
about her, and which she herself
practised faithfully, often under the most
adverse circumstances.

Sir Stephen, a little more alive than
of yore to his son's sad condition and
innumerable needs, condescended to
argue with him on the subject of his
exaggerated grief. He had caught a
glimpse of the poor lad one day, as he
sat in the old attitude of helpless
dejection, his head bowed low upon his
breast, his hands hanging listlessly at
his side. This pitiable sight inspired
the father with a sense of compunction ;
for it brought to his mind the time
when Philip was always dull, and also
reminded him of the extent of the
change Lina had wrought in that sadly
isolated life.

You know, Philip, that it is perfectly
preposterous your giving yourself
all these airs of desolation," says Sir
Stephen, suddenly entering his son's
room, after he had stood on the threshold
awhile, making mental notes on his
dejected appearance. As he looked, a
sense akin to ipitj animated him ; but
when he addresses the boy his manner
is as forbidding, his tone as hard as
ever — " You surely are old enough by
this time to comprehend the fitness of
things to some extent? How can you
possibly expect that Lina is always to
be at your beck and call ? "

Philip makes a deprecating movement
with his long expressive hands, and his
head sinks lower and lower upon his
breast ; but he gives no audible rejoinder
to his father's tirade.

There is a pause — pensive on one side,
threatening on the other, and after a
while the latter ends in these sharply
spoken words —

'' You are both unreasonable and absurd
in supposing that you can treat your
cousin like a hired servant, a professional
reader paid so much an hour for services
rendered. Why, even Mr. Blunt would
rebel at the multifarious duties you expected
Lina to fulfil at your bidding."

An extraordinary change comes over
Philip's face while his father is speaking.
He turns gradually but awfully pale, and
as he rises and moves a step toward his
parent he is visibly trembling.

A servant, father ? How can you
suggest that I expected menial services
from my kindest, dearest and best friend ?
Can you for one moment suppose that any

paid person would do for me what Lina
did? I am shocked, and hurt too, at the
view you take of her — and of me."

"Do not excite yourself, do not talk
nonsense, boy, and, before all else, have
the goodness to remember to whom you
are addressing yourself. Is that the tone
befitting a son who appeals to his father ? "

Sir Stephen is fairly taken aback. He
can hardly trust his own power of hearing.
He had never struck the latent steel in
his boy's soul, and had deemed him utterly
incapable of any sort of fire. But that
quivering lip, the trembling hands, and
the defiant attitude plainly show how
effectually Philip is roused at last ; and
when his father realizes the full extent
of the conflagration he has brought about,
he feels somewhat alarmed.

Sit down, my boy," he says, in a

pacifying tone. " I perceive that you are
not aware yourself of the impropriety of
speech into which excitement has betrayed
you. Let us speak quietly, comfortably
together, and devise some method by
which you can be interested and amused
in future. Your recent loneliness has
evidently preyed upon your spirits. You
are quite morbid to-day."

Sir Stephen pauses for the encouragement
of a reply ; but he is disappointed.
Philip sits silent and motionless. He offers
neither apology for his past rudeness nor
further protest. He listens passively to
the next proposition made to him —

I have resolved in any case to put
some person entirely at your disposal as
reader, guide, and secretary," says Sir
Stephen ; " and, as you evidently incline
to female companionship, you shall be

VOL. I. N

humoured in that respect also. Mrs. Eus-kept
tells me that she has struggled hard
to give her daughter a good education,
and the girl is about to return home
after two years' residence in a high-class
boarding-school. An exemplary parent
a worthy woman that Mrs. Musket—
under the circumstances — no better or
more useful servant could possibly be
found for you than this Isabel. I will
consult the housekeeper on the spot. I
am sure my proposal will meet with her
approbation. She is devoted to our
family, and it will gratify her to think
that, while she is serving the head of the
house, her daughter is able to attend
upon the heir-apparent."

Sir Stephen actually attempts to be
jocular. He enunciates the last words
with a humorous intonation, but riiilip is

in no mood to smile at jokes or to
appreciate unwelcome favours. There is
a resentful curve about his lips, as he relapses
into his former attitude of passive
endurance. He by no means approves of
his father's suggestions ; but he is too
weary, too sick at heart, for further protest
of any kind.

Mrs. Musket, who had laboured under
incessant anxiety that those " 'Uberts "
would interfere in her plans, Alas immensely
relieved at their unexpected and
most welcome departure.

Good riddance of bad rubbish, indeed
! " she remarked to Mr. Grind, and
they both enjoyed a glass of fie old
port as they drank to the " long stay
away of those meddlesome relations of
the master's."

I shall have my child back from

N 2

school now," said Mrs. Sarah, smacking
her lips, " and we'll soon see if a high-spirited
English lady, who has had the
best of education at a first-class boarding
school, can't hold her own with Master
PhiUp quite as well, or a deal better,
most likely, than that yellow-haired Miss
Lina, who made up to lier poor cousin
in the most bold-faced manner, and took
every advantage of his being blind, and
consequently at her mercy ! "

In pursuance of the deeply-laid plan
of her own, Mrs. Musket awaited a
favourable opportunity to make certain
suggestions to her austere master, and
one day when she found him alone in
the library, she had ventured to inform
him of the intended return of her
daughter from school, and added some
information as to the excellent education

she had managed to give that young
lady.

I am most anxious to find her some
suitable occupation," the wily housekeeper
added, pleadingly. " Her schooling
has cost me far more money than a
poor woman like me is well able to
afford ; but now the dear girl must try
to pay me back by earning a little something
on her own account." And then
she warily proceeded to suggest that
Master Philip would be lonesome-like
now Miss Lina had gone, and that such
help and companionship as he required,
her daughter would be quite able and
most delighted to offer him.

My poor child tried hard to be of
service to the young gentleman when
both of them were children," she urged,
"and of course she could do 'hundreds of

things now that she had never dreamt
of before her education was complete."

At this extensive assertion Sir Stephen
smiled just a little, and Mrs. Sarah began
to feel very hopeful about the success of
her scheme.

There's only one thing I am afraid
of in making this proposal to my kind
master, Sir Stephen," the woman added
pleadingly, as she was about to leave the
room.

And that is ? " he asked, pleased by
her extreme deference.

Things may be changed now both is
older," she said ; " but years ago Master
Philip did not take to my poor child at
all, and that went nigh to break her
heart, the darling, for she is of a loving
and amiable turn is my Isabel." A suppressed
sob pointed this speech, and of

all these words and signs Sir Stephen
took special heed.

A few dull, monotonous days followed
that amazing demonstration of passion on
Philip's part before his father ventured to
allude to the subject of their discussion
again, and then he quietly announced
that he had definitively settled and
arranged all matters with Mrs. Musket
now, and that the girl Isabel would
arrive at Pineridge, and be prepared to
commence her duties as reader and
amanuensis on the Monday following.

But, instead of being grateful to his
father for this most considerate proposition,
the lad received it with evident
disgust ; indeed, he resented the notion of
Isabella Musket's service with an indignant
protest, and solemnly declared that
he could never never never! derive the

smallest comfort or consolation from so
unpromising a scheme. He was, however,
powerless to prevent his elders from
carrying out what they chose to consider
essential to his comfort, and the very
morning after Isabel's arrival at the
Priory her mother settled her in "Master
Philip's study," and bade her read aloud
to the " poor dear young gentleman."

This brought Philip's rising rebellion to
a climax. He burst into a torrent of
wild words and passionate irritation. He
fled from the study, and trembling in
every limb, presented himself, white in
face, wild in manner, before his astonished
father.

That girl's reading is too dreadful,
it hurts me, it hurts me, I cannot bear
it," cried the unhappy boy, and then he
tried to explain to his indignant parent

the suffering caused to him by Isabel's
affectation, her strident tones, her mincing
articulation, her utter disregard of all
punctuation, and her wilful emphasis on
every substantive. The contrast between
this creature's tone of voice, her obstructive
presence, and her affected manner,
and Tina's gentle, sympathetic companionship,
was too terrible ; and Philip, smarting
painfully under the infliction, declared
he could bear no more of it.

"I would ten thousand times rather be
quite alone and never hear another word
read to me at all," cried the boy, standing
before his father and wringing his
hands in despair as he made his protestation.
"I cannot listen to that dreadful
girl again ! "

Philip's former passion had warned Sir
Stephen that a second outbreak might

be expected, and yet he was taken by
surprise again at the lad's angry vehemence.
He called him undutiful, ungrateful,
disobedient, unfilial, and heaped
up one opprobrious epithet on another,
but without any appreciable result. It
was not until more than a month of
alternate reproof, threat, and persuasion
had made the blind boy feel himself a
martyr, and cruelly persecuted, that he
was at last reduced to a state of something
like quiescence.

Mrs. Musket acted the part of presiding
genius, and seized upon the first favourable
moment in Which there seemed a
chance of again inducting her daughter
as companion to the heir apparent.

Wearied by prolonged resistance, gentle
Philip suffered the girl's occasional presence
in silence, if not in patience ; but that

he did suffer was very evident, and his
moral depression soon acted detrimentally
upon his health. The old languor overcame
him with tenfold vigour. He even
hated the hours with Mr. Blunt now,
which once were welcomed so eagerly as
breaks in the long monotonous days ; and,
worse still, his music lessons ceased to
have any charm in them, since they
brought Lina's absence more vividly and
painfully to his mind than aught else.

Mr. Blunt, though uncultured, was not
without feelings, and after watchings his
pupil with considerable anxiety for a
couple of months, he became seriously
alarmed about his morbid condition.

At last the tutor actually summoned up
courage enough to hint at the nature and
extent of his uneasiness to the autocratic
master of Pineridge. This was a niaurais

quart-cohere for both men, but it had an
excellent result for the innocent cause of
their discussion, who was soon told that
Mr. Blunt, before very long, was to take
him to London to spend a few weeks at
his uncle Hubert's new house.

That news wrought a sudden but wonderful
change in the lad. Languor and
indifference vanished as heavy clouds do
before the rising sun. The mist of sorrow
was dispersed, and joy — the joy of bright
anticipation — asserted its hopeful sway.
Even Isabel was endured in the study
now, for the ice of displeased reserve
was broken, and Philip was in a measure
thankful to have some one near him to
whom he might talk of the prospect
before him. He was actually willing to
take Isabel's arm now, and to go for
walks with her through the garden and

shrubberies. And sometimes they went
lip along the high road, and the lanes
which led to the great pine wood on the
borders of Tor and Wiltshire, for as they
were walking they could talk, and a
month's visit to London paid to a friend
by Isabel just after she left school formed
a theme of incessant discussion between
them. Miss Musket had spent the time
of her stay in the metropolis with a cousin
who was a dresser at one of the principal
theatres, and from this person (Jane
Hopkins by name) the girl had obtained
much theatrical information as to life
behind the scenes, together with many
passes for the pit on various occasions.
To Philip, whose active mind had been
freshly aroused by the promise of going
to town so soon, Isabel's lively accounts
of the wonders of the metropolis presented

a new and engrossing subject of interest.
He now asked far more questions than
even Miss Musket felt inclined to answer.
And yet she was flattered by the intense
satisfaction with which Sir Stephen's son
listened to her whom, a few week's ago, he
had treated with such scant consideration.
She felt sorry the young gentleman was
blind, because he could not see her. It
seemed a shame that her "wicked black
eyes," which had brought her no end of
compliments already, should be invisible
to him, and so deeply did she commiserate
his inability to admire her new silk dress
(the one with a train to it) that she gave
him the most elaborate description of its
fit, texture, and appearance.

He was wondering while she spoke
whether Lina's dresses were likely to be
made in a similar fashion, and earnestly

strove to picture the general effect of
such costume and colours with his mental
vision, and then he asked his companion
for further details as to her personal
appearance. Xow Isabel was quite in her
element, and the portrait she painted of
herself in glowing words would have
done honour to Cherbourg himself, so
elaborate were its details, so loving the
lingering touches on the glossy, black hair,
the brilliant complexion, and " wicked
eyes."

PhiUp listened in wondering patience.
An earnest desire to improve his knowledge
of the appearance of things around
him kept him silent and attentive, and
he was striving to make mental comparisons,
while Miss Musket discoursed
of her beauty with wondrous volubility.

You are dark, then ?" asked Philip,

having arrived at some conclusion at last,
and my cousin is what they call fair ?"

"Yes," answers Isabel viciously. My ma
told me Miss Lina was one of your quiet
deep sort, and they have never much
to boast of in looks or colour either.
Your cousin, from all I have heard, must
be just as different from me as day is
from night."

I am sure of it," says Philip with
startling emphasis, and mentally continues,
" Thank God that is so !"

Miss Musket resents the tone of his
assertion, and takes the trouble to explain
to him that a brilliant night with " lots "
of lamps, gay dresses, and plenty of
music, such as she beheld at a fete on the
London stage, is far more attractive to
those who can see than any daylight
scene could ever be. 'rand that is just

the difference there is between a dashing
sort of girl like me and one of the fair,
goody-goody sort such as your cousin
seems to have made you think she is."

"I quite understand you," says PhiHp
quietly. In his heart he adds, '* and the
more I know you, the less I like you ;
but I loved Lina better and better day
after day, and since I am to be so soon
with her again, and quite happy, I can
listen even to you in patience now."

w^

'M

VOL. 1.

ox THE HEIGHTS OF HAMPSTEAD.

TN 1859 Hampstead Heath was still an
eminently rural tract of country, and
when Hubert took possession of the comfortable,
old-fashioned red-brick house
vacated by the brother artist of whom he
was to rent it, he found himself thoroughly
at his ease there. The studio,
which had but lately been built as an
annexe, had every modern convenience,
and the views from the upper windows
and from the heath beyond the garden
were full of suggestions to the painter's
mind. Mrs. Hubert was decidedly better
and stronger for the change ; her husband
thoroughly content, and not a little

pleased to be his own master once more
and free from the supervision of his
ceremonious brother. Lina was the only
one of the trio who did not delight in
their change of abode. She missed her
blind cousin every hour in the day ; even
the visits of her daily governess, and the
lessons of Herr Lirtz, her singing-master,
failed to supply the vacuum in her life
which her constant care for Philip had
so abundantly filled. Sometimes she wrote
him a letter, but that after all was scant
consolation to either, for the letter would
have to be read aloud by some unsympathetic
third person, who neither felt
with, nor for, the enthusiastic correspondent.
How could she pour out the inmost
thoughts cf her young loving heart, the
thousand questions, hints, and suggestions

dictated by her intimate knowledge of

o 2

his wants, wishes, and likings, while the
chilling conviction that alien eyes would
read her words before they reached his
ears, checked her at every sentence?

Oh ! if she could but print all she longed
to tell him in the regulation embossed
letters, — and, if then she could be sure
that he, and he alone, would unravel the
loving words she so ardently longed to
say to her afflicted darling !

She pined visibly, poor little maid. This
enforced absence from one who had absorbed
her every thought, and required
her constant and ceaseless attention,
changed the happy current of her unselfish
life, and she ceased to find pleasure
or contentment in anything. Indeed she
was but a degree less impatient than poor
Philip himself at their protracted separation.
For though Sir Stephen had pacified

his son by the promise of a speedy visit
to London, week after week, and month
after month, actually went by before there
were any signs of the realization of the
meeting to which the cousins so anxiously
looked forward. The summer waned,
autumn tints appeared upon the trees
and shrubs on the heath at Hampstead,
and in the gardens of Pineridge. Philip,
though bitterly disappointed at the protracted
delay of his journey, still firmly
believed in its ultimate possibility, and,
as we have seen, when it was once definitely
settled on, through the friendly
intercession of Mr. Blunt and Sir Stephen,
consoled himself, after a fashion, by dwelling
on the delights which it would yield
and by accepting with what grace he
could the assistance and companionship
of Isabel Musket.

Hubert Northcroft and his wife were
by no means unobservant of the change
in their precious Lina, and began to
speak to one another more openly than
they had hitherto done, of the future
result of the profound and lasting,
though as yet childish and unacknowledged
love of the young cousins.

Sir Stephen occasionally wrote a letter
to his brother, and of course he alluded
to the blank caused in his son's life by
Lina's absence, and the perplexities which
this had produced in his (the baronet's)
mind. But he still made very light of
the blind boy's grievances, and dwelt at
some length on the admirable plan that
had been adopted for his assistance.
Mrs. Musket's daughter now fills the
onerous post of reader and servant to
my son, to the perfect satisfaction of all

concerned." This was Sir Stephen's offhand
fashion of disposing of Philip's
troubles and difficulties, but clear-sighted
Letitia was not deceived by his tone, and
felt as ever the keenest pity for her
lonely, afflicted nephew. Philip, himself,
from time to time dictated letters to his
aunt or his cousin ; but these were
mostly written by the matter-of-fact Mr.
Blunt. Once, and once only, was Miss
Isabel's pen pressed into this service, for
Philip shrank intuitively from doing anything
which appeared to associate that
young person with his sweet Lina. The
letter was addressed to Miss Northcroft,
but so far from giving her pleasure, it
filled her with sorrow and misgiving. Instead
of treasuring it in the little sandalwood
work-box in which the rest of
Philip's variously written epistles were

safely locked up, she tore this last letter
into shreds, flung them out of the open
window of her little chamber at the top
of the house, and watched the pieces
Whirling and eddying like autumn leaves
on the back of the north wind, away
away, and away — out of sight. Out of
mind she hoped. From the day she
received that letter, Lina hated mauve
ink ; and the pointed writing suggestive
of pins, which, in those days, was
deemed " elegant " in young ladies'
schools, became her lasting aversion.
The difficulty which hampered poor Lina
in her desire to correspond with her
cousin, appeared to him more than
trebled in his own case. How could he
dictate to any outsider the tender little
confidences meant for her loving ear
alone ? How could he confide to any

third person his intense longing for the
renewal of their happy and satisfactory
companionship? She understood him
thoroughly. That he knew well, and it
gave him strength and comfort. But
others ? . . . .

All others would sneer if he bade
them write exactly what he wished to
tell her. His father would probably bid
him write sense, if he wrote at all, and
ask him not to deliver himself of the
farrago of sentimental nonsense with
which his brain teemed whenever he
thought of his Lina. Mr. Blunt would
suggest a concise and matter-of-fact form
of expression, and would certainly construe
" My own darling Lina," into
Dear Cousin ! " No, Philip could not,
and would not, be satisfied with this
vicarious mode of expressing his inmost

sacred feelings. And so it came to pass
that this letters grew few and far between,
until he suddenly wrote (per Mr.
Blunt) that it was now positively arranged
that that gentleman, who was
going to spend his Christmas holidays in
London, should bring his pupil up to
Hampstead en route.

So I shall, after all, be with you
before this miserable year comes to its
sad end," was the concluding sentence of
the boy's dictated letter. "And on the
picturesque heights above London, of
which dear Aunt Letty has given me so
vivid a picture, I shall hope to get over
the weary loneliness of the wretched
months I have spent since all you
bright people deserted Pineridge.
Your loving

Philip."

When the day and hour of her cousin's
arrival had been finally settled, Lina's
unnatural apathy was changed into eager
excitement, as by the wave of a magician's
wand. Her previous indifference
gave place to tumultuous delight, and
she could scarcely restrain her exuberant
spirits within the bounds of decorum even
during the solemn lesson hours which she
gleefully anticipated Philip would, erelong,
share with her again. She proposed
walking to the station to meet
him. And failing to obtain her mother's
consent to this adventurous exploit, she
implored permission to run down steep
Havelock Hill to meet the cab on its
upward climb.

But you must miss it in the dusk,
my darling, and that would never do,"
suggested Hubert, smiling in placid

wonder at the child's excitement. So,
poor Lina had perforce to content herself
with the ancient panacea that affords
such scanty consolation to any young soul
patience ! patience ! Nevertheless, at
intervals she danced to and fro with
wild ecstasy on the gravel walk within
the old iron gates, and now and then she
escaped and ran a yard or two along the
high road beyond.

At last!

Yes, at last wheels are heard slowly
advancing, and the cumbersome luggage-laden
cab stops, with Mr. Blunt and
Philip inside, while the driver commences
a hoarse inquiry in which the name
Northcroft " alone is intelligible.

"Yes, it is all right. Stop ! It is here!
here!" cries Lina, jubilant. And in another
instant, regardless of father, mother.

tutor, or driver, the child has seized the
handle of the cab door, which she opens
with the utmost alacrity.

I'll help you, I'll hold you — only one
step. Take care, Philip, my dear, my
dearest, my darling cousin ! "

The boy and girl are locked close in
one another's arms. Tears are running
over their cheeks, joy is beating wildly
in their happy young hearts — the long,
bitter ordeal of separation is over, they
are united once more, and wholly content.

The happiness of the simple household
at Hampstead was completed by the advent
of " dear cousin Philip." The original
proposition was that he should spend
Christmas with his beloved relatives ; but
he stayed on and on. First, '• to see the
New Year in," then to await more

me.

settled weather, after the breaking of an
unusually prolonged frost, and finally
because he was a welcome and delighted
guest, for whose protracted stay no reason
owns needed beyond the indispensable
facts, that he was happy to be with his
good friends, and that they rejoiced to
see him in their midst.

The success which had attended Hubert
as an exhibitor the previous year, in the
Eoyal Academy, was sufficient encouragement
for his sending still more important
work this following season of 1860.

The excitement, the hurly-burly, which
attends the commencement of the London
Art-year, was much the same twenty years
ago as it is in these days ; for history
repeats itself, and the opening of the Eoyal
Academy, in Trafalgar Square then, was
a very similar occasion to the opening

of the great picture show in Piccadilly
now.

In his way, blind Philip loves pictures,
and of course he must pay a visit to the
Exhibition. Hubert and Lina have so far
trained him that he follows their detailed
descriptions with keenest interest, and in
the studio he feels his way to a knowledge
of the subject on the easel, by having his
forefinger carefully guided over the outline
of composition and by pausing to
reflect as each succeeding point is minutely
described to him. Hence, an expedition
to the Eoyal Academy, during the month
of May, becomes one of the most marked
episodes in the life at Hampstead, and
although Hubert and his wife have been
to the private view, the former consents,
somewhat reluctantly, to go again, and
act as escort to his daughter and

nephew. Reluctantly, be it said, because
the artist has the greatest objection to the
heat, dust, and hubbub of the crowded
rooms, and grudges even an hour of the
bright summer weather spent away from
his own airy abode.

The first novelty which produces a vivid
impression on PhiKp, on the occasion of
his first visit to the Academy, is the sound
of the sentries relieving guard in front of
the National Gallery. The soldiers' measured
tread, the clank of arms, the description
of their appearance, all combine
to arrest Iiis attention, and Lina has to
answer questions innumerable before Philip
lias made himself thoroughly acquainted
with this unexpected phenomenon. When
he is sufficiently instructed on that head,
he relapses in puzzled silence, and as the
trio make their way up the broad stone

steps, and enter the crowded rooms, Philip
listens eagerly to the stray words and
comments so rapidly bandied from right
to left. It is not long before Hubert
begins to grumble cit the terrible heat,
the stifling dust, and the troublesome,
pushing people. The blind lad is exceedingly
anxious to ascertain the exact position
of his uncle's pictures, and is evidently
gratified when he finds his fingers placed
upon the frames of two which hang upon
the line.

"As for the third, Phil," says the
artist, laughing, '• the Academicians have
thought that far too precious for the
vulgar gaze, so they have considerately
skye it — hoisted it out of sight, you
understand — and whoever Welshes to see
it must use an opera-glass or a telescope."


VOL. I. P

While Lina explains this bit of her
father's facetiousness to her cousin, a
friend of the former touches him unexpectedly
on the arm. The stranger is
an artist, and Hubert hails his advent
as a blessed relief, for he has come to
the end of his patience, though Lina,
who is intensely interested in the
novelty of the sights presented to her,
shows no signs of weariness as yet.

I particularly want your opinion on
that landscape of Dove's, Northcroft, "
says Beech, the friend. " There is quite
a whirlwind of discussion about it among:
the E. Ass generally, and the outsiders
in particular. I, for my part, contend
it is not true. You just come and look
at it with me ; I am sure the sky is
several tones too low."

Ah, well ; I hope it's not far off,"

says Hubert wearily ; " for to tell you
the truth Beech, I am sick of pictures,
and tired to death by the crowd, the
worry, and the noise."

It's in the farthest room, unluckily,"
says Beech ; " but I am personally interested
in it, and I have faith in your
judgment, so do come, it won't take
you a minute."

Oh ! of course ! " sighs Hubert, with
a comic air of resignation.

Can you find me a seat here, while

they go on, Lina ? " whispers Philip ;

my head begins to ache with the

noise and heat. I will wait for you :

don't say you are going to stay with

me, because I should prefer your seeing

all you possibly can : this may be

your only chance."

Lina demurs.

p 2

ane.

Can I leave you ? " she says
doubtfully."

Set me down near the entrance," he
says, "where I can get a little air.
I shall be quite safe, and then you
must take a good look round those
rooms we have not been into, and come
and report progress to me. I do want
you to see as much as possible for
my sake."

Well, have you settled it between
you, my dears, who comes and who
stays ? " asks Hubert ; " we shall not
take ten minutes over the business of
inspection, I promise you, for I cannot
stand any more of this crowd."

Lina establishes the blind lad comfortably
on a bench near the head of the
stairs, as he had suggested, and, with
a loving pressure of his hand, she

leaves him, while she follows the two

artists, who saunter slowly on, absorbed

in talking " shop " to their hearts'

content.

♦ * * * *

Good gracious me, Mr. Philip, whoever
would have thought of seeing you
here ! Why, at first I could hardly believe
my eyes ! " says a shrill voice close
to his ear ; and the owner of the voice
possesses herself eagerly of the hand
that lies on the blind lad's knee.

Philip recognises Miss Musket's tones
at once, but the knowledge that she has
seated herself by his side affords him no
kind of satisfaction.

What has brought you to town,
Isabel ? " he presently asks, after an
awkward pause.

Ah ! you may well be surprised, Mr.

Philip," she answers with that affected
laugh which she has copied from a certain
burlesque actress. "I came up partly
on business and partly on pleasure ; but
I want to hear all you have been doing
; tell me something about yourself,
now do. Ma will be pleased to think
I have met you. She did wish me to
call up at Hampstead ; but that's such
a long journey, and I never seem
to have a minute to spare as it is. I
am staying with Mrs. Hopkins — cousin
Jane, you know, I told you all about
her — do you remember?" Philip nods
assent and vaguely wonders how he ever
could have listened to this uncultured
girl with anything like interest or
amusement. She certainly bores him exceedingly
now. "Is your cousin with
you today?" he asks, pining for relief.

Oh, dear, yes," says Isabel, laughing
aloud again ; she is standing waiting forme
; and now she is making signs tome
to come away. Ha, ha ! She's
cross because she thinks I'm wasting
her time while I'm up to my larks, flirting
with a handsome young stranger.
She knows my ways by this time ; though
she has no idea that you can't even see
whether I'm pretty or plain." Here
follows the stage laugh, and Philip is
thankful that Lina had left him before
this demonstrative young lady appeared
upon the scene. No wonder that her voice
falls discordantly upon his sensitive ear,
while Lina's gentle tones are still vibrating
in his memory.

"Don't fidget," says Isabel sharply, seeing
him inclined to edge away from her
side ; " I have heaps of things to say to

you. It seems a year since we had a
regular good chat together. But perhaps
you don't care to talk to me now, since
you have been used to the company of
Miss Lina ; pretty care milady seems to
take of you too — my word ! nice considerate
people you've got to look after
you. Fancy their leaving you all by
yourself in such a crowd as this ! shameful,
that's what I call it ! "

Some latent personal grievance lends
emphasis to Isabel's protest ; but Philip
can bear no more.

"My friends have placed me here by
my own request," he says angrily. " You
must not suppose — I will not allow you
to question their conduct in any way.
They are always kind, gentle, and considerate
to me."

Oh ! I'm sure I beg your pardon very

humbly, Mr. Philip," says Isabel, with a
Avild attempt at satire ; " I quite forgot !
of course, whatever Miss Lina does must
be right. I stand corrected ; I might
have remembered that she is perfect in
your ideas is that mysterious young lady
Avhom I never manage to get a glimpse
of. When she was at the Priory I was
away, and vice versa, as they say in the
classics ! Still, I do wonder at her leaving
you here by yourself. I thought she was
so extra careful of you. My ma always
said that when Sir Stephen was by, there
was never an end to her billing and
cooing. Perhaps that was for the benefit
of your pa. There, there, don't look so
grumpy, Mr. Philip. It's only my chaff
of course. You ought to know me better
than to be cross at my nonsensical
chatter.

She moves closer to him, and pats his
arm with her fan, as she whispers : " But
now I do wish you'd tell me whatever
you came here for ? Fancy a blind young
gentleman coming to see the pictures.
Oh ! Jane, this is a joke ; just come
here—"

Isabel beckons to Mrs. Hopkins, who
approaches slowly and makes a warning
sign to her relative to curb her tongue
and her laughter ; for the passers-by
linger, looking and wondering at the bold,
black-eyed girl who has laid her yellow-gloved
hand on the arm of that gentle,
melancholy lad, who seems to appreciate
her attentions so little.

"Jane here can tell you that not seeing
the pictures is no loss," continues Isabel,
subduing her tone somewhat, but informing
her cousin in an audible aside, —

"It's Mr. Philip, Sir Stephen's son and
heir, he's quite blind, don't you know?"

Lor ! " exclaims Mrs. Hopkins, and
being good-natured, adds, "No, indeed,
sir, the pictures are no loss I can assure
you; it makes my head whirl to look at
them. We came to see the people, and
they ain't much to look at neither ; so
you needn't fret sir, I'm sure."

Oh ! I love a crowd," remarks Isabel,
and we are going to the play to-night.
Have you been to the theatre yet, Mr.
Philip ? " He shakes his head.

"We had better be going, my dear,"
here interposes Mrs. Hopkins ; " orders
are not admitted after seven, and we must
go over to the Waterloo road first, and
that's a good step from here. I want my
tea, too, I'm that thirsty."

Well, I suppose I must say good-bye,

then, Mr. Philip," says Isabel, hastily;
it won't do to be late at the Kaleidoscope.
That's the style of theatre / like.
Such handsome dresses ; such cheeky girls.
One gentleman, a friend of mine, who
belongs to the company, says I should do
well if I joined them. I have just the
right face and figure, and should be sure
to get on. I shall wait and see. Don't
you say a word to ma, please, Mr. Philip,
but I have half a mind to try my luck
on the stage."

Come along, Pisa, do," urges Mrs.
Hopkins. "I know we shall be late."

I should have liked to wait and see
that goody-goody cousin of yours," repeats
Miss Musket as she rises. "The
most considerate young lady who brings
you to see the pictures — ha ! ha ! — and
then leaves you all by your poor blind

self. Ta-ta, or au revoir, as Ma'amselle
taught us to say for politeness. Give my
respects — ahem — to Miss Lina, and tell
her to look after you better in future,
or I must go and stay at Hampstead and
divide the duty with her."

Yes ; she has really gone at last. The
rustle of a stiff crinoline, the clank of
high-heeled boots, the obtrusive motion
of a crackling fan, are all lost in the
surging crowd which carries them away.
And PhiHp, intensely relieved, finds himself
alone once more.

He dreaded Lina's return while that
noisy girl was beside him, holding his
hand, and laughing in his face. He
begins to long for the sound of the
sweet familiar voice which has made
all others sound unmusical to him.

Dear Phil," that voice whispers presently,
close to his ear, "have we been
very long away? Mr. Beech had so
much to say, and father stood talking,
talking too. I was in despair at last,
and begged leave to run back and see
after you. Philip, dear, are you vexed?"

Lina's quick eyes, accustomed to note
every movement of his face and hands,
at once detects that something has distressed
him. But a strange feeling seals
the boy's hips. He hates the thought
of mentioning the name of Isabel to
his cousin ; he knows, though he cannot
say why, that she would not like
to hear it.

Oh, I am only a little tired of all
this noise and bustle, " he answers, wearily.
" Is uncle ready ; may we go out
into the fresh air now ? "

So you have had enough of the
Academy, too, have you, Phil ? " asks
Hubert, cheerily. He has overheard his
nephew's last words. " Sensible lad, "
he adds ; " let us get out at once under
God's pure sky, and leave the benighted
rabble behind us."

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE DOES RUN SMOOTH.

Philip had come to Hampstead to
stay two montis and actually remained
more than a year. A bright,
prosperous, and happy year that, which
in the days to come he looked back
upon as the one pleasant spot of verdure
in the desert of his barren life.
Twice in the course of those twelvemonths
his uncle and Lina went home
to Pineridge with him ; but Mrs. North-croft
preferred to remain at Hampstead,
and welcomed her " truant trio " back
With evident delight. She seemed to
dread the brother-in-law now, who had
at one time inspired her with so little

awe. Perhaps this nervous apprehension
was due to her more susceptible condition
of mind and body ; perhaps she
had learnt in the course of years to
understand the exceeding hardness of his
character, and the deep-seated prejudice
of his convictions, more thoroughly than
on the pleasant occasion of her first visit.
Lina and her stern uncle were excellent
friends still ; the bright girlish nature
was not easily quelled, and her lighthearted
prattle and laughter seemed to
lift the sombre cloud of severity from
Sir Stephen's brow.

The tie between Philip and Lina was
evidently becoming nearer and dearer as
the days and months grew into years.

Mrs. Musket's ambitious plans were
for the nonce checkmated by this increasing
attachment, and the frequent inter-vol.

I. Q

me.

change of visits between the cousins.
Isabel, who had found Pineridge exceedingly
dull, was delighted when she obtained
prolonged leave of absence from
her "Ma," and continued to sojourn in
London with infinite satisfaction. She
took up her residence with Mrs. Jane
Hopkins entirely, who found her an agreeable
and useful companion, for Mrs. Hopkins
let lodgings to people engaged at
the theatre, and Isabel was always ready
to assist in looking after the lively
boarders, whom she considered as quite
the most delightful people she had ever
met. Thus time went on, and she stayed
on, knowing no greater pleasure than a
surreptitious peep behind the scenes of the
Kaleidoscope Theatre, where Mrs. Hopkins
still filled the post of dresser to the
leading ladies of the ballet. It had now

become the height of Miss Musket's
ambition to figure in a burlesque some
day, and she felt confident that thus,
and thus only, could she obtain the full
meed of admiration due to her dashing
appearance and those wicked black eyes
which the "gentlemen lodgers" in the
Waterloo Eoad were never tired of praising.


Mrs. Musket had most reluctantly resigned
herself to the conviction that
nothing was to be done with the " heir-apparent,"
during his repeated absences
in London. Still it gratified her to
know that her daughter remained within
easy reach of him. Better times might
come yet ; but for the present she could
only play a waiting game. She therefore
resolved to offer no opposition to her

daughter's residence in the metropolis.

Q 2

She was safe with Mrs. Hopkins, and her
services to the lodgers paid for her
board. Besides, the girl liked a town
life ; and that was a delightful fact, for
anything was better than to have her
wasting her time at the Priory, a useless
occupant in the housekeeper's room,
grumbling from morning till night, and
causing dissension between the housekeeper
and the upper servants, who all
objected to that fine lady daughter of
hers.

And so the years went swiftly by — uneventful,
tranquil years these, to the
chief actors in our domestic drama. But
the mere passage of time must effect
some changes, and when, after a lapse,
we note its results, they seem startling,
though during its actual progress we
heed none of these evolutions.

The four years that have passed have
given Lina the prestige of blooming seventeen,
while Philip has reached the eve of
his majority. During the many happy
months ' he has spent under his uncle's
hospitable roof at Hampstead, he has
learned to appreciate the nature of the
tie that binds him to his cousin, and
Lina and he have acknowledged their
true love for one another, and have
resolved to spend their happy future together
as man and wife. Her parents
are delighted at the prospect, towards
which all their hopes have so long
tended, and Sir Stephen, after considerable
hesitation, has at length condescended to
yield his consent to the engagement of
the cousins. His reluctance has been
very evident, and caused the young people
much heart-aching anxiety ; but that

is as it should be, Sir Stephen thought.
Juniors should be taught patience and
submission to their elders. The baronet
did not at all approve of the new-fangled
notions which encouraged young people
to follow their own foolish ideas, and to
carry them out with a reckless disregard
of all the proprieties. He admired and
strove to model himself after the pattern
of some such stern parent as Sir Anthony
Absolute, and he succeeded, but without
that Worthy's noisy scenes of passion and
abuse. Sir Stephen upheld decorum above
all things, and his anger was of the quiet,
incisive kind, which made itself felt more
effectually than any violent bluster would
have done.

He disapproved of the marriage of relations
on principle, and Philip's resolve
to wed his cousin aroused his father's

ancient grievance and disappointment anent
]his son's deprivation. If the youth had
been as others were, he might have chosen
a bride among the leading families of the
county, as his position certainly entitled
him to do ; but, owing to his helplessness,
he lead to content himself with the patient
cousin, who was Cavilling to accept him and
his needs.

Oh ! that curse of blindness I Sir Stephen
gnashes his teeth With rage as he
reverts to the aggravating subject. How
it has hampered him at every step ! What
a miserable sort of education it compelled
him to give to the heir of Pineridge!

He had really been thankful to get the
lad out of his house ; to know him in
the safe custody of his aunt and her
daughter.

Pretty training this for a landowner I

Music his chief delight, his only accomplishment
; read to, sung to, pampered
and consented by a pair of compassionate
women. Letitia was amiable, true,
generous, and upright ; but she was
only a woman, and her every-day Hfe
was moulded and guided simply by her
o^v^n feminine notions of duty and right.
How was it possible that she could obtain
any knowledge tuis, which would fit
her, or her blind pupil, to cope with
the world and its disciples ? And yet,
what career was there that Philippi could
follow? How could he, for instance,
have been trained for any diplomatic
post ? How could he fulfil any public
duties ? His terrible infirmity unfitted
inn entirely for any but the most insignificant
pursuits.

Lina's devotion to her cousin, and her

perfect comprehension of his manifold
wants, were certainly points in her
favour. And it might have been difficult
to find another girl of such charming
manners and appearance ready to
sacrifice herself and her future to a
blind man. Lina would certainly be a
credit to the house of Northcroft, and
there was consolation in the fact that
its noble name was hers by inheritance.

Philip had gone home with an attendant
to Pineridge to plead his cause,
and that of the girl he loved, in person ;
and when he had finally obtained his
father's long-deferred consent, he returned
to Hampstead, where he was received
with more than usual rejoicing. The
lovers young, radiant, hopeful, looked
happily towards the future now, which
they were to spend together. The chief,

indeed the only, trouble of their past
had been the periodical partings,
rendered necessary by the fact of their
separate homes.

Xow, all this would be changed, the
young couple would take up a permanent
residence at the Priory, and
there were times when Sir Stephen himself
smiled at the prospect of having a
handsome young lady as mistress of his
establishment again. She was a little
youthful still, and perhaps wanting in
that reticence and dignity which Sir
Stephen considered a sie qua non, but
he would undertake her training personally,
and who could doubt its admirable
result ? Lina herself was unspeakably
happy, because she saw Philip so
glad, and it seemed to the grateful girl
as if Providence was too good to her.

Had she not the best, kindest, most
generous parents? Had not her life been
all brightness and peace ? and now was
not the last and most ardent wish of
her heart to be gratified also ?

"I get frightened when I realize my
intense happiness," she said to her mother
just after Philip lead brought the good
news of his father's consent. " I feel as
if something dreadful will happen ; the
course of true love is not supposed to
run thus smoothly, is it, mother dear ? "

I hope and pray that your joy is
blessed my poor darling*' cries Mrs.
Northcroft, with intense fervour, " for it
is unselfish. You have chosen the better
part ; you intend to devote yourself, all
your hopes, pleasures, and ambition, to
the undivided care of a blind man. If
you fulfil the hard task you have undertaken

conscientiously, surely, surely no
evil will come to you."

Mrs. Xorthcroft flings her arms wildly
around the girl, and breaks into passionate
sobs.

God grant that you may be kept free
from any suffering but such as you
deserve yourself, my precious, precious
child," she cries, and suddenly relaxing
her grasp, she falls back, panting, exhausted,
deadly white.

Lina, alarmed, and a good deal perplexed
too, by her gentle mother's
amazing vehemence, does all she can to
restore her to her usual equanimity, and
when she sees her settling down to a
peaceful sleep, the girl steals quietly away
to her lover.

Mother is so strange," she says ; " she
almost fainted just now, and she is looking

very ill. She Avill not acknowledge
it, but I am positive that it is the idea of
going to the Priory which always upsets
her now. The fact of sour father's consenting
to let our wedding take place in
Torshire will necessitate mother's oroino'

O CD

down, of course, and I am sure the
thought of staying at Pineridge has made
her ill again. She was not herself when
last we were all down there, you know,
and we could not even persuade her to
go at all after that."

It will be different soon, my own
darling," whispers Philip with happy conviction.
" Of course dear aunt Letty
cannot feel happy, or at her ease while
my father is all alone in his chill glory
there. You wait and see how soon we
shall change all that. When once you
are mistress of the gloomy old home, my

ane.

sweet, bright sunshine, — gladness, peace,
and content will flow within the ancient
walls, and then we shall welcome our
dear mother, and she will be happier at
the Priory with her children than anywhere
else in the world."

Lina accepted her lover's comforting
words with hopeful eagerness, and thoughtless
about her mother's excitement than
she would have done at another time.
But that touching scene had sobered the
loving girl, and her buoyant anticipations
were checked by the fear that Sir
Stephen's courteous invitation would prove
injurious to Mrs. Northcroft.

Every thing in connection with his unfortunate
son was without precedent,
thought the baronet ruefully, and therefore
the fact of his marriage taking place
at Pineridge, instead of from the house

of the bride, was but another item in the
whole course of the unconventional conduct
of affairs, and must be accepted,
like all else that was cruelly inevitable.
Philip had insisted on a very quiet
wedding, and here also his father had
been compelled reluctantly to yield, and
having done so, Sir Stephen suddenly resolved
to make the best of matters, and
sent his brother a very cordial invitation
to spend the next month at Pineridge,
and to see the young couple comfortably
installed there, before he returned to
Hampstead and the work awaiting him
for the next year's Exhibition. Mrs.
Northcroft bore the journey and the
change of residence uncommonly welland
Lina rejoiced accordingly ; but
Hubert, who generally accepted all the
arrangements made for him in a cheerful

and contented spirit, proved fractious
on this occasion, and seemed possessed
by an unwonted uneasiness and responsibility,
which he was incapable of shaking
off.

Now, to add to this, it so happened
that he would have to be followed into
Torshire by an emissary from his principal
patron, the Gras von Stein, who
resided in Munich. This fact annoyed
and preoccupied the artist. He was fully
aware of Sir Stephen's unabated objection
to all the details of his profession, and
it worried him to bring these so clearly
en evidence by the visit of the Count's
major-domo, who brought a damaged
picture with him. Hubert had always
manacled to lauorh at his brother's absurd
prejudices, but he resented them all the
same, and had taken more pains than

even his wife gave him credit for, not to
run counter to them too frequently.

The Gras von Stein had a fine picture
gallery, on which he prided himself, and
it really contained an admirable collection
of modern paintings. Among these was
the famous " Pine Forest " picture on
which Hubert Northcroft had reason to
pride himself. The Count had seen it at
the private view of the pictures in Trafalgar
Square, more than four years ago,
and had then purchased it. This generally
admired landscape had lately been
much injured by the falling in of a
portion of the glass roof of the gallery,
and Gras von Stein was overwhelmed
with grief at the mischief which had
befallen it. The picture had received a
blow in the excitement which ensued on
the breaking of the roof, some of the

VOL. I. R

paint was scraped off, and daylight was
now actually visible through the canvas.

All this news, and move to the same
effect, had been received in a letter
from the noble Gras, a day or two prior
to the departure from Hampstead, where
Hubert had managed to prolong his
tenancy. Gras von Stein was elderly and
fidgety ; he set a great store by his
collection of pictures, and was in despair
at this untoward accident.

But it fortunately happens," wrote
his Excellency to the artist, " that my
confidential servant is journeying to
England next month. He is a thoroughly
reliable person, and I feel inclined
to let him take charge of the picture,
since I have determined that no hand
but your own shall restore it. Will it
be possible for you to undertake this

matter at once, as Wolfgang's stay in
England is limited, and I cannot permit
him to return without my favourite
]nature ? "

Such was the gist of Gras von Stein's
elaborate epistle, in which flourishes,
verbal and telegraphic, played an important
part. Hubert had answered
'* yes " to all inquiries. Xow, however,
that his daughter's marriage and his
brother's gracious invitation would take
him to Pineridge, nothing remained for
him but to request the confidential
servant of his Excellency to follow him
to Torshire with the extensive packing-case
containing the precious work of art
in question.

It was a " terrible bother," of course ;

but artists were always being bothered,

and he must submit like the rest.

k2

Lina made many a joke about " papa
and his artistic retinue," and when " the
German gentleman, with the picture,"
was announced, a day or two after the
party had arrived at Pineridge, and the
quiet preparation for the nuptials were
at their height, the girl's merry laugh
reached the ears of the grumbling artist,
as he wended his way to the studio
above. This had been left just as Mrs.
Northcroft first arranged it, now more
than six years back. " The German
gentleman " rose with evident empressement
as Hubert entered the studio, and,
bowing, he thus delivered himself in
florid German : ~

"I have been desired, sir, by his Excellency,
the Herr Gras von Stehi, to
place this picture upon your easel with
my own hands, and I have pledged my

honour that no further ]harm shall happen
to it ; therefore have I ventured to commence
the unpacking immediately, but
oh I sir! — and here the wizen-faced little
foreigner threw hammer and screw-driver
aside, and spread out his arms as if
about to clasp the amazed artist to his
heart — " it is more than anxiety about
that picture which causes my emotion""
he goes on ; " it is the thought that now,
after so many years, I should have the
happiness to see you once again! You,
Meinherr, who to all appearance have
not changed at all, though you have made
so great a name for yourself, and are
so famous already, while I, alas ! fill a
sphere but little superior to that in which
I had the honour of waiting upon you —
why, it must be quite fourteen years
ago ! "

Hubert, looking puzzled and uneasy,
waits patiently for the end of this elaborate
speech, quietly wondering the while if
this droll little man had had sunstroke,
and what all his strange excitement portends.


Does the Adige Herr thus entirely
fail to recognise his most humble, most
obedient servant, Karl Wolfgang? Has
the Herr no recollection of being at
Meyringen in past days ? Perhaps it is
the length of time which has elapsed
since then, which somewhat obscures the
Herr ]N"orthcroft's memory. With some
persons the power of recollection is strong,
with others weak. I think, though there
is little I can With justice pride myself
upon, that in this matter of memory I
am not easily to be surpassed," continues
Mr. Wolfgang, with that peculiar assurance

Which so often characterizes small,
fussy men. "Will the gracious Mr. Painter
allow me to recall to him a certain
catastrophe which happened near Mey-
ringed just at the time when the Herr,
his lady, and their dear little daughter
were at the hotel? And when those kind
visitors proved themselves so very benevolent
towards the poor orphan child of
a guide, who was so brave and yet was
so cruelly killed?"

Hubert suddenly begins to stuff his
pipe with unwonted energy, and while
Karl Wolfgang at length takes the damaged
picture out of the packing-case and carefully
places it upon the easel, the painter
looks on with eyes that see not. Indeed,
he feels like one in a dream . Is
this the hand of fate?

Of all the myriad inhabitants of Germany,

why should this prying individual
have been selected to come on this mission
to England?

"Father," says Lina, entering hurriedly,
mother bade me ask you what answer
we are to send to this letter? Shall we
accept the invitation, or decline it? The
messenger waits for a reply."

As Lina crosses the studio to offer the
letter to her father, she perceives the
stranger, who is on his knees still, gathering
up the straw and shavings belonging
to the packing-case.

He springs to his feet now and stares
at the astonished girl With widely-opened
eyes.

Herr Got in Simnel !" he exclaims,
clasping his hands.

I beg your pardon !" says Lina, gently
inclining her head as she moves towards

the door, and finding the stranger about
to address her, she glances nervously
back at her father, Avhose silence perplexes
her.

Eun away, Lina, run away ! cries the
artist with sudden asperity. " What do
you mean by interrupting me when you
know I am so busy ? Don't bother me
about anybody's letters ; leave me in
peace, do."

He has risen in sudden haste and holds
the door wide, so that she shall the more

speedily make her exit.

*****

Something has happened to father,"
says Lina, rejoining Philip, whom she
has left at the piano in the drawing
room. "He spoke quite crossly to me.
I never knew him so strange and angry
before."

She tries to laugh, but her father's
extraordinary behaviour has sorely perplexed
her, and she is suddenly silent.

'• You ai-e not troubled about dear old
uncle's odd manner, surely, my darling ?"
asks Philip tenderly, and he draws her
down to the chair by his side. " Why,
I, even, have found out by this time that
artists are wholly unaccountable people ;
they laugh when others cry, they bemoan
what causes rejoicing to outsiders."

Of course, dear," answers Lina gently,
it was all my fault ; I interrupted
father's seance with his patron's ambassador,
by asking stupid questions
about an invitation to dinner."

Oh ! is the German ambassador in
the august presence?" asks Philip.

He is, my dear, and he is the
most extraordinary little fellow ; he stared

Does Run Smooth. 251

at me in the rudest, oddest manner,
as if he knew me, or as if I had been
a ghost. I assure you I felt quite uncomfortable."


Oh, those foreigners never know their
places, not the best of them don't," remarks
Mrs. Musket, with a virtuous sniff
of indignation. She has just brought
two vases filled with fresh flowers, and
lingers there talking, much to the annoyance
of the cousins, who resent the spirit
of surveillance which leads the housekeeper
to be present on one pretext or
another, whenever they are enjoying a
tete-tete in the drawing room.,

"My daughter Isabel is taking lessons
in music and singing from one of those
foreigners, now, Mr. Philip," continues
the loquacious old lady, enjoying the
knowledge that her presence is unwelcome,

but that neither of the young
people dare to bid her leave the room.
She resents the betrothal of the cousins
with exceeding bitterness, and revels m
the chance of causing " the young pair of
fools " any sort of annoyance. " There's
many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip,"
she adds, lifting down a precious bit of
china from the mantel-shelf, and dusting
it with elaborate attention to its minute
crevices. " There's never any knowing
what may happen in this changeful world,
as I often say to my Isabel, and so I
often tell her to make the most of her
chances. We are but dust, and who can
foretell what a day may bring forth to
them that are ashes !"

'play me that last bit of the scherzo
over again, dearest, you have not got it
quite right yet," whispers Tina, leaning

over her cousin, and placing his fingers
back on the keys.

Philip speedily takes the hint, and
begins to play with such spirit and so
much vigour that Mrs. Musket finds her
further speech unintelligible, and retires
in dudgeon.

•' Won't let me have my little say, now,
won't she ? And is jealous of my even
mentioning my Isabel, too, that's very
evident. And so the little foreigners
at her as if he knew her, did he?
What does that mean ? She looked quite
*ot, and seemed awfully put out like.
And her father was cross, was he ? I
wonder if there's anything amiss ? If
there is, it will not be long before / find
it out, that's certain, trust me for that, or
my name is not Sarah Musket. I'll invite
the German gentleman to have a chop

and a glass of port in my room, and I'll
find out the reason of his staring. Perhaps
he's seen her with some lover the forward
minx picked np in London, and now her
father is on the scent, she's frightened,
and so she takes time by the forelock,
and gets Mr. Philip to hear her side of
the story first. Ah I she's that artful, is
Miss Lina ; just like the rest of those fair-haired
girls, quiet and deep she is, real
wicked deep, I believe. London is an
awful tempestuous place for young ladies,
that Pm quite sure of, and if it weren't
for this botheration of a wedding, I'd
get my girl home, and keep her safe
under my eye, that I would. But now
to hear what this foreigner's staring
means. There's more than meets the eye,
I can tell that by young Miss's flurry."
Thus Mrs. Musket soliloquizes as she

slowly traverses the hall, and makes her
way back to her own apartments.

Before another hour is over, she has
given Mr. Wolfgang meat and wine, and
has been so startled by that illustrious
foreigner's conversation, that she actually
requests a private audience of her austere
master, who, surprised, and by no means
willingly, grants her the ten minutes
she asks for, as she intercepts him on
his return from hunting late that afternoon.


Lina and Philip meanwhile continue
their practice at the piano, play their
duets, sing their songs, and occasionally
forget all about the music in their sweet
lovers' talk of the happy future now
coming nearer and nearer.

** Before this week is over you will be
my wife, Lina; my own, own, precious

darling wife," says Philip, and he takes
her soft little hands into his long dinging
pressure, and then he draws her
bodily into his close embrace.

My love, my sunshine," he says,
how good God has been to us ! How
happy and grateful we ought to be ! You
love me, all blind and helpless as I am,
and you do know at least that I can
never fail in absolute devotion to you.
Your pleasure must be my law, for I
can never know any other. As you lead
me I am bound to follow ; as you bid
me I must perforce obey. And it will
be my joy, and pride, and delight, to
prove myself your most obedient slave.
Your nature is so tender, too, my darling,
that my affliction gives me an additional
claim on your generous love, and everyday
that passes proves to me, more and

more thoroughly, how well we are suited
to one another. Is not this true?"

She is standing by his side now, her
arm laid lovingly around his neck; her
earnest eyes seem gazing far, far, into
the distant but surely happy future. They
make a charming picture, these happy
lovers. He with his slender hands upon
the keyboard, his head uplifted, the sightless
eyes closed instinctively, for he is
listening to the last faint echo of the
final chord he has just played. She, tall,
supple, and gracefully formed, with an
air of dignity and courage in her aspect,
as she stands wondering and waiting,
what her heart's lord may please to say
or require next.

Lina has now grown to perfect womanhood,
and she presents a picture of purity
but seldom seen in this last decade, which

VOL. 1. S

has been rampant with " girls of the
period," " professional beauties," " society
startles," &c. Our Lina cannot be
accounted as strictly beautiful, an irregularity
of feature prevents that ; but
there is a combination of everything that
is true, honest, and good, in the expression
of her mobile, sensitive face.
If lovely can be construed as lovable,
then Lina decidedly merits the pleasing
adjective.

Play me that introduction again,
dearest, " she says, placing his fingers
upon the keys, " I feel I could sing the
prayer now. The daylight is dying, and
Lease, lease,' is most appropriate."

Philip plays the opening chords of the
famous recitative that ushers in the well-known
prayer of " Der Freischtitz," and
is followed by the grand air of the opera.

This scena Lina sings better and more
effectively than any of the others that
constitute her well-selected repertoire. Herr
Lirtz had always spoken of his pupil's
rendering of this lovely *' Freischiitz "
music with enthusiastic approbation, and
had even told Miss Northcroft that she
could hold an audience spell-bound if
she would ever thus sing in public.
But Philip is all the audience Lina
desires, and his delighted approval is
worth far more to her than the plaudits
ol a multitude of strangers could ever
be. Now her voice rises, clear, full,
melodious, and she delivers the difficult
passage at the end of the recitative with
masterly clearness and precision that does
all honour to the able teaching of Herr
Lirtz, as well as to the musical ability
of his favourite pupil.

Then she breathes the softly inspired
notes of the prayer, and all unconsciously
she clasps her hands in entreaty.

"Lina, your voice is what one dreams
the voice of an angel must be," cries
Philip, rising at the conclusion of the
andante and flinging his arms tenderly
about his betrothed. " Darling, we must
certainly journey to the Hieland together,
and the Black Forest, too. I
always associate the sombre shades of
that mysterious Schwartzwald with all
the weird doings of Caspar, Adolf, and
the incantation scene. Shall we go abroad
next spring ? Do you think my young
wife will be able to undertake the difficult
charge of so troublesome a burden
as her husband will be to her ? "

And so they prattle, and play, and
sing in happy alternation; light-hearted

and content, knowing no evil, fearing none.
It is Mr. Grind's entry with the lamp which
first warns Lina of the passage of time ;
for she suddenly becomes aware that twilight
has deepened into darkness.

Has Sir Stephen returned from hunting
? " she asks the butler. And when he
has replied in the affirmative, "I must
hurry away to help mother to dress for
dinner," she says to Philip, " and I shall
be late too."

We were so taken up with our
music, we never heard the gong," he
replies in half apology to the butler,
whom he fears to some extent.

We certainly did not heed it," says
Lina, unabashed. She quails as little
before the butler as before his austere
master. " Take my arm, Philip," she
says, " let me lead you upstairs."

a me.

They cross the hall arm in arm, and
when they reach the upper landing —

Give me my good-night's kiss now,
darling," pleads Philip ; " you know I never
get any but a formal salutation when my
father and the rest of them are present."

Well then, good-night, sweetheart,
good-night," she says earnestly. "Meanwhile
I hope you will enjoy your dinner
none the less for receiving your crood-nio-ht
kiss beforehand."

Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye ! " —
answers Philip, singing the words ; but
just as he is turning away in the direction
of his room, a sudden impulse of overwhelming
tenderness possesses him, as he
stands waiting, his arms outstretched.
Lina, my own love, my life, my wife ! "
he cries as he snatches her close to his
throbbing heart, and then, with a strange,

Love Does Run Smooth. 263

anxious expression, " You will never leave
me, never forsake me, my precious treasure
? " he whispers. His voice sounds
almost as though there is a sob in it.

c

"Thy people shall be my people, thy
God my God!" she answers, and the sweet
lips pressed upon his seem to set a fresh
seal upon the lasting bond between them.

Do presentiments exist ? are subtle
Avarninsfs driven to mortals of the evils
advancing: towards them ? Was there
not something more than the lover's
ardour beating unrecognised in Philip's
anxious heart, as he clasped his betrothed
in his arms again and again, and seemed
so loth to let her <yo from him?

REVELATION AND DISASTER.

T INA hurries to her mother's room contrite
and apologetic for having tarried
so long. It is the daughter's pleasant task
to act as lady's-maid to her gentle mother
every evening.

But Mrs. Northcroft is not m her room.
And the satin dinner-dress has been taken
from the bed. Can she have dressed alone
and gone downstairs already? Strange that
Lina did not meet her on the landing or in
the hall below. The girl knocks hurriedly
at the door of her father's dressing-room.
No reply. He also has descended ; but his
candles are burnings, and his dress-clothes
are laid ready upon the chest of drawers.

Something has happened !

The routine of the Priory household has

never been thus perturbed before. Can

Sir Stephen have met ^vith an accident

in the hunting; field? Lina's heart beats

loud and fast as she flies downstairs, and

in the hall she comes into sudden and

violent collision with Mrs. Musket, whose

head is in startling proximity to the

handle of the library door. This gives

Lina her clue. Something has happened,

and her parents are in Sir Stephen's room

in consultation. Without a word to the

startled house keeper, Miss Xorthcroft

passes her, and opening the door of the

library, she closes it rapidly and firmly

again as soon as she has entered the

room.

*****

Her mother is there. She is already

dressed for dinner. Is it the peculiar
shade of the reading lamp, or the dark
sheen of her high satin gown, which makes
her look so awfully ill, so ghastly pale?
Lina runs towards her, but is checked by
an imperious movement from her uncle's
hand as he stands facing her, white and
rigid also. His mud-bespattered hunting-coat,
and his dirty top-boots are strangely
at variance with the excessive neatness of
his surroundings. Instinctively Lina turns
to look for her father.

He stands apart, he appears puzzled
and disturbed, but not frightened as his
wife is.

"What has happened, uncle Stephen?
What is wrong ? " asks Lina promptly.
Her straightforward nature abhors doubt
and uncertainty, and she desires to break
this ominous, perplexing silence at once.

"It is as well you have come at this
moment, Lina," replies the baronet, " for
what transpires here is likely to prove as
important to you as to myself. I have
been compelled — reluctantly compelled, 1
may say, to request the immediate presence
and attention of my brother and
his wife, because I have a question of
vital consequence to put to them." There
is a strange vibration in his chilling
tones, and most unusual hesitation in his
measured speech.

What does this portend ? " Lina
glances from one to the other of the
white faces in srowincr alarm. " Whatever
question you have to put to my
dear parents," she says proudly, " I am
certain will be answered to your immediate
satisfaction, uncle Stephen." She
has been stung by the odd way in which

he alluded to my "brother and his wife!"
I trust your childish confidence may
not be misplaced, Lina," he says coldly ;
and I admit that the proposition which
has just been laid before me is so astounding,
as to appear incredible even
to me. In any case, I have no alternative
but to place the facts before you,
as they have been reported to me. I
admit that the duplicity they imply is
monstrous, and I shall await an explanation
with exceeding anxiety."

There is a long, trying pause. The
ticking of the Queen Anne clock upon
the mantelshelf assumes the magnitude
of blows from a sledge-hammer to the
overstrained sense of hearing of those in
solemn conclave assembled.

At last Sir Stephen breaks the awful
silence, and moving a step nearer to Mrs.

Northcroft, he addresses himself pointedly
to her —

Your extraordinary depression, your
failing health, your white, troubled face,
and evident disinclination to be my guest,
lend more colour to the fatal suspicion
that has been whispered to me than
aught else. If what I have heard be true,
then, Mrs. Northcroft, your mysterious
fretting and lasting nervousness are amply
accounted for. Indeed, it is a marvel tome
that any one could live under so
crushing a load of falsehood and deceit."
The lurid flame of a fierce, growing anger
shines in his eyes, and he raises his fist
as though in menace.

Letitia's head falls forward upon her
breast, and she shrinks as if a blow had
actually been dealt her.

Hubert — husband, come to me ! help

me ! " she cries, in a tone of piteous
appeal. Hubert starts forward, the perplexed
expression of his face increased to
absolute bewilderment as he listens to his
brother's amazing tirade.

It is all right, all right, Letty, my
poor darling," he whispers, taking her
ice-cold hands in his, and chafing them
nervously. " Stephen does not mean to
be angry, dear, it is only his manner.
We can explain it all, of course."

Oh ! we were wrong, so wrong to
keep it secret for all these years," she
whispers faintly, and only her husband
hears her. " I have always dreaded this
moment, dear Hugh, and that is why I
so often implored you to tell "

Tut — tut — much ado about nothing,
my poor child," answers Hubert cheerily,
and then he faces his brother.

What has put you out so much,
Stephen ? " he says, and his tone is nearly
as calm as usual. " Come, come, weare
not acting a play — we don't want
heroics or hysterics either. What is
all this — fuss about ? "

Your flippant, irreverent tone at this
most serious moment is in as bad taste
as all the other acts of your frivolous
Bohemian existence, Hubert," says Sir
Stephen, with bitter sarcasm. " But this
frivolity in you can no longer deceive me,
and I see the confirmation of my worst suspicions
in the scared face of that guilty
woman, who cowers under the exposure
that has come upon her — only just in time!
But it is in time, thank God ! "

Uncle, be silent : how can you ? "
cries Lina, suddenly confronting him, and
striving to silence him by the imperious

gesture of her uplifted hand. " You are
hurting mother. Don't you see that she
is ill? How dare you speak to her in
that cruel way ? " The girl rushes towards
Mrs. Northcroft, and tenderly
pillows the drooping head upon her
loving breast. "Mother — mother darling
are you faint — let me get your salts
oh ! what can I do for her ? " cries
poor Lina, in a tone of despair.

Mother ! " echoes the baronet with
contempt. " Don't you know that that
woman is not your mother, girl, anymore
than the man I am compelled to
call brother is your father ? "

Oh, uncle ; how can you ? " protests Lina.

But he is too much roused to have
either mercy or consideration for any one.
His pride, his prejudices, his sense of
the fitness of things, all have suffered, and

he resents the cause of his bitter humiliation.
" You were picked up in a gutter
a pauper, with no parents, and no
name — and you have sought to entrap
my son, the heir of Pineridge, the bearer
of a noble name, into a marriage ! Out
of this house all of you — adventuresses —
cheats — impostors — out of my house ! "

What you say is not true — none of
it — I'll not believe it," cries Lina, with
passionate revolt mingling in her amazement
; " and Philip will not believe ill
of us either, — of that I am quite sure !
Oh, my love, my darling," she murmurs
below her breath. The thought of him
gives her fresh strength, and her earnest
conviction actually shakes Sir Stephen
but he turns fiercely towards his brother.

Is this girl entitled to bear the
noble name of Northcroft ? " he cries

VOL. I. T

ane.

Is she your own daughter ? Answer
me that. Yes — or no ? "

Why, Stephen, Stephen, what is the
use of making such a fuss?" rejoins
Hubert helplessly. He really is bewildered
by the strange aspect of affairs.
Certainly we adopted little Lisbeth, and
re-christened her Lina when our own
baby was taken from us. She is the
child of excellent, worthy people. Her
father won a noble name for himself by
his bravery and courage. Don't put
yourself out so much, brother. It's all
right, I assure you. I told my wife not
to bother you with all these details : it's
entirely my fault that you did not know,
and, after all, who could fail to be
proud of our Lina ? We have loved
and treated her as if she had been our
own child, of course."

Silence, liar and cheat ! " roars Sir
Stephen. The concentrated rage of his
suspicious nature finds vent in his furious
tones. "Out of my house without a
moment's delay. Xo more tampering
with that wretched blind boy. Out, and
at once ! "

He crosses the room with hasty
strides ; he places his hand on the bell-rope,
and pulls it violently.

Eun to the stables, have the horses
put to, and say that the carriage is
required immediately. Tell Mr. Grind to
have all the luggage belonging to Mr.
Hubert Xorthcroft and his family
brought down at once. They start for
London by the mail-train to-night."

But dinner, sir " stammers the

astonished footman, who is young, and
has no experience in hiding his emotions.

T 2

Dinner be , and you also ! "

shouts the master of Pineridge, m a
white heat of passion by this time.

*|? T^c y^ tIv 9|v

Within an hour, Hubert, his wife, and
Lina are driving rapidly along the road
to Torchester.

Within two hours they are en route
for London, borne rapidly through the
chill, dark night, by the Whizzing express
train Onward, onward
flies the engine, breathing sparks
of fire in its hot haste. It is close upon
midnight ; the wretched hours of this
most eventful, most miserable day have
almost come to an end. Letitia North-croft,
with a sigh, has laid her whiteface
wearily upon her husband's shoulder,
and has given her ice-cold hands into
Lina's warm, loving clasp.

Take care of him my darling," she
whispers, roused by some temporary
stoppage of the train, and then she lays
her husband's hands in those of her
adopted child, and with a long sigh
suddenly breathes her last ! The shock
has killed her, as Sir Joseph Barry prophesied
a shock would do. Her gentle
heart is broken, the firm support of her
courageous love and never-failing moral
strength are taken from poor Hubert
now, and he is left, a widower indeed !
crushed in spirit, paralyzed by the grief
which has so fearfully and unexpectedly
overwhelmed him. Instinctively he turns
to Lina, and he does not turn in vain.
The brave child realizes that this is no
time for indulgence in private sorrow or
repining. She must ignore herself entirely,
she will exert all the latent energy

of her strong, simple nature, and prove
herself worthy of the love and' trust
which have been bestowed upon her
throughout the past happy years of her
glad young life, as completely as if she
had been really entitled to the name she
bears. She will reward that gentlewoman,
who has been to her all that a
mother can be to a daughter, by taking
the burden of Hubert's crushing sorrows
upon her own strong shoulders. She
will be firm as a rock, and show herself
able and willing to support this sad,
broken-spirited man ; she is resolved, by
the gracious help of her Father in
heaven, to prove to her earthly parent
that he will not lean upon the child of
his adoption in vain.

END OF VOL. I.

DL

IK??'*CS*«Pr*?K^'-:r'?5c

•''T55U.'*iSc*»»»*^l^r'."

mmmmm

^ iXot)cI

By B. H. BUXTON,

AUTHOR OF " JENNIE OP THE PRINCe's," ETC.

Cano

W. W. Penn

AUTHOR OF " IIALF-IIOURS OF BLIND MAN's HOLIDAY," " THE
PALETTE AND THE PEN," ETC.

WITH OTHEE Stories

By W. W. Fern.

ly Three VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

London :

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

1S83.

Printed by Kbi.ly & Co. London & Kingston.

CONTENTS

chap. PAfiE.

I.^Mrs. Ruskett and fieri Schemes . . i

II. — Poor PiiiLir . 26

III. — Back at Hampstead . . .-49

IV. — Abroad . . . . . . 71

V. — Mrs. Ruskett's Daughter . . .92

VI. — I.v the Nick of Time . . . . in

VII. — O.v THE Track . . . . 131

VIII. — Her O.vly Love . . . .147

IX. — Philip's Revenge . . . . .163

X. — Under One Rook 181

XI. — From May to November 207

XII. — At Last . . . . .234

SELECT NOVELS.

Crown 8vo, cloth, 35. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready : —

MY SISTER the ACTRESS. By Florence Market.

'" My Sister the Actress," is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marrjat.'— ./o/jw Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. Rv Mrs. Eiloart.

'Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly veil told cannot do better
than read " The Deans Wife." '—Jvhu Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. Bv Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour :
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — John Ball.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

'Compared with the former works of the authoress of 'the Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be proud iced second to one.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide savoir.' — Whitehall Review.

CHAPTER I.

MRS. Muskets AND HER SCHEMES.

TT was as though a thunderbolt had
suddenly fallen in the midst of the
peaceful family circle so comfortably established
in Pineridge Priory.

Who, then, was the deus ex machine ?

No less a person than the designing,
redoubtable Mrs. Musket.

The hopes which had lain dormant in
the ambitious mind of the housekeeper
for years were not forgotten, as we have
seen, although circumstances had rendered
their fulfilment more unlikely than
ever of late. Indeed, there were moments

VOL. II.

A'/heii Mrs. Musket entirely despaired of
seeing her handsome daughter in the
place for which she deemed her eminently
fitted. Nevertheless, tenacity was
a strong characteristic in the woman's
nature ; and as long as the heir of Pine-ridge
was single there was no absolute
reason for relaxing her visionary claim
on his future. It was years ago now
since Isabel had been sent to the fashionable
Brighton school in order to befitted
for her possible elevation to a
higher sphere as a baronet's lady, and
until Mr. Philip was a bond fide married
man Mrs. Musket refused to relinquish
her ambitious hopes for her promising
daughter.

There's many a slip 'twixt the cup)
and the lip," she had said for the sake
of saying something spiteful when she

found Philip and Lina " spooning " at the
piano ; and the girl's cursory remarks
about the stranger who " stared at her
rudely, and looked as though he had
seen her before," aroused Mrs. Musket's
scheming propensities, as a burning match
sets light to a heap of tinder. Hereat
last, it seemed, a chance was offered
to her for making mischief of some kind.
She had no exalted idea of feminine
modesty, and her experience of her own
daughter's extraordinary behaviour with
strangers perhaps justified the inference
that girls were all and always bold. If
only she could get hold of some damaging
fact in connection with that soft-spoken
Miss Lina ! How adroitly she would use
it to serve her own purposes ! How
surely she would manage to plant the
seeds of doubt in Sir Stephen's mind,

B 2

and water them with insidious words of
increasing suspicion ! It was not a very
risky game to play, and, if it should turnout
a useless one, at all events, it could
do no harm to try it, and try it she
would, as sure as her name was Sarah
Musket. Her first move should be a
rigorous cross-examination of that foreigner
whom Miss Lina, sly hussy, had cleverly
spoken of as strangely bold, whereas she
no doubt had given him every encouragement
to stare if he really had done so ;
girls always tried to attract the attention
of men, and set their caps at foreigners
in particular, notwithstanding that they
might be elderly and ill-favoured. This
was Mrs. Musket's mental summing-up,
and then she prepared for action. If
Miss Lina could be ousted from Pine-ridge
by any good luck, even at this

the eleventh hour, the door would at
once be open for Isabel's return ; if she
were safely re-established in the house
all might be satisfactorily settled with a
little management, and Mrs. Musket dearly
loved managing things. Who could possibly
foresee what might not happen?
What should, in the end, prevent the
young people from being united by the
closest tie of all, if their inclinations
were led that way ?

With these thoughts filling her crafty
head, the scheming housekeeper invited
Mr. Wolfgang to partake of a little refreshment
in her room. A cup of tea
it was that she offered him politely as he
made his way down the stairs and passed
her door. And then, suggesting that his
journey must have tired him, she substituted
a glass of port and a dish of cutlets.

She knew the way to a man's good will
very well, did that clever old Sarah, and
experience had taught her that a glass of
sound wine loosens the tongue as oil
eases a lock.

But, madame, these completes a la soubise
I It is a chef-cVceuvre 1 '*' exclaimed the
appreciative Swiss, smacking his lips.

"Our cook is clever and accomplished,
I think," answered Mrs. Paiskett, adopting
her master's pompous manner as she
quoted one of his pet phrases. Karl
Wolfgang felt the lady's condescension
acutely, and concluded that the stiff
English people were, after all, the most
hospitable in all the wide world. He
struggled hard to express his overwhelming
sentiments of gratification ; but his
English was decidedly rusty, and the lubricating
wine rather impeded than aided

his pronunciation. Sarah Musket, however,
was by no means impatient. She
knew how to be most amiable and bide
her time without protest when the end
in view was worth waiting for. She certainly
had some diplomatic talent, had
this crafty, ambitious woman, for she
played as carefully as though she knew
the stakes to be high, and yet she herself
was the one to whom the result of
this game was most amazing. She complimented
him on his admirable English,
she pressed him to eat and drink, she
laughed at his moderation, and said that
so fine a man as lie certainly required
keeping up.

Ah ! madame," cried poor little Karl,
waving his arm about with characteristic
animation, " you think me fine ; you
should see some of the men in mine

canton — the guides, by example." And
then he continued in broken phrases to
render his tribute to his countrymen.
His eyes were still dazed by the apparition
he had seen hi Mr. Northcroft's
studio, and as he alluded to the guides
of his canton he seemed to see his old
friend Oscar Freundlein rising before him
again. What a marvellous resemblance !
Surely the invalid little Lina, whom he so
distinctly remembered at Meyringen, could
never have grown into this tall, strong
maiden with roses in her cheeks and
health in her bearing? This young lady,
who was called Lina, seemed to Karl the
image of his old acquaintance, the bravest
and best of guides, and he also thought
he (who prided himself on never forgetting
a face) recognised the little
Lisbeth of fourteen years ago in the

smiling girl who called Hubert Northcroft
father."

These thoughts and inferences the Swiss
put into English questions and assertions
for the gracious Mrs. Musket's edification.
He meant no harm, poor garrulous little
man ; he only wanted information to
satisfy that prying propensity of his
which seems characteristic of most small
men, and women too, whom nature has
endowed with keen black eyes and birdlike
movements of the head.

Mrs. Musket listened to all he asked and
all he stated with encouraging patience
and growing surprise for a long time.
His odd accent and curiously-inverted
phrases perplexed her to a great extent ;
but she caught the drift of his broken
sentences, and she conned them attentively
in her own mind — so attentively

me.

that a gleam of wonderful light suddenly
flashed upon her, and with a complete
change of tone and manner she began to
interrogate the astonished little foreigner.
Hitherto she had assisted his halting
speech, now she half-scared him with a
thousand eager questions on her own account.
Her feverish haste delayed matters,
for her informant became silent ; but this
gave her time to ponder over what she
had already heard. Suddenly she realized
the vast importance of his random statements.


At last she thought she saw her way
to the frustration of that deceitful Miss
Tina's plans; she would oust that soft-voiced
impostor, she would discomfit the
girl she hated, pave the way for the
return of her admired daughter, and
utterly defeat that easy-going couple, the

Hubert Northcrofts. Against them the
vindictive woman still cherished a grudge
for the bare fact of their original advent
at Pineridge. Had they not appeared
upon the scene of her manoeuvring she
could have managed matters to her entire
satisfaction, and by this time Isabel might
be the affianced wife of the baronet's
heir.

The woman was so delighted by the
revelations Karl Wolfgang made to her,
that lie would have liked to embrace
the innocent cause of her exultation ;
but she contented herself with replenishing
his glass bountifully, an attention he
probably appreciated far more than her
intended caresses.

When Mr. and Mrs. Northcroft were
staying at the hotel at Meyringen there
had been a catastrophe — thus in effect

Karl's long story began — and then he
recapitulated the facts with which our
readers were made acquainted in the
opening of this recital ; but he also
informed the housekeeper of what had
further come to his knowledge after he
had left Meyringen to accept a better
situation in a larger hotel at Cologne.
He thought, if he remembered rightly,
that he had been told that the little
invalid Lina, the child of the Northcrofts,
had died at Meyringen, but of course he
did not know positively if this were true.
Further, it was said that the artist and
his wife had taken the orphan Lisbeth
away to Munich with them, whether on
a visit only or with the intention of
adopting her entirely later on, Karl had
never been able to ascertain; indeed,
he had thought very little more of the

matter until he saw the living picture
of his dead friend Freundlein in the face
of the lady who entered Mr. North-croft's
studio but a short half-hour ago.
Could madame inform him if his believing
were a correct one ? He was still
quite bewildered by what he had seen.
It was all most marvellous. Such an
astounding likeness ! Karl exhausted his
cosmopolitan vocabulary in his endeavour
to depict the nature of his amazement.

Mrs. Musket cared little for his further
attempts at explanation. She had heard
more than enough for her purpose. She
wanted to get rid of the chatterer now,

to be alone, to think and scheme.
*****

Good! At length, then, her patience,
her waiting, all were to be rewarded.
She had not spread her toils in vain.

But the news seemed almost too good to
be true ; reviving hope brought doubt in
its train : she could scarcely control the
tremor of her voice, and her sallow
face became livid with her growing excitement.


"There can be no doubt you are
right," she said, " no doubt, surely no
doubt."

Then you do not know of this
thing?" he asked, surprised.

No ; if you are right, and / believe
you, the whole affair lias been kept a
secret. No one here was ever told a
word about the real child's death. We
shall see, we shall soon see. You may
trust me for that."

Something in her uncanny eyes frightened
the good-hearted little Teuton.

"If it be not snowed, I pray you will

tell noting, noting ! " he cried, lifting his
hands and his face in entreaty. " The
Herr Northcroft he was so good, so very
good to me, and madame also. It may
that they wish not this thing snowed by
other persons for some good reason of
their own, and so I pray you not to say
noting ! "

Mrs. Ruskett was getting very tired of
this " tomfoolery ; " she must put an end
to it and get rid of this magpie at
once.

Oh, of course it can only be a jokes
she said, "just a little trick played by
Mr. Hubert on his brother ; only it's n
]pity, because Sir Stephen is not fond oi'
jokes, but Mr. Hubert always was. Pray
don't alarm yourself, my dear sir, I have
no doubt we shall all laugh in the end.
I shall just find out the whole truth of the

affair for my own gratification, no one
else shall hear a word of it ; and if you
have to call for that precious picture
tomorrow I will tell you the result of
my private inquiry."

Karl went his way to the village inn
with a heavy heart. Could his memory
for faces have brought any sort of
trouble on poor Freundlein's daughter, or
on the generous people who had sheltered
the orphan in the hour of her
need ? These English were so strange, so
cold, so proud; perhaps Sir Stephen would
like a good girl less because her father
had been a guide. Freundlein was poor,
certainly, but he was learned and good,
and certainly more brave and honourable
than any man Karl had ever heard of.
He had died in saving the life of another;
was not that noble, fine?

Madame the housekeeper had been
very porte to him, and treated him
quite en prince ; that wine was most
excellent certainly. They had good
wine in their English cellars. Madame
had certainly given him plenty of it ;
perhaps that had made him talk a little
fast. Ah ! if he had caused trouble of
any kind to his kind friends of former
days, then would he tear his hair and
weep.

But Karl Wolfgang's late repentance
did not avail to stop Mrs. Musket in
the long - delayed advancement of her
pet schemes. She was cold and pale
with excitement, she could scarcely
control the outward evidences of her
agitation ; but she would not endure
an hour's unnecessary suspense. She
would go straight to her master and

VOL. II. c

lay the case before him in all its
enormity. She would go now at once,
while she still felt the deception, with
what she deemed a righteous resentment.

As luck would have it she met the
baronet as he was crossing the hall.
He had not ridden up to the front
door, but entered by the back gate,
which saved him a round, and he had
taken his horse straight to the yard
and dismounted there. This accounted
for the absence of all noise or bustle on
his arrival.

Ah ! that's Lina singing," he muttered,
as the clear tones of her sweet
voice pleasantly greeted his ear, and
something very like a smile parted his
thin lips. " That girl is a treasure," he
continued. " Well for Philip that he
has been able to secure her. Our own

flesh and blood too — our own flesh and
blood ! Not likely, indeed, that we
should have found a girl like that out
of our own family."

He was on his way to say a word
of greeting to the young people in the
drawing-room when Mrs. Musket met
him in the hall.

I beg pardon, I am sure, Sir
Stephen," says she, stammering, and as
nervous and uncertain now as she had
previously been confident and aggressive,
might I ask the favour of five minutes'
private conversation with you ? "

Sir Stephen stood still, raised his eyebrows,
and compressed his lips.

This is a very singular request on
your part, Mrs. Musket."

His tone indicated displeasure rather

than surprise.

c 2

I hope I know my place, Sir
Stephen, and most certainly would bethe
last to intrude ; but the interest of
the family always goes before everything
else with me."

Really, Mrs. Musket, I must ask you
to defer this private consultation until
tomorrow. At our usual business hour
you know you can always find me willing
to listen to whatever you have to
say ; but you must be aware that I
studiously avoid touching on domestic
details at any but the appointed time."

He moved towards the library as he
spoke, and made an imperious movement
of dismissal to the anxious housekeeper.
But she, nothing daunted,
followed him closely.

I cannot defer this matter, Sir
Stephen," she said, raising her voice and

beginning to show some temper. " I
know my place and I know my duty
too, and I am the last to presume, I
hope ; but when it is a question of
family honour, Sir Stephen, and of
saving the name of Northcroft from
shame and disgrace, then I feel bound
to speak out, and not even her most
gracious Majesty the Queen, were she
to enter this apartment now, could make
me hold my tongue."

Both master and servant were in the
library by this time, and they stood confronting
one another. Mrs. Musket had
carefully closed the door. Sir Stephen's
flagging attention had been sharply
arrested by the woman's extraordinary
speech. He fixed his cold, dark eyes
upon her with an expression of doubtful
inquiry, and he perceived the strange

excitement which almost convulsed her
pale face.

You have made use of some extraordinary
expressions, which, I need
hardly say, are quite enigmatical to me,
Mrs. Musket ; pray explain yourself without
further circumlocution," he said, and
he drew ofi' his gloves and stretched
his long fingers as he spoke.

I will, Sir Stephen, I will speak,"
she cried ; " whatever comes of it I
must do my duty, and if I lose my
place through it, even after so many
years of faithful service, I would rather
be treated unjust-like myself than see your
noble name dragged through the dirt ! "

That venomous thrust went home. The
crafty woman knew her master well.

"Speak out," he said; "tell me all — all,
do you hear ? But for peace-sake spare

me any further rhodomontade'* His face
was becoming Ovid now, and he raised
that white clenched fist of his with a
threatening gesture.

I can't tell you all, because I don't
know all. Sir Stephen," she replied
promptly. Her nervousness had vanished,
and she was cool, collected, and precise
now. " I can only give you a proper
warning, and ask you to look after your
interests, those of Mr. Philip, and of the
noble family name." She spoke now with
that curious intonation which was so
oddly like her master's own, "If what I
have heard be true," she added, " then all
the fainting and hurrying, and spasms
of certain people when they come to
stay at the Priory, ain't no longer surprising.
Why, if I'd been carrying such
a disgraceful secret about with me I

should have died of shame long ago ;
indeed I should have prayed to be safe
in my grave afore ever my deceitfulness
was discovered."

Do not speak of yourself ; explain
what concerns me, if you please," m-
interrupted the baronet, with rising impatience.


You can get to know the whole truth
from them most concerned if you choose
to ask them one single question," the
woman answered hurriedly, for she read
danger in her irate master's threatening
glance, and therefore added hurriedly,

Before Mr. Philip takes Miss Lina to
be his lawful wedded wife. Sir Stephen, let
me beg of you to ask Mr. Hubert North-croft,
on his sacred word of honour, if the
young lady is truly his lawful daughter."

The mine was dexterously laid, the plot
had been carefully prepared, and now
the lighted fuse was applied. The thunderclap
that followed had most disastrous
results, as we know, but Mrs. Musket
rejoiced exceedingly when she was left
alone to ponder over the prosecution of
her, so far, promising schemes.

%/>^

Poor PHILIP,

TT was on the stairs that Philip first
met this cousin Lina, and on the
stairs he had reluctantly parted with heron
the night of that dire domestic catastrophe
that fell upon ail the inhabitants
of the Priory. A strange presentiment
of evil had possessed the lovers as they
bade one another farewell for an hour,
though neither of them could possibly
have had the remotest idea of the impending
fatality which was to extend
that hour into years.

Within a week Lina would be his
bride, his wife.

As Philip repeated that comforting

assurance to himself, his spirits rose, and
hearing the great clock on the stairs
chime the half-hour, he hurriedly devoted
himself to the mysteries of his
toilet. He had long ago learnt to dress
himself unassisted, if his clothes were
placed ready to his hand ; but the process
required his undivided attention, and
so for a time diverted his thoughts. At
last he was ready, and sat impatiently
expecting the gong. Lina always waited
upon the landing for him, and then they
walked down to the dining-room together.
But this evening no gong sounded,
and no Lina appeared. Philip waited,
listening eagerly. The clock chimed the
hour, and presently the quarter after
seven ; but still there was no summons
to the dining-room.

All was silent, oppressively silent, fora

time. But at length feet were heard
hurrying to and fro upon the stairs, then
strange noises of moving and shuffling
followed.

What did it all mean ? Would no one
come and give him some explanation ?
He guided himself to the window, and
with his ear pressed close against the
pane, listened with rapt attention.

Ah ! that was the sound of carriage
wheels upon the grand drive.

Visitors ! of course. Now all was
becoming clear to poor Philip. Company-were
arriving for dinner, and yet no one
had told him a word about their advent.
Strange ; Lina had always been on the
alert to warn him of any such emergency
hitherto. She knew so well how
he liked to be told whenever strangers
were expected, and who they were likely

to be, and yet she had not mentioned
one word to him about the guests who
were beginning to arrive now. PhiUp
thought at first, and in his present mood,
that he would rather there were no
visitors this evening, or that he might
not be called on to appear. It would
be almost more agreeable for him to
remain in the comfortable solitude of his
own apartments. And yet as time went
on he felt hurt when he realized that
he must have been entirely forgotten.

Was Lina so taken up with these expected
or unexpected people that she
had ceased to look after him who had
always been her first consideration hitherto?
A feeling akin to jealousy began
to rise in Philip's sensitive mind, and
brought back the depression which had
weighed upon him earlier in the evening.

He sat, lost in thought, his head bowed
low upon his breast, his hands, as usual,
hanging listlessly at his side ; he felt
neglected, alone, melancholy.

Ah, surely, that was Lina's footstep in
the passage without, his quick ears could
not deceive him there, though no gong
had sounded to keep him in his bearings
as to the dinner hour. It was impossible
that he could make a mistake about
the hurried tread of Lina's light feet,
and the frou-frou of the silk skirt which
she wore in the evening, and which certainly
swept past his door now.

Past it!

Ah ! there are more carriage wheels
upon the gravel without ; that accounts
for everything. Strangers are still arriving
and Lina has been hastily summoned
to do the honours for her future father-in-law.

She was right not to call Philip ;
she knows his dislike to confusion or
bustle, and she will come for him when
all is quiet. Has the whole county
arrived at the Priory to-night ? Wheels
again ?

Ah ! but these are departing. Now the
tedious arrivals are at an end. Now, at
last he will be fetched and led downstairs,
and listen to his love's account
of all the adventures and misadventures
which have happened and kept her so
long from his side. But all is still in the
house ; no further disturbing sounds fall
on his eagerly expectant ears, and weary
of waiting, impatient to moodiness, he
opens his door and cautiously creeps to
the stair head. With the aid of his
stick, and guiding himself by the broad
balustrade, he walks slowly downstairs.

He hears no strangers' voices, and heartily
wishes his shyness had not kept him a
prisoner upstairs so long. How foolish
this fear of meeting visitors is ! If he
had walked boldly down an hour ago he
would have saved himself much trouble
and perplexity. How Lina will laugh at
him when he confesses his timid doubts
to her !

He guides himself to the drawing-room
door. He pauses for a moment ; but he
hears no voices within.

This is more and more incomprehensible.
He opens the door and stands waiting
on the threshold. No one speaks.
The room is empty. With the feeling of
one oppressed by a nightmare, Philip
retraces his steps and guides himself to
the dining-room.

Mr. Grind officiously advances to take

his stick from him, and at this moment
Sir Stephen enters the room from the
other end, by the door which communicates
with his Library. He has not
changed his hunting attire ; but that
Philip does not see, though he is quite
aware that everything has an unusual
aspect. He stands waiting, helpless, expectant.
Sir Stephen glances at him and
can scarcely repress the impatient curse
that rises to his lips.

Leave us ; I will ring for you when
you are required," he says, turning
savagely upon the inoffensive butler, who
retires in silent haste.

As soon as he has closed the door :
Father, what has happened ? what is
wrong ? " cries Philip, advancing a step
in the direction of his parent. " Where
is my uncle ? where is Lina ? "

YOL. TI. D

Gone," answers Sir Stephen. " Gone,
all of them, never to darken the doors
of Pineridge Priory again." His voice, ashe
utters the last word, sounds hoarse and
strange to himself.

Gone ! " echoes Philip with a gasp.
His fright has made him breathless. "I
do not understand, I cannot believe that
she would have left me like this ! "

"I have not the slightest doubt that
she is on her way to London by this
time, she and the people who call themselves
her parents also."

It is the startling tone of the baronet's
voice rather than the sense of his words
which strikes terror into Philip's soul.
His quick perception teaches him that
some awful calamity has befallen him — or
Lina; what matter, since Lina's troubles
must always and of course be doubly his.

He utterly fails to grasp the meaning of
that ambiguous sentence uttered by his
father, and stands still waiting its solution
in helpless amazement.

Sir Stephen physically straightens himself
to rigidity, and mentally pulls himself
together also.

I must harden my heart," is his
unnecessary determination. Then, in his
most incisive language, and speaking ina
tone that seems to rasp the delicate
ears that listen to it, he states the bare
facts of poor Lina's case as they present
themselves to his prejudiced mind.

But when he beholds the abject distress
of the poor young man, which
gradually passes to frantic indignation
and futile agony, a tinge of remorse pervades
the father's consciousness, perhaps
for the first time in his life. Has he

D 2

acted quite justly? Has he not strained
a point in the wrong direction? But no
sooner has he reflected on his action
than his mood changes, and with a fresh
revulsion of feeling he concludes that his
severity was richly merited, leo leniency
should ever be shown to traitors, and
traitors Hubert and his family had most
decidedly proved themselves.

My Lina gone, gone for ever ? My
life, my wife ? I cannot . I will
not believe it ! " exclaims Philip, flinging
his arms upwards with a cry of agony.
Oh, father ! oh, father ! if a heart
beats in your breast, if you have one
grain of mercy in your whole being,
unsay those dreadful words. I would
rather fall dead at your feet than be
brought to believe that you have wilfully
robbed me of my Lina — my joy, the

sunshine of my dark, miserable life I "
"I really wish I could spare you, my
poor boy!" answers Sir Stephen promptly.
I assure you that this miserable affair
has caused me much suffering also — but
not even for your sake can I countenance
treachery, deceit of the deepest dye.
They had entrapped you — you, poor,
helpless creature. Lina was made to
lure you on. She caught you in her toils
with all the tricks and Y\'iles that characterize
girls of low origin, and especially
intrio^uin^c foreigners."

No, no ; a thousand times no ! " cries
Philip. " Lina is pure, innocent, holy,
absolutely incapable of falsehood. That
I can swear. And what if Uncle Hubert
did adopt her ? it was kind, good,
generous, and noble of him. How could
you blame him for taking compassion

on a friendless orphan? Was she not
more than worthy of it ? Oh ! my daring,
my darling, my wife ; come back
to me!" he cries; and as he begins to
realize his irreparable loss his agony
becomes supreme. Utterly unmindful of his
helplessness he rushes madly to and fro,
striking himself against the furniture and
the walls, and stumbling over the chairs.

Command yourself, have some regard
for propriety, even if you have quite forgotten
the respect which is due to your
injured parent," says Sir Stephen sternly,
as he lays his hand upon the lad's arm
with a compelling grip. " Listen to
reason, Philip ; reflect, calm yourself."
He adds the latter words in his most
authoritative tone.

"Are you ready for dinner, Sir
Stephen ? " asks the butler, opening the

door. He is tired of waiting outside,
and quite alive to the fact that his
master will be very angry when he finds
his dinner spoilt by this continued delay.

The loud voices and commotion in the
dining-room have brought the other servants
into the hall. But thrush curious
and impatient, they do not venture to
approach the room in which this extraordinary
scene is being enacted. The master
of Pineridge possesses the power of making
himself respected, or rather feared in no
common degree.

Philip breaks away from his father.

Don't touch me," he shrieks ; " you
want to kill me, I feel that you are
driving me mad, you wicked, cruel father.
Is it not enough that I am blind? You
have long ago tried to break my spirit,
must you now break my heart also?

Why don't you stab me at once ? To
kill me would be kind, for then this awful
misery would surely end ! "

In escaping from his father Philip turns
rapidly and so comes into sudden and
violent collision with the door which the
butler has opened. The blow on his
forehead wounds and stuns the lad, and
he falls senseless and bleeding at his father's
feet : indeed, he looks as if he would
never rise again, so white is he, so rigid
and ghastly. The blood is slowly trickling
from that gash on his brow, it is so
painful, horrible. Even Sir Stephen, hardened
as he is, is seized with a feeling of
compunction ; he bends over his son, and,
trembling, lays his hand upon the silent
heart.

"Help him, carry him away, bring Mrs.
Musket, fetch the doctor ! " His commands

are quick to incoherence, but Mrs.
Musket, never at a loss, is already at hand.

"We-will put him to bed," she says,
turning to Mr. Grind with an air of authority,
and then addressing her master :
"Pray do not distress yourself. Sir Stephen,"
she adds appealingly; "we will look
after the poor young gentleman, and you
shall be left in peace. I do pray, sir (if
you will excuse the liberty), that you will
allow me to have dinner served for you
at once. We cannot afford to have Sir
Stephen laid up, whatever else happens,
and you must be that faint and worn "

Silence, my good woman ; do not
trouble about me," says the baronet, with
a return of his wonted manner ; " pray
attend to the requirements of my unfortunate
son, that will be quite your most
satisfactory way of serving me."

Philip is laid in his bed. It is well for
him, poor boy, that he remains unconscious
for days. He has been severely
stunned, and the supervening stupor is of
long duration. The doctor declares "there
is not much danger of any kind ; rest,
good nursing, and perfect quiet will soon
bring him round again."

For a time the poor lad is a prisoner, of
course, and Mrs. Musket constitutes herself
chief gaoler; but even when the
patient's health is restored he does not
regain his wonted liberty. Sir Stephen
never for a moment relenting in his original
determination to break off all possibility
of communication between the lovers, does
not scruple to secure his son's complete
isolation by every means in his power ; nor
does he hesitate to take advantage of the
facilities which the boy's blindness gives

him for protracting his imprisonment.
Mrs. Ruskett receives her master's stern
commands to cut the patient off from all
communication with the outer world.
Neither housemaid nor footman is allowed
to enter Philip's apartment, which to all
intents and purposes has become a cell.
The housekeeper rejoices in the congenial
task set her ; it is but a forward step on
the road to the goal of her ambition. She
makes the very most of her opportunities,
of course. She dilates ad iiaw^eaiJi on the
wit, the accomplishments, the kind heart,
the good nature, the unselfishness, and
the remarkable beauty of her dear child
Isabel.

"I do wish my daughter Avere here now,"
she said one morning when she had coaxed
her patient to swallow a little beef-tea;
how nice that would be for you Mr.

Philip ! I am only a stupid, unlearned old
woman, and beyond my housekeeping
accounts I know little of reading nor
writing neither, but my Isabel, she is a
fine scholar, as you know ; she could read
to you, or tell you tales by the hour
together. Just think what a pleasant
change that would be for you. Of course,
young folks like young folks. I know
very well that you must be tired of the
dull company of an old woman like me.
Wouldn't you like me to send my girl
a letter, to have her here to wait on
you, and walk out with you when you
are better again, as she used to do so
nicely a few years back? She was so
fond of taking care of you. Don't you
long to have her here?"

"Oh, no! oh, no!" says Philip with
something very like a sob in his voice,

don't ask me to allow that, Mrs. Musket,
I would much — a thousand times rather
be quite alone." Then in a broken tone,
but with a tender, pleading intonation
that most women would have found irresistible,
—

Dear Mrs. Ptuskett," he says, " come
here to me, near me, quite close ; " and
he takes her hand in both his, and
bows his poor sightless face upon it,
will you not, can you not help me ? "
he adds ; " is it not possible to send a
little letter, just one little letter, to my
cousin Lina at Hampstead? Our parting-was
so hurried, so sudden, so terrible.
I cannot understand it yet, and I am
sure she must be quite as miserable as I
am. If you will do this thing for me there
is nothing, nothing I would not do for you
in return. I shall have money some day.

I will make it well worth your while, I
promise you I will, if only you will help me
to let my daring know that I am true and
faithful to her ; that my father may do
what he will, be harsh, stern, and cruel,
but that I shall never, never change,
never — as long as I have breath in my
body."

Needless to say that Mrs. Musket, stern
in her sense of duty, was absolutely inflexible.
The boy's pitiful entreaties and
rash promises affected her not at all ; but
she did not hesitate to make the most of
her virtuous firmness in recounting this
scene and similar ones to the baronet.

The young and romantically-inclined
footman, of whom previous mention has
been made, was bribed by Philip, when
once he was about again, to make a rash
promise in regard to a clandestine telegram.

But the watchful eye of Mr.
Grind, who had been thoroughly instructed
by Mrs. Musket, discovered the
intended culprit in the act of inscribing
a telegraph form in the baronet's study.
The fate of that good-natured youth
was sealed. " Off you go," said Mr.
Grind, imitating his master's tone to perfection,
and, as luck would have it, the
master himself appeared upon the scene
at this moment.

We must make an example of this
man," he said, and the footman shook
in his shoes. They did make an
example of the unfortunate lad, and
his punishment — severe as it was prompt,
certainly deterred all others from
proffering any aid thenceforth to the
blind boy. He did not know if his
telegram had been sent or not ; he had

implored Lina to write to him through
his friend in need, the footman. But
no letter ever came, of course, and
when he made furtive inquiries after
the man, he was told that he had been
dismissed, and was gone. Gone! everybody
had gone, as far as he was
concerned, thought poor Philip ; and,
tired of weeping, moaning, and complaint,
he, in the end, tacitly resigned himself
to his utter desolation.

%'

BACK AT HAMPSTEAD.

TI) Ace in the quaint old house on the
breezy and once delightful heights
of Hampstead, which now, alas, seem so
bleak and cheerless. Back in the erst
attractive artistic home that now is so
desolate. What a blank in the dwelling
and in the hearts of the two lonely occupants
of that formerly joyous household !
It seems more trying, more incredible,
because the surroundings are still unchanged.
All the inanimate objects are
now as they were when the family party,
full of bright anticipations, started for
Pineridge scarcely a fortnight ago.

They were all elated then, looking for-vol.

II. E

ward with glowing hopes to the wedding
so soon to take place between Philip and
Lina, a true marriage of hearts, which
could not fail to bring happiness in its
wake.

Scarcely a fortnight ago, and then
Letitia Northcroft was in their midst,
ordering, arranging all things comfortably
and wisely for those concerned,
encouraging her dear ones by pleasant
looks, words, and smiles.

Now she has left them — gone before.

Her work-table stands in the bay window
of the pleasant morning room still.
Her empty arm-chair, on the cushions of
which the impress of her graceful form
is visible, is pushed away against the wall
as though by an impatient hand. This
was Hubert's work ; he would have liked
to fling the harmless piece of furniture

out of the window. It Alas horrible to
realize that it could remain unchanged
whilst she — was gone. The blotting-pad
lay upon her writing-table ; a list of
household memoranda, on which the ink
seemed scarcely dry, was awaiting completion.


Yes, it was terrible. Such was the irreparable
change in so short a time ! Signs
and tokens of the woman's gentle life
and thoughtful presence everywhere, and
she no longer in the world.

Apparently nothing is changed from its
orderly course. In reality all is desolation,
and the saddest desolation ; for life
had fled, and blighted hopes alone remain.


The picture but lately commenced and
intended for next year's exhibition stood
upon the easel in the studio, and there

E 2

University OF Illinois
LIBRARY

was the rest of the artist's paraphernalia,
the uncleaned palette, with the handful
of brushes thrust hastily into the thumb-hole
just as Hubert laid it aside to answer
the summons of the dear voice whose
familiar and ever-welcome tones he was
never to hear again.

Never !

What would, what could life be to
him, without the cheerful support of heron
whose loving strength he had leant
for so many years past? He had put
the last touch upon the canvas the
morning of their departure, and it was
scarcely likely that he would ever take
a brush in hand again. A desolating
hurricane of grief had swept over the
humble spirit of the artist. His tenderest
feelings were ruthlessly uprooted, his
cheerful tranquillity blighted, he was robbed

of hope and energy, nothing was left
him but blank despair.

Even Lina, full of courage, noble,
brave, cheerful as she taught herself to
appear, quailed before the sight of the
indescribable dejection which had taken
possession of her unhappy father. Her
father she still considered him, and she
must ever regard him with the affection
and devotion of a daughter. She had
been startled, confused, and alarmed by
the strange discovery of her unsuspected
parentage; but her filial love had been
given to Hubert and Letitia Xorthcroft
many years ago. It grew with her
growth, it became an integral part of
her being — no change of circumstances
could ever affect that fact. But many
odd backward glimpses, vague memories,
undefinable visions of bygone days, which

she could never understand, were fully
accounted for now by the revelation so
lately and terribly made to her. Those
dream-like panoramas of wild snow-clad
peaks, which seemed to tower over her
in some far distant past, assumed a realistic
aspect now that all was explained
to her. Those wondrous heights had
once hemmed in her humble little life,
and there had been a time Avhen the
luxuries of her later years were entirely
unknown. She did not repine, as the
knowledge of her origin was imparted
to her ; she rather gloried in it, except
for its consequences. She dwelt with
conscious pride on the conviction that
her father had distinguished himself by
his undaunted courage, his spotless character,
and unselfish devotion.

The girl's vivid interest in all lambert

could tell her of her past was the rallying
pont between them. It was the
one subject on which they could converse
safely and freely ; all others were
still fraught with such grief and bitterness
that neither ventured to break the
barrier of silence by which they had
tacitly agreed to surround their overwhelming
sorrow. The details of her
father's brave adventurous life filled the
high-spirited girl with pride and a certain
sense of emulation. She was thankful
for the heritage of so noble a name ;
for what name was ever noble if not
that of the guide who, without shrinking
from danger, was ready to risk his own
life in saving that of a fellow-creature ?

Sir Stephen Korthcroft boasted much
and oft of his grand family and of his
noble name. Could his inheritance,

his pride, his money, his long pedigree,
lift him above his fellows as Oscar
Freundlein had raised himself above men
by his own brave deed? Oh, would she
had always known the truth, what
anguish that would have spared them
all! The culpable reticence of her
adopted parents was the only reproach
she had in her heart against them ;
but their silence had brought such
terrible consequences in its train, and
had wrought such miserable havoc
in her innocent life, that there where
moments when the recollection of it almost
stifled love and gratitude. But
alas, and alas ! if the wrong of secrecy
Alas great, how fearful was the open
hand of the avenger, the terrible crushing
punishment which had fallen upon
them all alike.

All I That word included Philip ! And
before his name, before the thought of
him in his blind desolation and unfathomable
misery, poor Lina broke down
utterly. She soon realized that she
dared not dwell on that too painful
vision. She shuddered back from it, as
though its depths would engulph her,
and, killing all hope and energy, leave
her inert, despairing, useless.

Xo, she would not dwell upon her
own particular grief, she would put selfish
fretting aside with a strong will.
She would be courageous, and resolve todo
the duty that lay nearest at hand
bravely, aye, cheerfully.

As her father went forth to meet
danger in the old da's undaunted, unflinching,
looking neither to the right
nor the left when he trod upon treacherous

ground, so resolutely would she
proceed upon the thorny path of her
now desolate life. She would neither
look back at what might have been,
nor shrink from the trials before her.
With all the earnestness of her strong,
simple nature, she prayed to her Father
in heaven, to Him who had been, as
He must ever be, her first loving parent,
and asked for help and guidance in this
dark hour of her greatest need.

Her prayers were answered. Her duty
lay close at hand, and strength was
granted her to fulfil it with perfect self-abnegation
— with noble steadfastness. She
must devote herself absolutely to helpless,
heart-broken Hubert now. It must
be her constant study, her unceasing
endeavour to lighten the burden of sorrow
that Alas crushing him with its

heavy hopelessness. For a long time she
could not induce him to set foot outside
the garden gate, but one day he
himself proposed to join Lina in her
walk to the cemetery at Highgate. His
gentle wife lay buried there, and a
longing possessed him to see her last
resting-place. Lina accepted this, the
first sign of his returning activity, • thankfully,
and, after that one visit, scarcely
a day passed on which the unhappy
widower did not wander across the heath
to where his poor Letty slept, with a
cross of white marble above her head.
Lina had attempted to draw a little
in the old days, but her chief interest
was centred in the sister art, and her
devotion to music had left her little
time for other pursuits. Xow she pretended
that she was possessed by a

sudden desire to renew her efforts with
the pencil, and by begging for some
assistance from the artist, she hoped
gradually to lead his mind back to that
one pursuit which was most likely to
arrest his attention, and which might indue
course divert his thoughts from incessantly
dwelling on a theme which
could conduce to melancholy depression
only. Various were the efforts she made
with this view, and amongst them the
Baron Von Stein's picture suggested itself.
Contrite Karl Wolfgang, when he
had, through Mrs. Musket, regained
possession of the damaged canvas after
the catastrophe at Pineridge, and had
brought his master's treasure again to
London, made many appeals to Mr.
Northcroft to carry out the baron's
wishes ; but Hubert was far too indifferent

to all outward affairs to pay
any attention to the matter, and Lina
had to write to the baron, pleading
family affliction as an excuse for everything.
She never knew what was eventually
done by Karl Wolfgang with that
unhappy painting which had been the
final cause of the storm that had
wrecked her life's hopes.

Time, the ruthless, the unheeding,
went on apace, regardless of all human
joy or sorrow. Neither Lina nor her
father could have given any account of
the manner in which the hours, days,
weeks passed them by, disregarding and
disregarded. Mortal hopes, fears, joys,
and sorrows, change more or less with
each succeeding day; but the allegorical
figure with his minute-glass and scythe,
presides, solemn, unsmiling, as the hands

of the world's clock move steadily forward.
Now they pointed to Christmas,
and very soon signalled the advent of
another new year.

Many, many times during this period
of passive transition Lina had cast about
her in her mind for some means by which
to communicate with Philip. She felt
as if she must manage to give him some
comforting assurance as to her unchanged
and unchanging loyalty, faith and love.
But the forbidding vision of the relentless
Sir Stephen checked her as she was
evolving some scheme of correspondence.
She remembered, shuddering and
frightened, the look and the threat by
which her request to the baronet had
been met, when she prayed for five minutes'
talk with her lover before quitting
Pineridge for ever on that fearful night.

As long as I live to protect the
poor lad from your Aviles and schemes
he shall be divided from you, that I
most solemnly swear : "such was Sir
Stephen's veto, and Lina felt that to
fight against that was as hopeless as
beating herself against a rock. She
could never make any impression, but
she might, and would probably, be seriously
wounded did she make any such
attempt. The master of Pineridge had
the power and the means to isolate
Philip entirely, and would not scruple to
use them to the utmost. All this Lina
knew too well, and as she pictured the
blind prisoner to herself such anguish
possessed her that she prayed God to
save her from thoughts which she felt
would drive her mad.

The mystical memory of her brave

a me.

father, and the vivid recollection of the
woman whom she had always regarded
with a daughter's love and reverence,
served to strengthen Lina's purpose of
self-abnegation. And she brought all her
moral strength to bear on her constant
efforts to ignore the grief she deemed
selfish indulgence, and to devote her
thoughts and energies to the rousing and
comforting of the widowed artist. His
broken spirit and pitiful helplessness surely
and urgently demanded her entire support.


Soon after the commencement of the
new year poor Lina was effectually
roused to an urgent necessity of a very
different character, and one for which
she was quite unprepared. It came in
the shape of a sudden peremptory demand
for the payment of arrears of

rent due for the house at Hampstead.
The accent of the owner sent in a claim
on behalf of his client which could not
be disregarded, and Hubert, in his perplexity,
turned instinctively to Lina for
counsel and help now, as he had formerly
turned to his energetic, clear-headed
wife. .

Lina confronted this novel, startling-difficulty
courageously, of course, and it
was well she had been appealed to, since
this first demand for money was speedily
followed by others. Lina, bearing in mind
how practical her dear mother would
have been under this stress of circumstances,
resolved to exert her business
capacity to the utmost. The means to
live, since live they must, had to bethought
of, and she proposed that as soon
as all their resources had been realised,

VOL. II. F

a me.

and the necessary arrangements completed,
they should quit England entirely. The
house at Hampstead must be given up at
once, of course, and, in some foreign town,
Lina hoped she could turn her musical
accomplishments to practical account. She
must contrive to become in part breadwinner
now ; for Hubert seemed utterly
incapable of settling to anything like steady
work again. The cruel punishment dealt
to him by his brother for the fatal concealment
of Lina's origin, and which concealment
was due mainly to his aversion
to anything involving explanations of domestic
contention, the shame brought upon
him, and the subsequent grief he had
suffered, all this had sapped his vitality,
and his erst plastic nature had sunk into
aimless passivity.

The slender patrimony already referred

to, which, as younger son, he had inherited
at his father's death, had for the
most part been spent ; but a portion of
it (thanks to Mrs. Hubert's foresight) had
been well invested and yielded a small
income. However modest their needs
might be, it was not sufficient to support
them, and Lina, when once she understood
the position of affairs, felt that it
would devolve upon her to make up the
inevitable deficiency. How to set about
this task was a Gordian knot for her
inexperienced young fingers ; but she
would handle it resolutely — God willing.
In this dilemma she resolved to apply
to her old friend and respectful admirer,
Herr Lirtz, and she sat down to write
him a letter. But as she was about to
put pen to paper the professor himself,
by a strange accident, was announced, and

entered the room with a beaming face.
Lina construed the coincidence as a favourable
augury, and met her clever friend
with a brighter look than had come into
her pale, saddened face for months past.

I came to ask when you do return to
London, my dear fralllein," he says; "for
I despair of your long absence and
silence, and now I find you here, and in
trouble."

Her mourning and the change in her
looks have already warned him of evil.

Lina, without hesitation or circumlocution,
confides the whole truth to the
staunch friend who has known, taught,
and admired her since she Alas a child,
and who on this occasion proves himself
thoroughly deserving of the trust Mrs.
Hubert and her daughter had always
placed in him.

But this is strange ; it is most fortunate,
it is quite an instance of what
superstitious people would call the supernatural,"
he declares, dien he has
listened with close attention to the poor
girl's honos recital. She has told him of
all the complications troubling her father
and herself, monetary and others : only
on the subject of her lover and his
melancholy state is she silent. She knows
well that if she once alluded to that grief
in words her self-command must vanish.
She tells him quietly in a matter-of-fact
way of the chaos she has discovered on
investigating her father's affairs, and of
the steps she has already taken towards
their more comfortable adjustment.
Finally she asks him for his advice and

opinion.

But it is wonderful I" he cries again,

and his kind blue eyes twinkle ominously,
while his plump, rosy face looks almost
handsome, so full is it of good temper, so
radiant with benevolence.

I myself go back to Hamburg, my
dear native city, in six weeks' time ; at
last I shall be able to prove to you how
great a gift the good God has given you
in your magnificent voice. You shall
make your delhi ; you shall make eclat;
you shall succeed ; you shall triumph !
If you will make it possible to come with
me then, you and Mr. Xorthcroft of
course, all will be well, brilliant ! I shall
at once organize a new series of concerts,
and you will be the prima donna, my
prima donna. You will have a success.
Hhnmel ! low a success will this be J
What joy for you, for me, and to my
rivals what a melancholy and a sadness!"

ABROAD.

Jeer Ferdinand Lieth was as
good or for better than his word,
for his speech was sometimes jerky — his
viva voce translations from the German
savoured of pedantry. But his actions
were generous, spontaneous, kind, and
considerate always. It was not only asa
promising pupil that Lina interested the
warm-hearted, red-faced professor. The
idea of her future brilliant success as a
public singer was very delightful to him ;
it fired his ambition as a master of his
art, and fed his pride in this his most
promising pupil. But there was a deeper
current of feelings at work whin the

good-natured professor's manly breast,
and the fact of sweet Lina's presence in
Hamburg lent vigour to the torrent of
passion Which had animated Ferdinand
for some years past, and which had
received but a temporary check by the
news of Lina's betrothal to her cousin.
Now that solitary obstacle was removed,
who could blame Herr Lirtz for his secret
rejoicing? He had known Lina since she
was thirteen, and he was her senior by
twenty years. Still he considered himself
quite a young man, and Avhen his pupil
saw him in his own simple home on the
picturesque Uhlenhorst, in Hamburg, she
was almost converted to his way of thinking
; for his elderly, most devoted mother
doted upon her only son, and treated
him as though lie were scarcely in his
teens, and wholly unable to take care of

himself as yet. She persistently called
him " Hebe kind'' while he dutifully responded
to " Mine (jeliebte mama'' Herr
Lirtz had the very good sense not to
betray the passion which he believed was
consuming him to the gentle and wholly
unconscious object of it. He knew Lina
too well to delude himself with the hope
that she would easily' be turned from the
allegiance so lately given U) her blind
lover ; but that lover was absent, and
Ferdinand resolved to bide his time in
patience and perfect good temper. To
his (jeliebte mama alone, in the cosy
corner by the cheery warmth of the
great china stove, did he betray the
absorbing secret of his diffident, long-concealed,
ever-increasing love for their
fair guest. Lina, after some natural
hesitation, had at last consented to accept

me.

Frau Lirtz's generous hospitality, and she
and her father were temporarily established
in the cosy home of the kindhearted
professor's mama. Here the
strangers were made heartily welcome,
and here they resolved to stay until
practical lAna could find some modest
lod^xino' suitable for Hubert and herself.
Mothers proverbially find no prospective
daughters-inlaw worthy of their precious
sons, more especially if the son in
question is an only child. But Frau Lirtz
was compelled to admit that she would
be delighted to Welcome that feme Miss
Lina as a daughter, and this assurance
greatly comforted her anxious son, who
had confided his love and aspirations to his
fond mamma with some mise^ivincvs as to
her approval of his matrimonial views.
Honest Frau Lirtz frankly acknowledged

her admiration for the Engendering, for
English to all intents and purposes Lina
had become. Her foreign accent had
long entirely disappeared, yet, of course,
she still spoke German like a native.
Her manners and bearing were full of
grace and distinction, and she was utterly
different from any of the burghers'
daughters in the neighbourhood. She
was not too proud either.

A little pride was becoming in a lady,"
said Frau Lirtz, lifting her comfortable
double chin. " And she can turn her
pretty hand to work too, useful as well
as ornamental. That in itself is a great
recommendation to a good hausfrau ! Ah !
yes ! if Ferdinand, with his natural genius
and his proud distinction as a leading
musician, would lake this accomplished
young lady to wife, mamma Lirtz would

me.

rejoice and consider her dear boy's future
happiness assured."

One day Ferdinand confided all Lina's
strange history to the sympathetic old
lady, and hoped that his revelations would
serve to heighten the interest his mother
already felt in the object of his adoration.
This was Ferdinand's own romantic
view of the case ; but it must be confessed
that his less enthusiastic mother
took a very different one. The old lady
had listened to her dear boy's recital
with silent attention, but without that
tender sympathy on which he had reckoned.
She was really much disappointed
to hind that the distinguished " Miss Lina "
was not the scion of a noble English
family, but the daughter of a simple
Swiss guide. Perhaps it was as well for
Ferdinand that his mamma's OTovvinor

ardour was suddenly cooled by this revelation
of Lina's parentage, for this checked
his rising impetuosity, and led him to
defer the immediate declaration of his
sentiments to Lina herself. She was as
yet wholly unconscious of their tender
nature ; had this not been the case, she
would most certainly have declined Frau
Lirtz's eagerly-offered hospitality in the
first instance. As matters stood Lina accepted
it gratefully, and the strangers
were soon very comfortably settled in
that cosy home on the Uhlenhorst. " But
it is impossible for us to trespass any
longer on your hospitality and good
nature, dear Madame Lirtz," pleaded
Lina, as with evident reluctance she declared
her intention of moving into some
neighbouring apartments without further
delay. Their pleasant stay had been

ane.

protracted over a mouth, and the girl
shrank from outstaying her hostess's
generous welcome. Frau Lirtz, who was
honest and frank, responded to this declaration
of her fair young guest inmost
practical fashion.

Why not stay and board with us, instead
of giving good money to strangers?"
she said. " Our home is small, but it
is comfortable, and I shall try to make
you and your good father feel quite at
home in it. When my good son was
away all those long years in England
I always had friends living with me,
and why not now ? I found companionship
pleasant, and my rent was thus
paid with no trouble to me. If you
and the Herr Papa like to remain in
the same manner it will delight me and
my dear child also."

Lina accepted her hostess's offer with
alacrity. She knew that Herr Lirtz could
easily procure engagements for her both
as teacher and as performer. His position
in the musical Avorld of Hamburg
was a very high one, for he was
generally respected. Lina was getting
very anxious about the reduced state of
Hubert's finances, and she urgently felt
the necessity of exerting herself in someway
that would yield pecuniary results.
Her bright example and glad activity
had a happy influence on her poor old
father. His sorrows had broken his
spirit, impaired his health, and prematurely
aged him, but Lina's readiness to
accept the first work that came to her
hand fired the embers of his dying
ambition. The beloved pipe, too, which
had lain quite unheeded ever since the

time of his great sorrow, became once
more his constant companion : and the
congenial society of the artists who frequented
the Herr Professor's house led
Hubert to take up his palette and
brushes again. He actually finished a
couple of small landscapes — they were
exhibited, and found purchasers in the
annual picture show to which he sent
them. But the salt of life had lost its
savour to the world-weary artist, and all
he did now was because he felt bound to
help Lina. He was no longer prompted
hj love of his art, and his work became
more and more mechanical. Artistic
triumphs degenerated into pot-boilers, and
the payment of a certain number of
reichsthaler was the only reward Mr.
Northcroft coveted.

Clever Lina, industrious, energetic, and

persevering, soon found a considerable
number of pupils, and made many friends
montrose about her. At the end of
a year Herr Lirtz procured her a lasting
engagement as leading soprano in the
fortnightly concerts given by the Philharmonic
Society, and she was thus
firmly established in the position to which
her fine voice and excellent musical training
decidedly entitled her. Judging by
the standard of London prices, the remuneration
for her services was not high ;
but to Lina the sum offered to her
appeared quite a marvellous one, and she
florid in the honour which went hand-in-hand
with this lucrative engagement.
Life in Hamburg was not extravagant,
and her expenditure in good Fran Lirtz's
economical household was proportionately
modest.

VOL. TI. G

By the time she had spent three peaceful,
busy je^YS m the good old Hanseatic
town practical Lina had actually managed
to lay by a comfortable little sum.
Should a rainy day overtake her dear
father in the future, as it had done in
the past, she would have this provision
to fall back upon. She had noah three
classes of pupils. She taught English,
music, and singing. Wherever she went
she made friends, and she gratefully appreciated
the kindness and generosity shown
to her on all sides. Only for poor, admiring,
humble Ferdinand Lirtz could she
find neither smiles, patience, nor encouragement
now. Towards him she was cold,
proud, reticent, wholly unresponsive. He
had suddenly frozen the well of kindliness
within her gentle bosom ; for in an adventurous
mood he had taken courage

and confessed the nature of his affection

to the charming girL He implored her

to try and love him a little, only justa

very little. He would be so easily

satisfied. If she would but consent to

become his wife he would shower all

Heaven's best gifts upon her; he would

wait on her hand and foot ; her life should

be composed of lasting joys ; honey and

rose-leaves would be brought to her by

him who would surely prove himself her

most devoted slave, her loving, faithful

husband. He could imagine that she

would say, " Not yet — later, perhaps, but

not yet;" still, when she heard that he

hind wasted all these years, not daring

to speak, she would surely show him

some consideration in her turn. He did

not ask for much love. If she would

but consent to be his wife, the rest would

G 2

follow in due course. He had proved
himself capable of patience, and he could
endure yet further for her dear sake.
'Their home would be a paradise on earth.
His beloved mama would rejoice over
and bless them. As the professor thus
eloquently pleaded his cause, tears coursed
over his round apple cheeks and hung
upon his fair beard. He used every
ejaculation and every endearing epithet
that his prolific mother-tongue suggested
to him, and he ended his passionate
entreaty upon his knees.

But the hot torrent of his eloquence
froze Lina instead of melting her : whereas
he seemed to be aflame with passion, she
turned to ice. At first she resented his
loving declaration as though he had
offered her an insult. The sudden change
in their relative position as affectionate

master and trusting pupil was terrible
to her, but as she realized his despair,
her momentary anger merged ito regret.
She was bitterly sorry that the dear old
professor should have made such a fatal
mistake ; but she honestly endeavoured
to hide her distress from her father and
Fran Lirtz, and to live on in undisturbed
friendliness with both host and hostess.
She thought it her duty to ignore the
sense of estrangement which now divided
her from her erst revered master, and
she succeeded fairly well. She had told
poor Ferdinand frankly, and with the
impressiveness of sincere conviction, that
she still considered herself bound to Philip
to the end of her life, though she might
never see him again, and that betrothal
with any other man would appear sin-fid
to her.

The heart-broken professor dutifully
reported this painful and discouraging
conversation to his fond mama and she,
poor lady, while deeply resenting Lina's
manifest want of appreciation, yet took
upon herself to offer her dear boy the
comfort of present consolation and hope
for the future. She even managed, so
fraught with ingenuity is maternal love,
to press some drops of comfort into the
overflowing cup of her son's grief, out
of the bitterness of Lina's lasting love
and unchanged faith for another.

"The girl has manifestly a good heart,
Qnein lieges kind' averred Frau Lirtz.
That is the best guarantee for your
future happiness, of course. She has not
yet brought herself to forget the first
romance of her girlhood, but she is far
too 'praktiscli a person to waste much

more time in idle fancies." Fran Lirtz
used that favourite adjective which the
matter-of-fact Hamburghers have exaked
into the suinnmm bonum of all the virtues,
as she felt it would carry conviction
to her doubting son. *' Lina is so prak-
tisdi^' repeated the fond mother, pleased
at the effect of her last bold assertion,
that she will not dream of changing
her residence. She will not run away
from us, my boy, believe me. Her work
here is congenial to her ; she enjoys it,
and lie makes money too, and as she
is a good, honest girl she appreciates all
that. She may be somewhat exalting. and in
the case of lier bygone love affairs, this
mood amounts to romantic folly. But time
mends and cures these things. It is the
strongest glue for broken hearts as well as
for dismal partings and severed friendships.

me.

"Lina knows it is to her interest and to
that of her poor old invalid father to remain
with us, and she will do so. She
will learn to be grateful to you for your
good love as well as for your excellent
teaching some day ; meanwhile, dear son,
be patient. Do not increase your attentions
to her, keep aloof rather. That
plan may pique her into coming round.
I know girls far better than you can do,
of course. Take the advice of your experienced
mother. Be silent as to your
love and your suffering ; but wait . . .
and she will be the first to show signs
of relenting. While you, my brave,
handsome son, are always present, the
girl cannot long nurture the faith in that
blind chimera which she romantically
calls her first and only love ! " Herr
I.irtz snatched at these irrc'iins of comfort

with the sensational avidity of superficial
grief, and, what was more to the point,
he acted upon the maternal advice. He
returned to his former attitude of kind
friend and attentive teacher. For this
Lina regarded him with heartfelt gratitude,
and after a year of placid silence on
that one vexed question had been lived
through, she had returned to her former
condition of cheerful industry and active
content.

Thus matters might have continued for
several years lead not a very trying
winter prostrated poor Hubert completely.
The gentle artist, whose whole nature
was so peace-loving, dreamy, and indolent,
had never thoroughly rallied from the
effects of his crushing sorrow, and the
intense cold of the hard German winter
seized upon his vitality, numbing it

utterly. Day by day he grew weaker
and weaker, but even to the very
end he had a smile of love and recognition
for Lina, and drew his last breath
with his head resting on her faithful
bosom.

Now Lina was in very truth an orphan.
She had lost him who had shown her
all a father's love, and who had also
clung to her with that yearning trust
and faith which awakens the tenderest
instinct of womanhood, and makes her
brave and strong to love and help.

Poor Lina ! It seemed as if the last
stronghold of her nature had indeed been
uprooted now. In her despair she turned
to good Frau Lirtz.

Let me stay with you — be my good
motherly friend always," she pleaded,
with tears in her eyes.

Frail Lirtz soothed and comforted her,
and ill her heart she thought :

Now my poor patient Ferdinand will
i-eap Diis reward — at last."

MRS. Russet's daughter.

nPHE four or five years that have
passed profitably if not happily for
Lina, have brought neither peace nor content
of any Ind to forlorn, miserable
Philip. In course of time, however, a
sort of dogged resignation has crept
over him, a resignation not unmingled
with resentment. This latter feeling

o

occasionally assumes the startling magnitude
of a desire for revenge. The spirit
of vengeance certainly dominates the blind
man now. Indeed it often renders him
absolutely rebellious, and suggests the
flinging back of his crushing burden of
sorrow upon the endowed head of its

primary cause. Philip had spared neither
prayer, argument, affectionate appeal, nor
abject entreaty in the interviews he
sought with his obdurate father after that
most lamentable disappearance of Lina.

His intended bride had been the one
light of his darkened life, the one gleam
of sunshine in a sadly shadowed existence.
All he had ever known of joy had been
through Lina. For her dear sake, in
the wild hope of winning her back, Philip
humbled himself in the dust before his
inflexible parent.

All in vain. Threat, appeal, and entreaty
were alike powerless to move the
granite will that possessed Sir Stephen
and seemed to have petrified the very
instincts of paternity. After a protracted
period of alternate doubt and eager hopefulness
Philip finally realized, as Lina

had previously done, that every argument,
every appeal, was wasted breath.
They beat upon his father's brain as
waves beat against a rock, unheeded,
powerless to create an impression.

This was the miserable .state of things
at the Priory when Mrs. Musket flattered
herself that the hour for the fruition
of her schemes had come at last. She
thought Isabel might now safely be recalled
to resume her former position in
the house, and if possible to ingratiate
herself still more with lonely ''Mr.
Philip" in his present state of hopeless
dejection. The girl was sufficiently alive
to her own interests by this time to
seize upon the trumps skilfully dealt herby
her scheming mother with apt eagerness.
Warily as a son is prepared for the
diplomatic service by an experienced tactician,

so cautiously did Sarah Musket
launch her daughter's ambitious bark in
the troubled sea of matrimonial manoeuvres.


You are set to play a difficult game,
my girl." said the housekeeper, " but you
have got the leading hand to start with,
and I shall always be at your side able
and willing to back you. You're clever,
I know, and sly too. That's as it should
be ; but you're young, and consequently
wanting in patience and caution. Xow I
do assure you you'll never get on without
those two things."

Isabel hated caution at all times. She
naturally preferred what she would have
described as the dashing way of doing
things ; but she realized the depth of her
mother's cunning, and also thoroughly
appreciated the importance of the stake

for which she was to play her difficult
game, and she made up her mind to
spare no trouble in the winning. She
hated the trouble of pretending to look
after the interests and amusements of her
young master. To show patience and
consideration to a tiresome, awkward,
blind man, was certainly the hardest trial
for one of her hasty, irritable temper.
Though not clever, Isabel was endowed
with some degree of common sense. She
knew that it always required an effort
to swallow a pill. The pill of apparent
devotion was large and bitter too, but
it was copiously gilded, and its results
might be magnificent.

If I were acting it all in a play I
could take this part as well as another,"
she one day observed to her mother,
when her impatience had shown itself to

Philip in an ill-considered outburst of
temper. Then, without quoting the words
of the proverb, she made an angry declaration
to the effect that the crame was not
worth the candle ; but this rebellion was
rare. Philip, who had been reduced to a
state of something like quiescence, at
length schooled himself to put up with
Isabel's presence once again. He accepted
her services with as much complacency ashe
could muster. His life was so desperately
lonely, his imprisonment was still
so rigidly enforced, his helplessness so abject
that he soon came to think that the
assistance of even Mrs. Musket's daughter
was a pleasant break in the monotony of
his weary days.

One day he fell sound asleep whilst
Isabel was reading to him, startling her
and himself by a sudden snore.

me.

Do you think I'm inclined to waste my
breath like that, and that I'm taking all
this trouble to teach you to snore, you

pig?"

This was the irate girl's hasty exclamation
; but she herself was far more startled
by her rudeness than Philip, who took it
in excellent part and laughingly apologized
for his lack of attention.

Mrs. Musket's fury at the shocking
failure of her daughter's patience and
good temper was unbounded. She scolded
her in no measured terms for her pettish
folly, her '' wicked flying in the face of
Providence, and spoiling of her best opportunities."


"You say that you could do better if
you were acting it all, like part of those
plays your head seems mining wild on ;
for goodness gracious sake pray fancy you

are play-acting, then, and be more careful
of your part in future, or I shall wash
Qiy hands of you for ever, you heedless,
ungrateful girl''

Mrs. Musket wrung her hands in her
rage, and looked as wild as she felt.

Just you please to bear this in mind,
Miss Isabel, there's only one difficult bit
in the piece you have undertaken, and it
is that you are trying to act now. If
you can just manage to hold on till the
last act, you will be a real live ladyship,
fit and able to hold your own and lift
your pretty head up with the highest
lady in the land ! "

This forcible way of putting matters,

backed by the opportune compliments,

appealed directly to Isabel's somewhat

dull understanding. She was certainly

more fully aroused than before to the

H 2

importance of the present situation, and
began to display more acumen than her
mother had ever given her credit for.
To make her task more congenial to herself,
the girl had determined to treat the
business in hand like a stage play in which
the part of leading lady devolved upon
her accomplished self. As she had so
often watched the heroines do in the
romantic dramas which she loved, she
now resolved to do herself. She would
have to be humble throughout this first
tiresome act for the sake of the grandeur
and title awaiting her later on. If — ere
the curtain fell — she were able to defy
the world in the character of wife to
the heir of Pineridge, then the trouble,
the boredom, the patience she had to
suffer and display now must ultimately
reap their full reward. When once this

view of things had taken full possession
of Isabel's limited mental vision, she
adapted herself to it with surprising skill-she
made a point now of never obtruding
herself on the young master ; indeed, she
was rather given to withholding herself
when he, forlorn as he was, would not
only have accepted, but gladly welcomed
her presence. This change in his feeling
towards her Isabel soon noticed, and
at once began to experiment upon.
Finding him deeply interested in some
story she Alas reading aloud to him,
she made a point of leaving him abruptly,
and thus kept his attention on tenterhooks.
On another occasion she stopped
short as she came to the end of a
chapter of a most exciting history in
which her listener had become thoroughly
engrossed.

That's the end of this part," she
cried, jumping up and quitting the
room hastily without further explanation.
She purposely delayed her return until
his impatience was past endurance.

Oh, why did you stay so long,
Isabel ? " he cried, " you must know
how anxious I am to hear the next
chapter of that delightful story ; it was
cruel of you to leave me in doubt at
such a tantalizing moment."

If he spoke irritably she always made
some meek apology to pacify him. If,
as was more frequently the case, he
addressed her with the pitiful accent of
reproach which his helpless condition
made so touching, she would excuse herself
with a great show of contrition.

"I am so very sorry to have vexed
you, dear Mr. Philip," she averred on the

occasion when she had left him awaiting
her return for a whole hour. " I am
reading the story out of a magazine in
monthly parts, you know ; we had just
finished February, and March was nowhere
to be found. Sir Stephen was in
the library, so I dared not look there
until he went out riding. Now he is
gone, and here is our book ; don't be
cross with me, please, sir, it was no
fault of mine. I am as anxious to know
what happens next as you can be."

Her brain, dull though it was in most
things, was fertile iii the invention of
excuses always, and lies came readily to
her pouting lips. She was indeed a
worthy disciple of her scheming "mama,"
and to judge by the expression of joy
with which the blind man received her
after these wilfully protracted and trying

absences, Isabel's machinations were eminently
successful. At bitter enmity with
his unsympathetic parent ; thrown more
and more into the company of Mrs.
Musket and her daughter by the cruel
force of circumstances, what wonder that
Philip finally taught himself to consider
those as his well disposed friends who
certainly were his only ones ?

Miss Musket made no pretensions
to be on the same terms with the
young master as those which existed
when they were boy and girl together.
Her present tactics were to dilate on
her former boldness, and she declared
herself quite frightened when she remembered
how carelessly she used to chatter
in those free-and-easy days before she
Sinew her place, as she hoped she did
now.

Children don't know better, they don't
have the sense to consider their superiors,"
she said in the mincing tone which
she deemed ingenuous, and with a simper
that (fortunately for him), Philip could
not see. " Now I quite understand, Mr.
Philip, that you are my lord and master
already, as you will one day be overall
Pineridge."

A gleam of hope flashed across Philip's
mental vision as the girl brought this
glimpse of an unfettered future before
him.

Master of Pineridge !

Ah, when that day came he would be
master of his own actions also. Free !
free to go forth, to seek his Lina for
himself. Free to hunt her out wherever
she might have hidden from his cruel
father. And he would find her too,

ane.

either in the dear, familiar old horae
at Hampstead, or in Munich. . . .
That he could discover her whereabouts,
when once the power to seek her were
granted him, he never doubted, and as
sly Isabel slowly but surely wormed herself
into his confidence, he at last took
courage and began to disclose his vague
hopes and plans to her. She was his
only, and his constant companion now ;
what more natural than to tell her of
the thoughts constantly preoccupying
him ?

Of course Isabel lost no time in confiding
the perplexing turn affairs were
taking to her anxious, ever-watchful
parent,

Never baulk him, my dear," was Mrs.
Musket's prompt rejoinder; "whatever
you do through life, never make such

a mistake as to contradict a man outright.
The secret of managing 'em is
very simple : you must never let 'em
suppose that you want em to act contrariwise
to their own inclinations. You
just give young Mr. Philip his 'eat, my
dear ; give him his 'eat ! "

Head ! Ma, dear, do mind your h's :
now and then the way you talk is
awful."

"It is so difficult for me to speak proper,"
answered the housekeeper meekly ;
she never resented Isabel's rebuffs. She
was so proud of her daughter's superior
accomplishments, that she gloried in every
evidence of the benefits derived through
that liberal education she had bestowed
upon her.

Isabel, taking her cue from her experienced
parent, forbore to check Philip's

confidences, and he, poor fellow, seized
upon the fact of her patient attention as
evidence of having gained her sympathy
on this matter at last. This encouraged
him so much, that he finally resolved on
a more hazardous experiment than the
passive outpouring of his woeful confidences.
He persuaded Isabel to write a
letter to Lina in his name. " We must
address it to Hampstead," he said, " and
if we put ' to be forwarded ' on the envelope,
it is sure to reach her wherever
she is."

After much hesitation Isabel at last
consented to run this " awful risk," as
she turned the defiance of Sir Stephen's
commands.

I must go and post it myself," cried
Philip in feverish eagerness when he had
dictated a long explanatory and affectionate

letter, " then I shall be sure it has
gone all right."

He walked into the village arm-in-arm
with his complaisant guide, and himself
dropped the important letter into the box
at the post-office.

Alas, the letter was but a blank sheet
of paper, carefully folded and sealed within
a blank envelope. To this delusive
document an answer arrived in due course,
directed, he was told, in a feigned hand
to Miss Piuskett, according to his own
suggestion. An answer, which, as Philip
listened to Isabel's reading of it, turned
his heart to stone, and his faith in Lina
to reckless despair, whilst it embittered
his feeling towards his cruel father to a
point bordering on frenzy. These were
the words Isabel read to the intently
listening blind man : " / thank you for your

kind letter my dear Philip; hut as I was
sure Sir Stephen could never give his consent
to our marriage I have taken another
husband and I am sure you will he pleased
to hear that I am very happy and in
comfortable circumstances; but for many
good reasons I think it is better you should
not write again. That is the reason I give
no address. But remain yours affectionately
Lina. God bless you., dear Philip'"
The thought of treachery on Isabel's
part never entered the blind man's
unsuspicious mind, and he ascribed the
odd phrasing of Lina's letter to the
reader's want of refinement. It must be
confessed, also, that Mrs. Musket's daughter
acted her Judas part as one to the
manner born, and might have deceived
many a man in the full possession of his
senses.

IN THE NICK OF TIME.

^T^HE sense of desolation, of utter terrible
loneliness which fell upon Lina
Northcroft (for by that name we must
still call her) when she had lost her
dear foster-father, increased rather than
diminished as time went on, for she was
now totally bereft of kindred, natural or
adopted. And she looked out upon life
through forlorn spectacles. She existed
in the centre of a busy musical circle,
and progress was the watchword of those
with whom she came in contact. But
though she also worked industriously and
fulfilled her duties as singer and teacher
with conscientiousness and regularity, her

labours to a great extent had become
mechanical. Her successes now were due
to mental training, and a stern repression
of her former enthusiasm. She gained in
power Avhat she lost in spontaneity. The
healthy spirit of frank enjoyment, Which
up to one period of her life sparkled in
her laughing eyes, had been dimmed by
the secret shedding of countless bitter
tears ; the smiles that used to dimple her
bonny face had lost themselves in the
sterner lines which sorrow had prematurely
graven there. The light-hearted
girl of seventeen had become a grave,
earnest, resolute woman, close upon thirty.
Earnest in all things : resolved above all
else to do her duty to the uttermost,
but finding scant pleasure in the doing.
Happiness for her seemed to have become
impossible with the loss and death of

those nearest and dearest to her. That
was her sad conclusion.

And love — the love which might have
rekindled some of the old fire ? that
also had died ; since Philip and she were
parted for ever. Yet to say that she felt
this parting would be for ever, perhaps,
is not strictly true, for she held a kind
of intuitive faith that they would one
day meet again. Too late probably it
would be for a renewal of all the conditions
amidst which they had been
separated, but not too late for her to
carry out some portion of the life's task
she had set herself from the moment she
first saw him. In the early days of her
life at Hamburg she had, through careful
inquiry, learned the bare fact that
ke, at least, was still living under his
father's roof, and now in the sad depths

VOL. II. T

of her loneliness she determined at all
hazards to write to him. Yes, she would
write and tell him of his uncle's death
aye, and of much that had befallen
during the last ten years. She would be
guarded in Avhat she said, of course, and
if the letter never reached him, or if
it fell into Sir Stephen's hands, what
matter? No harm could come of it that
would be commensurate with what had
been already wrought, whilst the chance
of once more regaining some clue to
Philip's life would be worth any risk.
So she wrote, but as no answer was
returned, or any sign made, she never
knew, and no one ever knew the fate
of her missive.

Herr Lirtz's introduction of Lina as a
teacher brought her into contact with
many of the richest burgher and merchant

families in Hamburg, where she
was received in the double capacity of
friend and instructress. Her sweet, gentle
nature won all hearts, and it is not
therefore surprising that more than one
of these should have offered itself to her
for life. Her grace, dignity, and refinement
secured for her a friendly reception
even among the exclusive senatorial circle,
which is regarded as the creme de la
creme of modern society in the quaint
but ambitious old Hanseatic town. Poor
simple Frau Lirtz, who revered those
whom she regarded as representatives
of the Teutonic aristocracy, listened to
Lina with awe and wonder when the
latter recounted the names of the grandees
whom she met at the musical parties
given by some of her patrons.

If only I were her mother-in-law, I

I 2

too should be invited," thought the poor
old dame, and wondered if that lilac
moire antique which had been buried in
linen and lavender for so many years now,
would look as fresh as ever again if she
should require to wear it — her most
brilliant toilette — on the occasion of her
son's wedding and subsequent festivities.

Her Ferdinand married !

Frau Lirtz was now as anxious for that
long-expected event as she had formerly
been averse to the prospect of such a
change. Lina's high position in the
musical world, of which Herr Lirtz was
president, animated the shrewd old lady's
latent ambition, and she desired Ferdinand's
early marriage as a forward step
on the road to social aggrandizement.

When first Mr. Hubert Northcroft died,
and Lina was terribly lonely and seemed

almost despairing, there might have been
a chance of the professor obtaining the
coveted right to protect and console the
stranger within his gates by making her
his wife. But the timid man had not
the courage to strike while the iron was
hot. He allowed the auspicious moment
of the poor girl's first desolation to go
by, and by the time he had summoned
up courage enough to repeat his formal
proposal, Lina's melting mood had frozen
into one of icy reserve ; so the relative
position of timid wooer and proud
wooed remained unchanged. Perhaps
it was his exceeding humility which
marred his chance. A bolder suitor
might have taken that brave citadel by
storm, and captured the high-spirited
rebel by force of arms, by sudden
caresses and strength of manly will.

But Ferdinand, large as he was of body,
clever and accomplished of mind, was
meek to feebleness when in the presence
of the woman he adored, and far from
insisting on his rights, as a more pertinacious
lover might have done, he
succumbed to her resolute indifference,
and offered no stronger plea for her
relenting than " tears, idle tears."

Lina's honest pride revolted against
this drivelling weakness, and such compassion
as she once felt for hapless Mr.
Lirtz gradually changed to a feeling of
scorn ; it was only as her music master
that she still reverenced the unfortunate
professor. She gradually shrank from,
and finally shunned all other intercourse
with him. Frau Lirtz, who angrily noted
the turn affairs had taken, began to
find it very difficult to smile upon the

girl who was evidently undermining her
beloved son's peace of mind.

Among the wealthiest patrons of Herr
Lirtz was a certain senator, Yon Burke,
whose palatial residence near Blankets,
with its magnificent view of the noble
river Elbe, was one of the show places
to which Hamburghers drove their
foreign visitors with feelings of pride
and exultation.

Nothing much finer than that, even
in the neighbourhood of your London,
or your Paris or your Brussels ? " would
be the challenging question put to the
traveller, who, if unprejudiced, could but
reply in the negative. Indeed, it would
have been difficult to find a country
residence any where which, so handsome
in itself, commanded a more picturesque
prospect.

In this mansion, the old senator, who
was a widower, dwelt with his grown-up
son and daughter, the lady companion
necessary for Fraulein Emile presiding
over the general household arrangements,
which were thus very satisfactorily conducted.


This Emile, or Emmi, as she was usually
called, conceived an intense admiration for
our Lina, and the latter, who was originally
received at Blankets as a teacher
under Herr Lirtz, was very soon welcomed
there as the cherished friend of the daughter
of the house. Lina liked bright,
pretty Emmi greatly, and was thankful
for the love bestowed upon her by the
amiable girl whose charming home offered
such attractions as the stranger had found
in none of the other grand houses to
which she was constantly bidden. Emmi

insisted on her friend's spending days,
then weeks, then months, with her, and
as this was summer time, and the girls
revelled in out of-door life, Lina gladly
accepted these cordial and repeated invitations.
It was during this sweet month
of May that Hermann, the senator Yon
Birke's son, returned to Blankets, after
a two years' continental tour.

He came home to find Lina installed
as his dear sister's chosen companion,
and he, a gay boy of nineteen, fell
desperately in love With the sad
woman of nine-and-twenty. Lina admired
the handsome youth ; was first
amused by his high spirits and then interested
in the deeper qualities which she
discovered in him on closer acquaintance.
But apart from the disparity of their
ages Lina found insurmountable objections

to his fervently declared and eagerly
pressed suit. She was one of those women
whose love may be likened to the highest-tempered
steel, which bends and yields
to the inevitable pressure of fate and circumstance,
but is nevertheless true to its
innermost depths, and incapable of snapping
or breaking away from the object
with which it has once been welded.
Philip was as dear to her as ever. He
was the first thought in all her orisons.
She cherished his memory as she did his
dear image, and she never ceased to hope,
as has just been hinted, that the day
might come when she should find him
again. It would then be her welcome,
eagerly coveted task to cheer and solace
his lonely way down the hill of life as
she had for so long accompanied him on
his upward journey. Although it was

going on for twelve years since she had
set eyes on him, she never for one single
instant forgot him. This being her state
of mental preoccupation, it is not wonderful
that she had regarded all aspirants
to her hand with equal indifference. Herr
Lirtz's lachrymose face and his mother's
ill-concealed displeasure had of late robbed
the dear little home on the Uhlenhorst
of all its tranquillity and comfort ; this
state of things added greatly to the alacrity
with which Lina availed herself of the
Yon Birkes' eagerly offered, extensive hospitality.
But even this refuge did not
long remain available ; for young Hermann
laid such siege to her heart and
urged his suit so persistently that she
soon realised her only safety would be in
sudden retreat.

She had more than once received good

offers to sing at concerts in London, and
with the assistance of Herr Lirtz she
now effected an engagement in the mighty
Babylon. Ferdinand, who under other
circumstances would have actively opposed
her sudden determination to return
to England, yielded and furthered it as
far as he was able when once his mother
had hinted to him the real cause of Lina's
proposed flight.

It was early in the spring following on
her acquaintance with Hermann von Birke
that Lina started for London to carry
out the engagements made for her by
the professor, who still retained a considerable
influence in the musical world.
She took up her residence as boarder ina
quiet family, living in that respectable
and central district known as Bloomsbury,
and here, far removed from lovers and

what she deemed their persecution?, she
determined to devote herself wholly to
her professional duties and engagements.
But ardent young Hermann was not
to be baffled so easily. He suddenly suggested
to his father (who had long since
retired from active participation in the
flourishing business of Von Birke and
Company) that it would be advisable for
him, who was now junior partner, to
pay a visit to London, and personally to
superintend the branch of their business
established in that city. And within six
weeks after Lina had comfortably established
herself in her new quarters, Hermann
was at hand again, ready and eager
to carry on the siege to her heart which
he had never abandoned. So loving,
and withal so lovable was the handsome
youth, that his very doggedness had a

charm for the outwardly subdued, but
still at heart high-spirited woman. She
felt flattered at first, and then was
touched by his unceasing devotion. At
length there seemed a chance, just the
very faintest chance, of the young lover's
success. Lina felt her loneliness far
more in London than she had ever done
before, and except in her own limited
professional circle, she knew no one
beyond her co-residents in the Bloomsbury
boarding-house, and when Von
Birke appeared in that somewhat humdrum
coterie he seemed to bring new
life and brightness with him. He
came at a moment most opportune for
the fulfilment of his hopes, and he took
Lina at a disadvantage. She was beginning
to weary intensely of the routine
of her professional life, and was therefore

just in the mood to listen
patiently to the many and excellent
reasons which sanguine young Hermann
urged for her becoming his wife. If
she could not love him, at least she
might suffer him to love her. She might
give him the right to watch over, to
protect her, and indeed to place her far
above the necessity of any further professional
toil or enterprise. Moved in
spite of herself by his earnest pleading,
Lina at last consented to withdraw her
original decision ; but her mind was still
ill at ease, and she pleaded again and
again for time. She herself would have
been at a loss to explain what prompted
this growing desire for delay on her
part, and at last, ashamed of her
apparent weakness, she promised to give
Hermann a final answer, which he

augured would prove a favourable one,
on a certain Saturday.

On the eve of this day there is a
grand concert, the last of the series, at
St. James's Hall, in which Lina is
engaged to take a prominent part. She
has been sorely perplexed by the knowledge
of what she has undertaken for
the morrow, and her mental distress
and restlessness seem to incapacitate her.
She, who is justly regarded as the soul
of punctuality, on this occasion finds
herself late for the concert, and contrary
to her custom, as she leaves home calls
a passing hansom cab for the sake of its
swiftness ; thus she hopes still to reach
Piccadilly in time.

Drive like the wind," she says to the
cabman.

He obeys her, and in whirling round

a corner of the Eegeiit Circus is within
a hair's breadth of running over a man
and woman with a child. They are
crossing to the refuse in the middle of
the road. At the cabman's alarmed
shout the woman and child draw hastily
back into safety ; but the man, instead of
retreating, advances rapidly all but under
the feet of the horse. The dexterity of
the driver alone saves the unfortunate
man from his imminent peril. There are
shouts and anxious exclamations from the
bystanders who see the narrow escape ;
Int a piercing cry is uttered by the occupant
of the cab ; for as Lina glances at
the face of the man in danger, she sees that
it is none other than her own dear Philip.
It is his blindness, and the carelessness
of those who are with him, which has
exposed him to so frightful a risk.

Her first impulse is to spring out of
the cab, but true to his orders the driver,
once assured that no mischief has been
done, keeps steadily on his way, and
before she can even look back to see in
which direction Philip had been led away,
she finds herself at the entrance of the
concert-hall.

ox THE TRACK.

nPHE events of the preceding weeks —
Lina's arrival in London, Hermann's
undaunted pursuit, and the dreaded
culmination of her perplexities, which
were to resolve themselves in that answer
of vital import promised for the morrow,
had already confused her ideas, and
greatly troubled her mind, as has been
told in the last chapter; but the imminent
catastrophe at Piccadilly Circus has put
the finishing' touch to her excitement. It
is as one in a dream that she takes her
place on the concert platform. And yet
her bewilderment is dominated by a
strange sense of delight ; the blood in

K 2

her veins tingles with new and wondrous
vigour; after years of comparative apathy
and self-imposed restraint, she seems
to live once again. Her life is love, her
love is Philip, and after their bitter parting
and terrible separation, she has at
last seen him once more !

He is certainly in London : that fact
reassures and makes her hopeful. Having
once seen and assured herself of his
identity, there can be little difficulty in
presently discovering his whereabouts.
That is her first impression, but when
lie begins to realize the position of affairs
doubts mingle with her hopes, and her
fears predominate. What chance has she
to find her unit among the four million
human lives that constitute the seething
ocean of metropolitan existence? Ts it
not madness to imagine that chance will

aid her again to find that one dependent,
storm-tossed wavelet upon which all
her hopes of future peace and happiness
are resting? She hardly knows what she
is singing ; it is With difficulty she follows
the routine of music, pause, and subsequent
applause. She goes through her
part by sheer force of habit, but in hard,
mechanical fashion. Tie audience, accustomed
to see her painstaking, earnest,
reliable, are astonished at this unwonted
listlessness on the part of one who had so
speedily taken a lead in their variable
favour. Fading that she does not acquit
herself with her usual success, some
decided signs of disappointment are given;
but even these fail to affect or rouse her.
Her mind is entirely preoccupied by that
glimpse she has had of him who has
long and steadfastly reigned lord of hera

me.

heart. She is speculating, even while she
is singing, on Philip's companion. Who
can that careless woman be who seemed
so utterly forgetful of his sad needs, and
who is the child?

It is twelve years since last she beheld
poor Philip's face, and she is shocked at
the change which time and sorrow have
wrought there. The glimpse of him had
been so hurried, so fleeting, and the surrounding
circumstances so terrible, that
Lina could remember little of all she had
seen beyond the fact that a woman and
a child were his only companions, and
that his dear face was woefully altered.
When ? how soonest and most surely
could she obtain some further insight into
his present life ? Those are the questions
rin<]jing in her ears far louder than the
strident chatter of the " artists " around

her, who are refreshing themselves during
the customary interval between the parts.

The second part of the concert has just
commenced, and she has to sing again.
During the first grand aria, which she
had delivered without her usual animation,
she had perceived nothing but the
sea of upturned faces in front of her.
Not one of them presented any special
attraction ; mechanically as she had sung,
so from mere force of habit she had
regarded them.

They are all there still, but she has
now collected herself to some extent, and
though her glance still wanders over the
multitude with equal indifference, it is suddenly
arrested ; hex heart almost ceases to
beat as once more she descries immediately
above her in the first row of the balcony,
and close to her left hand, the face of Philip.

ane.

Yes, there he is again, and the woman
and the child are beside him still. They
inst have been on their way to the
concert-hall when he had so narrowly
escaped being, run over. Perhaps the
scare had delayed their advent. Lina's
sudden recognition of Philip, so close to
her side that she could almost have
spoken to him with the certainty of being-heard,
does not terrify her nor in any
sense paralyze her efforts ; on the contrary,
it animates and stimulates her in a
marvellous manner, and as the orchestra
concludes the opening bars that usher in
her grand recitative, she makes one
supreme effort.

Is it not by her voice alone that she
can best inform him who it is that stands
trembling before his sightless eyes ?

She has selected her old favourite, the

Fray 67^ and Seen a from Der Freischtitz,
for the second part of this great miscellaneous
concert. And now she lifts her
voice and directs its clear, melodious tones
entirely to Philip.

This is her growing, impassioned desire.
Of course the name of Madame Armgart
(which Lina has assumed since she commenced
a professional career, and which
may be read to Philip from the programme)
will convey nothing. But will
he not recognise her voice, and the dear
familiar strain even after that honos interval
of time P She watches his face intently
as she sino-s ; but she can o-ive herself no
satisfactory reply to her eager mental
questioning. It is very difficult to solve
her doubts. She sees a faint look of
animation upon his face, and he half lifts
his head in the old, well-remembered attire.



tide he was wont to assume when hastening
with special interest. Her tones have
touched him, even if they have not played
upon what once was the most sensitive
chord of his susceptible nature. He turns
to his companion, and evidently inquires
the name of her who is singing. Beyond
this and a certain continuous expression
of pleasure Which lasts as long as the
song, there is nothing to convince Lina
that ]ie recognises her. He is certainly
most appreciative, and applauds her with
untiring vigour ; but that is all.

Lina has no eyes except for him. At
this moment the great hall, as far as she
is concerned, holds but one person, and
that one person Philip. Being so absorbed,
she takes little heed just now of the
appearance or demeanour of the Avoman
who sits beside him.

Had she done so she would not have
been much gratified, for Philip's companion
is as obtrusive in her manner as
in her dress. She carries a scarlet fan
which she waves about in most demonstrative
fashion. She sways to and fro
as though keeping time with the music.
She wears a white bonnet decked with
scarlet plumes, and now that she has discarded
her mantle she discovers an amount
of " full dress" quite unsuited to the
occasion. She evidently courts admiration
from all about her, and bestows it
lavishly herself upon a gentleman seated
at some little distance on the further
side of the child who accompanies
her. The only lano-ua2fe employed between
Philip's companion and this gentleman
is that of looks : but the woman's dark
glances are bold as well as eloquent,

and the silent stranger returns them with
interest.

Her part in the programme of the
evening finished, Lina, instead of hurrying
from the hall, as is her custom on
ordinary occasions, quickly puts on her hat
and jacket and swiftly steals round to the
place of exit from the balcony. There,
unobserved herself, she can heed the
movements of those in whom she is so
profoundly interested.

Where will they go dien the concert
is over ?

She is now so situated that they cannot
escape her. At all hazards she must
ascertain Philip's abiding-place. Barriers
hitherto undreamt of may have arisen
to separate them now ; but Adhere and
with whom he is, are questions of such
vital import, that she will die sooner

than lose the chance of answering them
effectually. Full of this purpose, and
intent only on its accomplishment, she
keeps so near him as he comes out when
the entertainment is at an end, that her
sleeve ahiiost touches his. She feels as
if he must hear the wild throbbing of
her anxious heart, and she summons all
her strength of resolution to repress the
articulate sound of the dear name which
comes so readily to her lips. The crowd
is dense, its members push rudely, and
once the little boy is separated from the
woman, who manifestly attends more
eagerly to the moustaches gentleman at
her heels than to either of the helpless
companions dependent on her for guidance
and support.

Lina arrests the pressure of the crowd
which is forcing the small fair-haired boy

onwards, and separating him from the
side of her, whom, as he gets the opportunity
of rejoining, he addresses in a
plaintive voice as " Mamma ! "

You troublesome mite ! " cries the
latter, as she seizes the child's shoulder
and gives him an angry shake, 'why
don't you keep close to me ? D'ye think
I haven't enough work to do to look
after a blind man — a man that's as helpless
as a baby, and quite as much
bother? You have got a pair of eyes in
your head, then why don't you use
them?"

Presently, Philip, mother, and child are
out in the gas-lit street together.

The May night is bright and clear, so
that there is sufficient light to enable Lina
without difficulty to keep well upon the
track of those whose destination she has

determined to ascertain. At times she is
so close to them that she distinctly overhears
their fragmentary conversation. The
woman speaks in a querulous tone with
short, shrewish accents. Philip answers
her with plaintive deprecation. It makes
Lina's heart ache to hear the sad cadence
of the dear voice which in the old days
fell so gladly upon her eagerly listening
ear.

Philip's companion pays scant attention
to his guidance ; indeed, she seems scarcely
to heed where he goes. She has hold of
his arm, but warns him of no obstacles ;
he frequently trips over the curb, and
once almost runs against an unperceived
post On several occasions Tina is on the
point of putting out her hand, and of rushing
forward in her eagerness to assist, to
save him.

ante.

Who can this woman be that dares so
cruelly to neglect him ?

The fine, calm, cool starlight night is
evidently agreeable to Philip, and he seems
inclined, by the way he lingers, to enjoy
the fresh air.

How stupid and slow you are ! " she
says, after awhile ; 'you are worse than
ever to-night. I really don't know how
to manage you and the boy. Here, Hubert,
hold up, can't you ? you are tearing my
dress. Come, I am really tired of dragging
you two helpless creatures along the
streets any further. We'll have a cab,
that's fiat."

"Just as you like," says Philip, in a
tone of absolute resignation to the blatant
voice and evidently imperious will of his
demonstrative companion. Then in a
pleading Whisper he adds, " Pray do not

speak so loudly, I am sure the people
who pass must hear that you are scolding
us."

Lina has heard — has heard far too
much for her peace of mind, but not
enough to enable her to ascertain how

o

best she can serve her beloved afflicted
friend. Whoever the female may be who
accompanies him, and whatever their mutual
relations, it is very evident to Lina
that Philip stands as much, if not more
than ever, in need of her help. She
has had no scruples about the course
she has taken in thus playing the spy —
a part as unnatural as it would be uncongenial
to her did she stay to realize
it. But she has thought only of Philip,
and as is her wont has ignored herself
utterly for his dear sake.

"One hundred, "Bedford Gardens, nothing

Hill," says the loud-voiced woman,
as she addresses herself to the cabman
she has summoned. Her moustaches
admirer seems to have lost himself in
the crowd.

"One hundred, Bedford Gardens," is
the echo in Lina's mind, as she herself
in due course hails a cab, and longing
with a feverish impatience for the morrow
and its revelations, takes her way
to Bloomsbury.

HER ONLY LOVE.

T IX A almost feared that the successive

bewildering emotions of the last

four-and-twenty hours had turned her

brain. As she leant back, sick, faint,

and trembling in the cab, she felt

like one tossed on a whirling sea of

troubles ; but with the instinct of the

drowning, she clung passionately to the

one spar of comfort unexpectedly thrown

to her : Philip's address, or certes the

address of some one who could afford

her further information. " One hundred,

Bedford Gardens," was the hopeful sound

reverberating in her anxious mind all

through the long, sleepless hours of the

I. 2

wearing, weary night. That ceaselessly-echoing
sentence seemed to be pronounced
in the strident tones of her
who had first uttered it ; and thus it
assumed a complex meaning to poor, distraught
Lina, for now she could not
disassociate the name of Philip's dwelling-place
in her mind from the person who
had pronounced it, and who accompanied
him with that strange air of familiarity
and possession.

Who was this vulgar woman with her
bold eyes, obtrusive manner, and showy
attire? What hold had she on Philip
poor dear, helpless Philip ? How sad
he looked, how subdued Alas his voice,
how melancholy the tone of deprecation
in which he addressed his querulous companion
!

And the child?

Such a small golden-haired, dark-eyed
little fellow, with pale face and strangely
wistful expression ! in years he Alas buta
baby, and yet he seemed burdened
with the sorrows of a man.

The woman had called him Hubert;
that alone was enough to set Lina thinking,
wondering. And the dear, familiar
name of her beloved foster-father conjured
up visions of Hamburg to her
restless thoughts ; Hamburg suggested Ferdinand
— and Hermann. Ah ! Hermann ;
that was another disturbing element in
her mind. But this one at least she
could dismiss with prompt decision. That
painful subject needed no further pondering.
It was over. Poor Hermann's hopeful
anticipations of the speedy blissful
realization of " love's young dream " were
effectually nipped in the bud. The vision

of Philip, fleeting, distracting as it had
been, sufficed to set Lina's mind at rest
in regard to all other men. She sprang
from her bed and flung herself on her
knees. She thanked God with grateful
fervour for saving her from lifelong-misery
by proving the true state of her
heart to her, before she had irrevocably
pledged herself to another. She would
rather, ten thousand times rather, be
Philip's serving-maid, his humble, patient
guide, than the wife of any other man,
whatever his attractions. She had no
doubt whatever on that point now, and
so with the chiming of the sixth hour
of her wakefulness, she buried her face
in her pillow, whispering, " 100, Bedford
Gardens," in reassuring tones until, comforted,
she found blessed oblivion and temporary
rest in a profound, dreamless sleep.

Hermann von Birke, alert, joyous, expectant,
met her hopefully soon after breakfast
in the morning. Had the sight of
Philip suddenly hardened Lina? If not,
how was it possible for her to receive
her eager lover so coldly that his heart
seemed to stand still as he looked into
her changed face, and felt the warm
pressure of his hand relax as her chill
fingers met it ? She was not hardened
towards him more than towards others,
but he, as all other persons and things,
save one alone, had become absolutely
indifferent to her. The anxiety, the suffering,
the hopes and fears of all other
human being's faded before Lina's mind
in her fresh and absorbing interest in
the troubles of Philip, and her own perplexing
attitude towards her first and
truly her only love.

me.

Poor Hermann knew the fallacy of
his long-fostered hopes almost before a
word had been uttered on either side.
The glad anticipations which had come
to a climax this morning, received a
sudden death-blow at the very hour of
their expected fruition. How the tenable
change had come about he neither dared
nor cared to ask. His instinct taught
him that whatever it was that had happened,
it had made all appeal on his
part useless, and this Lina cruelly confirmed
in short, incisive words that
conveyed her irrevocable farewell. Hermann
probably returned to Hamburg,
cursing all women and his own particular
fate. Lina neither knew nor cared for
his thoughts or his curses. She longed
to know that he was gone, that she had
closed the book of her life on that

irritating page for ever. It is said that
love is selfish ; perhaps that is its characteristic,
but with Lina it showed itself
thus for the first time. Her intense
anxiety for the one she held dearest
closed her sympathetic eyes for the
moment to the troubles of everybody
else. Thoughts of Philip so filled her
mind that all other considerations Avere
ruthlessly crowded out.

He was in London, within her reach.
This fact became simply paramount. Her
next anxiety was to find him, and to obtain
speech with him. The instant Hermann
had received his dismissal she felt
herself free to set forth and make a
preliminary investigation of the house
that held him — him — her Philip. The
desire to see his abiding-place Alas so absorbing
that she thought of nothing but

me.

that. It was not until she actually turned
the corner that led into Bedford Gardens
thai she stopped short m her hasty walk,
pausing to give herself time to consider
the bearings of the situation. How was
she to approach him? How make herself
known ? What manner of introduction
would be necessary if her preliminary
questions had to be answered by that
vulgar companion ? Somewhat sobered in
her enthusiasm by the cold water of consideration,
Lina now walked along the
Gardens with slower steps and a more
meditative air. But her hope revived
when in the parlour window of Xo. 100
she perceived the word "Apartments."
This opened out a possibility for general
inquiries, and might save her from the
dreaded contact with the person whose
voice she almost feared to hear again.

If Philip was a lodger in that house, who
what — could prevent Lina from taking-apartments
beneath the same i-oof, and
thus at once placing herself at his hand
ready and eager to assist him?

But before she could act on her first
rash impulse the woman's intuition came to
her aid, that sixth feminine sense which the
Germans happily describe as mother-wit.

What if Philip was married — married
to that odious creature ? As this appalling
thought rushed into Lina's mind
it crimsoned her cheeks only to leave
them whiter than ever again, and with
trembling hands the poor girl clung to
the railings she was passing for support.
Could it be possible ? Xo, she would not
believe that ; for her faith in his abiding
love was as perfect as the knowledge of
her own fidelity.

me.

And yet what other relationship could
have thus linked him to one who to
Lina was a perfect stranger ? The terms
of close intimacy, even ; the unconcerned
fault-finding on one hand and deprecation
on the other, what did all these
prove save that intimacy which is the
nearest of all human ties? If these two
were man and wife, whose then was the
child ? The little fellow was certainly
not more than eye years old ; but it
was more than ten years now since
Lina had heard any tidings of Philip,
and more than twelve since she had
been parted from him. Although Lina
had now by dint of earnest resolution
sufficiently tranquillized herself to look
hard facts steadily in the face, she still felt
unable to believe that that careless, flaunting,
vulgar creature could ever have

been selected by her own lost love to
usurp the place, as his constant guide
and trusted companion, which once had
been hers only and entirely. This woman
treated Philip with such heartless unconcern,
she seemed incapable of rendering
him the first, commonest service,
that of leading him safely through
crowded streets. If he had been forced
to seek some consolation for the loss of
his first love, his choice surely would
have fallen on some fitter representative
he, more perhaps than any other man,
required in his wife. Xo, she would not
believe this thing ; nevertheless the
thought of its possibility, which had
momentarily stayed the beating of her
heart, had also paralyzed her ; and by
the time she had recovered from the
first shock of this dread anticipation

she had also concluded that she must
restrain her first Avild impulse to fly into
that house and take up her abode
under one roof with Philip, roilte qui
route. She loved him truly and faithfully.
Yes ; and in her heart of hearts she
kncAV full well that her first desire Alas
to serve him, to serve him alone ; for
his good to ignore herself, her own feelings,
inclinations, now and always. This
being her intention, her earnest conviction,
she felt that she dared-god helping
her — proceed. Seeking Philip's interests
and how to help him only,- could
do no harm to anyone. That he sorely
needed such service as she best knew
how to render him, the experiences of
the past evening had most decisively
proved. And thinking of him and of
notliinir bait him, she would embark on

her new enterprise, ignoring dangers and
difficulties of all kinds. The notion of
becoming to him such a faithful helpmate
as she once had been was now the climax
of her unselfish desire. She would be
willing to forego every thought of the
tenderer feelings which she had once so
deeply cherished, if by so doing she could
contrive to help him Avilhout bringing any
kind of trouble or complication into the
life she felt sure was already a very sad
one. How thankfully would she sacrifice
every hope she had in life if she might
but be allowed to minister mechanically
to his daily, hourly wants, and thus to
render his existence less trying for him.

Twice her hand had been on the
knocker of the door of Neo. 100, and each
time the pressure of conflicting emotions
had stayed her purpose. Then in order to

gather up her wits and strengthen her
will she had walked resolutely away, upto
the heights of Camden Hill, down to
the valley of Kensington.

Xow at last strong in her good intention,
resolute as her brave father must
have been when setting forth on a perilous
journey, she knocked peremptorily at the
door of the house. If Philip should prove
to be married she would strictly preserve
her incognito ; but in any case she felt
herself justified in gleaning some reliable
details as to his mode of life. She will
conceal her identity from him as carefully
as from the rest of the world ; thus she
can certainly gain time and ascertain the
bearings of the case.

A pleasant-looking woman, who proves
to be the landlady, shows Lina the parlours,
bed and sitting-room, opening one

into the other, which she is desirous tolet.
" I am here perhaps for a short time
only," says Lina, " and am most anxious
to find a quiet and thoroughly respectable
home. I am an orphan, and have
lived the greater part of my life in
Germany. I am almost a stranger in
London, but as I am here to look after
business matters, it is quite necessary forme
to find a lodging with a person I
can trust."

The landlady, who now introduces herself
as Mrs. Burt, seemed a little dubious
at first at the sight of the young handsome
lady who was confessedly " a
stranger " in those parts. But the ready
payment of an ample sum of deposit
money reassured her. Before two golden
sovereigns her cautious scruples vanished
into thin air.

VOL. II. M

Have you any other lodgers ? " asks
Lina, preliminaries settled, and her bargain
so far concluded.

Only one family, and that a very
quiet one," answers Mrs. Burt impressively.
" A Mr. ]^orthcroft — he's blind,
poor dear, as gentle as a lamb — his wife,
and their little boy. She — the lady, I
mean — between you and me miss, to my
way of thinking is rather wanting in
kindness to that poor dear afflicted husband
of hers, but the little fellow — ah,
here he is ; you shall judge of him for
yourself, miss."

So saying, the mollified landlady intercepts
little Hubert on his way along the
passage, brings him into her new lodger's
room in triumph, and in another moment
Lina has snatched Philip's child close to
her throbbing; heart.

PHILIPS REVENGE.

OO Philip was really married to that
odious woman. What strange course
of circumstances could have culminated
in so startling an event? That was the
amazing speculation filling Lina's mind as
she left the house in Bedford Gardens,
and went her way back to Bloomsbury,
slowly and sorrowfully. The keen anticipation
which had lent wings to her feet
when first she set forth on her eager
quest, was now changed to a sudden feeling
of crushing disappointment which
affected her physically. The wings had
been transformed into coils of lead as by
the touch of a wicked sorcerer. All her

M 2

glad hopes were blighted, her happy
dreams for the future dispelled by the
cruel reality of the present.

It was fortunate for her that the
practical necessities of her proposed immediate
change of residence required
her undivided attention. She was both
roused and distracted by her conversation
with the irate mistress of the
boarding-house, who considered herself
exceedingly aggrieved when she heard of
Lina's proposed removal. What could
have happened to induce the two best-paying
boarders (Hermann and Lina) to
leave her house at an hour's notice, and
both on the same day ? A covert hint
that they probably intended to go abroad
together angered Lina, who was in a
very sensitive condition, and caused her
to delay her departure for a couple of

days. Her professional engagements had
just ended ; she would make no fresh ones
in England. She wished no one to know
where she was going ; but she would
certainly not give any one the chance of
suggesting that she had accompanied her
Hamburg friend. So she watched him
depart, and then resolved to endure two
days more of trite boarding-house routine
before settling in the independent new
home she had taken, and to which her
thoughts were speeding at every moment
during the long, idle hours of
irresolution that followed upon the exciting
evening of that famous concert at
St. James's Hall.

When Lina recovered from the first
sentimental shock which the changed
aspect of Philip's affairs gave her, she
began to ponder over them with something

of the bewilderment we feel when
setting ourselves the task of solving an
enigma. Was this woman none other
than the housekeeper's daughter of whom
she had heard so much in former days?
Lina asked herself. It seemed likely ; if
so, Philip must have been entrapped into
this uncongenial alliance by some
means quite unintelligible to her. He
had certainly never entered upon it of
his own free will.

Now, in one sense, Lina's passionate
conclusion was correct ; bnt it was his
own helplessness, his inability to cope
with adverse circumstances rather than
anything else which had driven him into
this ill-suited marriage. Yet there had
been another cause for it also. During
the miserable period in Philip's existence
which followed the loss of those he held

dearest, he inveighed in no measured
terms against the father who was the
moving spirit of the tragedy of his
young life. His smouldering anger rose
to overt rebellion as he pondered over
his wrongs in the long, lonely days of
desolation that succeeded Lina's abrupt
departure.

"My father preferred to blight my
life's happiness rather than risk what hein
his ignorant prejudice, termed a metals
That was the leading thought
in the blind man's mind as he passed
Sir Stephen's harsh conduct in review.
He chose to crush hope and joy out
of our future, Lina's and mine, because
he would not condescend to sacrifice one
ounce of his accursed pride. He lectures
on the nobility of the name of
Xorthcroft ; yet from his own unwilling

me.

confession I have wrung the damaging
facts that no Northcroft ever yet distinguished
himself, as Lina's brave father
did, by risking his life for others ! My
father thought the most lovable girl in
the world no fit mate for me, because
I have the misfortune to be the heir to
his name, and he sent Lina forth into
a cruel world, he tore my adored bride
out of my arms. For this tyranny I
can never forgive him. But she had
promised me a thousand times to be
faithful under all circumstances ; what
can have happened to change her views?
She had loving parents to guard and
cherish her, and yet she could not wait
for me for those ]better times which
surely would have come to us both. K
she herself had not written the cruel
truth to me, I never would have believed

that she had married another.
Still it is all my father's fault ; it is
due to his wicked tyranny that we have
been severed for ever."

When Philip's agitating thoughts reached
this woeful climax, a savage fit of
rebellious reaction was apt to possess
him, and that latent desire for vengeance,
which had never wholly expired,
leapt into fresh life again, urging
him to bring the proud head of Sir
Stephen low by some condign punishment.

Throughout this protracted period of
Philip's alternate despair at his loss,
and rebellion against its cause, Mrs.
Musket and her daughter were always
at hand, inflaming his mind by their
cunning expressions of deprecation and
commiseration, adding to his cano-er
against his father by dwelling on the inflexible

harshness of the proud baronet,
and sympathizing with the young fellow's
sorrows in most exaggerated terms
of pity. Philip hated their gushing
condolence ; but he soon blamed himself,
after having repulsed his only friends,
and turned to Isabel again and again,
with the eager contrition of a noble
mind accusing itself of ingratitude.

My father thinks Isabel's assistance
ought to make up for all I lost in losing
Lina. He thinks that the services of
this girl should satisfy all my needs, and
looks upon the love I bore Lina as a
figment, a passing sentiment worth no
man's consideration. He pretends that
the services of one person must be as
good as those of another. He has repeatedly
told me that Isabel is nothing
but a servant, and yet he taunts me

with grieving for Lina, while I have
only this girl at hand to supply the
place my darling filled in my life and my
heart. After all, in her way, Isabel is
devoted to me. Since she is fit to be my
companion and servant, why should she
not be fit to be my wife also ? How
will you feel then, my father, about a
mesalliance ? " This was the doubtful attitude
of poor Philip's introspective mind,
and this sort of brooding harrowed him
day after day, month after month, until
the hour came that brought it to the
only possible issue. Since Isabel had
proved in a sense worthy, would it not
be well to bind her to himself by indissoluble
ties P Unless he thus secured
her, Sir Stephen, who regarded her
merely as an ordinary domestic, might
take it into this head to dismiss her also.

When first the notion of effectually
defying his father by such an act, and
thus awarding him the punishment he
so richly deserved, flashed through the
blind man's mind, he hailed it as an
inspiration, and concluded that now, forlorn
as he was, he had also found the
only solution left to him of the dark
enigma of his future. In this mood he
appealed to Isabel herself, and the girl,
who really had waited with much self-control
and good-humoured patience for
this long-deferred moment of her triumph,
proved herself thoroughly equal to the
occasion. She clung to Philip, sobbing
and trembling ; she confessed that she
had loved him for years and years — ever
since she could remember, indeed — and
that she had but one desire in life, to be
his wife, to be with him always, to tend,

watch over, help and guide him, so long
as they both should live.

But not one word to my father until
we are married," was Philip's first
condition. And Isabel, who had often
rehearsed some such scene as this With
her mamma, after a tantalizing hesitation,
finally consented to keep the engagement
secret for the time being.

Ere long, however, Mrs. Musket confessed
to Philip that she had divined
the nature of the tie which bound her
dear girl to her young master, and
she adroitly flattered the blind man by
her solemn assurance that Isabel had
loved him secretly for years past, and
therefore had sympathized so thoroughly
in the trouble and disappointment he
felt when that cruel letter from Miss
Lina came which told him she had

thrown him over and got married to
another.

My poor girl would never have had
the 'part to marry if so Vje you had
not taken to her, Mr. Philip ; for ever
since she was first in her teens, that
darling child has doted upon you, and
never so much as thought of any other,
because she knew it were you she truly
loved. She 'ad a plenty of offers in
London too ; ' but I can't give my 'and
v^rithout my 'part,' she has said to me
many and many a time, and now she
has met her reward. Bless her ! "

Philip, whose affliction, instead of
hardening his heart, had made it most
susceptible, listened to all these cunning
protestations with grateful interest, and
implored kind, considerate Mrs. Musket
to help both Isabel and himself to a

speedy and happy union by any means
in her power.

Mrs. Musket was not likely to miss
the chance thus offered her of striking
the iron of her young master's purpose
while it was red-hot. Having, after
much difficulty, allowed him to persuade
her that the matrimonial project must,
at all hazards, be kept secret from his
father, she at last consented to aid and
abet the heir of Pineridge in an elopement,
notwithstanding that she foresaw
that this deed of course would cost her
her place. So availing herself of Sir
Stephen's temporary absence, she journeyed
to London with her future son-in-law
and his intended. She lamented the
necessity of having to pay for a special
licence out of her hard-earned savings,
but did it nevertheless with a lavish display

of great generosity, and had the
extreme satisfaction of perusing the
announcement of the marriage of " Miss
Isabel Sarah Musket, to Philip, only son
of Sir Stephen Northcroft, Bart," in the
appropriate phraseology of the four
papers to which she had sent it. It was
in the Torshire Chronicle and Gazette
that Sir Stephen read the news, and it
was confirmed by a letter received from
his son, and written by that son's happy
bride ! The epistle was couched in terms
of exultant defiance, and utterly ignored
all parental authority both for the
present and in the time to come.

Sir Stephen North croft clenched his
fists and ground his teeth in savage, impotent
fury and despair. It is possible
that some conviction of his short-sighted
policy may have flashed across his prejudiced

mind : but if that was the case,
he certainly never avowed it. Mrs.
Musket did not venture to face her
master. She anticipated her dismissal,
but in settling her accounts with him
through the post, she made some meek
reference to the possibility of his giving
the young couple an allowance. She
was referred to the family solicitor, and
that gentleman informed her that Mr.
Philip's present means of existence would
be limited to the interest on the small
fortune left him by his mother. Sir
Stephen declined to assist his son in
any manner whatever. Well, £350 a
year was not much, but it was a comfortable
certainty, and the time must
come sooner or later, when the heir of
Pineridge would inherit both title and
fortune.

VOL. IT. N

Thus Mrs. Musket and her daughter
managed to console themselves. Indeed
they had accomplished the great purpose
of their lives, and the old lady,
after spending some months with her
dear children " in London, went on a
visit to a sister living in Ireland, wherein
the course of the year, her health
broke up, and she died, leaving Isabel
most of her not inconsiderable savings.

When, not long after this event,
Philip's son was borne to him, he was
certainly happier than at any period
since the cruel loss of Lina. But as
time went on, Isabel's true character
disclosed itself.

The mask of patient amiability she
had so persistently worn during the long
period of her probation as Philip's companion
was by degrees lifted when she

had won her waiting game and the
coveted husband. After the novelty of
her position as Mrs. Northcroft had lost
its charm, and the claims of her helpless
baby and its almost equally dependent
father began to try her temper and curtail
her liberty, she flung the fair-seeming
mask aside altogether. In fact she
rather enjoyed watching poor Philip's
manifest amazement as he began to
realize the true vulgar nature of the
woman who had deluded him into believing
her to be gentle and tenderhearted.
She had never been capable
of affording him the intellectual companionship
he sorely craved, and as his
affliction hindered him from taking her
about to the amusements of the metropolis,
which was her ne plus ultra

of human felicity, she soon began to

N 2

neglect him. She sought out her cousin
and once confidential friend, Mrs. Hopkins,
and spending long days and evenings
in the congenial society of that
enterprising lady and her theatrical circle,
left her blind husband to the
chance care and companionship of landlady
or nurse-girl.

This was the darkest side of Philip's
fate, and when Lina came unexpectedly
upon it, it made her wonder yet more
what could possibly have induced him
to marry that odious woman.

UNDER ONE HOOF.

/^^N the third day after she had engaged
the parlours of Mrs. Burt's
house, and paid her deposit money, Lina,
under the assumed name of Miss Berger,
took possession of her new quarters.

When she fully determined on this
dangerous and adventurous plan for
satisfying the cravings of her soul, and,
as she trusted, for being in some remote
way of use to Philip, she foresaw many
of the difficulties of preserving her most
necessary incognito.

Prominent amongst these, of course,
was the possibility of Philip's recognising
her voice. Clearly he had not done so

when she was singing, but how would it
be if she had to speak to him? And in
all probability she would sooner or later.
Her long residence at Hamburg had
brought back much of the foreign accent
native to her, but which she had lost
entirely during those happy seven or
eight years spent in England. She had
but to take care to make the most of
this now when the moment came, and she
doubted not that the tones of her voice
would be sufficiently changed to prevent
the blind man from discovering anything
in it which could recall her to his
memory after this long lapse of time.

She had promised little Hubert some
toys and goodies on the occasion of their
first meeting, and, as she packed these
intended gifts in her box, she positively
trembled with emotion and excitement.

To be under one roof with Philip and
his son ; to call the child Hubert, to
hold that dear tiny hand in her own ;
to listen to his pretty chatter, and wonder
at the precocious wisdom of the sad-eyed
boy's utterances : all these anticipations
filled Lina's heart to overflowing, and
sent many salt tears coursing over her
sweet face.

She had scant hope, as matters stood,
of being of much personal service to
Philip, or of watching over him in any
direct way. But what should prevent
her from seeking the constant companionship
of his child ? In her brief conversation
with the communicative, pleasant-looking
landlady, Lina had learnt enough
about the lodgers on the first floor to
convince her that little Hubert stood
sadly in need of the tender consideration

which mothers mostly give to delicate
children, and which this one was evidently
reared without. We have seen
enough of Mrs. Philip Norther oft as
Isabel Musket to know that she was
absolutely selfish. Her own will and
pleasure had always been paramount :
she knew no greater satisfaction than the
pursuit of individual gratification, and
she was now apt to feel and to manifest
great anger whenever her momentary
caprice was interfered with. She bitterly
resented her husband's disinclination to
be dragged about to all the diversions,
plays, concerts, and shows which the
metropolis offered, and which so greatly
delighted her. Long before little Hubert
could speak he was pressed into the
service of her pleasure-seeking existence,
carried to the theatre, rocked to sleep

to the strains of the band at promenade
concerts, and, when a nursemaid
was available, borne to flower and other
shows, as a companion to his enterprising
mamma. By the time he was sufficiently
independent to walk he was seldom left
at home. His mother dressed him in
raiment of gorgeous hues, first in a
Scotch kilt made of satin, then in a navy
blue velvet gold-braided suit as an
aspirant sailor. The little fellow, with
his pale face and wistful, dark eyes,
looked more like a pretty wax doll than
an ordinary child, and his early launch
into the dissipation of concert-room and
theatre soon taught him that primary
lesson of social success — to suffer in
patience and silence. Philip loved his
small, thoughtful son passionately. The
vast capacity for tenderness which his

unsympathetic wife failed to comprehend
or respond to was soon lavished upon
the innocent baby, who from very early
days seemed to appreciate and understand
it. Of the tender link uniting father and
son Lina gained some knowledge in her
first chatty interview with little Hubert
the morning after her arrival in Bedford
Gardens. What task could be more inviting,
more inspiriting for one of her
temperament, than to devote herself
utterly to this child, and through him
to approach his father? By carefully
teaching and training Hubert to serve
and make himself useful to his blind
parent in every possible way, she felt
that she was indirectly but surely ministering
to the comfort and well-being of him
on whom for so many years she had bestowed
her undivided care and affection.

Mrs. Northcroft's perpetual absence from
home made Lina's attentions to the child
doubly acceptable to his helpless father.

On one occasion (a most memorable
one this to Lina) Philip actually summoned
up sufficient courage to bid little
Hubert ask kind Miss Berger "if father
might come too," when the good hide
called her small protege to prepare for
the walk which had become a matter
of frequent occurrence.

The blind man, who felt the confinement
within the four walls of this lonely
room cruelly as a prisoner does, longed
to break this dreary monotony by a
walk in those beautiful Kensington Gardens,
of which his boy gave him such
pretty, enticing descriptions, by his prattle
of green grass, bright water, pretty birds,
and big, big trees.

"Papa so tired of standing at home all
alone," whispered Hubert, close to Miss
Berger's ear, as he wound loving arms
about her neck and preferred his petition,
amidst quite a volley of fond little
kisses ; " he wants bad to go walk wit
us. May he come to pretty gardens
too?"

What could Lina say?

Although she had heard Philip's voice
in the house, and on the stairs, over
and over again ; although the loving
child was a constant link of communication
between her and the blind man,
and carried numerous messages, courteous
and grateful, from one to the other ;
yet she had hitherto studiously avoided
finding herself face to face with the man
who had never ceased to hold the reins
of her destiny in his keeping, although

the trust had long become all unconscious
on his part.

Stow he had made a direct appeal to
her, and through his sweet, lovable little
son, whom surely no one could have the
heart to refuse at any time. Though
the ordeal of thus meeting Philip again,
of being so near to him and yet separated
by such a gulf, seemed a cruel
one to Lina, it had an undeniable fascination
for her. She should hear his
low, melodious voice again. She would
feel the clinging pressure of his arm
as she guided him gently, cautiously
along crowded footways, over dangerous
crossings. " Tell your dear father 1
shall be most happy, if he will trust
himself to me," she whispers tenderly to
Hubert, and kisses the wistful baby face
eagerly as she speaks. " Be sure to

say ' if he will trust himself to me,'
Hughie."

Hughie gravely delivers himself of his
important message, and having cleverly
assisted dear father in finding hat, stick,
and gloves, he leads him cautiously down
the stairs, and straight into Miss Berger's
parlour.

The moment had come ; mechanically
she extends her hand and shakes his,
dropping it even as she stammers some
commonplace words of greeting. She is
trembling from head to foot, she feels
faint, and a sob almost chokes her
utterance.

Oh that she might fold him in her
arms just once, this once ! might tell him
all her love and all her suffering, might
seek to make him understand her unchanging
fidelity, her profound sympathy

with him, both now and ever since! . . .
But no; that must not, cannot be. With
a supreme effort, she steadies herself, and
summoning all her resolution to the
rescue, responds in coldly measured tones
to the child's eager entreaty, " Come
along now, do, for we's all quite ready,
and don't want to wait no more."

Allow me, Mr. JS'orthcroft," she says,
still preserving her cold manner, and
studiously emphasizing her foreign accent,
as she turns to the blind man, and lays
her hand upon his arm. She guides him
gently out of the house, along the narrow
garden path, then into the quiet street
beyond.

Philip is vaguely disappointed in Miss
Berger. He had asked Hubert so many
questions about her, and had managed to
gather so much information concerning

her looks, manner, speech, and bearing
from his indifferent wife and garrulous
Mrs. Burt, that he was prepared to meet
a highly interesting, sympathetic, and
somewhat emotional woman, instead of
which Miss Berger at first appears to him
cold, reserved, and almost callous.

Her strong foreign accent jars on his
sensitive ears, and there is an odd hesitation
in her speech at times which
betrays some kind of nervousness and
frets him also. But the way in which
she guides and watches over him is
admirable, sever since he lost his Lina
has he been so well cared for in his
wanderings abroad.

Ah, Lina ! she was the same height as
this Miss Berger, he can judge of this
by the relative position of his arm to
hers. Her step was as light and springy

as that of his present companion; but
her voice, her clear, fluent, unhesitating
English speech, how different !

He utters a profound sigh, and she,
who is listening on the tenter-hooks of
expectation for any and every sign from
him, can scarce convince herself that to
her fancy alone the name of Lina was
whispered with that sorrowful sigh.

This walk proved the severest ordeal
through Which Lina had passed as yet.
To lay her guiding hand on Philip's arm,
and yet to speak to him in a disguised
voice and With the quiet indifference of a
stranger, was a crucial test indeed, but,
thanks to Hubert's pretty prattle, her
attention was in a great measure diverted
from herself and her own feelings, and by
the time the walk was over and Philip
thanked her for the pleasure she had

VOL. II. o

given him she felt grateful for the new
experience which had proved eminently
satisfactory to all concerned.

Little Hubert had thus cemented the
first link in a chain of friendly communication
with the lodgers upstairs ; and
for the next two months things went
smoothly and pleasantly. Even Mrs.
Northcroft felt grateful in a measure to
that good-natured Miss Berger, of whom
the landlady spoke in such high terms,
and who showed herself ready to relieve
Isabel on every possible occasion of her
distasteful responsibilities in regard to her
helpless husband and son.

A sudden attack of croup, which seized
little Hubert in the middle of the night
and caused the greatest consternation in
the household of No. 100, gave Lina a
fresh opportunity of rendering herself

actively useful. Mrs. Northcroft complaining
of violent headache and becoming
hysterical, willingly yielded her child upto
the kind-hearted lodger, who, taking
the invalid in her arms, carried him away
to her own room, interviewed the doctor,
and insisted upon taking entire charge of
the child, who was certainly very ill,
and whose husky, choking cough was
terrible to listen to. Lina waited and
watched throughout that night and the
following day. Strong measures had been
used as the case required ; but the result
was most satisfactory, for the second
night little Hubert slept soundly and
peacefully.

I shall be so glad to keep your little
one in my own room, if you will allow
me," said Lina to Mrs. Northcroft in her

gentlest manner. "I am so very fond of

o 2

children, and being a stranger in London,
and lonely, it is a pleasure to me to have
the care of this dear little fellow. You
evidently are not strong, you have your
husband to attend to, and this makes it
all the more necessary that the care of
the child should be taken off your hands."
"Quite a nice-spoken, sensible young
person that Miss Berger," remarked Mrs.
Norther oft to her husband in tones of
approving condescension.

"But are we justified in taking advantage
of her good nature to this extent ? "
asked considerate Philip, doubtfully.

Oh, she is a born old maid ! " cried
Isabel, laughing. " That sort of woman
always loves other people's children, not
being blessed or teased with any of their
own, and there's nothing pleases them
half so much as fussing over invalids or

any one that's afflicted. I know her
style thoroughly, and I'm quite sure
she would be delighted to read to or
wait upon you if I gave her half a
chance. But one of my babies is enough
to bother her with at a time — when
next I particularly want to go off to the
theatre, and you don't care to accompany
me, I shall request Miss Berger to look
after you as Avell as Hughie. That will
give her a notion of some of the pleasures
of matrimony."

But it is not every wife who is
burdened as you are, my poor Pisa," said
Philip, with tender compassion, and he
felt his way across the room to where
his wife was sitting, and kissed those red
lips which so seldom smiled upon him
now, and rarely, if ever, addressed a kind
word to him.

"Miss Berger cannot be an Englishwoman,"
Philip remarked to his wife one
day ; " she speaks with a very strong
foreign accent, and her name certainly is
a German one."

Mrs. Northcroft duly reported this
leading observation to the lodger.

Yes, I am German," said Lina
quietly, and was thankful to find that
her partially affected accent had successfully
misled Philip's acute hearing.
During the latter years of their close
companionship, she had, of course spoken
English perfectly ; therefore her strong
foreign speech now had served to baffle
him completely, as she designed it
should, for his Lina was not associated
in his mind with any foreign element
whatever.

"As far as I can make out," Mrs.

Norther oft informed her husband after
some consultation with the landlady,
this girl must have been in England
before, though she says she has only
just come over from Germany now.
She's come to see after a will or something
connected with her parent's death,
for she said she was an orphan, and
Mrs. Burt tells me that she seems
awfully dull and lonely at all times ;
that's one reason for her taking so to
Hughie, and I'm sure it would be quite
a kindness on your part if you would
get over your bashfulness and let me
ask her to come up and be company
to you when I am obliged to go out."

Mrs. Xorthcroft was more and more
frequently " obliged " to go out now.
What little compunction she may once
have had about leaving her helpless

me.

family was completely dispelled so soon
as she felt she could shift her responsibilities
wholly on the willing shoulders
of that complaisant Miss Berger. Mrs.
Hopkins, in the Waterloo Eoad, was always
pleased and proud to receive her
handsomely-dressed cousin in these days,
and Isabel, sure that Miss Berger would
pay all necessary attention to those that
the selfish wife ruthlessly left behind her,
departed upon every conceivable pretext
day after day, night after night. There
were times when Lina's intense disgust
at the woman's selfishness almost deprived
her of the power of treating her
fellow-lodger with civility, but the remembrance
of poor Philip invariably
served to dispel the rising indignation.
She was perfectly aware of the beneficial
influence her presence was beginning to

have on the bled man, who, without
the faintest suspicion of her identity and
wholly without recognising her, gradually
showed by an increasing cheerfulness of
face and contentedness of manner that
her companionship Alas soothing and
congenial to him. Many and bitter were
the struggles poor Lina had with herself
during the happy yet trying weeks
that followed.

"By God's help I will fulfil my duty
to the uttermost ! " This had been her
resolute declaration to herself when she
embarked on her perilous enterprise, and
with the true courage of complete self-abnegation
she had bravely fought
against all outside obstacles and difficulties
; most bravely against the tender
impulses of her loving heart. Her influence
on Philip personally seemed

almost mesmeric in its character, and
there were times when she was guiding
him and held his hand in hers that the
force of the situation, so near to him
and yet so far, troubled her and caused
her the greatest confusion. A chance
word, the unpremeditated touch of his
hand, a sudden movement, a tone or
inflection of her voice, any one of these
things might betray her to him, whose
strong powers of observation had so
often caused her to marvel in the old
days. Alas, if once suspicion were
roused in his mind, worse still if conviction
of her identity should flash upon
him, then all her hope and endeavour to
serve and look after him and his child
must come to a sudden and terrible
end. Thoroughly realizing the danger
which such a discovery would bring in

its train, Lina was more than ever
determined to preserve by every means
in her power her difficult and most important
secret. As Mrs. Northcroft's
increasingly frequent absences made
Lina's visits to the drawing-room matters
of diurnal occurrence, her first anxious
feelings of shrinking timidity presently gave
way to the exigences of habit and routine.
One night, long after Lina had retired
to rest, Mrs. Burt knocked at her door,
and in an agitated voice implored her to
come upstairs instantly and to see to
little Master Hubert, who was seized with
another horrible choking fit of croupy
cough. Mr. Northcroft had found his
way to the landlady's room, which was
on the upper floor, and summoned her
in hot haste. His wife had gone to the
theatre and had not yet returned.

"Shall I run for the doctor, Miss
Berger, or will you come up and see to
the poor little fellow with me? You
nursed him so cleverly before, and I,
never having had any children of my
own, really have not the least idea of
what to do for this poor darling."

"Wrap him in a blanket and carry him
down to me instantly !" cried Lina without
hesitation. "I will take charge of him
here, and, if we apply the remedies
requisite, you need call no doctor."

This having eventually been done by
the skilled and thoughtful angel in the
house, Lina was at last gratified by seeing
the little one sleeping quietly in her bed.
She herself was in a state of feverish
restlessness and impatience. Where could
Mrs. Northcroft be staying at this hour?
It was past one o'clock. Tired of pacing

to and fro in her little parlour, Lina
established herself at the window, looked
out in the clear moonlight night, and
eagerly watched for the return of the
pleasure-seeking truant.

Presently a hansom stopped short a
few doors off, and Lina saw a muffled
figure alight with the assistance of a tall
man. Could this be Mrs. Northcroft?
If so, who was her companion ? The
hansom waited while the couple walked
quietly on to the gate of No. 100.
Arrived there, the man folded his companion
closely in his arms for an instant,
and then returned to the cab, while Mrs.
Northcroft let herself in with a latch-key,
and quietly, stealthily crept upstairs.
Perhaps she never missed her child from
his empty cot, she certainly did not comedown
to inquire after him, and Lina,

me.

worn out, body and mind, depressed by
a new and terrible presentiment of evil,
at last lay down by the side of the child,
and fell into the dreamless sleep of
exhaustion.

Foil MAY TO NOVEMBER.

nTHEOUGHOUT little Hubert's illness
during the first violent attack of
croup, and again in the relapse, which
proved still more serious by reason of
its looser duration and greater severity,
he had clung with demonstrative preference
to that kind, gentle Miss Berger,
who most ably fulfilled the tender duties
of a solicitous mother, and in which his
own parent had ever lamentably failed.
Mrs. Xorthcroft an evening or two before
the child was ill had obstinately insisted
on taking him to a theatre. The weather
was wet and gusty, and the chill of the
night air, after the heated atmosphere of the

play-house, had given the little fellow fresh
cold, which culminated as we have seen.
The sensitive child's affection for his
sweet lady," as he always calls Lina now,
increases day by day, and he very soon
ceases to be happy or content unless he
is in her presence. As he has always
been his father's comfort and companion,
these childish links involve Lina more
and more, and necessitate her seeing Philip
much oftener than she finds reconcilable
with that stern duty of self-abnegation
which is her holiest and first. Still, asher
motives are absolutely pure and all
her striving tends solely to serve him,
unrecognised herself, she perseveres in her
difficult task, and there are moments
when its very hardships are her consolation
; for she rejoices in them, as she
feels that she is sacrificing herself, without

seeking or hoping for any visible
reward save that of knowing that she
benefits him whom she has ever loved far
better than herself. She lives with rigid
economy ; and as she possesses that
reserve fund so long ago put by in case
of a rainy day, she has no immediate
anxieties about her modest finances, and
devotes herself unreservedly to the one
now paramount purpose of her existence.
She tells the boy stories and reads to him
by the hour together ; she teaches him
his letters, and guides his fragile little
hand in forming preliminary pothooks ina
copybook.

Philip, who is left alone to a greater
extent than ever by his gadabout wife,
often begs to be allowed to sit in Miss
Berger's parlour and listen to these lessons.
It amuses and interests him greatly to

VOL. II. p

judge of his boy's rapid improvement.
He asks for that coveted permission very
humbly, for the unmistakable reserve of
Miss Berger's behaviour to him prevents
any approach to familiarity of manner on
either side, and effectually establishes a
ceremonious barrier between them. His
extreme sensitiveness strengthens and
assists this condition of things, but he
also is unselfish in his way, poor fellow,
and his child's interests are far more important
to him than the indulgence of
any personal whims.

One evening as Lina is sittings in her
own apartment in the gloaming, with
little Hubert on her knee, the child suddenly
says, " Can you sing, sweet lady ? "

Yes, a little," is the reply.

Will you sing me a song — some pretty
song ? Me would so like it."

Then she breaks ito a soft, low melody,
and the child remains watching her with
profound admiration, and, as she finishes,
immediately asks for more. " More, more
songs." Lina complies, and Philip, who
has come to an end of his powers of
endurance in the dismal solitude above,
cautiously guides himself downstairs soon
after the sweet tones of Miss Hero-er's
voice have reached his ears. For a while
he waits in the passage, then, oivinsf a
timid, hesitating tap at the door, he enters
the parlour.

"May I be permitted to stay and hear
your song ? " he asks. " Some of the
notes travelled upstairs, and tempted me
to come where I can hear more distinctly."


Certainly, if it pleases you, Mr. JSTorth-

croft," says Lina quietly, after guiding

p 2

him to a chair, and she continues the
dulcet strains of Schubert's " Serenade,"
which Hubert has pronounced " so pretty."

Presently, as the blind man sits listening
with rapt attention and delight, a strange
uneasiness steals over him. Evidently
something a^tatino- has occurred to his
mind, for when the song ends he stands
suddenly upright.

"I don't remember," he says, " to have
heard you sing before, and yet there are
certain notes in your voice which seem
to remind me — seem to make me fancy I
must have done so."

He pauses. Lina is in terror of anticipation.
Has she revived some old
memory? Has the perilous part she is
playing been carried too far? His next
words, however, reassure her.

"Ah!" he cries eagerly, just as the

May to November. 213

silence is becoming painful, " now I know,
it is that Madame Armgart of whom you
remind me — Madame Armgart, who has
been singing lately at the St. James's
Hall.

There is another pause, but not for
long. Lina sees the way of escape, and
instantly catches at it.

You have a good memory, Mr. North
she says ; " for, to be quite candid
with you, I will confess that I am that
Madame Armgart. It is my name ; but,
as my engagement is over, I am anxious
for private reasons that it should not be
known I am still in England ; therefore
I call myself at present Miss Berger."

Why should she deny thus much of
her identity? It is better frankly to
admit it, for the Lina of bygone days
cannot possibly be associated in the blind

me.

man's mind with the professional singer
he has lately heard at a public concert.

To Philip this admission of Miss Berger's
makes many things appear clear which
hitherto have perplexed and troubled
him.

His fellow-lodger's identity With Madame
Armgart fully and for the first time explains
the haunting feeling which has so
often possessed him in this lady's presence,
the feeling that he knows her, has
met her, heard her voice somewhere. He
implores her now to sing, to sing again
and again. He becomes eager to eloquence
in his praise of her sweet voice
and admirable enunciation. Fortunately
there is no piano in the house, or else
Lina, carried away by musical enthusiasm,
might have drifted into some of the songs
she used to sing to his accompaniment,

just as he most assuredly would have
commenced to play the never-forgotten
strains as soon as his fingers touched the
keys, and then, inevitably, the discovery
might easily have gone the one step
farther. As it is, she is safe ; and, carefully
managed, the music may be turned
to good account, and become yet another
means of disguise. All this Lina schools
herself to bear constantly in mind. She
keeps close guard over her voice, her
pronunciation, and her emotion, and
manages to confine the successive musical
entertainments, of which that serenade
made the beginning, to such songs as are
likely rather to please the boy than the
father. She carefully avoids ever repeating
any of the more elaborate pathetic
strains which were lier favourites and
Philip's in the days so long ago.

This sinCTino- of hers affords the bled
man a new source of unfailing pleasure,
and getting over all nervous scruples and
shyness, he constantly begs to be sung
to, because both he and Hughie " love it
so." In the course of time it occurs to
Philip casually to inquire if Madame Arm-gar
t, as he prefers to call her on these
musical occasions, knows certain songs,
which he then mentions by name. Of
course these are the very compositions
she has determined to avoid, and she
manages, though not without embarrassment,
to deny the knowledge he evidently
hoped she possessed. One day he ventures
to ask a little about herself. She
evades this subject with evident nervousness,
alluded vaguely to some great family
troubles, and is herself intensely relieved
when she finds her tears choking her

utterance, and compelling his silence.
Occasionally she reads to him, but the
dangers and difficulties of the part she
is playing are ever before her, and she
cannot fail to see that there are moments
when, in spite of all her striving after
disguise, she revives memories more or
less vivid in Philip's anxious mind. Still
he has certainly grown happier since she
took up her abode under one roof with
him and his family. That is her consolation,
her justification, and her joy. His
greater content is all she can hope for,
all she has looked for, all she can ever
look for in this world ; and she is so far
satisfied that it never occurs to her to

expect any change for the better.
*****

Six quiet, monotonous months passed,
bringing little change with them, except

in the seasons, and yet how fraught with
serious, lifelong import were those months
to the lodgers in Bedford Gardens !

While Philip, his child, and the sweet
lady in the parlour had led, after a
fashion, a happy, peaceful life, Isabel
had plunged deeper and deeper into the
tempting gulf of dissipation to which her
excitable nature and frantic pleasure-seeking
led her.

Had Mrs. Musket been still living
she would have acted doubtless as a
wholesome check upon her daughter's
downward career, but, with the removal
from this world of the erewhile estimable
housekeeper, Isabel gradually drifted
back into the careless disregard of expediency.
She had not the patience to
continue the waiting game, the first tricks
of which she had secured, without the

promptings and controlling advice of her
parent. The possibility of the doors of
Pineridge Priory being thrown open to her
as Lady Northcroft gradually began to
appear, as time went on, more and more
remote. Again she would have said to
herself, had she known the expression,
the game is not worth the candle."

So she continues to estrange herself
step by step from her husband and the
onerous duties which had devolved upon
her with her marriage. With the petty
jealousy of a naturally vulgar mind she
resents the fact that the lodger in the
parlour makes her own perpetual absences
from home matter of small import
to Philip and Hubert, and yet she avails
herself to the utmost of the liberty
Messenger's good-natured vigilance allows
her. She is out at all hours now, and

me.

when Philip asks for some account of
the time she spends gadding about, she
turns upon him with the sudden bursts
of passion to which he is but too well
accustomed already, and, taunting him
with his helplessness, furiously declares
that if he chooses to be mewed up in
dingy lodgings all his days he must not
expect her to share this odious captivity.
Whilst she has youth and good looks,
she intends to make the best of them,
and, since she evidently is no longer
able to please her husband, she will contrive
to spend her time with those who
make much of her, and provide her with
the amusement of which Philip selfishly
desires to deprive her.

Sometimes her shrill tones of cano-er are

o

so loud and piercing that they reach
Lina's ears, and fill her with a sense

of sickening apprehension. How will all

this quarrelling end? What is to become

of poor Philip, alternately neglected and

persecuted as he is ?

*****

It is the nio-ht following; one of the
fiercest and loudest of these conjugal
discussions. Mrs. Northcroft, evidently ina
towering passion, has rushed out of
the house, slamming the front door after
her with such violence that all the
crockery and windows rattled. This tempestuous
exit has happened at mid-day,
and Lina devotes all the afternoon and
evenings to the soothing of the ruffled
tempers of her two helpless prf)/^(/^'.s'.
Philip has been mentally distressed, and
poor little Hubert has been roughly and
most unreservedly punished by his irate
mother prior to her hasty departure.

me.

Having given the child his supper,
and leaving Mrs. Burt in attendance on
her blind lodger, Lina returns to her
own rooms, and at midnight physically
weary, but mentally on the alert, she
creeps shivering into her bed.

She hears the clock strike each
succeeding quarter, and as hour follows
hour she wonders more and more
anxiously at Mrs. Northcroft's extraordinarily
prolonged absence. She cannot
sleep, but listens and waits with ever-increasing
nervousness for the first
familiar sound of the latch-key with
which the truant lodger makes her entry
night after night.

But this night no key turns in the
lock, and towards morning, just as the
milk boy begins his rounds, poor Lina,
utterly exhausted, falls asleep.

"Mrs. Xorthcroft never came home at
all," says Mrs. Burt as she enters the
parlour with Miss Berger's breakfast.
This startling fact is of course freely commented
on by the landlady as she deposits
Miss Berger's tray upon the table.
The state of affairs matrimonial " in the
drawings-rooms " is a common theme for
Mrs. Burt's orations. Lina hates anything
like tittle-tattle, and as far as possible
discourages the confidences forced upon
her, but she cannot entirely prevent
them. " With all her wicked, careless
goings on and goings out," remarks
the landlady with a meaning smile, " she
has never done the likes of this before.
Just fancy her leaving those two poor
tidings, a pair of babies I call them,
to shift for themselves all nicrht!"

"She must have been unexpectedly

prevented from returning home," says
Lina, lifting her hand in gentle deprecation.


Oh, dear, no ! " cries the landlady
with impetuous conviction. "I am sure
you are quite mistaken there, miss; my
own opinion is, and 1 have good reason
for what I say too, that she will never
come back at all — never, no, never!"

Oh, no, that is impossible. What
can induce you to say such a thing? "
exclaims Lina in very evident dismay.

Mrs. Burt, notwithstanding her good
nature, has all the faults of the gossiping
middle-class woman, and she rejoices
to find that her ambiguous speech has
made such a startling impression on the
very reserved lady of Avhom she has always
stood in some sort of awe. She
glances at her doubtfully now, and,



noting the perplexed expression of that
gentle face, she adds, " I was out yesterday
seeing after my marketing; and just
as I was turning round the corner of
Silver Street I saw a hansom cab drawn
up against the kerb on the other side.
It was a private hansom, and I know
it, and the gentleman that owns it, and
the driver well, as you would too. Miss
Berger, if ever you took the trouble to
look out of window like the rest of
us."

Lina, with a sudden quickening of
all her pulses, remembers the occurrences
of that moonlit night, not so
very long ago, which she had spent
watching, waiting, at her window while
the truant mother's child slept in the
room adjoining.

"And what connection had that cab

VOL. TI. Q

with Mrs. Nortlicroft?" she asks, wilfully
ignoring the landlady's innuendo.

I made no doubt I knew for whom
the cab was waiting as per usual," is
Mrs. Burt's prompt reply, " and in a
minute I knew I was right. I had
drawn a little to one side, and there I
stood watching, dien the lady I expected
came running down our gardens,
crossed the road, and jumped into the
cab just like a flash of lightning. There
was a big portmanteau on the top, and
as soon as the gentleman inside had
helped our Mrs. Northcroft in, he ups
and he says to the driver, ' Charing
Cross Hotel.' Those two have gone
abroad together — eloped, as you may say,
miss. I feel as certain sure of that as
that I am standing here ! "

May to November. 227

Mrs. Burt's suspicions were fully justified
by the sequence of events, for Mrs.
Xorthcroft did not return either on the
next day or the one following.

Philip speedily grew anxious, restless,

and alarmed. He did not even know

the precise address in the Waterloo Eoad

of that affectionate cousin, Mrs. Jane

Hopkins, dio was the ostensible cause of

his wife's perpetual absences from home.

Should he communicate with the family

solicitor or with the police ? Either

course, perhaps, would be premature at

present. For the moment there was no

one to turn to for advice but Miss Berger.

She, of course, did all that she could to

add to her blind friend's peace of mind

and general comfort ; but she felt herself

in a position of far greater difficulty than

she had ever anticipated. Instinctively

Q 2

she became more and more cautious and
distant in her manner. The infinite pain
of the situation was increased by Philip
propounding endless theories, and venturing
on countless surmises in explanation
of his wife's disappearance, and Lina
felt herself quite unable to respond satisfactorily.
She had cautioned Mrs. Burt
to keep silence on her part, and in noway
to allude to what she had seen and
chose to infer, and in this state of painful
uncertainty Philip lived on until the
morning of the third day following his
wife's departure.

Then the postman electrified Mrs. Burt
by delivering a letter addressed to Philip
Northcroft, Esq., &c., and she instantly
recognised the pale, pointed telegraphy';
and noted that the envelope bore a
foreign stamp, the postmark being that

of Paris. Very few letters have ever been
delivered at Xo. 100 for the blind man.
Who shall read this one to him? Mrs.
Burt hands the mysterious epistle to her
lodger, and longs for the expected request
to read it to him herself; but
Mr. Northcroft, though trembling with
agitation, is still sufficiently master of his
emotions to realize the difficulties of the
position, and after a moment's hesitation,
says, " Will you give my compliments
to Miss Berger, and request her kindly
to step upstairs for a moment? I want
to ask a favour of her."

Although he speaks calmly, Mrs. Burt sees
by his blanched face and trembling hands
that he is suffering acutely, and, pitying
his melancholy situation, she hastens to
summon " that sweet Miss Berger," who
seems to inspire every one with confidence.

Lina, in some measure prepared for
the task awaiting her by the landlady's
ejaculations, enters her friend's room
quietly, takes the letter he offers without
comment, and at his request unhesitatingly
reads its amazing contents,
sparing herself not one word, hard as
some of them are for her to utter : — ■

Paris, Friday.

Philip,

I may as well put you out
of your misery, at once, by telling you,
without any fuss, that you have seen
the last of me, for good and all. Your
humdrum life, and my part of nurse and
guide in it, was not likely to suit me
for long ; I bore it all with a patience
that astonishes me now I look back on
those tiresome six years of slavery. It
was the expectation of some day filling

my proper place as Lady Xorthcroft that
kept me up all along ; but Sir Stephen
is evidently going to live for ever, and
I have come to the end of my patience.
At last some one has turned up who, if
he cannot give me a title, offers me a
palace to live in, and dozens of servants
to wait upon me. He loves me too, as
I deserve to be loved, and as I love
him. Make your mind quite easy, Philip ;
I shall be far better taken care of in the
future than ever I was in the past ;
and I do not doubt that you can easily
find some one to fill my place to your
perfect satisfaction. Ask that lady. Miss
Berger, in the parlours, to come and
look after you. She was forward enough
at all times not to need much pressing,
and she was uncommonly fond of taking
my place, even while I was on the spot.

Indeed, you have long seemed to prefer
her society to mine ; now you can have
it all to yourself, and perhaps she may
turn out as well as that Miss Lina, your
sham cousin. Indeed, Miss Berger seems
much the same sort of person. Goodbye
for ever.

From your once affectionate

Pisa."

Needless to say that the reading of
this letter caused both Miss Berger and
her anxious listener considerable pain and
trouble ; indeed, the reader's voice almost
failed her as she uttered the last
sentences, so terribly fraught with import
as they appeared to her. But remembering
that she was a stranger to
the blind man, and this a self-imposed
duty, she carried it out to the bitter
end, sparing herself in nothing, ignoring

the very instincts of her shrinking womanhood
rather than allow her modesty to
deceive the helpless man by the suppressing
of a word of that cruel epistle
which he was unable to read for himself.

AT LAST.

M

RS. Northeast's flight has
rendered the situation more difficult
and critical than ever for poor Lina.
But so long as she manages to preserve
her incognito and to render constant service
to the blind friend who stands so
sadly in need of it now, she surely cannot
doubt that it is her duty to remain
close at hand. Philip and his small son
require such help as hers more than they
ever did before ; on that point there can
be no question. This is the ruling thought
in her mind, beyond it nothing can
possibly require a moment's consideration.
The days pass wearily, and are

fraught ^vith doubt and anxiety of all
kinds to each member of the saddened
household in Bedford Gardens. The landlady
and her lodgers are all secretly tormented
as to the immediate future. How
are matters to be arranged? What is to
become of them, one and all?

A totally unexpected solution to these
puzzling questions is suddenly offered by
another letter addressed to "Philip I^orth-
croft, Esq," from the family solicitor of
the Xorthcrofts. The lawyer informs the
blind man that Sir Stephen, whose health
has been breaking of late, has met with
an accident whilst hunting. He has had
a severe fall, and now lies in a very
precarious condition.

I am directed," goes on Lina, reading
the letter to her fellow-lodger, " by the
medical men in attendance to state that

it is advisable the relatives should be
prepared for the worst, and that you,
as the only son and heir of Sir Stephen,
should, your unfortunate estrangement
notwithstanding, repair at once to Pine-ridge,
if you desire ever again to communicate
with your father."

This startling letter at once created a
diversion in the affairs of the household
of Mrs. Burt. It was, of course, necessary
that Philip should be taken down
to Torshire at once. What more natural
than that the blind man takes kind Miss
Berger still further into his confidence ?
As briefly as possible he tells her how
he is situated with regard to his father,
and eagerly consults With her as to his
mode of action in this crisis. It is
eventually settled that little Hubert shall
be left in her charge, and that an attendant

shall be procured to conduct the
blind man to his home. As speedily as
possible he travels down into Torshire, and
finds Sir Stephen lying insensible. He is
suffering from concussion of the brain,
and remains in a more or less unconscious
condition for a fortnight after his
son's arrival ; then by very slow degrees
he partially recovers, and a sort of reconciliation
takes place between the baronet
and his helpless heir. They have not
met for over six years, and the proud
man yields a little, though he never
condescends to make any inquiries into
Philip's family affairs. But he accepts
his presence with a slight show of gratitude,
and once his heart is so far softened
that with his almost paralyzed tongue he
endeavours to pronounce the old familiar
name, " Lina ; " and, " I wish she were

here," he adds, more distinctly than he
has yet spoken smce his accident. Poor
Philip wrings the heavy hand of the
invalid, and something Hke affection
throbs in the heart of father and son
for the first and, perhaps, for the last
time.

A distant cousin, a widow of middle
age, is the only other member of the
baronet's family who is in attendance ;
for Sir Stephen's disposition, and haughty,
unbending manners, have estranged the
few relatives remaining to him. This
lady, Mrs. Craig, has taken the reins of
the establishment into her skilful hands ;
therefore Philip finds a certain amount
of companionship and assistance always
awaiting him. Although Mrs. Craig and
Philip have never met before, she soon
becomes his staunch friend, and in due

course hears from the bUnd man himself
all the details of the pitiable story of
his engagement to Lina, their separation,
of his eventual marriage, "and its direful
results. Deeply sympathetic, Mrs. Craig
acts as the medium of communication
with Miss Berger and little Hubert at
Bedford Gardens, so that Philip is kept
au courant with the well-being of his
darling child and all concerning his innocent,
happy life. He would have been
delighted, of course, to have had the boy
brought down to Pineridge, but he dreads
disturbing the truce between himself and
Sir Stephen by the introduction of this
probable element of discord into the
home of his ancestors. Matters thus goon
for many weeks in dreary monotony
at Pineridge ; Sir Stephen never recovers
the shock lie has had, and lapses into

the helpless condition of a confirmed invalid.
Further paralysis may overtake
him at any moment now, say the doctors,
and then his passive suffering must in all
probability end in death. Mrs. Craig, a
kind, motherly woman, who has had and
loved children of her own in her time, does
all she can to brighten Philip's dark existence.
She takes him out for long walks,
over the hard, frost-bound country, she
reads to him by the hour together, and
when he is tired of listening to books or
newspapers she strives to divert him by
anecdotes concerning the county families
or the scattered kinsfolk of his father
and mother, and of whom he knows so
Utile.

One morning at breakfast-time, as Mrs.
Craig is reading all the bits of news she
can find in the Torshire Chronicle which

lie thinks may interest the blind man,
lie comes to a sudden but prolonged
pause. Her attention lias been arrested,
and she has been absorbed by the account
of a fatal yachting accident in the
Mediterranean. The wealthy owner of
the yacht, with many of the crew, is said
to be drowned. The gossiping column of
the newspaper further states that a " certain
lady " was on board, and met her
death, and that this lady, although passing
under the name of the distinguished
owner of the yacht, was in reality a Mrs.
Philip Northcroft, supposed to be the
unfaithful wife of the heir of Pineridofe,
whose blindness, &c. &c. Then the
Chronicle loses itself in attempting to
philosophize on the scandal to one of
their oldest county families which is likely
to result from this deplorable discovery.

VOL. II. R

Mrs. Craig, holding lier breath, reads this
starting story to herself. Philip, with
his wonted acuteness, is instantly aware
that something has happened, and eagerly
inquires the cause of the lady's perturbation,
which, after a while, and in a
guarded' manner, she reveals to him.
Inquiries are set on foot at once: the
family solicitor most anxious to know the
son of his ancient client free from the
bonds which so cruelly fettered him, conducts
the investigations in person, and
quite rejoices when he finds the report is
based on fact. Eventually it is proved
beyond all doubt that Isabel Northcroft
Alas drowned in the Mediterranean, and
that Philip is free.

The next question that arises between
the solicitor and Sir Stephen's relatives
is the advisability of telling the invalid

the whole truth. They agree^that it will
be well to do so now, and when the
sick man hears that the objectionable
and most unhappy mother had been so
providentially removed, he willingly agrees
to have his little grandson brought down
to Pineridge. Who can be better fitted
for his escort, if she will consent, than
the kind lady who has so voluntarily
taken charge of the poor little motherless
fellow— that unselfish and considerate
friend avIio has proved herself wholly
devoted to the interests of the blind
man and his child ?

Mrs. Craig has undertaken the necessary
correspondence with Miss Berger, to
whom she confides the melancholy details
of the present trying and critical
situation before she invites her, in the
name of Sir Stephen Northcroft and his

R 2

son to bring little Hubert to the Priory,
and herself to spend some weeks there.

Lina is startled and almost terrified
when she first begins to realize what this
proposition implies, but the debate with
herself is of short duration. Yes, she must
go through with the mission she has
entered on, to the end now, whatever
happens. She does not see very clearly
how these complications are to terminate,
and, indeed, she cares very little. Philip
is free — that is the one all-absorbing
thought in her mind. She may have
hesitated about crossing that inhospitable
threshold again, Whence, years ago, she
had so ruthlessly been driven forth. Perhaps
she feared that some one might be
left at Pineridge who would still recognise
her, but that she would risk ; the
temptation to rejoin Philip as speedily as

possible overcame all her scruples. She
had heard that Sir Stephen was not likely
to live long ; and in case of his death
her course of conduct appeared very
simple. She had but to discover her
identity to Philip to secure his future
happiness as well as her own. Yes, she
would go.

Agitated to a degree beyond anything
she had ever experienced, Lina at length
found herself, with her little charge, once
again at the Torchester Station. Here
she was met by Mrs. Craig, who, after
introducing herself, told lier that the long
anticipated stroke had fallen on Sir Stephen
only the day before, and that he
was now not expected to live many hours.
This, however, Alas to make no difference
as far as Miss Berger was concerned.
If she were willing yet to carry ]her

devotion to the blind heir a little further,
she believed that her gentle presence in
the house of mourning would be of the
greatest possible solace to him. So, without
any of the parade and pomp which
had marked her first reception at the
entrance of Pineridge Priory, Lina, thickly
veiled, once more crossed the threshold
of that stately mansion.

Tea was served for the travellers, and
Mrs. Craig, after a while, excusing herself,
led the little boy away, and Lina
was left alone in the morning-room, which
gave upon the hall. The door was ajar,
and as she sat in the deep solitude of
the winter afternoon, her mind filled
with a multitude of conflicting emotions,
she was suddenly aroused from her meditations
by a familiar sound. Instantly
recognising it, she passed into the hall,

and beheld Philip tapping his way with
his stick to the head of the staircase,
and preparing to descend.

The old Avell-remembered scene of their
first meeting rises vividly before her mental
vision. It is noah almost twenty
years ago ! Then she, a happy child,
stood in that hall by the side of those
whom she believed to be her mother
and father, and beheld the lad she
thought her cousin painfully guiding himself
step by step down the broad stairs,
even as he is doing now. How much
is changed since then ! Her beloved
foster-parents are dead, and she has
learnt many a hard lesson in the world's
rough school of adversity. Philip's chestnut
hair, that used to have a gleam of
sunshine in it, has turned to the sober
iron-gray of middle age. It seems to her

that her faithful, lasting devotion is the
only link with that distant past which
remains unbroken.

Now — as in the old days — she flies upstairs
in eager haste. "May I help you?
do let me lead you," she cries, and for
the first time in all the long six months
of her probation she has nearly betrayed
herself. In her excitement, and in the
rapidity of her utterance, she has forgotten
to maintain her distant manner,
and has failed to disguise her voice, and
exaggerate her foreign accent sufficiently.

Philip starts. " How strange ! " he
mutters ; and then, as he turns his face
towards her inquiringly, and holds out
his hand, he says, " Can that be you,
Miss Berger?"

Yes," she answers, now with more
caution ; " we have arrived all safe, and

Hubert is quite well. Mrs. Craig has
taken him to his room, and I was on my
way to join them when I saw you."

Grant me ten minutes in the library,
first," he says, eagerly ; " we can speak
without interruption there, and I have
much — I have something — I wish to talk
to you about."

With her hand upon his arm they
enter together the sombre-looking apartment,
in which, however, is a bright fire.

How well Lina remembers the aspect
of the roc;m. She shudders as j:he recalls
the painful scene enacted in it when
she was last there.

"Sit down. Miss Verger, if you please,"
says Philip. His voice trembles a little,
and he is evidently under some unusual
excitement. It was the sound of the
gii'l's more natural speech which had

thus agitated him, but as soon as he
was able to think, he had come to the
conclusion that his imagination was at
work and had played some trick upon
his sense of hearing. The strange resemblance
between Miss Berger's tones and
those of his lost dear one was purely
imaginary, of course ; but it has given
him a sudden inspiration. He steadies
himself by an effort, then he goes on: —
"I was a little startled when you met
me on the stairs ; my nerves have been
a good deal shaken of late. Your — your
voice — Miss Berger, reminded me so
vividly of some one else for the moment,
that — that — I — I feel I ought to explain.
Indeed, I have long had it in my mind
to tell you how strangely at times you
have recalled some one who was once
very dear to me, and now that I find

you under this roof, Moliere her spirit
seems ever hungering, the resemblance is
greater than ever."

Lina does not answer him, she cannot
trust herself to speak.

Your most kind and unselfish devotion,"
he resumes, " to my little son and
to me, and for which I can never be
sufficiently grateful, also induces me to
confide fully in you."

He pauses. The confidence which,
thanks to his son, Philip has always felt
in Miss Berger, is naturally strengthened
by the vicissitudes of the last few
months, and during the past sleepless
night he had resolved unreservedly to
address himself to her as his nearest
friend, now that he is so soon to enter
on his inheritance. Any advice that he
may require he feels should come from

her. Xo one, after all, is so near to him
now, strange as it may appear, as this
friend of a few months. Yes, his confidence
shall be unreserved, and since his
old sensations have been aroused, rekindled
into an overwhelming emotion by
those few eager words spoken to him by
]bliss Berger on the stairs, he feels impelled
to acquaint her this very instant
with a full account of his lost love.

Lina has seated herself on a low chair
by the fire ; he places himself directly
opposite to her, and, without further preamble
or apology, continues : —

Though you have never honoured me
with any confidence on your part, Miss
Berger," he says impressively, "you have
inspired me with unbounded faith in
your goodness and wisdom. My father
you know, is dying, and in a few hours

I shall enter upon a very different life
from any I have ever known, and it maybe
that I shall stand in the very utmost
need of the advice and help of a clear-sighted,
considerate friend like yourself in
all my doubts and difficulties. Do not
bid me go to Mrs. Craig, because she is
my relative. You know and understand
me infinitely better than she can ever
do ; therefore I have resolved to lay all
the bare facts of my past life before you."
I shall be thankful for the chance of
serving you in any way, Mr. North croft,"
says Lina, somewhat in her old manner,
and thus proving her composure to her
own satisfaction ; indeed, she is far more
at her ease than he is now, and feels
herself quite prepared to meet him halfway
on any subject he may choose to
propound.

He proceeds to tell her the sad story
of his lonely life. It sounds almost as
if he reads it page by page from the full
book of his retentive memory. He dwells
with exceeding tenderness upon the passages
connected with his first meeting
with, and subsequent affection for, his
sweet cousin Lina, and when he recounts
the misery of his terrible parting from
her, who was his love, his joy, his bride,
the anxious listener holds her breath,
and all unknown to him, stretches forth
longing, loving arms, eager to clasp, hold,
and comfort him. It is with difficulty
she so far commands her rising emotion
as to ask the question which proves her
interest in this narrative, and urges him
to continue it.

"And what became of this unhappy
girl ? " she inquires at last.

'^ God in His mercy only knows,"
cries Philip, with a sob of despair, " she
was torn from me, and only once, after
years of misery and despair, did I hear
from her again. The letter she then
sent was not calculated to give me much
comfort."

His head droops on his breast, his
hands hang listlessly at his side ; it is
the old familiar attitude of miserable
dejection which Lina knows so well.

"She sent you a letter, you say?"
asks Miss Berger doubtfully, and with
an odd inflection in her voice.

Yes," sighs the blind man, " she
wrote to bid me farewell for ever."

To bid you farewell for ever ? "
cries the listening girl, rising from her
seat in blank amazement, " to bid you
farewell for ever ? "

Philip, with this, also rises, for, in
addition to the intense surprise Miss
Berger displays, there has again come
into her voice that strange resemblance
to Lina's.

"Yes," he says rapidly, much bewildered,
she wrote to tell me she was married."

Married ! " repeats Lina, stepping back,
and feeling that she can keep up the
deception no longer.

"Yes," adds Philip with a bitter mocking
laugh, " she finished up her cruel
letter with " God bless you, dear Philip ! "

God bless you, dear Philip, yes, now
and always ! " exclaims Lina with intense
fervour, and there is no attempt at disguise
of voice and bearing now as she
flings herself on her knees before him,
and, taking both his hands in lier own,
cries, " Philip, my love, my darling, my

one and only true, dear love! could you
indeed have doubted me ? Could you
ever have brought yourself to believe
that I wrote such a letter to you ? That I,
your Lina, your promised wife, had been
false to all my vows, and had married
another ? It was untrue, every line,
every Avoid of that cruel forged letter.
Who could have invented so vile a lie ?"

At that moment the solution of the
mystery of the letter Which had caused
such wretchedness passed into the heart
of each, and was accepted in silence.

Breathless with amazement, almost
stupefied by surprise, and unable for
several minutes to realize the fact, Philip
presently raises the kneeling girl, and,
holding her away from him at arm's
length, seems to be gazing at lier. with
his whole soul in those sightless eyes,

VOL. II. S

from which tears of joy are beginning to

flow. Then, for an instant, he takes her

face between his outstretched hands, passes

one of them swiftly across her brow

and over the soft coils of hair, and then,

with an inarticulate cry, clasps the darling

of his heart to his bosom.

* * « *

Sweet lady, where are you ? " says
the boy's pretty voice, and the small
face, with its wistful dark eyes, peeps
in at the library door. "Oh, there's
papa ! " and, as he sees the two figures
standing so close together in the glow
of the firelight, he runs towards them.

"Lina, will you stay with us, with
him, and me, and take care of us both
for the rest of our lives ? " asks Philip,
lifting up his son, and placing him gently
in Lina's outstretched arms.

'• By God's great mercy I shall hope
to do so, it is for this my life has been
lived," says Lina, solemnly, and to the
child's manifest wonder she hands him
back to his father, and laying her arm
tenderly about the necks of both her
dear ones, she buries her sweet face on
Philip's shoulder, and whispers the comforting
words that bid him hope for
such joy and peace in the future as the
past had certainly not led him to
expect.

I will stay and devote myself to
you both as long as God gives me leave
to live," says Lina, with touching fervour.
I will try to be eyes and hands to
you, Philip, my dear one, as I once was,
and to your son a loving, devoted
mother."

There might have been something ina

me.

her earnest tone that sounded like a
prayer to the sensitive ears of the wistful
child, for in simple reverence he
folded his little hands, closed his eyes,
and said, "Amen!"

lat Vlf TJf TlJ Vlf

Does the dying man recognize her ?
Does he at last faintly understand the
true worth of the large-hearted woman
who is whispering gentle words into his
dull ear? Now that his spirit hovers
on the verge of the vast eternity, and
he is about to stand in that Presence
before which all men are equal, and
where they are judged according to their
works, does he realize in what true
nobility consists? Perhaps so, for the
stern face has relaxed and paled over
with a softening tint, and into the
already glazing eye has come something

like a tender look, as if appealing for
forgiveness. But it is all too late to
judge of these things with certainty.
Philip and Lina pray that that appealing
glance means what they hope. It rests
steadily for a long time on her, and
when she holds up the boy before him
there is, just for one moment, a show of
intelligence and satisfaction. The heavy
hand which Philip grasps quivers, as if,
were strength granted, it Avould return
the pressure, in token of complete reconciliation.
More than this cannot be
said ; and not a watcher by that deathbed
had, a few hours before, dared even
to hope for so much.

END OF VOL. II.

/?/. V

>' /

W

i'-V'H

/ . ^" ■ ^

OF THE

U N Diversity

or Ill Noise

B966«
V.5

H Hovel

By B. H. BUXTON,

AUTHOR OF "JENNIE OF THE PRINCe's," ETC.
AND

W. W. Penn

AUTHOR OF " IIALF-IIOURS OF BLIND MAn's HOLIDAY." " THE
PALETTE AND THE PEN," ETC.

WITH OTHEE Stories

By W. W. Penn.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
F. V. WHITE & Co., 31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

1883.

CONTENTS

PAGE.

The Secret of Five-gabled Farm . . . i

The Lady of Merry Bell Holt —

Chapter I., A Forecast — Chapter II., The Tradition
—Chapter III., The Illusion— Chapter IV., The
Reality . . . . .-39

A Professional Secret . . . . . iii

Love and Electioneering . . . ,177

The Whisper in the Wood . . . .215

The Boathouse on the Island . . . 257

SELECT NOVELS

Crown Svo, cloth, ^s. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready : —

MY SISTER the ACTRESS. By Fi.orknce Marryat.

'" Inly Sister the Actress," is the best novel we have had the pleaauix- of ,
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — John Bull. i

THE DEAN'S WIFE. Bv Mrs. Eiloart. I

any reader who wants a good story thoroughly vvcil told cannot do better I
than read •' The Dean s Wife." 'john. Bull. j

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat. j

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and i^uiet humour ; I
pleasant to read and pleasant to renit^mber.' — Julia Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

compared with the former works of the authoress of '• The Queen of
Connaught," this novel muse be pronounced second to none.' — (r'/-o/>/ttc.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to comuuiud
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

CHAPTER I.

u \7'0U'D best gie yours'en time tu
gan their and back by dayleet."

"Is it far?"

Aye ; boon eight mile their an back ;
but 't road's parlous bad, nae mair thana
track i places. It ain't been used sint'
ould farmer deed ; their's nivver been
a stroke o' work dee-an their this ten or
twelve months back ; and what w' t'
sloppy nature o' t' ground, and t' floods
out, I reckon a goodish bit o' t' road is
under water, and if you was to lose
course' and gan right or left, you might

VOL. III. B

find course' in a bog as wad smaller ye
up in no time."

Well, then, I must make the best of
my way there at once and be careful ; it
does not look four miles off though."

Nay, that's wheel it is, don't ye
see ; them commons is deceitful. In
boisterous weather, or just afore it rains,
like it is noo (for there'll be mair afore
meet), things a long way off look close,
cause they stand foot so dark, don't ye see?"
Has no one lived there since old
Kirkwrio[ht died ? "

No ; it's nobbut a small place at best
on't a tannin to rack and ruin by this
time I' spect ; t' land belangin' to 't isn't
much worth neither ; however it came
to be built at all in such an outlandish
spot, I can't tell ! Such away off t'
main road, and nivver a house near it for

miles, and it's terrible bleak across these
moors, I can tell ye. Ask pardon, sir,
but du I understand ye to say as 't
property's cum t' you ? "

Yes ; old Alexander Kirkwright was
my uncle ; but I never knew him ; never
heard of his existence, in fact, till the
other day."

Aye ; but he war a rum old customer
they du say : lived their for years all by
hissed ; kept no stock, and made nowt
by his crops as I can make foot ; nobody
se-ams to know rightly how he did live.
Ye'll be for letting on it now, unless ye
take to farming yersen' ; any way I'm
afeard it isn't much good for all it's a
freehold."

Ah, well, I don't know quite what I
shall do with it yet. I must go over and
have a look at it first. 1 should think

B 2

1 could get there and back, and see all
I want to see in five hours. It's not
quite noon yet ; I think I could do it if
I start at once ; and though the days are
at their shortest, it won't be quite dark
until five o'clock."

Not if weather holds clear as 'tis
now, but if it comes on to rain again,
as I 'spect it will, ye won't have a bit
o' daylight left by sower, not as will be
of any use."

Ah, well, I am not afraid, I'll
chance it. This is the road, of course ? "

Yes, stick close to that, and mind
you don't get off on 't, for their's hardly
as much as a stump, or fence, or a bit
of a wall onywhars to show you t' way."

All right, then. I wish you good-day,
and thank you."

This was about the pith of our talk ;

but what took me, Basil Taylor, a poor
City clerk, away to the wilds of Lincolnshire
in that memorable December of
1816? Well! I was then just twenty-one,
and I am now eighty-four ; but
that's no matter. I was just twenty-one,
I say, when I stood talking to the man
at the corner of the cross-roads about
the farm, and it was the business of the
farm, as you may glean, which took
me there.

The five - gabled block of building in
question, had been, considering its size,
strangely and conspicuously visible across
the waste of flat marshy land for a long
while as I traversed the high road, and
now that I had come to the turning
which evidently led directly to it, looked
quite within easy reach ; it was my property,
and I was going to take posses-arm.



sion of it, or, at least, to look it over.
There is no need to speak of my
parentage, as I knew little or nothing of
it myself. My old aunt, Sarah Kirk-wright,
brought me up, dragged me up,
I might say, and it was only through
having a studious turn, I suppose, that
1 got any education at all, if you can
call what I learnt up to the time I was
twenty, education. She was very poor,
and did what she could for me, no
doubt, but it was not much, and at the
age of twelve I was earning three-and
sixpence a week as an office boy in a
merchant's house in the City, where she
was housekeeper — for merchants lived at
their places of business in those days.
I think I knew she came from Lincolnshire,
but it was not until her death,
Just before the business of my inheritance

took me down to that county, that I
had any evidence of the fact. By that
time I had risen to be the junior clerk.
At least, I called myself so, and was
getting seven-and-sixpence a week. One
day, Mr. Kaye, a fellow clerk — he was
so much above me in the office, that
perhaps I ought not to call him so,
being also a very much older man —
showed me an advertisement in the
morning paper, headed " next of kin
wanted."

That was wdiat your aunt was called,
wasn't it, Taylor ? " said he, pointing to
the name mentioned. " Perhaps she was
the next of kin wanted ; if I were you
I would make some enquiries at the
lawyer's office : see, it is close here,
round the corner in Bucklersbury."

Acting on his suggestion, and with the

paper in my hand, I slipped round at
dinner time, and begged to know if, by
any chance, Mr. Kaye's idea was right;
and the long and the short of it all
was, that my old aunt did actually turnout
to be the next of kin — sister, in
short — to one Alexander Kirkwright,
owner of a place known as Five-Gabled
Farm, in the parish of Mead Marsh, near
Wainfleet, Lincolnshire. It took me a
long time to prove that this was so, and
there was an interminable going to and
fro and letter writing, and overhauling
of boxes and a desk containing papers,
which had come to me at her death ;
for you will understand she had been
dead about two years when this happened.
As apparently she had no relative in the
world but myself, I forsooth was declared
now to be her next of kin, and, consequently,

the inheritor of a freehold
known as Five-gabled Farm, as aforesaid.
On the strength of this I got a holiday,
the first I ever had, to go down and
look after my property, save the mark !

Thus came about my presence on the
high road between Wainfleet and Horn-castle,
and my talk with the man at
the junction of the lonely road leading
to the farm, near which I had overtaken
him. He was a roughish-looking fellow,
half herdsman, half horse-dealer, and,
though civilly spoken, had an unprepossessing
face and a sinister eye, so
that, on the whole, though feeling rather
solitary, I was not sorry to be rid of
his company.

For a mile or more I trudged along
without difficulty, thinking much about
this odd bit of luck, and wondering

whether it might some day help me to
realise a certain dream, which of kite
I had been indulging in. That gentleman,
Mr. Kaye, had, throughout, been
very kind to me, and since my aunt's
death had more than once asked me to
his house. He was a married man with
two daughters ; the eldest, a very pretty
girl of seventeen — she was my dream !
Ah, well! it's a long time ago now, and
I was very happy, thinking about it,
that mild December morning, and, as the
distance lessened between me and the
farm, it seemed as if the distance between
me and Ellen Kaye lessened also. Stopping
once to look back, I was surprised
to see the man standing where we had
parted, evidently watching me, but,
merely thinking it was a pity he had
not something better to do, I went on

my way, and afterwards remembered that
I never chanced to look behind me
again.

The road soon became very bad. Mhy
and spongy everywhere, there were now
long stretches of it, as had been prophesied,
completely under water. You will
say, why did'nt I take a conveyance?
but, remember, sixty years ago travelling-was
not so easy as it is now. When I
asked at the inn at Wainfleet if 1 could
have a post-chaise to take me to the
farm, the postmaster refused point-blank
to let any carriage of his go across the
marsh.

The roads," he said, " are far too
dangerous with the floods out," and when
I suggested going on horseback, he
wanted so much money for the hire of
an animal that, with my frugal means

and strong legs, I declined. Now I was
sorry I had done so, for besides getting
wet at times up to my knees, it was not
easy to make sure of the track, and the
herdsman's words kept recurring to me
unpleasantly. The greatest caution had
to be exercised, and at times I had to
feel with my stick, step by step, if the
ground would bear, for often and often
my feet would sink right into it. This
delayed me very much, and when I was
still two miles, at least, off my bourne,
the sun, which had been occasionally
peeping from amidst the windy, rain-reeking
clouds, was getting ominously
low. One part, however, of the man's
prophecy was not borne out — the weather
steadily improved and the wind dropped.
Another long stretch of water yet lay
between me and the house, and in getting

through this last difficulty I once thought
I had missed the road, for I sank in halfway
up my calf, and floundered for a
minute in a very terrifying fashion before
I got on to bearing ground again. This
comes, I thought, of a cockney making
light of things he does not understand,
for I had rather despised the man's
caution about bogs. What should a
fellow like me, who had never been ten
miles from Cheaoside in his life before,
know about bogs, and weather, and distance
?

When, however, the farm at last loomed,
bare and gaunt, close in front of me, I
felt I had come fully four miles, and I
was not made more comfortable by observing
that the sun was fast sinking into
the still wind-torn clouds of the west. In
short, when I realised the fact as I did

now, that I had utterly miscalculated time
and distance, and should be overtaken by
night long before I could get back, even
if I turned and retraced my steps at once,
I experienced a qualm that was new tome.
Well, I was in for it, and, being
there, I felt it would be too absurd to
return without giving the property justa
look over — the chief purpose for which
I had come. The keys had been handed
to me by the local lawyer at Wainfieet,
whose agent in London of course it was
who had found me out, or rather whom
I had found out ; but I had dispensed with
this gentleman's attendance, preferring to
be alone whilst exploring my novel acquisition.
I regretted now that I had, and
as I stood still for a minute looking up
at the dilapidated, moulded, heavy-beamed
house, with the dying wind sighing and

sobbing round the quaint low gables and
the one tall chimney stack, the utter solitude
of the place for the first time was
borne in upon me.

A very few minutes sufficed to show
that I could estimate its value no more
than the man in the moon, and after
wandering round the forlorn patch of garden
and one or two tumbledown sheds
I returned to the front, and put the key
into the main door of this, my late
uncle's residence. The creaking and grating
which it made as I unlocked and
pushed it with some difficulty back on
its hinges, echoed in an uncanny fashion
through the hall or sort of house-place
upon which the entrance opened. No
professional eye was needed here to see
that it was in a miserable condition.
Everything was more dilapidated inside

than out, and the scant furniture seemed
to have been left pretty much as it might
have been during the lifetime of its owner.
Indeed, ever since the old man's deeds
and papers had been found, and the
search for his heirs commenced, the place
had been locked up and allowed to take
care of itself.

In the left-hand corner of this hall,
which was evidently the living room, and
which seemed to occupy nearly the whole
ground-floor, was a narrow rickety staircase,
and up this I first of all went.
Again, on this upper floor one large
barn-like and lofty room filled up two
thirds of the space, whilst a little corridor
and passage led to a smaller apartment
in the rear, indeed, there were but four
rooms in all — two-and-two — one set over
the other, and the most cursory glance

told me that none but the house-place,
as I will call it, had been occupied for
years ; of furniture there was next to
none.

This house-place, I observed, as I returned
downstairs, was partly divided by
a low partition or screen, behind which
lay a mattress on some planks lifted
about a foot from the floor by three
blocks of wood — clearly the old boy's
sleeping berth. Soothing could have been
less satisfactory than my feelings by the
time I had completed my inspection, and
heartily regretting the vanity which had
prompted me to undertake this solitary
expedition, I locked the door after me,
and turned out into the dow fast increasing
twilight, with the intention of
making the best of my way back to
Wainfleet. But no sooner had I set my
face away from the lingering light in the

VOL. III. c

west than 1 found that the sky was far
too dark for me to see the road. I
had not gone a hundred yards before
I was off it and ito a bog. Two more
attempts ending in the same result,
made me suddenly realise the situation.
I dared not venture if I did not wish to
meet the fate the man had predicted;
I must spend the night in the k)nely
miserable building, I saw that plainly.
My heart sank within me when I came
to this conclusion, and I leave you to
imagine with what sensations I floundered
back to the house and again
unlocked the door.

'^:

T^EOM my earliest days I had

knack of trying to make the best
of things, and I did so when I once
more found myself within the four walls
of Five-gabled Farm. If I could only
manacle to strike a licht and kindle a
fire I had not been so delicately nurtured
as to make a night even under
such a roof as that, unbearable after all.
Groping about on shelves and in corners
in the vain hope of finding a tinderbox
— remember there were no lucifers
in those days — by great good luck I
finally came upon one with flint and
steel and a bundle of matches ; ives, and

hard by, a candlestick and half-burnt
candle, with a second one lying in the
tray. But the tinder, like everything
else in the place, was damp, and not
until I had dried it with the warmth of
my palms was I able to make it hold a
spark. However, I got the light at
last, and felt a little happier ; with
much perseverance, too, and by resorting
to all sorts of dodges, and breaking
up an old rotten rush-bottomed chair,
I succeeded in kindling a fire in the
rusty grate.

'• This is the best chance you have
had for a long time, Bas," said I to
myself, " of making the best of things,
but I think you are doing it. "

Then producing two or three hard biscuits,
which I luckily had in my pocket,
I looked about to see if I could find
anything to add to my meal, for T was

very tired, thirsty, and wet ; but the
sordid miserly condition of affairs soon
showed this to be hopeless, besides, the
rats had been before me, and how they
had spared the candles was a mystery.
So, loosening my gaiters and shoes, and
munching a biscuit, I sat down in front
of the fire, and made the best of it.

The silence and solitude of my situation
now bean ao'ain to force themselves

DO «

upon my attention more unpleasantly
than ever. Little fitful gusts of wind
from time to time rose and fell in
melancholy cadence as they swept across
the dreary waste, and moaned and sighed
around the house. More than once I
could have imagined, had the thing been
possible, that I heard a footstep softly
pass the window, the ragged dirty blind
of which was down, and, as a certain

nervousness stole over me, 1 rose and
looked out. It was so nearly dark that
nothing was visible, save the vaguest
division between earth and sky, though,
for a second, I almost fancied I did see
something — I could not say what — move
from before the window at the moment
I drew the blind aside. It was gone
before the mental impression was completed,
and when I went back to the
hire and reasoned with myself, I felt sure
it was merely the first effect of looking
(nit from the light room into the darkness.


An hour may have passed (I had no
watch), and I suppose I had been dozing,
when I arose with a start, under the
idea that somebody was entering the
room : Surely I had heard a footstep ?
All was silent, however, as the grave ;

the wind even had ceased to sigh, and I
thought, as I recovered my somewhat
scared wits, that the best thing I could
do, was to make myself regularly up fora
sleep. So, taking the candle (I had
just lighted the fresh one), I went and
examined the state of the wretched mattress
behind the partition. Not relishing
the idea of lying on it at any rate in
that damp corner, I began dragging it
out with the intention of putting it
down close in front of the hire, but it
caught against a nail, and as I continued
pulling impatiently, I ripped one
side of it completely open, and there fell
out upon the floor a bundle of papers,
and a small limp book.

"Hallo!" thought I, "the lawyers
have overlooked these, let us see what
they are all about ; " and forgetting

that 1 was sleepy, 1 gathered them
together with one or two more papers,
which I pulled from the mattress and
carried them to the rickety table near
the fire.

The first I opened was a yellow, dirty,
much-creased sort of printed handbill, and
on unfolding it, the light fell upon the
unpleasant words : —

liOBBERY AND ATTEMPTED MuRDER

General Post Office, November 21st,
1796. — Two Hundred Pounds Pie ward.
Whereas, on the night of the 15th of
November, inst., between the hours of
eleven and twelve, the mounted postboy
carrying His Majesty's mails from Horn-castle
to Spilsby and Wainfleet, was
stopped by two highwaymen, masked,
and on horseback, the bags robbed and
carried off by force, and the postboy

greatly maltreated and left for dead on
the roadside, where, with his horse
browsing near, he was found at daybreak
by a farm-servant. The above
reward will be paid to any person, or
persons, who will give the information
that will lead to the recovery of the
contents of the bags, and apprehension
of the thieves. — Apply to Head Constabulary
Office, Hardcastle."

The next paper I examined had been
folded inside this handbill, and was a
sheet torn from a London newspaper.
The Morning Advertiser, bearing date
November 28th, 1796. Glancing down
the two short columns of type, I came
upon a meagre account of the robbery
written after the fashion of the time.

The papers which made up the bundle
that had fallen upon the floor with the

book consisted of short agreements, bills
for grain, contracts with farmers, bakers,
&c. ; of no value except as showing me
that they had been the property of my
uncle, whose name figured conspicuously
on them, but the little book led, as the
result will show, to more important discoveries.
It was a kind of diary and
account book combined, having ruled
columns for figures, and with the name
"Alexander Kirkwright, 1790," written
evidently by the old man himself. I
knew his handwriting by this time thoroughly,
and soon saw that all the
entries were from his pen. Some of
these were quite unintelligible except the
dates and various amounts ]placed against
them, and the constantly recurring word
swag," followed sometimes by the
words " From Blue Light," or, " From

Dawney Bob." A great, deal of business
evidently had been done with this latter
individual, whoever he niiodit be ; occasionally
to the tune of thirty or forty
pounds, down to as small a sum as
fourteen shillings. Then such an entry
as this would come : " Month's - profit
from farm, seventeen pounds and fourpence;"
or, "Ditto from doctoring cattle,
fifty-three shillings;" and all interspersed
with the mysterious memoranda as above:
the whole running over a period of some
eleven years, and clearly indicating that
they were a record of receipts.

Arriving soon at this conclusion, i
went back to the mattress to see if there
were anything more hidden in it.
Apparently there was not ; but my curiosity
being stimulated I prosecuted my
search, and pulled away the loose

rm.

planks on which the bed had rested.
The floor beneath was rotten and mouldy,
and m kicking aside one of the blocks
of wood which supported the structure
my foot partly crushed in a piece of
the boarding, plainly indicating a hollow
beneath ; so prising it wider open with
my toe, and holding the candle down,
I saw in a moment that I had come
upon another hiding-place, and, putting
in my hand, I drew out a small old-fashioned
cash box. Highly excited, I
took it back to the table. It was padlocked,
but a strong wrench broke the
hasp. Inside were three old keys ; an
empty canvas bag, such as bankers use
to hold small sums of coin ; a ponderous,
old-fashioned, heavy-cased silver
watch, with the handle wrenched off*;
and under the bag at the bottom of the

box, which was just the size and shape
to receive them, nine one pound Bank of
England notes of various dates, ranging
from 1778 to 1792. Opening the outer
case of the old watch a small piece of
paper fell out. On it was written — the
ink very faded and yellow — in my uncle's
cramped hand, the following, strange
words :

"Mem. — Swag, Dawney Bob : make him
refund, or stop it over next job, not
safe to convert with broken ring ; he
must take out works, and melt down
case if he means me to square it."

A very suspicious memorandum, surely!
Dawney Bob again ! I took up the
book to compare the odd name — evidently
a flash one — with that in the diary.
In doing this, I came upon two pages
which had escaped me on the first examination,

and their contents brought me
unmistakably to a conclusion which had
been gradually taking shape. Here are
two extracts: —

Over to Horncastle yesterday. Changed
silver, copper, and notes into the bright
blood and added it when I got home.
What a pleasure ! All that is worth
living for."

To Horncastle again. Turned a matter
of forty pounds from odds and ends
into bright blood ! Caution required ;
managed it at the two banks. With today's
addition it looks like a mountain !
Glorious ! and I can lave my hands
in it."

No doubt Alexander Kirkwright was a
miser, and not too scrupulous as to the
means by which he added to his hoard.
The " bright blood " meant gold ; this

was my conclusion, and it was absolutely
confirmed by the last extract which it
is necessary to give from this delectable
diary. Thus it ran, under date, December
1st, 1796:—

Blood money for handing over Dawney
Bob and Blue Light for that job
with the mail, two hundred pounds."

Obviously Dawney Bob and Blue Light
were highwaymen, and my uncle, having
been the receiver of their stolen goods,
finally, for the sake of reward, turned
king's evidence, and handed his pals over
to the law, like the true rascal that he
was. An account of the hanging of these
notorious highwaymen at Horncastle,
given in The Morning Advertiser of January
12th, 1797, subsequently turned up
in the cash-box.

But now where is the hoard ? the

"bright blood" as he calls it? This is
the question instantly rising in my mind
as these deductions are made. Ten to
one not far off. To go back to the corner
does not take long you may be sure,
and diving my hands deep into the hollow
whence I had taken the box I soon got
hold of five canvas bags similar to that
empty one in the cash-box, but these are
full, and tied with cord round the neck.
I have them on the table, and in a
moment more a whole deluge of the
"bright blood," in the shape of golden
guineas, lies spread before me !

The candle burns within an inch of
the socket ; the dying fire splutters and
hisses with the damp fuel ; the money
has been counted and replaced in the
bags ; and stretched upon the mattress,
which I have drasfe^ed across the hearth,

I lie courting the much needed sleep :
but it comes tardily ; a conflict of emotions,
a mental disquiet, drives it from
my heavy eyelids. Nevertheless, after a
while, it is coming, and the dream, my
dream, takes prominent shape during the
first moments of drowsiness.

What is that? A creaking door? Still
confused with sleeping thoughts of my
dream fulfilled, it seems that she is coming
into the room ! I appear to open
my eyes mechanically, and see most
certainly a figure slowly approaching 1
Yet it is not that of a woman ; then,
after the habit of dreams, and with
that consciousness of change, and that
absence of surprise at it which is the
strangest part of our visions, the figure
becomes that of a man wearing something
that hides his face, and just for

one second more " Dawney Bob " has
got entangled into the web of these
fleeting half-formed fancies. Just for one
second, I say, for in another I am broad
awake, and, as the figure stealthily nearing
the table stretches out its hand
towards the money-bags \ymg on it, I
recognise by the dim light the man of
the cross roads.

To rise with a bound, and thrust him
back is instantaneous, and for him to
level a blow at my head with a short
clubbed stick is equally so ; equally brief
almost, too, is the struggle that ensues,
for, before I can credit my senses, and
take in the horror of the situation, I
have struck him with terrific force Avitli
my fist straight in the face, and lie lies
senseless and bleeding at my feet.

Throughout the whole of that interminable

dreadful night was I cooped up
under these strange and awful conditions,
with the senseless man, and it would be
vain to dwell upon what I did, or what
I felt. None of the limited efforts I
could make to restore consciousness were
of any avail. I did not think he was
dead, but, dead or not, I had to leave
him there as soon as the dilatory dawn
gave me light enough to be sure of the
road back.

And the money ? well ! I stowed that
and the account-book away in my pockets
somehow. The lawyer at Wainfleet
Listened incredulously to my story until
I showed him the gold.

The fellow had followed you, and
watched you, through the window, doubtless,"
said he, " and for the matter of
that, he has got his deserts. Highways

2

arm.

men and footpads have not been cleared
out of the country yet, but on the
whole, sir, I have to congratulate you,
for had you accepted my company on
your expedition, it is impossible to say
how long the full extent of your inheritance
would have lain undiscovered."

The full extent? Why, even then we
had not got at it, for a further search
the next day brought to light some
dozen more little bags of guineas, hidden
away cunningly under the planking of
the floor. After a fashion, the place was
paved with gold, the total amount whereof
was not much less than six thousand
pounds.

When, eventually, assistance reached
my rascally assailant, and he was brought
away in a cart from the farm, it was
found that he had received concussion

of the brain, from wliicli in time, I
believe, he recovered. Xo thought of
punishing him, of course, ever crossed my
mind. He had got, as the lawyer said,
"his deserts," but, when I think, as I
often do, even after all these long years,
how near he was to getting the gold
instead, to say nothing of my life, I
realize, indeed, to the utmost upon what
a feeble tenure all our earthly possessions
hang.

I sold the freehold of Five-Gabled
Farm, but the proceeds of that alone
would not have enabled me to realize
my dream. The secret wliicli I had
wrested from it, however, in the shape
of the bright blood, was all-powerful, and
though ill-gotten as most of the money
undoubtedly had been, and direct restoration
being impossible, it lay with his

conscience as to the means by which the
nephew has striven to make amends indirectly
for the uncle's iniquities.

The prosperous merchant trusts that
some of the bright blood infused into the
veins of misery and want has freely circulated,
and has helped from time to
time to alleviate in not a few instances
the sorrow and suffering with which the
world is filled.

CHAPTER I.

A Forecast.

nr^HE figures of a young man and
woman slowly traversing a retired
path, skirting the outer side of a gray,
moss-grown park paling. The glowing
but ever-softening twilight of a midsummer
evening mellows the leafy 
of rich foliage and verdure shutting;
in the prospect on every hand ; whilst
the dropping echoes of the thrush or
blackbird's note, faintly audible at intervals
in the surrounding woodlands,
seems suggestively to harmonise with the
happy whisperings of the lovers ; for who

but lovers should be abroad in such a
place, in such an hour? If it be true,
as some critics declare, that the most
table plays are those which have the
least dialogue in them, then it may be
assumed that there are some situations hia
story which lose nothing of their significance
and force from being merely carried
on m dumb show. Here, surely is one
of these ; for who could wish to play the
eaves-dropper in such a case? Who
would expect to hear anything not heard
a thousand times before in that very old,
old story ?

That old, old story, but which is ever new ;
For to those to whom it happens, it may Ijreak their
hearts in two.

Indeed, were we all quite on our best
behaviour, we ought not even to watch
the players in such an attractive if well-worn
tableau — so stale to us — so fresh to

them ! Xor would we do so, were they
quite alone ; but, as there has suddenly
appeared a third figure on the scene, Me
may perhaps be pardoned for looking on
for a while. Yes, a third figure — that
of another woman ; but she is within the
paling of the park, and hidden from the
two outside. They have approached a
rustic, dilapidated arbour in which she
sat reading, and it was the sound of their
voices, as they passed behind her, that
has called her to her feet, paled her
cheek, bedimmed her eyes, and sent a
tremor through her tall and shapely
frame. isle turns and looks between a
rift in the split and broken woodwork of
her retreat, and then, evidently overcome
by an uncontrollable impulse, she follows
the man and woman as they stroll a pace
or two along the outer path.

Presently they stop : and she, on the
hither side — albeit the eavesdropping is
partly unintentional — cannot fail to hear
what is said. We guess at its purport
from the dumb show, no less than from
our own instincts on the matter. The
three are standing with nothing but the
park fence between them. Why, this
picture too is familiar enough. We have
but to recall to our minds such an one,
entitled " Broken Vows," and lo ! here
it is, a tableau vivant — the faithless, handsome
swain breathing his tender words
into the ear of some rival beauty, and
breaking the heart of her who listens.
A drama thus enacted, thus portrayed,
speaks for itself, and leads to — well !
that depends upon the players' natures.
But if we regard what their faces reveal
of these, an inkling of the upshot maybe

arrived at. Some countenances would
say as plain as any words, " no great
harm in the end ; " we know there would
be repentance, beseeching, promises, and
excuses, and the women deceived would
forgive, minding, however, to hold their
lovers with a tight rein when once the
knot is tied ! But here, in this our
wordless play, there is something in the
face and manner of her who is betrayed
presaging a graver climax. Nay, there
is even that about her which might bespeak
a very tragic termination to the
drama, as, pressing a hand upon her
side, she half staggers against the palings
and clings to them for support. There
is a depth and earnestness of character,
too, visible in every line of the sweet,
almost angelic face. That broad smooth
brow, that delicate nose, well-chiselled

dilating and contracting nostril, clear-cut
chin, and those mobile, sensitive lips, all
tell of a noble, pure, refined, and cultivated
nature, incapable of doubting
those to whom her heart may have
once gone out : whilst in the expression
of the dark eyes there mingles with a
certain strange, half-vacant, far-off look,
a yearning, beseeching depth of affection,
that says plainly that love to her means
no idle, passing fancy, but a grand
exalting passion, godlike in its very
humanity ! No ! there will be no commonplace
last scene to this " eventful
history ; " and with such a forecast of
events, we shall perhaps be encouraged
to look on at their further progress.

THE TRADITION.

'• T^O you say a ghost is to be seen
there, sir? — at Merry Bell Holt,
I mean — the wood in which we are to
picnic tomorrow ? "

No ; not exactly a ghost — an apparition,
or rather, I should say, an optical
delusion."

I do not understand."

Well, it is a sort of tlnng such as I
remember when a boy to have seen in a
common French lithograph. You are not
old enough to remember it, Julian ; but
this was the way of it. It was a
picture representing Napoleon's tomb at
St. Helena, and at the first glance was

uninteresting enough. The art was very
poor, showing nothing but the flat stone
slab, inclosed by a low iron railing, and
overhung and surrounded by drooping
willow trees. Beneath ran the legend
thus : L'omhre de Napoleon visitant son
tomheau. For a long time you could
make neither head nor tail of what this
meant ; but at length, by dint of careful
looking, you suddenly discovered that,
by a cunning arrangement and intertwining
of the stems and boughs of
some of the willow trees, a distinct outline
was formed against the bright sky
beyond of the figure of the Corsican
bandit, as he was commonly represented,
in cocked hat, riding coat with cape,
tight pantaloons, and Hessian boots.
When once you discovered this phantom,
as it were, of the figure standing with

hands crossed behind it, and bent head
gazing down at the grave, you could
never get rid of it. There it was the
moment you looked at the picture, and
there it remained perpetually. The trees,
as trees, had vanished, and you saw
nothing but the image which they outlined
and inclosed at the end of the
leafy vista.

I certainly do not remember that
engraving, sir, but I have seen similar
puzzles — one recently published is, I
believe, on the same principle, called
'Where's the Cat?' But Avhat has this
to do with Merry Bell Holt?"

Why, simply this — that there we
have the same sort of thing represented
by nature instead of art — by natural trees
and boughs and real sky. If, at a certain
time in the evening, when the light

VOL. ITT. E

suits, you stand in a certain spot in one
of the glades or drives in the wood, and
look down the dark avenue of oak and
ash, you will see at the end a light opening
among the trees, outlining with
curious accuracy the shape of a tall
woman wearing over her head a kind of
hood, and with one arm raised as if
beckoning, or in menace, or as if waving
her hand in adieu — as if doing anything
in fact, your imagination pleases to suggest.
But there she is plainly enough,
clearly and sharply defined by the dark
boughs and trunks against the light sky.
Of course the weather should be soft and
grey, without much wind, but the whiter
the sky, the better. Any way, the effect
is very queer and ghostly — quite an uncanny
' Woman-ins White ' sort of look
about it. If you are rather near-sighted,

or if you half close your eyes, you can
fancy she moves at times : especially if a
gentle breeze sweeps by, may you fancy
she is waving her arm and bowing her
head, and that the folds of her long
white robe are stirred as by the act of
walking. Bless your heart, Julian ! I
have seen nervous people quite startled
by the effect ; for, at the spot where you
must stand to see it, no other peep of
sky is visible. You are completely shut
in by trees, and the wood there is as
dense and dark as night, even on the
brightest day ; of an evening, of course,
it is as dark as Erebus itself. Go there
alone at the witching hour, in the solemn
stillness of approaching night, and when
all the surroundings are in harmony with
those ghostly sensations which the gloaming
in the woods frequently conjures up

tf^^

go there, I say with your mind properly
attuned to receive impressions of
the mysterious ; give your imagination
fair play ; and I will warrant that even
the stoutest heart shall experience a certain
thrill of awe when 'the Lady of
Merry Bell Holt ' reveals herself. I know
not whether the impression be the
stronger when one is brought gradually
into the presence of the spectacle, and
dien the form seems slowly to be emerging
from the depths of the sylvan gloom;
or whether the effect is not more startling
if you are taken with closed eyes to the
exact spot, and then, suddenly looking
up, you are brought face to face with
the illusion. If she be thus made to
start into the ghost-like life, 'the Lady
of Merry Bell Holt ' indeed seems to bea
real presence — real, that is, in the

ghostly sense of reality. The idea of
illusion at first seems impossible."

'you do not see her features, I suppose
:

'• Oh ! no ; scarcely the face, only
where the face Avould be ; you are fifty
yards off, may be."

He who has been giving this account
of " the Lady of Merry Bell Holt " is
a gentleman of some fifty years, dressed
in a rough suit of grey homespun, and
looking, at the first blush, more perhaps
like a well-to-do farmer than the country
clergyman which he is. He is seated at
a table placed on a trim flower-girt lawn,
just outside the half-open French window
of a neat woodbine-covered house, and
just within the shadow of the row of
tall elms amongst which the residence is
embowered.

His grave but comely face is genial
and kind, and from a certain abstracted
or absent expression may be judged as
that of the student. A pile of books
upon the table in front of him, with the
one lying open in his lap, also attest to
this fact.

His companion, lounging hard by in
an easy chair, is a young man who has
not numbered half his senior's years.
Handsome, well-built, and sinuous in movement,
his black velveteen coat, and billycock
hat tilted on the back of his head,
lend him rather a rakish air, and a
closer inspection of his face gives farther
evidence in the same direction. His
grey eyes have a worn, tired look, and
his thick chestnut hair growing low upon
his forehead, and soft moustache of the
same like, though becoming attributes in

themselves, add a suggestion of dissipation
to his expression not altogether
pleasant.

This is Julian Courtnall, the only son
of a rich London lawyer, and who is
supposed to be reading with the Ev.
Edward Gage for an examination. But
the young man has no genius for work,
and having disappointed his parents at
every stage of his education, has been
sent down to the Eectory of Dornemere
a remote country village in the very
heart of the midlands — that he may be
coached for a last effort which he has
promised to make to qualify for collegiate
honours. The whole business, however,
is clearly a farce ; he is far toe
old now to overcome his idle habits and
possible want of capacity, and, after
some three months' residence at Dome-mere,

both pupil and tutor have recognised
the fact. The former is on the
point of returning home, honestly to tell
his father that he is a failure — at least
in the career which that worthy gentleman
had desio-ned for this son.

Julian has passed his time chiefly in
attending lawn-tennis parties at the neighbouring
houses, to which his position,
good looks, and gentlemanly manners
have procured him easy access, and he
is now looking forward with an odd
eagerness to a large picnic to be held
on the following day at the woodland of
Merry Bell Holt.

As the Reverend Edward Gage finishes
his story, a young lady comes out of the
French window, and, tripping coquettishly
on to the lawn, seats herself on the
grass beside him.

I have been listening at the Window,
uncle," she says, to what you have been
telling Mr. Courtnall. You make quite
a romantic, thrilling tale of the old
tradition : it is quite like a ghost story ;
I had forgotten all about it. After this
I shall certainly go tomorrow and seethe
fearful apparition. I feel ' awfully
excited,' and I shall be ' awfully frightened
! ' "

Oh ! no doubt you will, Alice : you
London girls are ' awfully frightened ' and
awfully excited ' about everything," is
the response ; " but I should have thought
you had often seen this local beauty,
when you AV'Cre here in former days."

Oh ! I was only a chit of a child
then — you forget, uncle, it is eleven years
since I was at Dornemere, and I Alas
never taken as far as Merry Bell Holt.

It is a long way off from here — four or
five miles, I think."

Fully that, Miss Gage," breaks in
Julian, who has risen upon the young-lady's
appearance. " I have never even
wandered so far myself. I hate long walks
alone, though I think I might have been
tempted by this strange wood nymph, if
I had known of her existence : but, oddly
enough, I never heard of her either, until
Mr. Gage just now told me. But
won't you take this chair ? Please don't
sit on the grass."

Ta ! I prefer it ; it's awfully jolly to
sit on a lawn — too delightfully rural, don't
you know? When one comes into the
country, one should do as the country
does ! "

Do as the country does," comments
the Eector half to himself, as he glances

at his niece : " did ever anyone hear
such English as the fashionable world
seems to talk nowadays? 'Ta! too
awfully jolly,' and all the rest of it —
what a jargon!"

"Now, don't be rude, uncle, or else
you shall not go with us to the pic-nic
tomorrow. Mr. Courtnall shall drive me
over there alone, if you don't mind
what you say, and then there Avill be a
nice scandal : all your old maids will
turn up their eyes with horror, and you
will get into a tremendous row with
your parishioners for having a fast
young person like myself staying in
your house, and scampering all over the
country with your pupil."

"Yes," indeed," rejoins the uncle,
rather gravely. "I should never hear
the last of it ; it is lucky Mr. Court-nail

is leaving us at the end of the
week. If his time had not come, I
promise you, you would have had no
invitation to Dornemere," adds the rector
significantly.

"Then I should have come down and
stayed at the rural ' pub,' " cries the
young lady, " for I made up my mind
to go to the pic-nic when the Delays
first told me about it, and told me they
were coming. 'Oh!' I said, ' Merry Bell
Holt is not far from my dear old
bachelor uncle's at Dornemere — I shall
make him invite me down.' The Delays,
you know, have come to stay with the
Chilmers, at the park, — they were to
arrive to-day — they are such jolly girls!
so that there will be heaps of people
there tomorrow that I shall know.
But, joking apart, T think you really

had better not go, uncle. You will be
much happier with your old books,"
adds this extremely vivacious young lady
in her melodious rattle, as she leans
her arm on her uncle's knee and playfully
pats his brown cheek.

Well, Alice," he replies, " to tell you
the truth, I never did mean to go. It
is not in my way. But if you think you
are going careering about the country
with Mr. Courtnall all alone, you are
direfully mistaken, miss. I have provided
against that : the ladies who invite
us to the pic-nic — Mr. Courtnall and myself
I mean — for there never has been an
invitation for you — but I am going tolet
you take my place — will drive you
over. There are two seats in their
carriage, and you will have mine ; that
is the arrangement."

All right, my name is Easy," says
the young lady, pulling herself up from
the grass by a clutch at her uncle's
collar ; "as long as I go somehow, it
does not matter to me how, — I would
go on a bicycle for the matter of that ! "
and, having regained her feet, she steals
a significant look at Julian, as she plucks
a rose from the neighbouring border,
and begins twining it in her mass of
golden fuzzy hair.

Standing so occupied, she makes an
extremely pretty picture, albeit on a
small scale, for she is very petite. A
last ray of the setting sun falls upon
her, gilding the gold of her tresses, and
throwing the whole figure into strong
relief against the dark background of
trees and shrubs. Without a singular
regular feature in her face, she nevertheless

strikes one at first as being what
is called " quite lovely." Her youth and
bright colouring, flashing violet eyes and
glittering teeth, becoming dress and
graceful action, completely fit her out ina
panoply of " devil's beauty."

Young Courtnall has never taken his
eyes off her, from the moment she first
appeared ; he now follows her as she
strolls idly down the lawn by the edge of
the flower-beds, and the two pass slowly
out of eye and ear shot into the shrubbery
beyond.

Mr. Gage watches them for a minute
or two, and then, as he resumes his
book, thinks to himself: —

Yes, it was very thoughtless of me ;
I would not have the responsibility of
looking after you, my young friends, for
another week, for any money. I shall

pack Julian off directly this troublesome
pic-nic is over ; the first thing, the day
after tomorrow, away you go, my boy ! "
Alice Gage was an orphan, the only
child of the Eector's elder brother, who,
with his wife, died whilst their daughter
was a baby. Thus early deprived of her
only true guardians, she had more or
less been brought up and educated
amongst strangers, and without that
supervising ej^e of affection which has
so much to do with the formation of a
woman's character. She had quite lately
come of age, and, in a small Away, was
an heiress in her own right. Always of
an independent nature, to use the mildest
phrase, she had not been long in asserting
herself, now that she was, as she
never wearied of putting it, " her own
mistress." Hence, her reverend uncle —

who, in his rather indolent, absent way,
of course, never lost sight of her — was
not much surprised when she offered
herself, with her maid, as a guest at the
rectory for a few days, in order that she
might attend this notable pic-nic.

In the kindness of his heart he acquiesced
at once, without remembering
that his bachelor establishment would
hardly be the proper abode for a young
unmarried girl whilst his good-looking
pupil was also a resident there. True, a
qualm on this point had overtaken the
good man for a moment, after despatching
a hearty, hospitable reply to his
niece's note ; but he had immediately
quieted his conscience by the recollection
that Julian was leaving Dornemere almost
directly, and that at the worst,
consequently, the awkward conjuncture

VOL. iir. F

would be but of short duration. My
young lady, however, appeared upon the
scene four or five days earlier than she
was expected. She was " seedy," she
wrote, and thought a dose of country air
and life would enable her to " pull herself
together a bit " for the remainder of
the London season, in the full swing of
which she was living.

Arrant flirt that she was, again to use
the mildest phrase, she had bewildered
her rustic and sedate relative by the
good, or rather bad, use to which she
put the few extra days she thus contrived
to give herself at the rectory.

In less than twenty-four hours after
her arrival, she was carrying on a tremendous
flirtation with the handsome
young pupil, who, we may judge by his
looks, was nothing loath to avail himself

of the diversion which a young girl of
Alice's attractions and disposition afforded
a nature like his. Never accustomed to
put much control upon his inclinations,
or to resist feminine fascinations, he did
not stop to consider how in this case he
was possibly outraging his own honour,
or imperilling the happiness of anyone
else.

The shrubbery of Dornemere Eectory,
at the distance of about twenty yards
from the lawn, gradually lost itself, when
a small wicket had been passed, upon an
open piece of common land, a footpath
across which eventually struck the ]palings
of Dornemere Park, and it was along
this identical path that Julian and Alice
wandered after he followed her into the
shrubbery.

If the dumb show of our forecast has

been well acted, and the tableau vivant
has been read aright, we should understand
the situation to which that stroll
by the park palings led a little later, on
that same midsummer evening.

f

THE ILLUSION.

nPHEOUGHOUT the length and breadth
of rural England few spots could
be found more admirably suited for a
large pic-nic party than the hanging wood
of Merry Bell Holt. Situated in the midst
of a richly-timbered, undulating country,
it covered a huge swelling knoll, which
on one side was approached by a broom
and gorse-clad upland, and on the other
sloped steeply down to the banks of the
swift-running, ever-winding Dome. Dense
and impenetrable in many of its recesses,
it was, on its river front, almost primeval
in character. The owl and fox found
undisturbed covert in its depths, and even

the avenues which here and there traversed
it were seldom trodden by human
foot. All the trees were old ; but many

An oak, whose bog-lis W3r3 missal with aj3,
And high top bald with dry antiquity,

looked as if it must have stood there as
long as the very hill itself, whilst the
solitude usually reigning around added in
no small degree to that weird and mysterious
effect often pervading the remoter
woodlands. Grassy little bays, fringed with
bracken and thorn, here and there penetrated
the skirts of the " Holt " where it
gave upon the more open country, and
the largest of these was the appointed
trysting place for the various parties of
people who had contrived the entertainment
with which we are concerned.

Once more, for the most part, dumb
show should serve our turn. Given the

background aforesaid — 2florioiis midsummer
weather, gay dresses, bright and
happy faces, merry musical laughter from
young silvery voices, pleasant gossip
among the elders, friends all around —
we can see them grouped about upon
the emerald turf and beneath the shade
of the woodland's fringe. Then there are
the busy and active superintending the
arrangements for the repast, bestowing
hampers handy in cool and bosky dells,
spreading snowy tablecloths upon favourable
mounds and in convenient dips,
distributing plates, forks, and knives, and
all accessories, and finally producing the
various viands — the cold meats, hams,
tongues, fowls, fizzing wines and waters.
Given all this, I say, and have we not
the leading features of a pic-nic picture
sufficiently familiar to most of us ? The

goodly company numbers hard upon a
score. One or two of the best county
familles are represented, of course ; and
if the rest be made up of folk of lesser
degree, they are not a whit less socially
fitted to the general mood. The carriages
wheeled back out of sight amongst the
broom and gorse, and the horses looked
to, the retainers make out their time in
their own fashion, and our pic-nic party,
being left to themselves, by two o'clock
are in the full swing of their enjoyment.
To gaze at such a scene is to gain a
shrewd idea of the dialogue going on.
Its purport at the best can scarcely interest
any but those who make it — certainly
not us, the audience, save on occasions.
Nor need we specify more minutely the
dresses, appearance, and individuality of
most of the players — supernumeraries as

the majority are, as far as this drama is
concerned.

Among the young men and maidens
(the maidens much preponderating), Julian
Courtnall and Ace Gage necessarily were
conspicuous — not only by reason of their
good looks, but from their behaviour.
Flirtation at such a party, of course, was
the order of the day ; but in a sedate,
remote, rather old-fashioned society such
as that which obtained in the neighbourhood
of Dornemere, it was always conducted
upon strictly mild principles, so
that the marked, not to say unblushing
devotion to each other of this particular
pair, began early in the day to scandalise
many mammas, and to cause the eyebrows
to be elevated and lips to be pursed on
the part of many papas. Alice's friends,
the Delays (three or four girls and

two younger brothers, with their mother),
were distant relations of the Coiners' of
Dornemere Park, the chief movers in
this pic-nic business, which had been got
up by the Honourable Mrs. Chilmers, a
rich widow, to celebrate the coming of
age of her son Anthony. He was a
heavy lout — boorish and unrefined —
a modern Tony Bumpkin, whom his fond
parent deemed might possibly be regenerated
by a suitable alliance with
some young woman of ton. But, as he
resolutely refused to spend any time in
London, or to have anything to do with
London society, it was thought advisable
to bring a little of that commodity
down to him for his inspection. For
this purpose mainly, therefore, were the
portionless Delany girls bidden to Dorne-
mere — the eldest, Maud, being considered

the match for Master Tony. Alice thus
found herself m quite congenial society
at the pic-nic — at least, as far as these
young women were concerned. In town
they were great allies, veritable birds of
a feather ; and, as her friends, it maybe
imagined that the Delany girls did
not fail to contrive by a thousand neat
little devices, that there should be the
smallest possible interruption to her
carrying on with her uncle's good-looking
pupil. They were not long in seeing,
to use their own language, what " her
little game " Alas, and throughout the
whole day they perpetually brought
Julian and Alice together again, when
mere politeness had obliged a temporary
separation.

Mr. Anthony Chilmers was mightily
struck by Alice, and more than once it

required all Maud Delany's skill in such
matters to retain him in her own train,
and to protect her friend from his somewhat
uncouth and obtrusive attentions.

The diversion of the repast once fairly
over, little remained for the company todo
but to stroll through the wood and
enjoy, according to their several capacities,
the beauties of the natural scenery.
Of course they were all going to seethe
Lady of Merry Bell Holt" towards
sunset, when the best effect would be
had. As the time approached there was
much pretty tittering and great display
of affected fear on the side of most of
the girls. It would be quite too "dreadful,"
Alice declared, to go to such a dark
and lonely part of the wood alone, and,
for herself, nothing should induce her
to go unless she had at least a dozen

people with her — which statement appeared
rather contradictory, in the face of the
fact that three or four times in the
course of the afternoon she had been
discovered walking arm in arm, or sitting
about, alone with Julian, in some of the
most deserted glades. When, too, the
time actually came, and there was a
grand muster of the party previous to
proceeding to the spot, Miss Gage and
her companion were nowhere to be
found. Maud Delany said she was sure
they had gone on in front, and her
younger sisters backed up this assertion
by averring that they had seen the skirt
of her dress quite in the distance, going
that way.

Then they'd best take care they don't
lose themselves," remarked Mr. ' Tony '
Chilmers, chagrined by the disappearance

of the young lady whom he so much
admired ; " it's a difficult place to find,
I can tell you — it's always as black as
pitch in there, and when night comes
on, and you don't know your way, you
would likely enough have to spend it
there, if you didn't tumble into the river*,
as you easily might — it's right away over
t'other side of the ' Holt.' But I know
the ins and out of this place. So come
along, ladies and gentlemen — you that
want to see this wonderful sight — not
that I could ever see anything wonderful
in it — it never looks like a young
woman in my eyes ; I like 'em more
substantial. Then, you know, they say I
have got no imagination or poetry, and
I'm glad I haven't ; however, come along
down this drive to the end, then away
to the left, and then the fourth turning*

on the right, and so on towards the
river : you'd best not lose sight of me."

With this running commentary he led
the way, and ere long the company
were penetrating the very heart of the
Holt." For a while they were all lively
enough, but as the deep and remoter
intricacies of the gloomy and ever-darkening
wood were reached, many of the
voices were hushed to a whisper, and by
degrees a certain sense of awe took possession
of everybody, until hardly a word
was spoken. Nor was this wonderful,
for truly it was a gruesome - looking
region enough. The liusfe trunks and
boles of the gnarled and twisted oaks,
intermingling with the more stunted
growths and the smoother stems of the
ash, clustered on every hand like a
marshalled army of deformed ghosts,

whilst every here and there a dead and
withered giant of the forest, frayed and
bleached by time and weather, reared
his distorted limbs as though in warning
or in menace. Scarcely a ray of daylight
illumined the deep obscurity — scarcely a
speck of sky was visible ; but what light
remained had the lurid tone of sunset
about it, only making the tangle of bough
and brushwood more confusing to the
eye. The withered leaf-strewn ground,
thickly piled with spongy sickly greenish
moss, yielded to the tread, and gave back
no responsive echo to the heaviest footfall.
It was one of the traditions of the
place that " the Lady of Merry Bell Holt "
should be approached with reverence,
and in a spirit calculated to enhance
the ghostly illusion. Indeed, all the
natural features combined to render this

most easy, for few could pass through
those gloomy groves without being impressed
by their weird solemnity. Save
for the faint murmur in the far-off distance,
as of a swift running river, no
sound reaches the ear by the time our
erewhile lively party are within a short
distance of the spot to Which they are
bound, so fully is everybody under the
spell of the place. Not even a whisper
is heard ; the silence has become intense,
profound. Suddenly it is broken by a
terrific shriek — a shriek so prolonged,
piercing, and awful, that, as it rings
through the wood, it startles the very
echoes by its shrillness, and confuses
their repetition of it!

Every heart stands still : every foot
seems rooted to the ground. What can
it be? Whose voice? Surely a woman's!

VOL. III. G

and not far off. All alike for the first
moment look at each other appalled.
Then gradually rises a murmur and a buzz,
and a simultaneous rush is made by the
men in the direction whence the sound
came. Chilmers leads, and even he for
some minutes is at fault as to which
turning among the trees to take : they
are here so dense and impenetrable.

It came from the Lady's Glade, I
believe," he cries : " somebody has seen
a real ghost, I should think, this time !
Come this way." And presently, with
some ]half-dozen at his heels, he pushes
on farther and farther into the wood.

Soon he turns into a broader alley, at
the extreme end of Which is dimly discerned
the figure of Julian Courtnall
rushing away at the top of his speed,
and, as a shout is raised, he disappears

down the shelving side of the wood which
there is bounded by the river. They are
about to follow, when they are arrested
by the form of Alice Gage stretched at
full length, apparently lifeless, upon the
mossy ground, close to the entrance of
the glade into which they have turned.

This fresh discovery adds to the consternation,
and lends new mystery to the
affair, and utterly confused and incoherent
are the exclamations on all hands.
Alice is raised from the turf, ghastly
pale, and, if not dead, quite insensible.
By this time some of the women have
come up, restoratives are administered,
and after a while it is pronounced that
she is only in a faint. By degrees she
begins to recover, and, opening her eyes
only to close them again with a shudder,

exclaims : —

o 2

Oh ! do not follow her, do not follow
her ! " Then she lapses into apparent
unconsciousness again, and efforts are made
to carry her back to the carriages.

While this extraordinary incident has
been going on, some of the party have
advanced to the head of the alley where
Julian was seen to disappear, and are
now following the direction he took,
until most of them are also out of sight.

At length Alice Gage is reclining in
the carriage, surrounded by her friends.
She has come to herself now, but, in
reply to the eager questions pressed
upon her from all sides, she at first only
begs for time to recover her wits. Injustice
it must be admitted that her
terror seems honest ; at any rate, she is
thoroughly overcome by violent emotion.

It is thought well that she should betaken
home with as little delay as possible.
The horses are put to, and, amidst
great confusion, preparations are made
for a general departure of a portion of
the party.

-Twilight is now fast settling upon the
landscape. Some of the carriages have
already driven away, when a fresh cause
for consternation is found, by the return
to the outskirts of the wood of one of
the young men who had followed Julian.
Breathless, this messenger explains that
he, with some of his companions, were
just in time to catch sight of Courtnall
descending the steep slope amongst the
thick trees, and to see him, when he
reached the bottom and edge of the bank,
plunge headlong into the river.

"Then," cries Tony Chilmers, who has

of course never left Alice's side since she
was discovered prostrate upon the ground
he will be drowned to a certainty.
Hurry off, some of you ! " he continues,
to the grooms and attendants ; " hurry
ofi' round by the road to the Weir ! — it
is the only chance. A boat is kept
there, just below it, and it is the nearest,
the only way of getting to the river
from here so as to be of any use."

His orders are speedily obeyed by
three or four of the men, one of whom
mounts a horse and rides over the open
upland towards a winding and descending
road. Alice Gage has overheard
young Chilmers' words, though not what
elicited them, and they seem to rouse
her from the state of partial lethargy
into which she has fallen. For the first
time she finds coherent speech.

Ah ! " she cries, " something has
happened to Mr. Coiirtnall. Ah ! I feel
it has. I knew — I entreated him not to
follow her, and it was when I saw him
go that I fainted and fell ! "

'entreated him not to go? Where?
Not to follow her? Who? Whom was
he not to follow ? "

Questions to this effect are again showered
upon the young lady from all sides.

My darling Alice," exclaims Maud
Delany, throwing lier arms round her
friend's neck and kissing her, " what do
you mean? For heaven's sake, give us
some explanation ! "

Oh, I am still so terrified ! " replies
Miss Gage, with a bewildered air, in
which, for perhaps the first time in her
life, there is something really genuine.
'• I hardly know how it all happened.

or how to tell you ; but Mr. Courtnall
and I had rambled on, you know, with
the mention of finding the place where
this lady of the wood is to be seen, and
we were laughing and talking, about it,
when, as we passed into an open glade,
we suddenly saw close to us what we
thought was the illusion itself! It was
so startling, so real ; we came upon it
so unexpectedly that I nearly fainted then.
There it was ! oh, most life-like — exactly
as they talk about it — the tall figure of
a woman in a kind of white cloak, with
a hood over her head, and one arm
raised. I never saw anything so ghostly
and strange. But, oh ! my dear Maudit
was soon explained — it was no illusion
for, as we stood for a moment watchings
it, to our terror and amazement the
figure moved ! Yes, distinctly moved !

It was no illusion at all ; it was a real
woman, and she was coming towards
us ; or rather — well — I was so confused
and terrified I could have sunk into the
earth ; the place was so lonely, the sight
so unexpected."

Alice pauses here, again genuinely overcome
as she recalls the fear of the
moment. Then, with a shudder, she goes
on, 'ras her friend endeavours to soothe
her.

Well, I say, I cannot remember if the
woman actually did come forward ; I cannot
remember her face, or what she was
like — it was so very dark. But we where
within speaking distance, and she seemed
to know Mr. Courtnall, for I distinctly
heard her say, ' Julian, Julian, if you
have ever loved me, there is only one way
to show it now !' Or it was something like

this — I know she used the words, "If
you have ever loved me." Then she said
something more — I could not hear what,
except the last words. She begged him
to follow her — to go with her. ' Come,'
she said, ' come to me ! ' Then she
suddenly rushed away through the trees,
with the prolonged scream you heard,
down towards the river. Mr. Courtnall
started forward as if to follow her. I
clung to his arm. I implored him not to
go. I hardly know what I said, but I
entreated him not to follow her. I
thought she was mad. She must have
been. lie struggled to get away, saying
Pray wait here a moment, Miss Gage.' I
cannot tell, but it must have been the
thought of bemo^ left there alone which
was too much for me. I still clung to
his arm. He was greatly agitated ; and,

after a few more words, he seemed to
grow furious at my detaining him, and
With a tremendous effort, he at last shook
himself free. He was quite rude and
rough ; I saw him dash off along the
glade after the woman, and I remember
nothing more."

Unaccountable ! most mysterious ! —
What did it mean? Who could it have
been? Where could she have come
from?" This was the chorus that went
up from the by-standing listeners to
Alice's story.

At her entreaty, ' Tony ' Chilmers at
length started off, with several others,
after the people he had despatched to the
weir, and of course, very grave anxiety
was soon felt and shown on all hands for
Julian Courtnall's safety.

THE REALITY.

Domestic history does not recorda
sadder or more melancholy end to
a day of festivity and rejoicing than that
upon which the night fell after the pic-nic
in Merry Bell Holt. Terrible, truly, is the
contrast between the bright sunshine
which has reigned all day, alike in the
heavens and in the hearts of our actors,
and the deep gloom in which all is hushed
by midnight.

There, upon his bed in the quiet little
country rectory, lies the form of Julian
Courtnall, looking at first, as if in the
peace of a deep sleep. But, alas ! this is a
dumb show indeed, for it is his form

only! that look of peace is not of this
earth, and the sleep is that from which
there is no awakening here.

I^or, unhappily, can our dumb show
end with this picture. As the audience
to this drama, we must gaze upon a
second to be seen in a chamber in the
neighbouring mansion at Dornemere Park.
There also, upon a couch, lies another
motionless form. But this is a woman's,
and, notwithstanding the closed eyes, the
moist dishevelled hair streaming over the
shoulders, we cannot fail to recognise a
face we have seen before.

It is that of the third actor in our
forecast — the involuntary listener on the
inner side of the pangs! And who is
she ? and how is it that she thus appears?
For the first question let Maud
Delany act as chorus ; for the second,

we can find no sponsor so articulate or
so graphic ; but if we have patience yet
to pursue the melancholy story to its
end, we shall get an all-sufficient inkling
of the truth.

No need, however, is there to linger
long over these sad spectacles. It was
necessary for the action of the play that
the curtain should be raised upon them
for a moment — but it may fall again
now.

Alice Gage became seriously ill when
she was taken back to the Eectory, and
for two months she was in such a state
of nervous excitement, that the doctors
forbade any reference being made to, or
any account given her of, what had happened
or what led up to it. By-and-by
she was removed to her own home in

London, and one day, while her uncle
was sitting with her, there entered her
friend Maud Delany.

We must imagine the details of the
situation, and h(^\v it came about that
Alice, calmer and better than she had
yet appeared, brought the conversation
round to the question continually uppermost
in her mind : " Who was the
Avoman — that living Lady of Merry Bell
Holt?"

Thus, at length, we find Maud telling
the story to Alice and Mr. Gage ; but
as for us she is but playing the part
of chorus ; her own precise words need
not be given ; only those which arc
actually requisite will be set down, and
her narrative will be freed from what
the Eector calls "fashionable jargon."
What it comes to is this : —

"Poor Bessyy Cureton ! she was an
orphan, and a distant cousin of ours,"
goes on Maud. " She was brought up
with us ; but at sixteen, being quite
dependent, she went out as governess.
For a few years we saw little or nothing
of her, but we heard she was not
happy ; she was unlucky in her situations,
and grew up to be sadder and
graver than ever. As a child she was
inclined to be grave, and would believe
anything that was told her. Her faith
was unbounded, and she took everything
au pied de la lettre. Thinking and knowing
no evil, she judged others by
herself. A tender pathetic creature,
whose heart lay close to her eyes,
which moistened instantly at any tale of
woe or suffering, her nerves seemed perpetually
strung at the highest pitch ;

the doctors said she was a bundle of
nerves.

This last spring she wrote and told
us she was engaged to be married, and
that her lover was young, rich, and
handsome — in fact, his youth it was
which appeared to be the only barrier
to the course of this true love running



smooth. He was a year younger than
she, and for this reason, for the present,
he desired that the engagement,
together with his name, should be kept
secret. He knew his father would object
to his marrying until he had settled
down to a profession, — ' though indeed,'
wrote Bessyy, ' the old gentleman is so
rich, there will be no need for his son
to work very hard.

"Within a year or two, however,
they were sure to be married, for he

YOL. III. H

loved her with a devotion,' said Bessyy,
that had never been exceeded by
man.' Yes, we thought, he says so,
and you believe him, of course. Years
have taught you very little, poor child.
Your faith in human nature is as strong
as ever. Mamma, you may be sure, was
very sceptical about the whole affair, but
with her views she was not likely to neglect
a relative when there was a prospect,
however remote, of that relative making
a good match."

Miss Maud Delany drops this little
remark with an air of such apologetic
sarcasm, that it deserves to be recorded
intact.

So mamma," continues the narrator,
asked Bessyy to come and stay with us
for a while, during her midsummer holidays;
and she came, looking much altered,

and, as we thought, very distrait. Three
or four days after she had been with
us, there arrived that fatal invitation to
Dornemere Park and the pic-nic. Of
course the Chilmers' said they would be
glad to see Bessyy with us, and it was
settled that she should be of our party,
for she was their relative in a way also.
She did not go everywhere with us ;
leading the life we do, she could not
afford the dresses, you know — but still,
on this occasion, we could hardly leave
her in our dull London house for a week
at a stretch. When we told her our
plans, and where we were going, a most
curious expression passed over her beautiful
sad face ! Little did we guess its cause,
and we thought nothing of it at th
time, but very much since it has been
explained. It was the strangest, oddest

H 2

look you ever saw — a look that in anyone
else would have been one of intense
apprehensive joy — but somehow joy did
not seem to fit her features, and the
apprehension predominated. So she went
with us to Dornemere, as you too well know.
On the evening of our arrival — that
before the pic-nic — Bessyy, who was always
reading, and fond of being alone, strolled
away with a book into the solitude of
the park. When she returned, we were
all aghast — she looked so frightfully ill.
But she would give us no reason — she
declared she could not tell what had
affected her, unless it was a chill. What
actually happened we shall never know.
We can only suppose that she had seen
/m?2, and that there had been a lovers'
quarrel; at any rate, she was so ill she
had to go to bed."

At this part of the narrative Alice
Gage winces a little, and asks about what
time it was that Bessyy Cureton returned
from her solitary ramble. The answer
appears to make Alice wince a second
time; but no one observing her, the story
is continued.

Bessyy's condition in the morning put
her going to the pic-nic quite out of the
question — indeed, she pleaded, reasonably
enough, that she could not think of
going. She was in a high fever ; and it
was settled that the doctor should be
sent for as soon as the bustle of our
departure was over. Mrs. Chilmers was
most kind, and even wanted to stay with
her. Bessyy, of course, would not hear
of this, and so we started.

"Who could have imagined under what
circumstances we were next to look upon

her ? Now, directly we were gone, she
must have dressed herself hurriedly, and
made her way unobserved down to the
stables. From the evidence of the groom,
who had been ordered to drive in the
pony chaise for the doctor, and which
order Bessyy heard given, it seems that,
as he was leaving the stable gates, she
appeared, strangely attired, Without her
hat, but with the hood of her white
opera cloak over her head. She bribed
him, he said, to drive her by a circuitous
route to Merry Bell Holt, instead of
going on his errand. This the man did,
as he confessed, reluctantly ; ' For,' he
said, ' she was so wild in her manner, and
looked so ill, and was so very keen about
not being seen by anybody, that he all
along thought there was something wrong.'
She made him promise to keep the

matter a secret ; but when they reached
the wood, as they did, at some distance
from where the pic-nic was going on, she
suddenly sprang out of the pony chaise,
and disappeared among the trees. Then
the man says he was of two minds,
whether he ought or not to let his mistress
know ; but he had been well paid, and
so he held his tongue, and returned to
the park unseen. Bessyy, guided by the
voices, must have been watchings for the
greater part of the afternoon. Then,
beyond doubt, she followed Mr. Courtnall
and you, Alice, and probably overheard
some of the nonsense he was talking to
you, until, mad with jealousy, she suddenly
confronted you both and frightened
you out of your wits."

Ah ! " sighs the Eector, " you may
well shudder, Alice ; I doubt if you will

ever lose the memory of that moment,
and what it led to ! — it is good for you
that you should not. No wonder that
you have hitherto been almost incapable
of listening to this tale of woe. I have
been as loath as the doctors that you
should, until you had a little recovered
from the first shock which those sad
events gave you."

Alice has buried her face in her hands,
and, with the tears that trickled through
her fingers — the first she has yet shed —
begins, perhaps, that change in her
character which has since been such a
source of congratulation to hill who really
love her.

Uncle — Uncle ! " she presently cries,
*' I solemnly declare I did not know —
how should I? — that Mr. Courtnall was
an enefasfed man. I did not know even

of the existence of such a person as Miss
Cureton. He vowed I was the first girl
he had ever cared for — had ever loved.
He was so earnest and seemed so devoted
to me, that I believed him, and
even began to love him a little myself ;
I have never felt towards any man what
I felt towards him."

When the paroxysm of tears, wliicli
again flow after these words, has subsided,
the Eector soothingly pats his
niece's head, as he says —

"Xo, no, my poor child, of course
you could not have known of Mr.
Courtnall's engagement. Sto one imagines
you did. The fault, alas ! was his ; it
was all due to his reckless, thoughtless
habits ; the gratification of the moment
was all he ever considered, and we see
what it ended in."

"But was he really engaged? is that
known for a fact?" asks Alice presently.

Oh dear, yes ! " answered Maud ; " he
was the man in whom Bessyy had so
believed and trusted. The letters which
were found in her pocket and in her
desk prove that beyond doubt ; there
were heaps of them. Many, many written,
of course, from Dornemere Eectory,
all containing assurances of his unswerving
love, and with promises that within two
years, at most, he would make her his
wife. Of course he had no idea that the
fates were to lead her to be the witness
of his infidelity, and our going to Dorne-
mere was so suddenly arranged that she
seems to have had no time to apprise
him of the fact that she was going with
us. Oh, if she had only told us his name I "

Where did he meet her first ? " asked

Alice, with so grave a face as to make it
hardly recognisable as the same we saw
when she tripped on to the scene on the
Eectory lawn.

Ah ! we do not know," is the answer,
and never shall."

And what did actually happen, uncle,
after I fainted ? " inquires Alice.

Well," replies Mr. Gage, " from what
came out at the official investigation, what
followed can only be surmised ; but it is
not difficult to arrive at pretty definite
conclusions. The poor deceived, jealous,
unhappy girl flew to the river, and, in
the desperation of despair, flung herself
in. Julian, conscience-stricken, and utterly
unbounded by the unexpected encounter,
divined her purpose, and doubtless
followed in the forlorn hope of
rescuing her, and, we may trust, of

making atonement for the wrong he had
done — of atoning, as best he might, for
so heedlessly breaking those vows which
he so heedlessly had made. Ignorant of
the dangerous character of the stream at
that point, he and the victim of his untruth
were soon engulfed in the whirlpool
of the Weir, over Which they must
have been instantly carried. No swimmer,
however strong, could have stemmed
the torrent alone, much less burthened,
as Julian was, with the form of a helpless
woman. That he held to her manfully,
that his efforts to save her were
desperate, and that his last thoughts,
energies, and hopes were centred in her,
it is fair to assume, seeing how, locked
in each other's arms, they were dragged
from the river. In death, at least, they
were not divided.

Truly did our first scene of dumb

show foretell that the end of the story

to which it pointed might indeed be
tragic.

i^

A PROFESSIONAL SECRET.

A surgeon's story.
OW the doctor was enabled to divulge

the following professional secret
without a breach of trust is really of no
consequence. The guarantee that he would
not have done so, unless he had been
perfectly certain that he should run no
risk of compromising, or of hurting the
feelings of anyone, is to be found in the
tender heart, strict integrity, and high
sense of honour which distinguish him.

I have only to avoid names, or to
give fictitious ones," he said, dien telling
me the story, " and you and your readers

VOL. III.

will have no more clue to who the real
actors were than if I kept the whole
matter entirely to myself; but, my dear
fellow, the events are so strange and
romantic, that I believe, as a professed
story-teller, they might be useful to you.
At any rate, it seems to me they are
too good to be hidden away in the pigeon-holes
of my old memory with the rest
of the queer lights and shades of life
which necessarily come to a doctor's
knowledge."

Thus then, as near as may be, spake
my friend, and as far as possible, I give
in his own words, the disclosure of this
professional secret.

Years ago, Avhen I began life as a
very young medical man, I started my
red lamp in the small town of . It

was an obscure country place, not a
hundred miles from one of the most picturesque
districts of the Upper Thames,
and I had bought the practice, as I thought,
for a mere song. It turned out to be
even less than that, and before I had
been in the place a month I was heartily
sick of the bargain. No one wanted
doctoring. The male bucolics were constitutionally
healthy, and suffered only
from catarrh and broken heads ; the
females knew only one complaint, and
that was generally cured without my intervention
or aid. The ladies of much

preferred the local Mrs. Gamp to a duly
qualified practitioner, which was so much
the worse for me.

One evening in June, while I was debating
whether I should remove myself to
some more promising sphere, a brougham

drove up to the door. It was late,
but summer evenings are seldom dark,
and the twilight still lingered sufficiently
to convince me that the carriage was well
appointed, for I saw a cockade in the
coachman's tall hat, telling clear against
an opal sky. The figure of a gentleman,
well but carelessly dressed in a wide-awake
and a suit of gray dittos, jumped out and
rang sharply at my surgery belL I opened
the door myself — I could not check my
eagerness ; it was the first chance I had
had of attending any of the county people,
and that my visitor belonged to some
good family I felt convinced from his
own appearance and that of his " turnout."


You are a duly qualified medical
man?" he asked me abruptly, as he
entered my surgery.

Certainly !" I replied brusquely, " there
is my diploma," and I pointed to the valuable
document which hung framed over
the fireplace.

I do not wish to dispute your claims,
but are you discreet ?" said he, " that
is more to the purpose. May I depend
upon you in a very delicate affair ?"

All doctors are, or ought to be,
discreet," I answered.

Their discretion I admit," said the
gentleman, " but they are apt to be
over punctilious ; in other words, their
caution runs away with them. Frankly
I want a doctor who — it is a question
of life and death, and yet "

He hesitated and looked at me
keenly — " and yet," he continued, " I
can get no one to undertake the case
—will you ?"

"Really, sir, I must ask you to be
more explicit," I said, "no doctor would
refuse his services unless there was
something unsatisfactory behind."

"I understand your scruples," said the
stranger, " and cannot deny that they
are intelligible, nor can I remove them
entirely. But I do not ask you to overstep
the boundary line between right
and wrong. I only wish to impose conditions
before I call you in."

"It is most unusual," I went on.
Conditions would imply a mystery, and
no medical man who respects himself
would be a party to anything underhanded.
I cannot promise to accept
your conditions."

But you will hear them before you
say 'No," said the gentleman. "I tell
you I am almost in despair. Three

doctors to whom I have already applied
have hesitated, and I have come to
you as a last resource. It is a matter
of life and death I repeat, — you will
not also refuse ? You shall have an
ample fee ; anything in reason that you
choose to name."

I thought of my beggarly practice ;
of the money sunk in obtaining it ; of
the chances which opened of extending
my connection with the best families of
the neighbourhood.

What are your conditions, sir ?" I
asked.

That you come with me at once ;
my brougham is at the door. A lady,

my , expects her confinement hourly;

she is lying at some distance from
civilised help and her own medical
advisers."

These are not difficult conditions," I
said half smiling.

"But you must submit to be blindfolded
from the moment you leave this
room," he interposed; "you must remain
in waiting at the place to which I shall
convey you for hours, days, weeks, if
necessary, and until the event comes
off. Last of all, you must swear that
you will ever afterwards preserve the
most inviolable secrecy as to what has
occurred."

I was somewhat puzzled I confess, and
yet why should I not submit to these
conditions? The worst feature about
them was the secrecy and the possibility
of some foul play thereby implied.
Yet my visitor was evidently a person
of breeding, of good position, probably
of wealth. The responsibility was more

his than mine ; why need I demur ?

"I will go with you," I said, after a
short pause, and I walked towards the
door.

Stay," he said, " I must remind you
of the conditions." and he produced a
black silk handkerchief.

Surely it will be time enough when
we are in the carriage," I suo-rested ;
your coachman would be surprised to
see you conducting a blindfolded man."

Oh, I have provided for that ! "
continued my visitor ; '' he is to be
trusted, but I must run no chance of
your recognising him or the vehicle, as
I wish to remain absolutely unknown."

He had forgotten apparently that I
might remember his face. It was not
indeed, a face which one would easily
forget. He was young and strikingly

handsome ; a square open face, with large,
rather prominent, gray eyes, a Woman
nose, and a firm, well-cut mouth, the
more plainly visible, because he wore no
moustache. However, I bowed, and submitted
to be blindfolded, and was led by
him to the brougham, which was driven
off rapidly directly we had taken our
seats.

I had been long enough at to

know the various roads which led away
from it, and I strained every faculty to
note the turnings, and to discover the
route we took. For a time I felt certain
of the way — the first to the right,
the second to the left, again to the
right, and we were on the main road
to Oxford. So far it Alas all right. But
then, suddenly, the brougham stopped
short, turned completely round, and seemed

to retrace its steps. It then turned again,
and yet again, and once more, till I
gradually grew entirely confused. At
length, utterly thrown out of my bearings,
I gave it up as a bad job, and
resigned myself to be taken wherever my
conductor pleased. He, with the exception
of making one or two commonplace
remarks, maintained a dogged silence,
although I endeavoured several times to
lead him into a conversation.

The Window of the brougham was down,
and the sweet odours of the summer
fields were wafted in as we rattled honor.

o

I had thrown myself as far back in the
carriage as I could, objecting to being
seen with a bandage over my eyes. I
smelt the new-mown hay, exhaling perfumes
under the dewy air, and at times
I noted the fragrance of garden flowers.

Sounds, too, fell upon my other untrammelled
senses. I could not see, but I
could hear the creaking wheels of the
few lumbering and homeward-bound waggons
we met upon the road ; at times
rustic voices, raised in merriment or
altercation, told me when we were passing
human habitations. To these sounds
succeeded at length the distant plash of
falling waters. The air which met my
cheek seemed surcharged with moisture.
We were evidently approaching the river,
an idea which was soon strengthened
by the increased noise of the rushing
torrent, probably one of the many weirs
abounding the backwaters of the
Upper Thames.

Then suddenly the brougham stopped ;
my conductor civilly bade me alight, and
taking me by the arm led me forward

on foot. The ground was wet and spongy
to the tread ; as we moved onward
the trailing boughs of overhanging trees
brushed across us, and I was conscious
that we were traversing some wooded path
by the river side.

One moment," presently said my
companion ; " I will bring the boat close
alongside."

My heart sank as I heard the gurgle
of the water and the plash of the oar.
Could the man mean mischief? With
bandaged eyes one's nerves are not of
the strongest ; after a long and mysterious
journey 1 trembled in spite of
myself.

"The air is quite chilly," said my conductor,
" you are shivering ; but in
another ^yq minutes your journey will beat
an end. I must ask you to step into

this boat — there, place your foot so, the
seat is behind you ; thank you."

The next moment the boat shot
through the water under his vigorous
stroke, and presently I felt the thud of
impact against another floating substance.
I was now asked to leave the boat and
ascend the short stairs — to make one long-step;
and then my bandage was removed.

I found myself on board a house-boat,
one of those river yachts of modern
contrivance much affected by artists and
lovers of quiet nature on the Thames.
Towed into sequestered nooks, and there
moored, these floating dwellings afford to
their inhabitants all the delights of an
independent and amphibious existence.
They have become very common nowadays,
but at that time they were looked
upon as a novelty.

If you will follow me, I will take
you to your patient," said my conductor,
and I passed through the outer cabin,
used evidently as a living-room, to a
small but exquisitely furnished apartment.
In the light of a silver swinging-lamp
which shed a soft radiance around, I
saw luxuriously-cushioned chairs, damask
hangings, a cabinet or sideboard of inlaid
woods, and a table covered with a snowy
cloth on which stood some sparkling
crystal and handsome plate. The inner
cabin Alas fitted up as a bedroom, even
more sumptuously than the other.

A small standing bedstead, an uncommon
article of furniture afloat, was hung
in pale amber damask ; the miniature
toilet table, with its appliances in ivory
and silver, was en suite, the washstand
was of ebony and gold, and so was the

tiny table which stood by the bedside,
and on which were i large jewel-headed
smelling-bottle, a large china bowl full of
ice, and a bunch of magnificent hothouse
grapes upon a Sevres plate.

A lady-like, middle-aged woman, apparently
the nurse, who had been sitting
by the bed, rose as we entered, and to
an anxious inquiry said, her patient was
doing admirably. Then, turning to me,
she added, " The doctor, I presume ?
You are in plenty of time, sir, I
think." And there followed between us
the usual colloquy and interchange of
question and answer, customary between
doctor and nurse when dealing with a
new case.

Meanwhile, a few low words passed
between my conductor and the occupant
of the bed. They were scarcely above a

whisper, but I overheard that they were
expressive of affection. Then I was left
alone with patient and nurse.

About an hour short of daylight I was
released, and by that time another human
being had been added to the mysterious
inhabitants of the house-boat, and I congratulated
the gentleman on the birth of
a fine, healthy boy.

There was nothing remarkable about
the child, except, perhaps, to the surgeon's
eye. Nature, however, in one of
her freaks, had set her mark upon the
boy — a mark he was destined to carry to
his grave. On his left breast was a
ncevus, or stain of a reddish hue, shaped
exactly like a pine-apple, but not larger
than a crown piece.

"She is doing well, you are sure of
that?" asked the gentleman, nervously.

VOL. III. K

Could not be better," I replied ; " everything
is perfectly satisfactory. The
nurse is experienced, and can be trusted
now for all that is needful. It will not
be necessary for me to remain longer."

"You are sure of this?" was the
anxious interrogation.

Perfectly sure," was my answer ; "in
any case if you should require me again,
I am prepared to come as before."

I am infinitely obliged to you, and
will not detain you any longer."

I was about to walk out on to the
deck, with a view to leaving the house-boat,
when the gentleman said; "Pardon
me, the conditions agreed to necessitate
my accompanying you, and I must bandage
your eyes once more."

The proceedings which followed were
exactly the same as those already

described. We found the brougham presumably
where we had left it, and were
soon driven at a sharp pace back to my
home.

I let myself and my mysterious companion
into the house with the latchkey,
and when once again in the surgery,
the bandage was finally removed from
my eyes.

You have earned your fee, sir,
honourably and fully," said the stranger,
as he put an envelope into my hand ;
I must only beg now that you will
preserve this as an inviolable secret to
the end of your days."

He then shook me warmly by the
hand, and left the house.

The broad daylight of the early summer
morning had given me a clearer

view than I had yet had of his face,

K 2

and I could not help, of course, making
mental note of it, as it is needless to
say I had also done of the countenances
of the only other two persons I had
seen during the strange expedition.

The brougham drove off from my
door as soon as we alighted, and the
stranger departed on foot, probably topick
it up farther down the road, and
thus prevent me from identifying the
turn-out." I had no suspicion at what
part of the river the house-boat was
moored, for I had arrived in the dark,
and the bandage was replaced over my
eyes ere I left the cabin, the window-blinds
of which were closely drawn.
Beyond the faces, therefore, of the actors
in the scene, with idiom I had come in
contact, I had not the slightest clue to
help me to investigate the affair, even

had I wished to do so, but I did not. It
was no business of mine, and though
calculated to excite curiosity, it would
not have been honourable to pry into
the secret.

Honestly therefore, I should never have
taken another step in the matter had not
circumstances, after a long lapse of years,
brought it vividly to my memory. For
the time being, I was only too content
to leave things as they were, for the
envelope I held in my hand contained
notes for a hundred and fifty pounds.

Yes, it was over twenty years ere anything
like a solution of the mysterious
occurrence just recorded presented itself,
and not until I was well established asa
consulting surgeon in London.

The struggle for practice had been

sharp, but I had won. On leaving ,

I had entered upon a wider arena, and
there became successful, if not exactly
renowned. Enjoying an excellent reputation
in my profession, I am, as you
know, sufficiently prosperous and well-to-do.
Attached to one of the principal
hospitals, like many of my professional
brethren, I give a portion of my time,
with all my skill, to the contest with
disease and calamity, which is for ever

g

oinef on in these noble institutions.

"■b

I was visiting the beds in my charge,
one sultry afternoon in June, when I
heard that a serious accident had just
been brought in. A porter, at a neighbouring
railway terminus, had received
some terrible injuries, and was now
lying insensible in the accident ward
awaiting my help.

Truly, it was a shocking bad business.
There was a compound fracture of the
right upper arm ; the right side was
much crushed, three ribs were broken,
and the right hip was severely bruised.
He must have been nipped between the
buffers of two trucks when in the act of
shunting them, but I did not pause to
inquire what had been the exact character
of the sad mischance, satisfied as
usual rather to devote all my energies
to the sufferer as I saw him on the
bed before me.

A long and careful examination of
the injured parts and resetting of
the arm was followed by the application
of splints, bandages, etc., and half-an-hour
elapsed before everything was
arranged to my satisfaction. Giving a
few parting instructions to the house-surgeon

and the nurse especially entrusted
with the case, I was about to go,
when my attention was riveted by something
which had hitherto escaped me.
The patient's shirt lay open, and thereupon
the left breast, was a pine-apple
shaped nasvus, such as I had only
seen once in my life before.

In a moment, all the circumstances
connected with that, the strangest of
all my professional visits, recurred tome,
and the original interest and curiosity
which I had felt about it revived
with extraordinary clearness. Was it to
be my destiny after all, whether I
would or not, to probe the mystery
farther ? Could it be possible that this
was the same child? that this rough
operative, this hard-handed son of toil,
half killed by a terrible accident, ashe

followed his laborious calling, was
the boy born so mysteriously on board
the house-boat, of parents so obviously
wealthy, and of good position?

I was fairly puzzled at first, then I
was for dismissing the matter altogether
from my thoughts. It was a mere
coincidence, nothing more. Why should
a baby born on board a house-boat
have a monopoly of a pine-apple nrevus
as its birth mark ? Preposterous ! I left
the hospital, laughing at myself for my
romantic folly.

Still the idea clung to me, and the
more I thought about it the more I felt
convinced that this was no mere coincidence,
whilst an irresistible desire possessed
me to, at least, find out something
about this young man.

For days and weeks I attended the

case, and was much interested in it, no
less surgical, than because the young
fellow was so patient, and yet so cheery
under his great trial. It quite did me
good to hear how hopefully he spoke,
how cheerfully he sought, by every
means possible, to make light of his
accident, and to reduce the anxiety of
his old father, who came daily to see
him.

A quaint, wizened-visaged old man
was this ; small in frame, yet with monstrous
feet and hands, and a pear-shaped
head covered with a thick thatch
of reddish-grey hair ; a pair of shifty
ferret-like eyes set deep in his head,
and far too close together, did not tend
to lessen his unprepossessing appearance.
The contrast, indeed, between father and
son, was very strongly marked. If my

profession had taught me anything about
such matters, it had taught me to misdoubt
the possibility of the relationship
here. There was not one single element
of consanguinity visibly existing between
these two. This little old man was no
more the father of my patient than he
was my father. This conclusion, arrived
at after long and close observation,
strengthened my conviction that I had
come upon the track of some dubious
business after all, and strengthened also
my determination to investigate it.

I laid myself open for an opportunity
to begin, and it soon offered.

"My son's a-doing' pretty well, ain't he,
sir ?" asked the old man, one day when
I met him gong up to, just as I was
leaving, the patient.

Oh dear, yes," I replied : " he will be

about again in another month ; but it will
be a long time before he will be fit for
any work — at least, such work as he has
been doing, he can never do that again.
But just step in here," I continued to the
old man, leading the way into an anteroom.
"I Avant to ask you whether it
will not be possible for him to find some
lighter occupation for the future? He
could never have been quite up to the
mark as a railway porter ; he is not built
for it. His long taper fingers and light
agile-looking frame suggest the breed of
the race-horse rather than the cart-horse,
and they don't use race-horses to drag
railway trucks. What is your OAvn
trade?"

"I am a shoemaker, sir," was the
answer.

Ah ! Well now, why did not you

bring him up to that? Such work would
have suited him much better," I said.

The old fellow shuffled, his shifty eyes
became very restless, and he made no
answer.

Is it too late for him to turn shoemaker
now?" I asked, after a moment's
pause.

"No. I don't know as it is, sir, if he
would be willing for me to learn him the
trade : but I don't think he'd take to it
like."

"What is his exact age?" I said.

"Well, I can't rightly tell, sir, my
memory's so bad."

"Is his mother living? Doesn't she
know?" I inquired.

She's dead," said the man, getting
more and more uneasy in his manner.

How long ago ?"

"Well, you see, sir, I don't rightly
remember ; as I says, my memory 's so
bad."

Yes, perhaps ; but you can remember
if she has been dead five, ten, or twenty
years."

"'No, I can't," he said sulkily, after a
pause ; " maybe it's ten."

Every moment I became more and
more convinced that I was right — this was
not the young fellow's father ; and seeing
that he was not inclined to be communicative,
I was a little at a loss how to
proceed without arousing the old man's
suspicions. Indeed, he was evidently on
his guard already; so, for the present, I
settled that I Avould transfer my inquiries
to the patient, and try what his recollections
of his early days were. Therefore,
I concluded the interview with a few

more commonplace suggestions for the
young man's future, and the next day
started upon the same tack by his own
bedside.

"How came it," I said, "that you ever
took to a railway porter's work?"

"It was along of my doing odd jobs
for the station master when I was a boy

at ," and he named a railway station

in the neighbourhood of the Upper
Thames.

"Were you born there?"

I believe so, sir, thereabouts ; father
kept a lock-house."

"And you went to school in that
place ? " I suggested.

Yes, sir, not far off, at ," and

he named a town also in the same
district; "but I never had any schooling
after I was between eight and nine."

My suspicions were absolutely confirmed,
and the locality being identical
with that in which I had formerly been
in practice was a very significant coincidence
indeed.

Lost your mother when quite young,
I suppose ? " I said presently.

I believe so, sir. I never knew her
anyhow."

Ah, that was sad," I remarked indifferently
; " who brought you up ? "

My aunt, sir — father's sister."

"Is she living?"

Oh yes ; hale and hearty."

"What? down at "

No, up here in London now, sir ;
lives with my father."

She knew your mother ? "

I suppose so, sir. Oh yes, of course ;
but she has not often spoken about

her, and I've never paid much heed
when she has."

I should like to have a little talk
with her some day," I said. " I should
like to ask her if your mother had any
mark about her similar to that which
you bear on your chest."

Ah, that's a funny thing, isn't it,,
sir ? " he interposed.

Yes," I replied ; " but it interests
me from a medical point of view. Give
me your aunt's address."

He did so, and I determined to pay
her a visit, when I was sure her
brother would be away. Meanwhile I
continued :

Well, you'll have to give up railway
ordering now."

"I suppose I shall," he said. "I
shall hardly know what to be up to."

VOL. III. L

I am afraid you won't be fit for
much ; would you like to go into service
? — domestic service, I mean — that
would suit you."

The young man jumped at the
idea.

Well, if you can give me any references
besides the railway company —
your schoolmaster, or anyone near your
old home — I mean that I coidd write
to, — I might take you myself on trial if
all proved satisfactory. To be my manservant,
in fact ; to open the door to
my patients, and so on. I shall want
one shortly."

He acquiesced gladly and gratefully,
and gave me the address of the clergyman
of the parish he had named on the
Upper Thames.

I took an early opportunity of driving
up to the northern suburb where dwelt
my patient's aunt, as he called her. I
found her the very counterpart of her
brother in petticoats. She resented my
inquiries, and behaved with the same display
of suspicion as the old man had
done. These people, I felt morally sure,
were in the secret of the young fellow's
birth ; or, if not absolutely that, they
were aware of some underhand dealing
in the case, and were afraid of getting
into trouble by letting out anything that
they might know. They appeared to be
living in great penury, the shoemaker's
shop, or rather cobbler's stall, with a
little back parlour, at the farther end of
which were two truckle beds, constituted
their entire abode. These quarters were
situated all but in a cellar, the house

L 2

above which stood in the slummiest part
of a very poor neighbourhood. It was
a most miserable dwelling, and as I could
get nothing out of the old woman who
was minding the place, I was glad to
escape from it. My curiosity however
grew keener and keener as these little
points were developed, and Whether justifiably
or not, I could not resist the
temptation to constitute myself the
righter of this wrong, for that wrong
existed somewhere was no longer to be
doubted.

For the present I did not see my way
much farther in the business, and of
course I had but little time to think
about it. Fate, however, ordained that
I should be by no means allowed to
forget it.

No longer in general practice, it was

but rarely now that I came in contact
with that class of case out of which my
chief income was formerly derived. But
it so happened that just at this period
I was called in, in consultation upon the
old familiar ground, and for the second
time in my life I assisted to bring into
the world a young gentleman stamped
with a nD3vus. I chanced to remark
this fact to my medical friend in the
presence of the nurse, an elderly woman,
whose face seemed familiar to me.
Hereupon she likewise remarked it was
only the second instance lie had known
of the kind. On this I looked at her
more closely, and then, all of a sudden,
and with a certainty that it was impossible
to doubt, I knew that our
mutual experience dated from the same
case. She was the same person who

had been my assistant on board that
louse-boat twenty years before. At last,
then, I had got hold of a clue in the
very nick of time, and filled as I was
with the idea, you may be sure I did
not mean to lose it again. Before I
left the house I whispered a word to
the nurse privately, which startled her so,
that any doubt I might have had about
her identity was instantly swept away.

"That other nasvus you referred to,"
I said, " was in the shape of a pineapple,
was it not ? " and I saw that
when I had thus refreshed her memory
she recognised me.

Not to dwell upon the preliminary
steps by which I brought about a private
interview with this person, I will come
to its result.

Xow, Mrs. ,*' I said to her good-naturedly,
when we were alone in my
consulting room, "we won't beat about
the bush ; you confess you remember
me, and I do you, perfectly."

"But surely, sir," she interrupted,
you laye no idea of making any use
of the professional secret we were then
concerned with ? "

"Nones'' I replied, "but that of seeing
justice done."

"Justice done?" she exclaimed; "I
don't understand."

Well, then," I answered, " do you
think it just or right, that a child born
under those circumstances with which you
and I are acquainted, should at this
moment be in my service as footman ? "

I really don't understand," she repeated.


Then," said I, " perhaps you will when

I tell you that the young man who

opened the door to you, and showed you

into this room — my servant, in fact — is

Tone other than the youngster whom you

.and I helped into the world, and who

was stamped with that remarkable pineapple

ngevus.

•*" Impossible ! " she cried*'

It is a fact," I went on ; and I told
her how I lead come upon it ; and again
asked her if she thought the matter
should be allowed to rest as it was. In
recounting the first part of my story, I
think I referred to this person as a ladylike
prepossessing woman. She was so
still, in an eminent degree, and very very
superior, even to the ordinary run of the
best of her class. She was above sixty
years of age now, perhaps, but as upright

and elastic in step as when I first met
her. She began to pace the room in
great agitation, and after a while I
said :

Xow see here : I don't ask you to
tell me what you know of those people
on board the house-boat if we can arrange
matters without your doing so. But it
is perfectly clear that that young fellow
ought not to be in the position he now
is. He has been almost killed, and will
never be fit for work again. He is not
even equal to what he is doing now ;
I have only taken him on for a purpose,
and looking at the position his parents
occupied, he ought to be provided for."

She held up her hand to stop me.

"They were not his parents," she said.

lyell, one of them was, at any rate,"
I exclaimed, smiling.

"Ah yes, but the gentleman was not
the father ! "

"No? — you surprise me; did he know
he was not ? ''

Yes, perfectly ; but oh, it is a most
painful terrible story ! " exclaimed Mrs.

" I only learnt it from the poor

lady's ■ own lips, for I was engaged and
taken to the house-boat with the same
secrecy as you were, sir, and but for the
poor lady herself, as I say, I should
never have known more than you did."

And the lady ? " I enquired.

She has been dead many years."

And the gentleman ? " I added.

He also, nearly as long ago."

Ah ! then that may account for my
never having seen him about London,
as I have often thought I might do; I
mean in the streets. I should not have

forgotten his face. However, I was ixoino:
to say, as lie was not the father, his
death does not so much signify for my
purpose. The father is the man I should
like to get at."

"That will be very difficult," she
answered ; "I don't know who he is ;
no one will ever know, probably."

When did you last see the child,
and what have you supposed had become
of him ? "

I last saw him about a month after
you did, sir ; and I supposed that uj) to
the time of his death the uncle would
have taken care of the boy. After that
well I don't know that I have thought
much about it."

"The uncle?" I repeated, for I was
growing sorely puzzled by this time
who was his uncle ? "

"Why, the gentleman — Lord But

there, I need not tell you the name ; if
I tell you all I know, short of that, it
will be sufficient, and perhaps it will be
better that I should do so — though I
promised I would never betray that poor
lady's confidence. Yet, could she know
how her boy is wronged, and how perhaps
a word from me may help to set
him right — or, as you say, sir, to see
justice done him — she — she — the poor
lady, his mother, will forgive me, I know.'

Yes — well," said I, " I think you had
better tell me all you know, for, I tell
you honestly, I don't mean to leave things
as they are with regard to the poor young
fellow himself; and, in the end, it may
save an expose if you are candid."

Then she spoke out to the following
effect :

While I was nursing; the laclv she
grew very doAvnhearted on more than
one occasion, and thought she was orinoco
die — said she wished to die. I used
to try and cheer her by speaking of the
delight her boy would be to his father
and mother by-and-by ; for, of course, at
first I thought the gentleman on board
the house-boat was the father, as you did,
sir. This seemed only to make her worse ;
and one evening, when the gentleman was
away and we were alone on board that
boat — a feeling very solitary to both of
us, for we were in a very lonely part of
the river on a broad backwater near a
weir, half-a-mile away even from a lock-house
— that evening, I say, she told me
her secret — how she had been betrayed ;
how she was not married ; how she was
of noble birth, and how ruin, degradation,

and disgrace were staring her in the
face ; how her brother, her only brother,
the heir to her father's title, had discovered
her situation, and determined to
rescue her at all costs, and, if possible,
save her reputation. The house-boat was
his, and it was her brother whom you
and I saw, sir. He contrived to get his
sister away, and brought her through
her trouble on board the boat in the
way which you and I know, and unknown
to anybody else. The boy was
put out to nurse, and the lady went back
to her parents, her friends, and the world,
with a perfectly untarnished reputation ;
but I believe she never held her head
up again. Of course I learned her name,
and that of her family ; and within a
year I saw her death in the The Times
newspaper. She was then only twenty-one.

Ah, sir," continued the nurse, " I
have seen many strange and painful cases
in my time — cases of which the world
has not the slightest conception as it
moves to and fro with all its gaiety and
finery — but this is the most painful and
strange I have ever encountered ; and
now the coincidence of my meeting you
again makes it stranger still. Poor boy
poor young fellow! To think of his
being in your house at the present moment,
maimed and crippled, it is very
wonderful, very." And the good woman
put her handkerchief to her eyes, and
was sincerely affected, for she seemed to
have a tender heart and kindly feelings,
which are assuredly the mainspring of all
good manners.

'eyes, it is an extraordinary case, I
admit," said I, after a pause. " But now

tell me what was done with the child,
that we may ascertain how it comes
about that he was not better provided for."
The child, sir, as I said," she proceeded,
" was put out to nurse, I suppose,
and, although I was not aware of it at
the time, there is no doubt that under
the circumstances it was necessary that
the mother, unmarried as she was, should
never see it again — at any rate not for
many years. Poor little darling ! it and she,
as usual, had to suffer for the father's
wickedness, whoever he was. He goes
scot-free maybe, is respected, and a so-called
respectable man with a wife and
children, and all the rest of it. And yet
his poor victim's death lies at his door,
for I have little doubt it was the sorrow
and suffering at the separation from her
babe which accelerated her end."

I wish we could find him out," I
remarked.

I wish we could, sir, but that, you see,
is impossible. I have no clue ; the lady
gave me none."

No ? then it is hopeless," I agreed ;
but tell me, who were the people that
took charge of the child ? "

That I don't know, sir, either ; everything
was managed so secretly by his
lordship. He cared for nothing but saving
his sister's reputation ; he did not care
who or what he sacrificed for that. The
child was taken away at night by its
uncle out of the cot, and given — swell, I
don't know to whom. I heard a boat
alongside the house-boat, and I heard it
row away, but I never saw the poor babe
again. The mother became quite convalescent.
I was handsomely paid, and

VOL. III. M

taken away as I had been brought, blindfolded,
under the charge of the gentleman
himself, exactly as you were, sir;
and according to the agreement I was induced
to make. I was younger and less
experienced in those days, and wanted
money, but had I known what I do now,
nothing would ever have induced me to
fall in with such a doubtful cruel plot."

And the brother," I asked, " the gentleman
— his lordship, as you say — he is dead
too, do I understand ? "

Yes, I saw his death in the paper, not
many years after his sister's ; he was
unmarried, I believe, and his father's title,
which he had inherited, had passed to
another branch of the family."

Ah ! I see, and so the secret is absolutely
a professional one ; the chances are,
that there is not a soul living who knows

a word about it, except you and me, for
of course the people who had charge of
the child were not likely to have been
let into it. Still they know something, I
am confident of that. They have not
acted up to their bargain, whatever it
was, and have not behaved honestly or
expended on the poor boy the provision
that was doubtless made for him. The
death of the chief mover in the business —
this gentleman — which they probably knew
of, relieved them from their responsibility,
as they, with their low code of
morality, assume. Had he lived, we may
hope that he would have taken care to
see something like justice done to his
nephew, illegitimate though he was."

"Yes, we must hope so," she added.

Then I told my friend the nurse what
I knew about the queer old man who

M 2

called himself the lad's father, and my
experience of him and his sister, and
also what I had learned about them from
my patient since he had been in my house.

How to bring this precious pair to
book was the difficulty. Could it be

done, in fact ? I agreed with Mrs.

that it would be worth while making one
effort, perhaps.

It just occurs to me," I said, " was
there no one else ever on board the
boat, but you three? how did you get
your cooking, etc., done?"

No one else ever slept on board the
boat, or ever entered our cabin. I agreed
originally to make myself generally useful
in all respects, but a woman used to
come on board for an hour or two daily
to cook in the little galley as I think it
was called. She was supposed to be the

wife of the man at the lock-house half-a-mile
off. She never saw anyone but
the gentleman and me occasionally, and
need not necessarily have known that
there was anyone else on board, whatever
she might have suspected. It was
a point, of course, to keep everything
as secret as possible, I had understood
this and agreed to it."

Should you be able to recognise that
woman again, if you saw her, do you
think?" I demanded.

I can hardly think so," was the
answer, " it is so long ago."

Still, we will try, Mrs. ; you

shall come with me up to these people's
abode, and it may be that the old
woman will turn out to be your cook,
and that the child was handed over to
her tender mercies. Meanwhile, I think

you 111 list confide to me the name of his
lordship — the family name — for this
reason : I will examine his will at Doctors'
Commons, and see if, by its terms, it
Avill give me any clue as to whether
or not he made any provision for this
luckless waif."

She saw the force of my reason, and
did as I requested. That afternoon I
paid a visit to Doctors' Commons, and
found that, by a codicil, two thousand
pounds had been invested in the names
of certain trustees (a firm of solicitors),

for the benefit of a certain Thomas ,

the very man, the reputed father of my
patient and servant ! The interest was
to be paid to him half-yearly, until his
son Thomas should be of age, when the
two thousand pounds were to become
wholly and solely his. This was nearly

all I wanted. I saw the state of the case
at a glance, much as I had suspected.
Of course this old vagabond had been
in receipt annually of something like a
hundred pounds, which, after his lordship's
death, and when he was thus
relieved from any surveillance, he had
probably hoarded, instead of expending
for the benefit of the boy. The testator
had been dead twelve years, hence, in all
likelihood, the old cobbler had accumulated
hard upon twelve hundred pounds.
The young man was not yet quite of
age. In another few months he at least
could claim his two thousand pounds
principal. He hand only to be prompted
to establish his claim, and so far lie
would come by his own. Whether it
was the cobbler's intention to give him
this prompting when the time came,

supposing him to know the terms of the
will, one could not say, but it did not
seem likely. In all probability he would
try some hanky-panky game to possess
himself of it, and the loose provisions
of the will might enable him to do so
easily ; to wit, he had only to make it
appear that his son was dead, and the
money might come to him as next of
kin. This was but speculation, however,
and since I intended now to put my
poor patient up to his rights, it was
not worth while pursuing it further.
Whether again it would be possible to
make Crispin disgorge any or all of the
accumulated interest, supposing it had
been accumulated as I suspected, was
another question. We would see what
could be done, however, by a little
wholesome intimidation. Now that I was

in possession of these facts my hand
was so strong that I did not expect
to have much difficulty in playing my
cards, especially if, by good luck, Mrs.

the nurse, should recognise in

the old sister the woman who had acted
as cook and help on board the house-boat


Happily she did recognise her on the
instant of our arrival at her mean and
sordid dwelling ; and, to her infinite
discomfiture, the old woman instantly

recognised Mrs. . Seeing this, I

plunged in medias res, cutting short the
whining and fulsome torrent of thanks
with which she and her brother, who
Alas at home, began to overwhelm me for
having " so kindly provided a situation
for their poor boy." This gave me my
cue, and I said : —

There is no need for you to thank
me. What I have done is only just for
the time being, because you know as
well as I do that if your ' poor boy,' as
you call him, had his rights, he would
be independent of help."

The shifty, shuffling, cringing old pain"
grew very uncomfortable at this. Their
behaviour convinced me I was on the
right track. I continued : —

Now, Thomas, you know as well as
I do that this young fellow is no more
your son than he is mine. Whether you
know whose son he really is, I cannot
say, but that is of no consequence. You
also know as well as I do that nearly
ever since you took charge of him you
have been receiving something like a
hundred a year for you to provide for
him, and that with this money you were

to educate and bring him up in comfort
and respectability."

And we have brought him up very
respectable," broke in the couple in
chorus.

'' You have done nothing of the kind,"
I went on. Such respectability as he was
in until he met with his accident was
due to himself, as you are well aware;
for you know that when his benefactor
died you took him away from school,
and have scarcely spent a penny on him
ever since. You allowed him to go about
like a ragamuffin, and earn what he could
by helping the station-master at until,
gradually, by his own exertions he
managed to make himself respected as a
common railway porter, a post for which
he was utterly unfitted. You see I am
acquainted with all the circumstances ;

and I am now going to make you give
an account of what you have done with
every penny of the money you have received
for his maintenance. I don't wish
to be hard upon you, because, it would
seem, you have never been positively
unkind to him — you have simply and
entirely neglected him, and you have not
hesitated to make him partly support you
out of his paltry and hard-earned wages,
while at the same time, as I have said,
you were getting a hundred a year to
support him. The time has now come
when there must be an end to this ; so
tell me what you have done with the
money. Make a clean breast of it, both
of you, or I'll bring the law down upon
you in no time."

The scare was complete. My plan had
answered fully. I will not prolong the

story by attempting to describe the faint
show of fight Crispin and his sister made
of it. A little bluster was at first

adopted, but I and Mrs. together

were too much for them. They really
did not know as much as we did, being
entirely ignorant of everything but the
simple fact that the gentleman to whom
the house-boat had belonged, and whose
child they supposed the boy to be, had
provided them money to keep him. The
main point of my story is, that after a
little circumlocution and fencing, I made
them hand over to me, then and there,
above a thousand pounds in notes and
gold, which the old misers had secreted
in various receptacles in different parts
of their abode.

Thus I drew their teeth one by one,
as I may express it, my simple forceps

being intimidation. Altogether it was a
fine scene, well Avorth elaborating, were
I a novelist instead of a medical man.
But here is the end of my professional
secret. I should add, however, that I
have never told the young fellow what
his parentage was ; I thought it better
not. He is of an affectionate, simple,
trusting nature ; and, despite their
unworthiness, he was sincerely fond of
the miserable old couple, and so I
allowed his belief in his relationship to
them to remain undisturbed. I accounted
to him for his accession to (Comparative
wealth by telling him only half the truth."
A certain rich gentleman," I said,
who desired to remain unknown, and
who was now dead, had provided for
him on account of his inability henceforth
to do any hard work."

Having carried my point with the old
cobbler and his sister, I made them also
fall into this my plan, and showing
them that they would, in all probability
reap considerable benefit still, from their
so-called son's prosperity, I made them
promise to keep the secret.

Divulge it," I said to them, " and
when he knoAvs how you have defrauded
him, and that you are not related to
him, the chances are that you will never
see the colour of his money again."

This argument was conclusive ; and I
have reason to know that the kept
their words to the end. They both died
quite recently and in decent comfort,
thanks to the young man, who, after
he became paymaster, took good care
to frustrate their miserly propensities.

Having educated himself up to the

mark, he at present occupies the post of
clerk, secretary, general factotum, what
you will, to an old bookish friend of
mine, with whom I trust he will remain
for many years ; and, in some obscure
position he will probably end his days,
notwithstanding that in his veins flows
some of the purest blood in the kingdom.


We medicos necessarily become acquainted
with many strange professional
secrets, and now you know up to a
certain point the strangest of which I
have been the depository.

VOL. III.

T Know nothing about politics, except
that they must be very horrid
things — they make men so unscrupulous,
and so angry with each other ; and remembering
what I went through on their
account at the time Geoffrey stood for
Fluffborough, I am sure I have good
cause to detest the very name of an
election. 0, that canvassing, shall I ever
forget it ? The heaps of dreadful people
I had to go and be civil to and
pretend to make much of! The vulgar
creatures of men, and their still more
vulgar creatures of wives, and the babies

and children ! It makes me quite sick

N 2

to think of it even now. O, the dirty
sour little brats that I had to take on
my knee, and to pet and to kiss, and
to cram with lollypops, and to " catches
and " toodle " and " snoozle" at !
Then too, what made matters ten thousand
times worse, all this happened in
the very midst of the hunting season.
Just when the weather broke after a six
weeks' hard frost, and turned as soft
and sweet as velvet and kisses ; when the
wind took to blowing from the south perpetually,
and the scent lay as strong on
fallow and upland as the wood-violet
in my glove-box ; when I had had two
glorious runs and been in at the death
on both occasions — when, I say, I was
just thinking I should have the best year's
sport I had ever known, what should
happen but that abominable dissolution

of parliament. I had to give up all
thought of any more sport, and leave
our own dear place and the delicious
fragrant "open" for the pestiferous smoky
filth of Fluffborousfli. Yes, I had to qo
off with Geoffrey at a hand-gallop, and
take up our quarters at the Boar and
Castle in the Hisfh-street of that disgusting
hole of a town. Then, again, the
touchy temper Geoffrey was in all the
while ! I really believe I suffered more
from that than anything. I don't mean
at first, when we believed it was to be
nothing more than a walk over, as we
should say in racing language : then he
was in wonderful spirits, and like his
dear old self. But Avhen, at the last
moment, and when we thought our victory
secure, the other side, those awful
Liberals, started a candidate; and dien

that candidate turned out to be none
other than my old friend Percy Flame
(poor Percy), of whom Geoffrey was always
jealous, I never knew such a temper ashe
got into ; there was no doing anything
with him. It reached such a pitch at
last that I could not stand it, and I
determined something must be done; so
I took " a desperate resolution," as poor
Blackstone used to say in Box and Co.v.

It was the day before the nomination :
the whole town was in a state of wild
excitement and uproar ; boisterous,
ruffianly, drunken excitement, such as I
am glad co hear, under the new order of
things, does not happen now. For days
various forms of squibs and jokes had
been flying about in every direction.
Offensive placards and insolent caricatures
of Geoffrey were stuck up by the other

side oil every wall and hoarding. Preposterous
and equally offensive representations
of poor dear old Percy, with
his long neck, small waist, and little feet,
were put up by our side ; and I wondered
how gentlemen could condescend to lend
their names to any proceedings so undignified,
vulgar, and disgusting. Well,
I say it wanted but one day to the
nomination, and there was a meeting atour
rooms^in our private sitting-room,
mind — at the Boar and Castle, of some
of Geoffrey's committee, headed by Mr.
Poggam, his agent. They never seemed
to care the least bit about my being
there, or what inconvenience they caused
me ; but discussed their horrid business
and overhauled their lists of voters, and
questioned and talked until I was nearly
driven mad ^vith their jargon. Of course

I didn't the least understand its details,
but I managed to gather two facts : first,
that if Percy Flage did not appear on the
hustings the next day, why the coast
would be clear again, and my husband's
victory assured ; secondly, that it might
not be a very difficult thing to prevent
his doing so if he could be " got at,"
and induced to withdraw at the last
moment.

For," said Mr. Poggam, " I hear he is
very half-hearted about it, and personally
doesn't desire the seat — indeed, would
rather not have it. In point of fact he
has not yet appeared upon the scene or
once addressed the electors, and is only
expected down to-night. They say his
father is at the bottom of the business
and has insisted on his standing, chie ally
because the old gentleman loves a fight

as much now as he did when he used
to put on the gloves with Ben Count or
the Tipperary Topper. He always was
a pugilistic old gent. Nevertheless, if
our opponent does come up to the
scratch, and we have to go to the poll,
it will be a close thing — indeed, a doubtful
thing ; for I happen to know that
money has been flowing lately as freely
as beer amongst the licensed-victualling
class, and many other important bodies
of the constituency. No, my dear sir,"
added Mr. Poggam pompously ; " rely on
it, our only certainty of victory lies in
getting at the fountain head, in stopping
Flage's appearance on the hustings ; and
the question is. Can't he be got at?"

Yes, and that was the morality of
electioneering as well as the question !
Here, as I say, vrcre gentlemen condescending

to behave like a set of card-sharpers
and dishonest jockeys, and
talking about "getting at" their opponents
exactly as low stable-boys and welshers
might talk of " getting at " a race-horse.
However, I had been assured over andover
again that all was as fair in electioneering
as in love and war, and it was
my duty to stick to our colour — to cry
Dark Blue for ever ! and to stand by my
husband through thick and thin, however
wrong I might think him or whatever
came of it. Besides, have I not said I
Alas desperate? So, with desperation and
duty urging me on, I took the resolution
that I have hinted at, then and there.

Percy Flage's committee sat at the
"Magpie and Turnip," which hostelry had
broken out in light-blue banners and
streamers, just as ours had a little

higher up the street been smothered withall
sorts of devices in the darker azure.
Not that 1 ever understood what a committee
does when it sits at an hotel on
these occasions, or why it should be
necessary to state the fact that it is
sitting there, fifty times over, by filling
every window pane with a huge placard
to that effect ; but that's my ignorance,
and so, please, we won't dwell on it ; only
such doings seem to me quite too ridiculously
childish. I found out that Percy
himself did not put up at the "- Magpie
and Turnip," but at the '' Five-barred Gate,"
a quiet little hotel quite on the outskirts
of the town, and that he himself was
not expected down till that evening. This
was all thoroughly characteristic of Percy,
who, 1 may as well say here, was one
of the most indolent, apathetic, dear

old noodles in the world. A man more
utterly unfitted for Parliament I could not
conceive, at least when I knew him. He
hated noise and bustle, and was ready
to do anything, or give up anything, ashe
used to say, for the sake of a quiet
life. He was very fond of me once;
but ah, that's past, and must not bethought
of now. The only amusement
he really cared for was hunting, and it
was on this that he and I had originally
chummed. I said nothing of my intention,
of course, to Geoffrey or anybody,
except my maid Purky ; but I made up
my mind to go and see Percy, to " get
at him " in fact, and, if possible, to so
morally hocus him as to induce him to
give up the contest. If he was obdurate,
or showed in any way that I had lost
my old power over him, I would resort

to stratagem to prevent his appearing on
the hustings : yes, that I would ! I daresay
it was very wicked, and sounds awfully
fast and all that ; but I am a very determined
woman, and when I mean going,
I go " straight as an arrow from a Tartar's
bow." I meant going now. I thought
that I could trust myself — I felt sure I
could, vain woman that I was.

Mr. Flage arrived yet ? " I asked of
the politest of head-waiters, when, just
as it was getting dusk, and in company
with Purky, I took a fly out to the
"Five-barred Gate," and had pushed my
way through the knot of idlers gathered
round the entrance to the hotel.

"Yes, ma'am, just arrived; you wish
to see him ? "

Please, if he is alone."

*eyes, he is alone now, ma'am; but

he is expecting his agent at seven
o'clock."

Following the waiter as he led the
way up-stairs, I whispered to Purky to
keep close to the door, but not to come
into the room. Purky was a good little
soul, very fond of me, and about my
own height and figure (some people said
she was like me in the face — a cheap
second edition of me, a sporting young
author once called her), and she was
thoroughly in my confidence.

Now that I had taken this step, and
was on the threshold of my venture,
my heart misgave me ; and when I heard
the once dear and well-remembered voice
inquiring of the waiter whom it was
that claimed an audience, an ungovernable
feeling of anxiety possessed me.
But it was too late to draw back now ;

so, figuratively shutting my eyes, I
pushed past the waiter as he stood by
the half-opened door, and closed it
behind me.

Percy was in a further room.

Who is it, I say ? " he called out
as he came forward. " Good Heavens !
What, Maude, you here ! '*' he continued,
as, throwing up my veil, I stood before
him.

As we looked at each other during
the pause that followed, I felt on the
instant, with a strange sort of quiver
running through me, how imprudent I
had been, what a false step I had taken.
My nerves seemed failing me, and my
eyes dropped before his languishing gaze.
We had not met for some years ; but
it seemed suddenly as if time had been
annihilated, and that we were back in

the days that are gone. Good gracious !
what fatal imprudence had I committed !
What entanglement was I rushing into !
These and kindred thoughts surged
through my mind, overwhelming me and
driving the main purpose of my visit
out of my head. You, my sisters, who
have never stood in such a situation,
spare me ; do not utterly condemn an
erring sister unless you have passed
through unscathed a similar ordeal — .
But there, my courage fails me ; I can
write no more. I cannot with my own
pen record — I could not even whisper —
the story of that interview even within
the secrecy of a confessional. No ; I
intended to make a clear breast of
everything when I took up my pen ;
but it is of no use. My eyes grow dim,
and a faintness seizes me as I think of it.

The above personal narrative, in the
handwriting of the Honourable Mrs.
Geoffrey Darincourt, of Deringdoo Hall,
breaks off here ; but the ink which
connects it with the end of her story,
together with the end itself, can be
gleaned by the following extracts from
the Fluff borough Gazette, and other high-minded
and enlightened organs Which,
in those days, represented opposing parties
in that all important borough.

In the leading article of the evening
edition, which appeared on nomination-day,
may be read : —

Our triumph has been complete ;
our half-hearted opponents have yielded
at the critical moment ; they had not
even the courage of their opinions, and
threw up the sponge before the first
round was fought. It is easy for them

VOL. III.

to pretend that the non-appearance of
their candidate, Percy Flage, Esq., on
the hustings this morning, is due to
some unaccountable accident ; it is easy
for them to speak of his withdrawal
from the contest and disappearance from
the town as a mysterious circumstance
upon which the future may throw an
unpleasant light. Dark hints and vague
aspersions upon the purity of our proceedings
are but idle and transparent
attempts to hide the weakness of their
party ; we have felt from the first, and
have never disguised our opinion, that
the heart of Fluffborough was in the
right place, and that her sons were
Conservative to the backbone. The return
of the Honourable Geoffrey Agincourt
without opposition makes good
our words. The scene at the hustings,

when it became known that there was
no Liberal candidate forthcoming, and
that it would be too late to ' run '
another in his place, will not easily be
forgotten. And when, to the amazement
of all, the following letter from him
was read on the hustings the excitement
and uproar beggar description. Here is
the precious document : —
To the Liberal Electors of Fluffhorough.
It is with no little contrition that,
at the eleventh hour, I have come to
the conclusion that it will be wiser and
more honest on my part, as well as
better for the interests of our cause,
for me to withdraw from the approaching
contest. Various reasons, many private,
but all well weighed, have decided
me on taking this step. I am in every

respect unworthy of the honour which

o 2

it was your desire to confer upon me,
and my chief regret is that I should
have ever lent myself, as I did from
the first unwillingly, to your wish that
I should represent you in Parliament ;
and whilst fully recognising the gravity
of the disappointment which my retirement
must produce in our ranks, I
nevertheless feel that your interest will
really in the end be better served by
my withdrawal ; and begging you, in all
sincerity, to believe that this is my
honest conviction, and with my heartfelt
apologies for not having arrived at it
earlier, I remain your humble servant,
(Signed) 'Percy Flage.'
This unblushing display of the white
feather from the fountain-head needs no
comment of ours to point out the feeble
rottenness of the cause which, from the

earliest, we have denounced as but a
purposeless, vain, and vexatious opposition
to the true feelings of the people of
Fluffborough.

The chagrin, the disappointment, the
rage exhibited by the Light Blues at this
unparalleled and pusillanimous proceeding
on the part of him to whom they desired
to intrust their interests would have been
amusing if it had not been painful ; whilst
the dignified bearing of the Dark Blues
in their hour of triumph, and the abstinence
from any unbecoming exultation,
must have lent an additional sting to the
situation."

Thus it will be seen that the interview,
whatever its nature, between the Honourable
Mrs. Darincourt and the Liberal
candidate probably had no small effect in
bringing about her husband's election ;

but further extracts from the local journals
show at what a heavy cost to the
member's domestic happiness it would
seem his success was purchased. Great
capital was made by the opposing interests
out of an astounding report, noised
abroad immediately after the scene at the
hustings, and which was thus set forth
in the columns of the Independent Liberal
Journal : —

The mendacity which characterises Conservative
tactics at all times has received
a striking illustration from a very painful
episode of this election, and we shudder
at the performance of a duty which lays
bare the corruption existing at the heart
of that society, whence the Conservative
party mainly draw their representatives.
We do not envy the successful candidate
his feelings as he remembers the price he

lias paid for his seat. It would appear,
in plain language, that, at the moment
when our misguided candidate, Percy
Flage, Esq., ought to have been standing
upon the hustings and expounding his
views to his generous supporters, he
was flying from the scene where an
honourable triumph awaited him ! Yes,
he was flying, we say, from Fluff"borough !
Such recalcitrance would have been unfortunate
enough under any circumstances ;
but when we further have to state that
he was accompanied by a lady, and that
that lady was no less a person than the
wife of his rival, we think comment is
unnecessary. From private sources we
learn that the lady paid a clandestine
visit the evening before to Mr. Flage,
when doubtless the elopement of the
parties was arranged — for it is known

that the foUowmg morning the gentleman
left Fluffborough by the first train for
London. The lady Avhose remarkable
personal attractions render her conspicuous
anywhere, notwithstanding all attempts
to disguise them, arrived at the station a
little before her paramour, and also took
a ticket for London. She was thickly
veiled ; but the railway-clerk happened
to be well acquainted with her by sight,
and declares himself with certainty on
this point. She did not leave Fluffborough
in the same carriage with Mr. Flage ; but
the misguided pair were seen to recognise
each other and to communicate by
gesture — indeed one report goes so far as
to say Mr. Flage was seen to speak to
her for a moment after she had taken her
seat, and then to enter another adjoining
compartment. Ungracious and ungenerous

as it may seem, we, as honest journalists,
however, are bound to speak the
truth, and in justice to our unfortunate
candidate must own that we are far from
attributing the entire blame of this most
blamable proceeding to him. The saddle
must be put upon the right horse, whatever
the consequences, and we have no
hesitation in saying that he was subjected
to a most terrible temptation.

"We have reason to know that the
lady, prior to her marriage with the Hon.
Geoffrey Darincourt, had a tendresse for
young Mr. Percy Flage ; and there is
little cause for doubting that she did not
scruple at this crisis in her former lover's
career to reawaken the old flame within
his breast, and thus, by her unscrupulous
mendacity, lure him from his duty —
alike to God and man."

The tremendous scandal, thus promulgated
by the Liberal journal within a few
hours after the occurrence was said to have
taken place, became, as may be imagined,
the one absorbing topic of conversation
amongst high and low. The most astounding
rumours were afloat. A scene of a
very painful character was said to have
ensued at the Boar and Castle, when the
truth broke in upon the deceived husband.
He had paid little attention to the
absence of his wife from the breakfast-table
; and, having to appear directly
afterwards on the hustings, had gone therein
ignorance of the real state of affairs. His
surprise at the non-appearance and withdrawal
of his opponent was as great as
that of everybody else ; and it was only
on his return to his hotel, after having
been duly declared elected by show of

hands, and no demand had been made fora
poll, that he learned the appalling fact.
It was stated that he had rushed up to this
wife's dressing room, and, finding the door
locked, had burst it open, and discovered
the lady's-maid in such a state of abject
despair that for a while she had, with her
face buried in her hands, been unable to
acquaint him with the full extent of his
misfortune, but that, at length, she had
made a full confession, and admitted that
she had assisted in her mistress's flight.
Then he shut himself up in his room, and
there remained till late in the afternoon.

Now when this rumour was at its height,
and had been circumstantially attested by
various indisputable authorities, and the
High-street of Flamborough was wild with
excitement, a climax was put to the whole
extraordinary affair by the sudden appearance

of the Hon. Geoffrey Darincourt
with his wife seated beside him in amicable
conversation in their open landau! The
carriage drove out of the hotel-yard with
its occupants, and proceeded through the
High-street and main thoroughfares, followed
by the astonished gaze of the
multitudes, who could not believe their
eyes, and for a long while hardly recognised
Who was in the vehicle.

What could it mean P For four-and-twenty
hours the mystery remained unsolved
to the multitude. And again it
was to a local journal that the public
finally turned for its solution.

That broadsheet at length, in the
largest type, printed the following : —
The Romance of the Election.
The Mystery and its Solution.
Confession of the Lady's-maid.

From sources exclusively within our
reach we are enabled this morning to
give a detailed and reliable account of
how the withdrawal of Percy Flage, Esq.,
from the late contest came to pass.
With our knowledge of the world we
felt sure that in such a case the clue
to the riddle would be held by the
lady's-maid ; we therefore put one of our
most trustworthy reporters into direct
communication with her, and here we
give the result : —

"Miss Purky, Mrs. Darincourt's maid,
is a remarkably attractive, as well
as voluble, young person, and readily
answered every question put to her.
Tell you all about it ? ' said she ; ' 0,
certainly. Mrs. Darincourt never bound
me to secrecy, and if she had I should
not regard it now, for after what I

have gone through never again would
I condescend to do such a bemoaning
service, and I could not think of staying
with her, favourable as the place is
to my views, unless she was to promise
never again to put me in a similar
awkward position. It was bad enough
to be taken surreptitious to the gentleman's
rooms, and then to be shut outside
in the passage with the most forward
waiter that ever I came across ! I say
that was bad enough ; but when by and
by my mistress did come out of Mr.
Flage's rooms, and we drove back to the
hotel together in the fly, and she told
me she Alas going to elope with him
next morning, leastways that she had
promised to do so, but that I was to
go in her place, why, if I had not been
sitting you might have knocked me down

with a feather ! Yes, actually she says,
Purky,' she says, ' you will have to put
on my travelling-dress, which will fit
you to a T, and you will have to wear
my hat and thick veil ; and you must
slip out of the hotel tomorrow morning
quite quietly, and walk to the station
in time to catch the 8.45 train for
London. You must be careful not to
show your face more than you can help.
Take a first-class ticket, and when you
see Mr. Flage you must make him a
little sign quite quietly — hold up your
finger, or something Hke that ; and when
the train comes up you must get into
a compartment by yourself if possible,
and whatever you do don't speak, and
don't let ]him get into the same carriage,
otherwise you may betray yourself too
soon. If you observe proper caution he

will take you for me ; and as he will
understand he is not to speak until
you get to London, you may quite
easily deceive him.' Fancy a lady, a
lady who has always behaved as such tome,
saying things like this ! I didn't
know if I was on my head or my heels !
Ma'am,' I say, ' I can't do it.' ' Purky,'
she says, ' you must, you shall. Ko
harm can come to you ; for all you have todo
when you get to King's Cross (the
train is express, and won't stop till it
gets there) is to hail a cab and get into
it. Mr. Flage Avill be on the look-out,
and he will get into the same cab, and
he will tell the driver where to go.
Keep up the deception as long as you
can ; but when he discovers his mistake,
then you must put a bold face on it and
make the best of it. Of course he will

be very angry, and declare all sorts of
things at first ; but you must tell him
that ' all is fair in love and electioneering,'
and that you have only acted
according to my orders.' 'If I know him,'
says Mrs. Darincourt, ' the sight of your
pretty face will prevent his being angry
very long. Then you may tell him you
are oroinor to our town house in Berkeley

»/

square to fetch a box for me, and that
you are coming down here again by an
afternoon train. Perhaps, if you play your
cards properly, he will then try to persuade
you not to do so ; but here, of course,
you must be firm, and insist on being
driven to Berkeley-square. If he sees
you are likely to make a fuss if he
objects, he won't object, but, as usual,
give way the moment a difficulty arises.
I'll wager my best hunter,' says Mrs.

VOL. III. r

Darincourt, 'that in less than an hour he
will have resigned himself to his fate, and
have quite got over his anger.'

Ma'am,' I says again, ' I can't doit.'
' Purky,' she says again, 'you must;
it is the only way of securing your
master's seat in Parliament, and you will
only be helping to justly punish Mr.
Flage for his loose notions of morality.
Why Purky,' she says, ' you don't know
what I have gone through in that room
with him, you don't, and all for the sake
of horrid politics. I didn't think things
would ever have taken this turn ; but when
I found nothing would persuade him to
give up the contest but consenting to
run away with him and go abroad, why,
I did consent, and you must help me,
Purky, to carry out my plan, and he will
be justly punished. I had no idea he

was such a desperate Lothario. I will
make it well worth your while.'

When she put it to me in this way
I couldn't refuse any longer, for a poor
girl must look after her own interests
in this world, and liberal as she always
is, I knew that she would be as
good as her word, and pay handsomely
for a service like this ; so I went and
did exactly as I was told, and nothing
very disagreeable happened, leastways
not until the gentleman got into the cab
at King's Cross. But then, dear !
why, Ave hadn't hardly got outside the
station, I think, before he began to
suspect something was wrong. ' Put up
your veil, Maude, put up your veil,' he
kept on saying ; ' why ever are you so
silent?' and never shall I forget his face

when he saw mine. Anger is not the

p '2

word for what his first look was, and I
can't pretend to repeat what he said; but
presently when he looked again, and began
to see how good-looking I was, he
softened wonderful, and I felt sure what
Mrs. Darincourt had said about him was
quite correct. I never knew such a
wicked, wicked, good-for-nothing man ;
only fancy, if he didn't actually Avant
me to go abroad with him that very
night ! ' ' You're a deuced deal better-looking,'
he says, ' than your mistress
after all,' he says ; ' and now she has
played me this trick it would serve
her right if I played her another : you
had much better come. I can't go back
to Flamborough now after all this. I
must go abroad anyhow until this
affair has had time to blow over ;
my father will be furious, but on the

whole I am deuced glad to be out of
it.' 'Well,' continued Miss Purky, in
reply to further inquiries, ' I don't think
I have anything more to say ; only I
believe he went abroad, and I came
down here as arranged, that's all.'

'As to the talk about Mr. Darincourt
iindinfT me in the dressing-room and all
that, it's false, that's what it is ; he
found his wife there because she wasn't
going to get up till very late that
morning ; which, perhaps, the mistake
was quite natural, seeing how much
alike we are, as everybody says, which
I take to be much more a compliment
to her than to me.'

Thus," moralises the Fluff borough Independent
Liberal Journal, " we have
another illustration of the old, old story,
what will not some men sacrifice fora

woman? Since the days when Antony
lost his kingdom through his dalliance
with Cleopatra down to the time when
Charles Edward sacrificed his chance of
a throne, as Thackeray tells us, through
his unworthy passion for Beatrice Esmond,
and so on, even down to the
threshold of our own time, the story continues
to be repeated; and the latest repetition
which history makes of itself on
this point is to be found in the way
Percy Flage, Esq., sacrificed his seat in
Parliament."

EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FORTY-FIVE.

T3 oswald MOEEIS and his young
wife are sitting in the snug parlour
of an inn at the little town of Southampton
on the confines of Dartmoor. The
season is autumn, and the time, evening.
Lamp and firelight combine with the
homely surroundings of the remote hostelry
in giving a sense of cheery comfort.
He, young, broad-shouldered, strong
of limb and firm of countenance, blue-eyed
and brown-haired — he is poring
over a map. She, rather younger, pale-faced
but pretty, dark-haired and with

eyes to match, and with a delicate yet
well-rounded figure — she is idly glancing
through the pages of a book. Presently
he speaks, half to himself: —

Yes, I must have a look at that

place : it promises well as a background

for a story. I have often heard of it."

She, somewhat apathetically, inquires : —

"Some expedition you are contemplating?"

Yes, across the moor : I cannot quite

make out how far it is, but I trace the

way, and it must be within an easy

walk, six or seven miles ; yes, I thought

of going tomorrow, if you will not be

very much bored, dear little woman, by

being left alone for a few hours."

Oh, no, I shall manage to amuse
myself; besides, it is necessary you
should see what you want. It was to
get some local colour, as you call it,

that we came down to these wilds, and
there is no reason because we are out
on our honeymoon that you should not
do some work."

You are the most sensible little wife,
I believe, Sophy, that man was ever
blessed with," he says, looking up at
her with admiring affection, " and I was
never so happy in my life."

A knock at the room-door precedes
the entrance of the landlord with two
or three letters.

The Lunnon post, sur, just in," he
says in his strong Devonshire dialect.

Ah I of course ; you do not get your
London letters here until very late,"
responds Eonald, taking the missives.
I suppose when the railway is open
to Plymouth it will make some difference
to this part of the world."

I should say thud be likely tu. Not
as I zee it'll be o' much use to we in
this place : we can't much coin' with
Lunnon, though I make no doubt it'll
be a rare chance for gentlemen like you
that go jumping the country," and after
a few more words the man civilly retires.

Suddenly Eonald utters an exclamation
of surprise, startling his wife from the
placidity with which she is regarding
him whilst he is looking over his letters.

My word !" he goes on ; " The poor
old gentleman died suddenly the day
before yesterday ! Bless my heart ! I am
very grieved. How strange that it should
have happened just now, so soon after
all his kindness to me — to us."

"What — not your uncle?" exclaims the
wife.

"Yes, indeed, it is; here is the letter

announcing the fact from Baston his
lawyer. I shall have to go to town.
This is what he says, Sophy :

' It is with the deepest regret I
have to inform you of the sudden death
of your uncle, Mr. Matthew Morris. He
was found dead in his bed, and it will
therefore be necessary for you, as his
sole executor and legatee, to come to
town and produce his Avill, that we may
take out letters of administration ; prove
the will at Doctors' Commons, you
understand, and so establish your right.
&c. This would have been requisite in
any case, but it is the more imperative
since, through Mr. Morris's eccentric
views, he insisted on entrusting his will
to your keeping."

Ah ! I never told you, Sophy, I think,
all about that," says the reader, breaking

off. "Strange old boy! You know how
good and kind he has been to me, and
how, but for him, we could not have
married tor years; and you remember
I told you that the day before our wedding
he made his will in my favour,
leaving me nearly everything. But I did
not tell you of his funny fancy about
the document. He drew it himself on
a sheet of note-paper, and brought it with
him the day on which he met me at
Baston's office (the day before we were
married). Well, then, when the lawyer
pronounced the will to be thoroughly legal,
and said that it only required signing and
witnessing, he signed it then and there in
the presence of Baston and one of his
clerks ; and when they had duly signed
it, each being in the presence of the other,
&c., as the legal formula goes, he took

the paper, and handing it to me, said :
There, Eonnj, my boy, as this concerns
you, and nobody but you, I desire that
you should keep possession of it." Then,
with some good-humoured joke at the
lawyer's expense, he insisted that I should
put the will in my pocket. " Baston may
keep a copy of it," added my uncle, " if
it is of any interest to him, but you must
keep the original, and mind you do not
lose it, that's all."

Well, Sophy, I did put it in my pocket,
and having no bankers or strong box in
which to deposit it, I brought it away
with me, and here it is still at this moment,
in a little flat tin case, With a copy of
our marriage certificate, and one or two
more valuables, here, in my breast-pocket,"
and Eonald Morris strikes the breast of
his rough shooting-coat as he speaks —

the safest place in the world, if one has
not a banker. But upon my word, it is
really very sad," he proceeds after a pause ;
I never thought I should be called onto
produce it so soon. Why, it is not a
fortnight ago since he gave it to me, poor
old fellow ! " and, as the excitement of
the explanation he has given subsides, his
blue eyes moisten. His quiet little wife
rises, and putting her arms round his
neck, kisses and pats his cheek with a
sweet and tender, if silent, consolation.

Soon he is talking volubly again, discussing
family affairs, and laying plans
for the future.

This puts us beyond the reach of
sixpenny anxieties," he says-but I shall
not give up my pen. I could not bear to
live an idle life, and what's more, I
shall not give up my expedition tomorrow.

I must have a look at that queer place
before I leave these parts. If Ave start
for town the first thm'g the day after
tomorrow, it will be quite soon enough,
and we can get to Exeter in time to
catch the night mail the same evening.
You will not mind travelling by night,
Sophy, I am sure, since it will give me
tomorrow out on this wild and strangely
fascinating moorland."

That tomorrow came, With all the rest
of the to-morrows that have come and
gone for these five-and-thirty years past,
and Ronald Morris started on the expedition
he had in his mind. His little wife,
not from lack of interest in his purpose
or his doings, but from a characteristic
inexactitude as to details, failed already
to understand (even if she ever asked
the question) the precise spot he was

V(^L. III. Q

bound for. Actively engaged in journalism
and magazine literature, his work,
in its technique, was done half unobserved
by her. They had barely been
married a fortnight, and though he had
loved her long and loyally, she had no
experience of all that an author's life
means.

So Eonald started, and, as he strolled
away up and on to the bleak and
solitary moor, she stood for a minute
or two at the gate on the road, off
which he turned, watching him. In a
little while, he looked back, held up his
stick as a salute, and she in reply
waved her little hand after her easy
gentle fashion. Thrice this action was
repeated on both sides; then she saw his
figure small and clear against the skyline
on the steep hill ridge, and then he

disappeared — disappeared from her eyes
for ever.

Lost on the moor ! The days and weeks
of helpless, desperate, and, at last, hopeless
search by the whole country - side
which followed, threw no light upon the
mystery. Lost on the moor ! that was
the verdict — that was all that could be
said, and it was no uncommon phrase in
that wild and treacherous region. Scores
of men had so vanished, and been never
heard of since. Natives even, accustomed
to the dangers of bog, crag, and fell, of
overwhelming blinding mist, of overtaking
nightfall, of the sudden, deep, obscuring
snow, and of the lost track ; natives alive
to all these perils, and armed With the
inherited cunning which they beget in
the soil born through countless ages, have
been lost on the moor, nor any trace of

them even found. What wonder then
that a Londoner entirely unused to, and
unknowing of, the treachery hiring in
such a wild, should now and again share
the same fate ! The thing indeed was,
alas, too common to create much more than
the nine days' astonishment. And, since
no clue could be obtained as to the
direction the unfortunate man took, the
searching parties that volunteered soon
lost heart: their exploring were too vague
at best to give much encouragement :
and, finally, the kindly impulse which
stirred the seekers died out, and the affair
was given up as hopeless.

EIGHTEEN-HUNDRED AND Fifty-five.

Sophy Morris, still young and pretty,
and as placid as ever, bears traces nevertheless
of her life-sorrow, as how should
it be otherwise ! the marvel is that she

survived the blow. In all probability she
Avould have sunk under it, but that the
flood of new-born wifely love, which in its
outpouring had seemed to carry the very
essence of her soul before it had found
its channel changed, although not checked.
As a mother, the devotion bestowed upon
the stalwart lad of nine now standing at
her side save almost vent and verse
enough for the deep love that was in
her. In young Eonald she seemed to
see, perhaps, concentrated, a double claim
upon her affection ; first, for the father,
whom he so much resembled, and then,
for his own sweet sake.

Thus time and circumstance lent their
healing influence to her great heart-wound,
and though the cicatrix was
vividly evident at times, the healing had
been healthy, and with the birth of her

boy had come about, as surgeons say,
at the first intention. But for this there
was enough outside her loss, and consequent
upon it, to crush all hope and
joy from her future. Widowed as she
had been, she had been obliged to return
to her parents' roof, and found, as the
eldest of a large family, that the poor
pittance of the merchant's clerk, her
father, made home far from a bed of
roses. For, be it remembered, with the
husband had disappeared the provision
for the widow, which the uncle's will
had ensured ; carried in his pocket as
the document had been, no claim upon
the old man's estate could be established,
and the money, a round ten thousand
pounds in Consols, had passed to the
next of kin, a younger brother, John,
a very different man. This John Morris

refused to acknowledge any intentions
that his elder brother might have had.
He knew of none of them he said, and
he stood upon his rights. Would he do
nothing for the nephew's widow and her
child? Well, why should he? He knew
little or nothing about this nephew
Eonald. What had he meant by marrying
a penniless girl solely upon the
strength of some vamped-up promise,
made or not made, John Morris said, by
that old fool, my bachelor brother
Matthew ? " The mere copy of the will
produced by the lawyer might, or might
not, be genuine ; at any rate, John Morris
declared it was a worthless piece of
paper as it stood. Besides, had he not
claims of his own to meet? However,
he would educate the boy, that much he
would do, until he was fifteen, and then

lie should wash his hands of the whole
affair.

This was the utmost which all the
urgent appeals that were made to him
would produce, and there the matter stood.

EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND Sixty-five.

And now there is indeed a second
Eonald Morris to the front, the very
pith and marrow of his father's self; and
all who remember the cordial, happy,
and promising young author, foresee that
in a few more years, when time has
filled out his muscles, broadened his
shoulders, and deepened his chest, the
son will grow to be the very counterpart
of the lost man.

Young Eonald was just nineteen, and
since he left school had been placed on
a drudge's stool in a City Warehouse,
from which there had been no release

in the Away of holiday until it was promised
in that year of grace 1865. A
dreamy, imaginative lad, the tradition of
his father's fate had come down to him
with an impressiveness which increased
with his years. But of course it had
only been tradition, after all ; of the
tangible, actual sorrow of that fatal time
and its results he had known nothing,
realised nothing Youth, strong health,
and commensurate good spirits made
him, notwithstanding his reflective nature,
a happy, cheery fellow, who was benton
making the most of his holiday now
that it had come. Two youngsters in
similar circumstances to his own were
off with excursion tickets to the Land's
End, and he arranged to join them.

Very soon the sight of mighty cliffs,
of foaming, thunderous seas, of vast

stretches of bleak Cornish moor, and the
stories of the wild places and all the
legendary lore clinging to that ancient
western land, began to take possession
of our young Eonald, and to stir what
there was of the poetic and dreamily
imaginative in his nature. He drank in
eagerly all descriptions and accounts
which he could get of the lonely districts
and inaccessible solitudes by which
he was surrounded. Eod and line mainly
occupied the attention of his companions,
and though he was no fisherman
himself, he would accompany them for
miles along the moorland streams where
they sought their sport. They met with
so little success, however, in their efforts
to catch the wily trout, that, like most
novices, the young men attributed their
failure to the fish, or rather to their

absence. The Devonshire rivers, it was
declared, would afford them a fairer
opening for their skill, so they harked
back eastward, and found themselves
after awhile whipping the pools and
rocky channels of the West Dart. They
took up their quarters at the small inn
in an out-of-the-way hamlet, known as
Two Bridges, some eight miles from the
town of Tavistock, and found the solitude
of this unfrequented and almost mountainous
region compensated for by the
better luck which attended their fishing.
Indeed, to Eonald's dreamy nature the
romantic and desolate character of the
scenery had an especial charm, and
whilst his friends were occupied with
their favourite pastime, he would often
wander far afield, exploring the remotest
fastnesses of stream and fell.

The account wliicli lie sent home to
his mother of the last of these solitary-expeditions,
graphically brings his story
to a climax.

"The day," he wrote, "was still and
cloudy ; grey mist hung heavily on all
the highest tors, and crept far down their
hides in graceful, fantastic, ever-changing
folds. Such slight movement as there
was occasionally in the air — it could not
be called wind — carried the lightest sound
to and fro with a wailing sort of echo.
The never-ceasing rush of the river over
its rocky bed was audible long after I
had wandered away from it, and at intervals
the voices of my two fishermen friends
fell faintly on the ear. Presently, however,
a curve in the way across the
hill-side over which I was walking shut
off all sound even of voices of running

water, and I experienced a keener sense
of loneliness, perhaps, than I had ever
known. Very rarely, I take it, could
Nature have appeared so utterly motionless
: not a blade of grass stirred. There
was a hush on everything, which was
almost terrifying — fit prelude it would
seem, as I look back upon it, to the
storm of emotion which was so soon to
overwhelm me. Another turn in the
track, plunged me, if possible, into a yet
deeper silence and solitude. I was on
the verge of a dreary, rugged, boulder-strewn
valley, in the depths of which
appeared what at first looked like three
large patches of scrubby underwood, but
which, on approaching them, proved to
be composed of stunted diminutive oak
and mountain ash trees, their dead bare
tops, all spread and flattened out as evenly

as though they had been cut by some
gigantic scythe, and which scythe I guessed
to be the mighty seldom-lulling blast of
an all-prevailing wind sweeping up the
hollow. The trees grew amidst massive
blocks of granite, covered, as were the
stems, with a dense and overwhelming
growth of lichen and parasitical plants.
A yet closer acquaintance with it showed
the spot to be one of the strangest I had
ever seen or dreamt of. The gaunt,
bleached, outspreading arms of the trees
had something skeleton-like and ghostly
in their aspect ; weird demons of the
forest they might be, stunted gnomes
struggling with outstretched mis-shapen
limbs to free themselves from the superincumbent
weight of the split and tortuous
rocks which held them fast, earth-bound
as it were, between their clefts and

fissures. A ghastly, ghostly, uncanny,
awful spot indeed, and seen under the
grey gloom of the waning autumn day,
and in the silence and the mystic solitude
surrounding it, most impressive. I cannot
describe the sensations with which I
approached the outskirts of this wood,
for, despite its forbidding character, I felt
myself irresistibly drawn towards it ; it
seemed to exercise on me a fascination,
a spell, which cowed my will, and whilst
almost curdling my blood, yet impelled
me forward I knew not how or why ! it
was a spot to flee from rather than penetrate
; it might be likened to a witches'
trysting-place, the haunt of evil spirits,
of demons, elves, and goblins, who all
had found embodiment in the shrunken
and mis-shapen trees.

I had strolled off on this wandering

and desultory excursion without any definite
purpose, hence I came upon this place
purely by accident ; but, once there, and
realising its strange appearance, I was,
notwithstanding the feeling of awe which
it inspired, filled with a sense of gladness.
"Moving forward half unconsciously, I
had entered but a yard or two within
the confines of this unhallowed-looking
region, when I was startled by a large
black snake writhing away before my
tread from under the rank grass and
dense parasitical growth. The next moment
I caught sight of a huge fox ashe
rushed across a narrow opening
amidst the trees straight in front of
me. Although I plainly saw the noisome
creatures, it was as one sees and shrinks
from such objects in a nightmare, and
I felt as incapable of drawing back as

if I had been really dreaming. The
uneven nature of the ground, soon, however,
made farther progress so difficult
that I hardly know how I got along
at all. Yet I did manage to push on
farther and farther into the wilderness,
and was only arrested by suddenly sinking
up to my waist between a. gap in
the rocks as I stepped on to what
looked like a piece of smooth greensward.
This, in fact, Alas nothing but
soft mossy undergrowth, which yielding
the moment I trod on it, let me in and
left me with one foot jammed tightly ina
cleft of the granite. Some minutes
elapsed ere I could extricate myself, and
I had great trouble and difficulty in
scrambling up on to my former level.

Standing still then for a while, I
gazed dreamily into the depths of the

VOL. III. R

impenetrable thicket, my head only a
little below the level tops of the trees,
whose bare and twisted branches spread
out net-like above and around me. Now
that I was, in a measure, in their midst,
more than ever did they resemble misshapen
and petrified skeletons. Like a
very sepulchre seemed the place, with
its ominous calm, and damp, deadly
chill. The density of the thorny underwood,
and the rank luxuriance of the
ferns, ivy, and creeping plants growing
thickly over the blocks of granite, and
on the lower part of the tree stems,
and here and there entangling some of
the lower boughs with fantastic festoons
of pale and yellowish green, lent, by
contrast, an additional look of ghastliness
to the barer portions of the old dead
goblins of the forest.

A shudder more than once ran
through my veins as I remained automatically
surveying this mysterious spectacle.
It seemed that I was rooted to the
ground, as firmly as the trees — ah ! rooted
to the ground ! The half-terrifying, half-fascinating
sensations which at first
lured me on now became intensified, and
kept me motionless, for a frightful
thought entered my head. What would
have been my fate, had I been unable
to extricate myself from that cleft in
the rocks, or supposing I had fallen into
a deeper place and been jammed by
shoulders or hips between a similar
fissure ; should I ever have got out unaided?
No help could have reached mein
such a heaven-forsaken wilderness,
and I must have been held there a

prisoner until I starved to death — never

R 2

perhaps to be discovered, or not until
my rotting and bleached bones had begun
to look like the other bare skeleton
forms surrounding them. Treachery now
seemed added to the other perils of the
place, and when at last I began slowly
retracing my steps, I struck my stick
on each piece of ground ere I ventured
my foot upon it.

"As I turned back by the way I had
come, the first breath of air that had
been felt for an hour or more blew
across my face — it was but a slight puff,
but it was sufficient to create a little
stir among the boughs, and to send a
dismal wailing sough through the wood.
Faint as it was, it nevertheless ofave an
additional melancholy to the place, and
increased the fascination with which it
had beset me. I again stood still, now to

listen. The wind by degrees increased,
rising and falling, and creating with every
breath more and more sound. It seemed
now as if the weird forms of the trees were
endowed with voices and were moaning
and whispering sadly to each other. One
particular wail especially caught my ear,
and the longer I listened the more definite
it became. It might easily have been
mistaken for the voice of a human being
in direct misery. Presently, wrought Vias
my imagination was, I began to fancy
I could almost hear the very words it
uttered. ' W-a-i-t f-o-r me-e ! W-a-i-t f-o-r
me-e ! ' it seemed to say, now faintly, now
quite audibly, .and at length so actual,
so real did the utterance become, that I
turned back towards the spot whence it
appeared to proceed. This was not far
from where I had been brought to a

stand-still, but, as I advanced, the voice
grew fainter, and when I had got a few
more yards, the wind died away, and it
ceased altogether.

"Evening was coming on apace by this
time, and I again began retracing my
steps. No sooner did I do so, however,
than the wailing whisper recommenced,
W-a-i-t f-o-r me-e — w-a-i-t f-o-r me-e ! '
a long drawn-out wailing whisper. Once
more I turned back, drawn on by a sort
of supernatural power, which, against my
reason, moved me to the belief that I
was being entreated to return. Such an
imploring, heart-breaking appeal, so inexpressibly
pitiful and touching, I had never
heard before. But it stopped again as
I neared the particular spot whence it
seemed to arise. After listening over
and over again, and going to and fro

nearly a dozen times, always with the
same result, a conviction stole over me
that the effect was merely due to an echo,
and that the reverberation was only
audible in one especial spot. It was but
my morbid fancy, I said, which made me
attribute it to any other cause, and I
was recovering something like a healthy
tone of mind, when, as I was taking a
last long look into a deep recess of the
wood, I beheld a sight which half paralysed
me, and instantly brought back
with renewed force that sense of the
weird and supernatural which I was just
shaking off. Yonder, there, within a
narrow cleft in the rocks, moss-grown,
and covered with the eternal undergrowth,
there was a spectacle about which
there could be no doubt: no tree could
assume such a shape as that. Evidently,

positively, it was a human skeleton, jammed
tightly like one of the trees, in a
treacherous fissure, such as I had just
lately slipped into.

Very indistinct are my recollections
of what I did, or of what my feelings
were, during the next few minutes. I
have a hazy memory of remaining irresolute
for a time, and then of hurrying
away, dazed, and then of returning, and
plunging into the thicket, regardless of
the thorny brambles and the uneven,
slippery, crevice-beset boulders, for I remember
I was standing presently close
to these human remains, only a little
above them, at the mouth, as it were,
of the cleft. I was examining them intently,
peering at them between the
ferns and grass, which, hanging in thick
clusters and pendent wreaths, grew from

either side of the deep fissure in which
the skeleton was immured, upright, and
with an arm upstretched, and caught by
the elbow, tight between a smaller interstice
of the rock. I shuddered as I looked
into the eyeless sockets with their grim
yet pitiful expression ; at the two rows
of glistening teeth, at the bleached bones
with here and there shreds of rotten
clothing still adhering to them. Tall,
dank weeds and brushwood hid the form
nearly up to the waist, but, as the herbage
was, down by its roots, somewhat
thinner, I, with a tremor running through
my whole body, dragged this a little
aside with my stick, which struck on a
substance that resounded like metal.

I know not with what object, it was
not curiosity, certainly not cupidity, but
I knelt down, and thrusting my arm

elbow-deep into the wet and mossy grass,
followed the stick's point with my hands,
and after a little groping, got hold of a
watch and chain — hardly recognisable as
such, truly, but still obviously nothing else.
"Then I pursued my search still further,
for I foresaw that it now might lead to
the identification of this unhappy human
being who had been buried alive. Heaven
knows how long ago ! by a fate which I,
myself, had only an hour before escaped
by mere good luck. Thenceforth, although
my feelings were greatly perturbed, and
a host of emotions surged through my
breast, my wits quickened : these were
stern facts that I was dealing with, and
I acted accordingly. The second time I
thrust my arm in among the herbage
just beneath the skeleton, which I was
reverently careful not to disturb, I drew

forth one or two more hard, and, at first,
less distinguishable articles than the watch
less distinguishable because twilight had
set in, and, added to the density of the
wood, rendered it impossible for me to
see anything very plainly. I felt that I
must instantly hasten back to the inn
and give information of my discovery.

In the obscurity of the fast fading
light, the weird gloom of the Avoid was
greatly increased. A large owl suddenly
flapped away from a near bough with a
doleful hoot, whilst the wind, growing
stronger every minute, turned what had
formerly sounded like moans and sighs
into shrieks and groans. I dared not,
however, give way to any more fanciful
imaginings, beset me as they might, and
as they were even already doing. I wanted
all my senses to get clear of this charnel-house

of a place. Yet, having done so,
and once back adam on the way to the
mn which I knew, these same imaginings,
these indefinable sensations which had
over-ridden my common sense during the
whole afternoon, returned, and will you
believe it ? " ran on this letter of Eonald's
to his mother, which he wrote the next
morning, " so persistently have they stayed
by me, that I have not yet had the
courage to examine closely the articles I
found. No ! though more than twelve
hours have passed since then, somehow I
cannot touch them. They seem as if they
might influence my whole future, might
change the very current of my life : it is
ridiculous, but inexplicable."

Was it inexplicable to Sophy Morris?
Hardly, for did not her mind instantly
fly back over those twenty years to that

ever memorable time, and could she not
see in those indefinable imaginings in her
son's mind a possible solution of the mystery
surrounding her husband's fate ?
flight it not be that the marvellous and
unseen working of human destiny had
guided the son at last to the father's unknown
grave? That the strange sensations,
the awe, the gladness, the irresistible
automatic impulse to linger in the wood,
which he described ; the readiness with
which he interpreted the wailing of the
wind into a direct, articulate, and whispered
appeal " to wait " — to wait till the
discovery was made, were traceable to
the link existing between that vigorous
young life and those mouldering remains,
and without which, when they too were
endowed with life and vigour, her young
Eonald would never have had his being.

Her hope was strong that all this might
prove so, and it was realised. In the
end no doubt remained, for among the
relics her boy had recovered was the
small, flat, metal tobacco-box, containing
the will of Matthew Morris, soiled, sodden,
besmirched in places, well-nigh illegible,
yet still preserved intact, and susceptible
of being sworn to as the genuine document
by the two witnesses, the lawyer
and his clerk, who signed it, and who
yet lived to see right and justice done.

It was to Wiseman's Wood, then, that
fate had directed the son's steps, and, ashe
thought, by merest accident, to Wist-man's
Wood, that uncanny " whist old
place," the " wonder of the wonders of
the Dartmoor wilds," and whither the
father had gone across the moor, never to
return, on that fatal day twenty years before.

T^EESH from a long trip abroad where
you have been out of the way of
all news from the clubs and old o»hums,
you go down with other pilgrims to stay
for a couple of nights with our friend
Yallerby at The Shrine, the beautiful
fishing lodge on the upper Thames, which
he rents. It is late autumn, and the mists
are bes^innins^ to lie thick over the region
of the river, so that when your host meets
you with his usual cordial bonhomie, and
tells you that his house is unexpectedly
overfull, and that he is afraid he must
relegate you to the quarters on the island,
you are not in a tumult of joy at the

VOL. III.

prospect. You know the island, and
you know the quarters. The island lies
opposite The Shrine's lawn in mid-stream,
shutting in a retired willow and elm-fringed
backwater, with a rushing weir
at the lower end and a lock on the
further side. The quarters consist of a
tall, good-sized rustic boathouse, substantially
built, though of wood. Within
this, poised as it were on heavy beams
stretching across the little dock where
lie the pleasure craft, is a fairly spacious
room, having a window and balcony overlooking
the backwater, and beyond it.
The Shrine House. The structure is
reached by a steep flight of wooden steps
rising from the broad plank or little quay
to which the boats are moored. It is a
room built in fact, just inside, and independently
of, the roof and sides of the

main buildings — a curious contrivance designed
probably to guard against damp, for
there is a space of half a foot above and
on three sides of it, between its wooden
walls and the outer weather boarding ;
the windowed and balconied angle giving,
of course, at once upon " the open."

You have slept in this room before,
and in the hot Midsummer man could
scarcely desire a more delightful berth.
But now, at the end of October, the
case is altered ! To be punted across
the backwater in the dark, and to have
to fumble your way with a lantern upto
your room in order to don your
evening dress, and in that airy costume
to be punted back again, and to have
to traverse the reeking lawn in pumps,
and after dinner to make the return
journey under the same conditions, ands

2

in the same airy garments, &c. &c. —
well ! the picture, you repeat to yourself,
is not exhilarating, and you wish
your host at Jericho ere he had so
urgently insisted on this visit. However
you are in for it, and with your usual
gay and light-hearted manner accept his
apologies and extreme solicitude for what
they are worth.

Pleasant people staying in the house ?
Yes ; but you are not quite happy. Is it
that you have taken a slight chill ? or
that the prospect of sleeping out there on
that solitary island in this dreary autumn
weather weighs upon you unpleasantly?
You had a foretaste of it when you
made the journey out and back to
dress, and it was not nice. The mist
was dense enough then, but the gardener
who put you across opined that

it was nothing to what it would be
towards midnight. The dinner from the
hands of the French chef is faultless,
and the talk bright and pungent, as it
always is at this house. Still, you do
not get up your spirits, and it is with
a shiver and a pang of extreme reluctance
that you quit the blaze of the
pleasant smoking-room fire at eleven-thirty,
and, huddling on your ulster,
declare, with sickly facetiousness, that it
is time to go on board.

You are a luckless bachelor, notwithstanding
that you will never see forty
again, and somehow, perhaps, your
nerve is not quite what it was, or
rather let me say at once, my nerve is
not what it was; for this is my "case,"
and " you " are the reader to whom I
am putting it.

Very well, then, I did not like it at
all — that turning out just before midnight
to find the gardener, lantern in
hand, ready to steer me down to the
landing-place, and to have to listen to
his vain-glorious conceit on the realization
of his weather prophecy.

Ye gods ! I was never out in so
thick a night in my life — it even made
Yallerby renew his apologies as he let
me forth into it by the French window
opening on to the lawn. But then his
apologies are always uttered with such
an abject, if buoyant humour, and are
so deprecatory of a reply, that one can
say nothing. At least I said nothing
beyond " Good night ; all right, old fellow,
I shall do."

With my hand on his shoulder, the
gardener led the way to our ferry

How he found it beats me, and how it
was we did not walk straight into
the river is a marveL It was partially
in flood, and when my guide had
seated me on the well of the punt
and had pushed off, the feeling that
the strong current would carry us
over the roaring weir in a jiffy, were
his skill with the pole to be for a
moment at fault, did not heighten the
pleasure of that transit. It was a veritable
passage of the Styx, but Charon
was an adept at his work, and, keeping
the craft well up against stream,
we soon touched the shore of the
island within a few feet of the entrance
to the boat house, so accurately
had the man judged his distance.

There you be, sir," he said, complacently,
as he took the lantern which

I held in my hand. " Xow, give us hold of
your fist. Put your left foot up the-er,
just again the light, and up we goes."

Now the density and blackness of
the fog exceed description, so I don't
attempt to give one of it, but my man
moved with the certainty of experience,
as the blind do, and piloted me over the
slippery planks and up the little stair
without any hesitation. The temperature
was really not low, but the excessive
damp of the fog made up for this, and
rendered the glowing lamp-stove in the
bedroom very grateful. The quarters
were snug enough as I well knew from
experience ; and, once inside, I rather
wondered at the instinctive aversion
which I had felt to the notion of sleeping
there to-night ; it seemed hardly to
be accounted by the mere lateness of

the season. Nevertheless I could not
quite banish it, and when left to myself
and I had heard the fellow gurgling
his way to the opposite shore, I
experienced a sense of loneliness to
which hitherto I had been quite a
stranger. Nobody about the place
thought anything of a bachelor sleeping
at the boathouse.

When Yallerby's two sons were at home
they used it habitually, and it was always
looked upon as a most available
supplement to the bedroom accommodation
of The Shrine. The gardener ferried
a housemaid to and fro more than
once daily, and the apartment was kept
in scrupulous order. Therefore my
qualms, if unaccountable, were absurd,
and despite them of course I finally
turned in just as the hour of twelve,

striking from the distant village clock,
came creeping faintly through the dense
and misty night ; otherwise, the ever-present
monotonous rushing of the weir
excepted, not a sound broke the solitude
and stillness.

Now the room was full of mist, further
dimming the faint light from the
lamp-stove, and, as approaching sleep
began to make my sight misty also, I
fancied in that vague and visionary
way which most of us have experienced
when passing over the borderland
from the conscious to the unconscious,
that someone was moving noiselessly
about the apartment. This in itself, I
imagine, being but a dream, would
hardly have awoke me though it made
me feel uncomfortable. But presently I
was thoroughly aroused by the distinct

sound of rustling papers and a certain
scooping, grating noise as if things
were being pushed along a shelf. I sat
upright in bed and stared in the direction
whence the noise came. A strange
translucent light filled the room, which
at first almost blinded me, though the
mist was denser than ever. After a
moment, however, through it there began
to develop, at the further end of
the apartment, as plainly, it seemed tome,
as do these words under my pen,
the shadowy form of a man. He
appeared be to thrusting bulky rolls of
paper through a small aperture in the
planking or parallel wall. He was
taking the bundles from the tail pockets
of his coat — an evening coat I know it
was ; and when he had emptied them
he turned towards me into a fuller

liofht, and I shrank back with horror at
the spectacle. The broad front of his
dress shirt was covered with blood,
which appeared to be trickling from an
open wound in his throat. The countenance
was pale and ghastly, the eyes
glazed as in death, and though I could
not recognise the features, I was certain
I knew the face. The lips moved,
a buzzing noise was in my ears, but
through it I heard distinctly these
words thrice repeated : —

"It is there — it is there."

My brain swam, my sight again grew
dim, and I lapsed once more into unconsciousness.


*****

Overslept yourself, old man, eh ? "
was Yallerby's greeting, as I presented
myself next morning half-an-hour after

the breakfast hour. "Had a good night,
in spite of the fog, eh ? Fancy you
didn't quite relish turning out. It was
rather brutal, but, you see, I couldn't
help it. Eh, man, why what's the matter
? " continued my host, looking
straight at me. " Why, you look as

pale as if you'd . Aren't you well ? "

Oh, its nothing," I broke in, evasively
; " feel rather seedy, that's all —
don't know why, for when I once got
to sleep I slept like a top. I never
awoke till your gardener came to look
after me."

There was a large party, of course, at
the breakfast-table, and I was not in the
mood at that moment to encounter the
chaff which I knew would be hurled
at me by my host and the other
fellows if I were then to recite my

strange and horrible experience in the
boathouse. So I turned to at a dish
of trout with what appetite I could
muster, and escaped further questioning.

A heap of letters, many still unopened,
lay beside our friend, and when the
ladies had one by one disappeared, he
continued reading his correspondence.

Suddenly he cried out,

My word ! That is a go ! Fancy
that ! (reading) ' Fifteen hundred pounds
in notes and gold stowed away in one
of the Robin ventilators of the front
drawing-room. Several smaller sums were
also found hidden in similar places
about the house, besides a lot of
-Spanish and Mexican Bonds stuffed in at
the back of a writing-table drawer'"

"Found by whom? Where?" asked
.somebody.

"Why, at the Wits' Crib. This is a
letter from Newfield, our secretary.
You know the house is shut up for
cleaning and repairs, and it seems
that yesterday afternoon some of the
work people and a charwoman discovered
all this treasure."

"Who hid it? To whom does it belong?"

"Well, it appears it did belong to poor
Tapping. Newfield goes on to say there
is no doubt of that, for most of it was
wrapped in paper with the amounts
docketed and initialed by Tapping himself,
in his own handwriting."

When the flutter of excitement which
this news created amongst the few men
left at the breakfast-table was subsiding,
I inquired,

Why do you say ' poor ' Tapping,
Yallerby."

What," he answered, " don't you
know, old man? No, of course you don't
you have been away so long. Well,
it was the last night the club was open —
three weeks ago yesterday. I chanced
to be in town for the day and was dining
there. I had ordered my dinner in the
afternoon of Tapping himself. Though a
good servant, you know, he was always
a little strange in his manner, but I don't
remember noticing that he was more
strange than usual ; some fellows say he
was. It was just dinner time, and we
were all surprised not to see him in the
coffee-room. Where was he ? The
steward absent at such a moment — what
could it mean? The page-boy was sent
up to his room, and came back as pale as
the table-cloth. Poor Tapping had cut his
throat, and was lying dead on his bed ! "

This, of course, was news to me. The
man was our major-domo and steward at
The Wits, and in an instant it flashed
across me whose face it was that I had
seen under such terrible circumstances
the night before. Undoubtedly it was
that of poor Tapping.

"Good heavens!" I cried; and then,
without more ado, I told my story. It
was an opportune moment, and no one
thought of chaffing me now. On the
contrary, everybody was tremendously
impressed.

Well," said our host, " it is passing
strange, certainly ; we must go and examine
the boathouse forthwith. I'm not
superstitious, as you all know, but upon
my word, it looks as if there was some
meaning in it, for I must tell you, that
oddly enough, I heard only the other day

VOL. III. T

that before Tapping came to be our club
steward, he Heed as butler many years in
this house with the people from whom I
rent it. They valued him immensely, and
would never have thought of parting
with him, but he suddenly left the place
about this time last year in a kind of huff.
The house was overfull, his room in it
was wanted, and he was obliged to go
and sleep at the boathouse. He did sleep
there for a week it seems, then he suddenly
declared that it was haunted, and that he
would not pass another night in it or in
the neighbourhood for all the world. So
there was a disagreement, and he left,
and he came to us at The Wits. The
people here were very sorry to lose him,
and missed him much, as we shall. The
poor chap was insane, undoubtedly. That
was the verdict at the inquest, and he

ZYO

may have lead the , propensity for hoarding
and hiding lons^ aijo. Who knows ? It's
worth looking into."

We all adjourned to the boathouse and
began diligently examining every nook
and corner ; we rapped at the walls
above and below, and from below poked
up sticks, oars, and boat-hooks, and roared
away between the outer and inner planking
; we struck lucifers, and held up a
lantern into all the dark recesses and
corners of this structure, and amongst the
beams and iron girders on which the room
was supported, but found nothing.

Some of the fellows were here inclined

to chaff me, and wanted to make out

I had had a nightmare ; but I knew better.

I returned to the corner of the room

where I had seen the presentment of poor

Tapping and, after a more minute search

T 2

than I or anyone had yet given, discovered
that one of the planks was certainly movable.
A little force only was necessary
to prise it up, and soon it opened on a
hinge, and disclosed within, a sort of recess
and shelf between the two walls. Thrust
away far up at the end of this were a
whole heap of dusty, mildewed papers
and a kind of large portfolio with a lock.
It was exactly the place where I had
heard the rustling and scooping the night
before.

Amazement was on all our faces. We
put everything on a table near the open
window by the balcony and through which
a warm gleam of autumn sun was cheerfully
streaming. It took mor than an
hour to examine the poor fellow's effects,
for his name on various of them showed

beyond all doubt that they were his.
Many seemed utterly worthless, hidden
with no purpose but that of hoarding
and hiding. There were, however, also
some bundles of old foreign bonds with
years of the coupons not cut off, but
above all there was a will. It was dated
more than twelve years back, and it
bequeathed " the whole of my property
of whatever description, of which I may
die possessed, to Jane Marchwell, my best
of friends, and the only woman I ever
loved."

When Yallerby's eye caught this name
he cried out,

By Jove ! I am deuced glad of this.
Why, do you fellows know that this poor
woman, with her two or three children,
are in abject poverty? Tapping was
never married to her, and his only brother.

who is a kind of a brute, as next-of-kin,
took possession of certain ready monies
which were found in Tapping's room at
the time of his death, and he would not
give a penny of it to, or help in any way,
this same Jane March well. We intended
to get up a subscription for her in consequence,
when the club should re-open.
And now," continued Yallerby, drawing
up his portly figure with an air of intense
satisfaction, " if we can make this
will good (and I happen to know that
none other has yet been found), that fellow
will have to shell out. My word, this is
a great find, old man' he adds, slapping
me on the shoulder, " and to think of
your having seen his ghost — upon my
life, I can't make it out. I suppose you
really did see it, and it appeared, you
observe, in this room where he slept, and

which he declared was haunted, ahiiost
simultaneously with the discovery made
yesterday of the bulk of his savings. Why
it beats the Corsican Brothers all to
nothing."

But where did Tapping get all this
coin from ? " I ask. " A man in his
position could hardly ."

Oh, make your mind easy on that
point — as chairman of the club-committee
I went into the whole business at the time
of his death, and I found he had had
large and lucky dealings on the Stock
Exchange. I know his Broker — trot at
it all pat. All his money was come by
honestly, so to speak — there wasn't a thing
against him. You know he was respected
and liked, but, of course, he had a
slate off. I haven't a doubt we, shall find
the fifteen hundred pounds, &c which

Newfield writes about, were all on the
square."

So it proved, and Jane Marchwell is
relieved from her trouble and is a rich
woman ; and if all the ghosts that revisit
the glimpses of the moon, serve as good
an end as that which I saw on that visit
to The Shrine, I am pretty sure you would
not disbelieve in their existence any more
than I do.

THE END.

/'^
