7k-

L I E, Mary

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS



C8B92rn
v.\

A NOVEL.

ADA CAMBRIDGE,

AUTHOR OF "IN TWO YEARS TIME," &C.

IN THREE Volumes.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in ©ritnarg to leet ffiajcstp time buren,
NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1882.

Right of Translation Reserved.



CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

4^

CHAPTER I,

A Marshal Noel Ease.

FEW years ago there was a
young debutante in Melbourne
whose name was Rachel Fathers
She had risen upon the
social horizon suddenly, like a new star
or, one might almost say, like a
comet, so unusually bright was she, and
so much talked about ; and no one quite
knew where she had come from. Mrs.

VOL. I, 1

Hardy had introduced her as her niece
everyone knew that — but there were
sceptics who, having never heard of
female relatives previously (except the
three daughters, who had married so
well), declared that she might be '' anybody,"
picked up merely for matchmaking
purposes — it being well understood that
Mrs. Hardy had for an unknown period
sustained life, figuratively speaking, upon
the stimulus of matrimonial intrigues,
and had now no more daughters to provide
for.

That this pretty creature had been
unseen and unsuspected until the last
Miss Hardy, as Mrs. Buxton, was fairly
away on her honeymoon, and almost
immediately after had been introduced
to society as Mrs. Buxton's successor,
was a kind of circumstance that seemed,

of course, bound to have a mystery at
the bottom of it. But, as a matter of
fact, there was no mystery. Rachel
Fetherstonhaugh was a hand-fide niece,
and her entrance into the Hardy family
at a particular juncture could be quite
easily accounted for.

Her father had been Mrs. Hardy's
brother — a good-for-nothing, unlucky
brother, whose clever brains could do
anything but earn money, and whose
pockets could no more hold it thana
sieve could hold water — a brother
whom, long ago, before she had become
rich and fastidious, Mrs. Hardy had
loved, and served, and worked for, but
whom, of late years, she had — with
some mild self-reproach for doing so —
ignored as far as possible.

This man had married a girl without

1—2

a penny, as such a man was certain
to do ; and his wife had left him a
widower, with an only child, a few
years afterwards. Since then, for fifteen
years, he had rambled about from place
to place, seeking his fortune in all
kinds of visionary and impracticable
schemes, whose collapse one after
the other, never deterred him from
fresh enterprises, until a sunstroke
closed the list of his life's many
failures at the early age of fortyfive.


A formal little note was sent by
his orphan daughter to Mrs. Hardy to
announce this sad event ; and for half
an hour after receiving it the bereaved
sister was inconsolable, tormenting herself
with unavailing regrets for her
neglect of " her own flesh and blood,"

and with harrowing reminiscences of
loving early years.

At the end of that time, however,
she had made many generous plans
for her dead brother's child, which
cheered and comforted her ; and intime
these gave place to the prudent,
unemotional dictates of worldly wisdom.
Mrs. Hardy dried her tears, bought
herself a black bonnet, and stole out
of town in a surreptitious fashion, to
see what manner of niece had been
thrown upon her hands.

She pictured to herself what the
child's life had probably been — the
motherless child of a vagabond speculator,
who had lived very indifferently
by his wits; and the most she hoped
for was to find her a raw bush girl,
rudimentary educated, and uncontaminated

by the low society in wliicli she
had been brought up. For such a niece
she had mapped out what seemed to
be a suitable career — that of a nursery
governess in some distant colony ; and
she had resolved to be a good friend
to the girl, to set her up in clothes,
and to see that she never came to
want or misfortune if by any reasonable
means it could be helped.

To her intense surprise her young
relative turned out to be a remarkably
pretty and refined young woman, obviously
accustomed to the decorous and
reticent poverty of people who had " seen
better days" and appreciated the fact,
and not raw in any sort of sense, though
diffident and shy; the kind of young
woman, indeed, who, it was evident at a
glance, was capable under good management

of bringing honour and glory
upon the family.

The result was as above indicated.
Rachel Fetherstonhaugh, instead of being
sent into obscurity to earn lier bread,
was adopted in the sight of all men asa
daughter of the house — that great
white house at Toorak, which had
achieved local fame for its profuse entertainments,
its social diplomatic, and
its three great marriages.

Her father's debts were paid ; her
wardrobe was supplemented with the
very best style of new clothes — less
expensive, but more becoming, than
any that Mrs. Buxton and Mrs.
Buxton's sisters had worn; and by and
bye when, having got over the first
shock and grief of her father's death,
she made her appearance in public, and

began to take an interest in her new
life, she found herself, to her great
astonishment, a personage — if not the
personage — in the society around her.

It must be said, and not to her discredit,
I hope, that Miss Fetherstonhaugh
liked being a personage very much
indeed. She had grown up a sensitive
little gentlewoman, full of delicate
thoughts and tastes, in the midst of dull,
uncultured people of sordid cares and
occupations, and of uncongenial surroundings
of all sorts ; and the mere
physical enjoyment of her changed
circumstances, in which everything was
orderly, and dainty, and plenteous, and
nice," was something like the enjoyment
that a flower must feel when the
sun shines.

And the sudden discovery that certain

shy conjectures about her personal appearance
(which she had hardly had
leisure or heart to attend to) were confirmed
by the best authority — to know
herself a pretty girl, and to see that
society paid her homage accordingly —
this was an experience that no woman
born, being in possession of her faculties,
could help delighting in. And haying
all the grateful consciousness of the
value of life and its good things that
nature gives to the young and healthy,
unspoiled by artificial sentiment, her
delight was unbounded, and consequently
unconcealed.

Rachel Fetherstonhaugh was, as her
uncle said, "A modest, good girl, with
no nonsense about her." All the same,
she was proud and glad of her fair,
clear-cut features, and her pensive, large,

sweet eyes that were full of tender suggestions,
for wliicli no authority existed
when she lifted them meekly to an
admirer's face; and that figure which
with all its slenderness had the curves
of beauty everywhere, and those waves
of ruddy auburn hair.

I am so glad I am not plain," she
once said to her cousin, Mrs. Thorny
(who strange to say did not repeat the
remark to all her friends with disparaging
comments, but responded confidentially
with a sympathising kiss, and
said she could quite understand it). "I
have always thought that it must bethe
most charming thing in the world
to be a really pretty woman. And now
I know it."

On a grey afternoon in the beginning
of May this young lady was enjoying

the luxury of a slow drive up and down
Collins Street, shopping with her aunt.
She nestled in a soft corner of a well-appointed
Victoria, with a great rug of
native bearskins about her knees, showing
her delicate fresh face, like a well-hung
picture, to the crowd of passers-by on
the pavement, and yet sitting just enough
above them to see into the shop-windows
over their heads ; and she felt — though
she did not formulate the sentiment —
perfectly happy and satisfied.

If the truth must be told, she found
the sight of more or less well-dressed
men and women, streaming up and down
the busy street, more interesting than
the most lovely landscape she had ever
seen. She took as much pleasure in
the exquisite fit of her gloves as in the
exquisite colour and fragrance of a

Marshal Neil rose that she wore in lier
button-hole ; and she had never seen a
moonrise or a sunset that had fascinated
her more than that sealskin jacket in
Aston and Brown's window, which she
observed was exactly the size for her.
It is not, therefore, to be supposed that
she is a heroine unworthy of the
name.

At Aston and Brown's Mrs. Hardy
stepped out of her carriage for perhaps
the fifth time. She was a very large,
masculine kind of woman, with a remarkably
fine Roman nose, of which
she was excessively proud, and justly,
for it had been a valuable weapon to
her in the battle of life, literally carrying
all before it. When he had got over
the effect of her nose, the beholder of
Mrs. Hardy's person, as a rule, was pleasantly

impressed by it. It lead a generous
and a regal air.

My dear," she said to her young
companion, " I only want to match some
lace. Will you go in with me, or will you
stay where you are ?"

I think I will stay, if you please,
aunt," replied Rachel. 'the carriage is
so comfortable, and I like to look at
the street."

"Don't look too much," said Mrs.
Hardy, smiling anxiously. '' There are
all kinds of office clerks and people
mixed up with the crowd at this
hour."

I don't want to look at men'' said
Miss Fetherstonhaugh, with more dignity
than one would have given her credit
for. "It is the ladies' dresses I like to
see — and the horses."

Mrs. Hardy marched into the shop
with that imposing mien which became
more and more pronounced as she grew
older and stouter, and her social successes
accumulated; and her niece sat
still in her corner, and looked for a long
while at the sealskin jacket.

"All my cousins have sealskin jackets,"
she mused, "but I don't think they
had them until they were married. Perhaps
I shall have one when I am
married. I can't expect my aunt to
buy me one, of course; she has bought
me so many pretty things. How lovely
and soft that brown fur is ! How well
it would suit my complexion ! If my
husband is rich, and asks me what I
should like for my first birthday present,
I shall not have any difficulty in making
up my mind. I wonder will he be

rich? like Mr. Thornlej, and Mr.
Buxton, and Mr. Reade. At any rate,
lie must not be poor; if he is, I won't
have him. I know enough of poverty "
with a little shudder and a sudden
solemnity in her face — " and I don't
mean to run into it again if I can
help it."

Here she fell into a rather mournful
reverie, thinking of her old life, with
its shifts and privations — of her poor
father, who had been so happy through
it all, never feeling the weight of the
petty debts ,and dishonours that lay
like lead on her — of her struggles to
keep his afeirs straight — of her prayers
that she might not live to despise and
desert him, which was a temptation
that grew with her growing years —
and as she thought, she gazed absently,

tenderly, pensively, not on the sealskin
jacket, but on the faces of the passers-by.
She had no idea how excessively
interesting and pretty she looked to
those passers-by with that expression in
her eyes.

However, a gentleman came by presently,
a well-preserved young man of
fifty or sixty, with a waxed moustache,
and a slender umbrella carried musket-wise
over his shoulder ; and his attention
was violently arrested.

"Where have I seen that charming
creature?" he asked himself, imploring
his memory, which had a great store
of miscellaneous treasures, to be quick
and help him. " Surely I have been
introduced to her somewhere. Oh, of
course ! it is old Hardy's niece, or
ward, or whatever she is. Good day.

Miss Fetherstonhaagh," turning back
when he had nearly passed her, and
making a profound obeisance with
his hat off. " Fine afternoon for a
drive."

She recognised him immediately. She
had danced a quadrille with him at
her memorable first evening " out," and
she had learned a great deal of him
since from the gossip of her aunt's
circle. There was a time, she had
been told, when he was nearly becoming
a member of the family himself. He
was a great merchant — or an ex-merchant
rather — who had dealt in some
mysterious commodity that had brought
enormous profits; and he had risen
by all kinds of good luck, from no
one knew what depth of social insignificance
to the proud position of a man

VOL I. 2

of fashion about town, whom ladies
delighted to honour.

Good day, Mr. Kingston," she responded,
looking very pink and bright,
and a little flurried as she returned
his salutation. She had the daintiest
complexion that ever adorned a youthful
face, and whenever she was startled
or embarrassed, however slightly, she
blushed like a rose. Mr. Kingston,
accustomed to appraise the charms of
his female friends with an almost brutal
impartiality, was unjustifiably touched
and flattered by this innocent demonstration.
He was really very glad he
had remembered who she was before
he had lost so good an opportunity for
looking at and talking to her.

"I don't think it is a very fine
afternoon," she remarked presently, as

the gentleman seemed to find himself
for once a little at a loss for a subject
; and she smiled at him through
her blushes, which went and came suddenly
and delicately, as if they were
breathed over her by the air somehow.
It has been looking grey, like rain,
ever since we started ; and it is rather
cold, don't you think?"

Is it ? Ah ! so it is. But we must
expect cold weather in May. I suppose
it is rather strange to you to
be finding winter coming on at this
season?"

No. "Why should it be strange tome
?"

1 thought — I am sure somebody told
me — that you were recently out from
England."

Oh, dear, no," she replied, frankly.

I was born in this colony, and have
lived in it all my life."

In the name of fortune, where ?"

'ein different places; at Sandhurst,
at Ballarat, and on the Upper Murray,
and in little townships here and therein
the bush ; and sometimes in Melbourne."


I am sure I never saw you in Melbourne
until I met you at that dance
the other night," he protested earnestly.
I never should have forgotten your face
if I had once seen it."

'' I daresay not," she said, and she was
angry to find herself blushing again. '* I
was but a child when I lived in Melbourne
before, and— and my home was not in
Toorak then."

Mr. Kingston understood. She had
been a poor relation in those days, and

the Misses Hardy were unmarried. He
"had a constitutional antipathy to poor
relations, and he was a little disappointed.
For a few seconds he kept silence, while
he wondered what her antecedents could
have been. Then he looked at her
again, and she was regarding him with
a curious gravity of demeanour, almost
as if she had divined his thoughts.
There was a meek majesty about her
that commanded his respect, and that
he considered was excessively becoming.


After all, what did it matter about her
antecedents ? Did she not look a thoroughly
well-bred little woman, sitting
there in her furs and soft cushions,
with her head held so straight? Did
he not hear other men — better men
than he from a genealogical point of

view — singing her praises wherever he
went? Whatever she had been, she was
a distinguished personage now, whose
acquaintance it behoved a veteran lady-killer
to cultivate, and that without
delay.

I am very glad your home is in
Toorak now," he said gallantly. "T
have some land there myself, quite close
to your uncle's place."

Indeed," murmured Rachel.

Yes, and I am going to build on it
soon. I have just got the plans out
from home — capital plans. I shall bring
them in for Mrs. Hardy's opinion.
When my house is built we shall be
neighbours. You will have to help me,
you and your aunt, with the furnishing
and all that sort of thing that ladies
understand."

I don't think I understand much
about it," she said; 'but I shall like to
see it done. I am very fond of pretty
furniture. Will your house be very
big ?"

Oh, nothing out of the way. I'm
not going to spend more than twenty
thousand pounds on it. My friends tell
me I ought to do the thing properly
when I am about it ; but I don't seethe
fun of locking up a lot of money in
bricks and mortar. I might want to
change my residence any day, you
see."

Rachel looked at him with awe. There
was a flippancy in the way he spoke of
that twenty thousand pounds which
almost shocked her.

If you are going to build a palace,"
she said, " don't talk of asking my help.

I have never had anything to do with
that kind of thing."

'' Oh, my dear Miss Fetherstonhangh
really it will be nothing but an ordinary
good-sized, comfortable house, and
I am sure your taste would be perfect.
At any rate, you will help me with
the gardens ? I mean to have good
grounds, whatever else I go without;
and ladies always know how to layout
beds and things better than we
do."

"J shouldn't know," she said, smiling;
"but I think my aunt is very clever
at that. We have beautiful flowers —
even so late as this."

''So I see." He glanced admiringly
at the rose on her breast, and she stuck
her pretty chin into her throat and
looked at it too. " What a lovely bud

that is ! Martial Mel, is it not ? Oh,
don't take it out — the black fur on your
jacket makes such a charming background
for it."

Rachel already had it in her hand, and
was stroking the velvety yellow petals
and the dark green leaves.

We have plenty of them," she said ;
*' there is a wonderful autumn bloom of
roses just now. This is a picture, isn't
it ? with that deep colour like an
apricot in the heart, and those scarlet
stains streaking it outside. Would you
like to have it ?" And she held it outwith
a frank gesture and the most
captivating smile; and then, as he took
it with a low bow and much ostentatious
gratitude, she blushed the deepest
crimson to the roots of her golden
hair.

At this moment Mrs. Hardy emerged
from the shop, her ounce-weight of purchases
being carried behind her ; and
Mr. Kingston turned to receive an effusive
greeting.

Oh, my dear Mr. Kingston, is it
you?" the stately matron exclaimed.
'' How glad I am to see you — I have
not met you for an age ! Where have
you been ? And when are you coming
to call on me again?"

I will come whenever you will allow
me," this illustrious person replied, with
an alacrity of demeanour that did not
escape notice. " I thought of coming
this afternoon, and on my way I saw
your carriage, and your niece told me
that you were shopping."

"No; I did not tell you that," interposed
Rachel gravely.

He looked at her and laughed, and
his laugh for some unaccountable reason
called her retreating blushes back. Mrs.
Hardy glanced sharply from one to the
other, and then she also laughed, indecorous
matronly fashion.

Well, come and dine with us tonight,"
the elder lady said, "and take
us to the opera. That would be a
friendly thing to do, if you are disposed
to be friendly. Beatrice and Mr. Reade
are coming— nobody else ; and you can
take Mr. Hardy's ticket. He is always
glad to get off going."

I will indeed — I will with pleasure,"
was the prompt response ; and with
some further exchange of civilities, the
friends separated.

Mr. Kingston walked away to his club,
with his flower in his button-hole, swinging

his-umbrella gently, and wondering
to what class of woman this pretty Miss
Fetherstonhaugh belonged.

Is she a coquette ?" he asked himself
over and over again ; *' or is she
charmingly fresh and simple ?"

Mrs. Hardy rolled home in her little
Victoria, and she also asked herself
questions which were by no means easy
to answer, as she stole furtive glances
at the little black figure sitting, watchful
and alert, beside her.

"My dear," she said presently, breaking
a long silence, " where is your
rosebud gone to ?"

"I gave it to Mr. Kingston, aunt."

You gave it to Mr. Kingston !" Mrs.
Hardy almost shouted in the vehemence
of her surprise. Then, pausing for a
moment while she stared, not unkindly,



at the torrent of blushes that flowed
over her pretty face, she ejaculated,
almost in a tone of awe, '' Good

gracious

FAMILY COUNSELS.

HE drawing-room of the house
in Toorak where our heroine
lived, looked very cosy and
comfortable a few hours later in the
ruddy glow of the firelight. It was a
little before the days of domestic high
art in Victoria, and it was by no means
the charming apartment that it is now.
There was no dado, no parquetry floor,
no tiled hearth, no Stag ere mantelpiece —
nor Persian rugs under foot, nor Limoges

plaques and Benares dishes on the
walls, nor Japanese screens and jars,
nor treasures of jade and china, nor
anything, in fact, that there ought to
have been.

The pleasant firelight danced upon a
whitewashed ceiling, plentifully adorned
with plaster-of-Paris mouldings, and upon
whitey-grey walls sprigged with golden
flowers. The floor was completely
covered with a vivid green carpet, also
sprinkled with flowers ; and the windows
were draped with brilliant damask to
match, depending from immense gilt
cornices in festoons looped with cords
and tassels. There was a cut-glass
chandelier hanging down in the middle,
and there was a gigantic pier-glass
reaching from the marble chimney-piece
to the plaster-of-Paris frieze, with little

gold cupids sitting on the top of it,
tying wreaths of gold flowers into a
knot. The chairs and couches shone in
slippery satin, with wonderful rosewood
convolutions wriggling out from them,
that one could hardly venture to call
legs ; and there was a terrible chifEon-
niece, full of looking-glasses, with a
marble top, reflecting all these splendours
over and over again — which was quite
unnecessary.

Nevertheless, though Mrs. Hardy cannot
look back upon it without a shudder,
the old room was a pleasant room. She
herself came into it on this occasion,
having dressed a little earlier than usual,
and was struck by its air of luxurious
warmth and comfort. She saw nothing
to shock her artistic susceptibilities ; she
liked the twinkle of her glass drops.

and the shine of her spacious mirror,
and the deep glow of her emerald satin
and damask — though she would die
sooner than own to it now.

She went leisurely over to the fire,
sank down in a low armchair, and put
up her feet on the fender to warm,
with a distinct impression upon her
mind of congenial surroundings and
satisfied aspirations. Long ago she had
been a poor man's wife — the most
estimable and devoted of poor men's
wives — doing her own housework, making
her own bread and butter, nursing her
own babies, mending her husband's
clothes ; and in those days she had beautified
her bush hut with cheap paper
and chintz, and thought it prettier thana
palace.

Later on she had had a smart brick

VOL. I. 3

and stucco cottage, and in it a drawing-room
— her first drawing-room — with a
green and scarlet drugget on the floor,
lace curtains over the window, a centre
table (with a basket of wax flowers
under a shade in the middle), and a
suite " in green rep disposed around ;
and this in its day had seemed to her
an apartment quite too good for common
use. Next she had aspired to a Brussels
carpet, and by and bye to a pier-glass
and a piano. And so she had come by
degrees to this Toorak splendour, in
each stage feeling that she had reached
the summit of her ambition, and vindicated
her claim to the most correct
taste.

The same process of evolution and
development had taken place in herself,
outwardly and inwardly. She was

naturally a kindly, honest, good-hearted
woman, and she was by birth a lady.
But year by year nature having much
to struggle with had retired, step by
step into the background of her personality,
and she was simply what the
education of society — her society — made
her. Practically, fashion and les convenances
were her gods. Those men or
women who were not what she generally
termed " well-bred " — who were behind
the times in social matters, who had
no place in her great world, nor any
capacity for making one — were not people
to be received into her house, or to
have anything to do with. Her demeanour
to such unfortunate individuals,
when she did happen to come into
contact with them was, to say the least,
chilling.

Yet those who knew her best, declared
that if any of these ineligible were to
fall into great trouble, she would bethe
first to help and befriend them if
she could; and that if her husband
were to lose his fortune and suddenly
plunge her into poverty again, she
would set to work to cook his dinners
and mend his clothes with the same
cheerful willingness as of yore.

She sat in the warm firelight, toasting
her feet, and her brain was busy
with projects. For some weeks past
she had been troubled about her young
niece, on account of her too absurd
innocence, and her ignorance of social
etiquette in many important details.
The girl's manner and carriage had
been particularly easy and graceful, but
she had constantly counteracted the

effect of this bj a deplorable want of
penetration as to who was who, and of
reticence concerning ber own history
and experiences, which had been very
mortifying to an aunt and chaperon
accustomed to better things; and her
efforts to teach and train one who
seemed so gentle and pliant had been
singularly unfruitful. Rachel was a
sweet child, and she was fond of her,
and proud of her beauty ; nevertheless,
she had declared to herself and to
Beatrice more than once, that she had
never known a human creature so hopelessly
dense and stupid.

To-night, however, she took another
view of the case. That rural freshness
had possibly found favour in the eyes
of Mr. Kingston, who had been the
ideal son-in-law to so many mothers of

SO many polished daughters. She was
surprised, but she could understand it.
For she knew that men had all sorts
of queer, independent, unaccountable
ways of looking at things — at women
in particular ; and she had already
noticed that they liked those ridiculous
blushes — which to her mind showed a
painful want of culture and self-possession
— in which the girl indulged so
freely.

What if she should be able to marry
her to Mr. Kingston — who had foiled
the artifices of well-meaning matrons,
and resisted the fascinations of charming
maidens exactly suited for him for
so many years — after marrying all her
own children so well? That was the
theme of her meditations, and she found
it deeply interesting. She longed for

the arrival of Beatrice, who was her
eldest daughter and her chief confidante
and adviser, to hear what she had to
say about it.

She had been by herself about ten
minutes, during which time a servant
had lit up the cut-glass chandelier, when
there was a ring at the door-bell, and
Mr. and Mrs. Eeade were ushered in.
Mrs. Reade was a tiny little dark
woman, with a bright and clever, though
by no means pretty, face, in which no
trace of the maternal features was
visible.

She was beautifully dressed in palest
pink, with crimson roses in her hair,
and delicate lace of great value about her
tight skirt and her narrow shoulders ; and
her distinguished appearance generally
rejoiced her mother's heart. Behind

her towered lier enormous husband, in
whom blue blood declined to manifest
itself in the customary way. He was
an amiable, slow-witted, honest gentleman,
with a large, weak face, rather
coarse and red, particularly towards bedtime,
and heavy and awkward manners;
and he was as wax in the hands of the
small person who owned him.

'' Ned," she said, looking back at him
as she swept across the room, "you
go and find papa, and let mamma and
me have a talk until the others come
in."

Ned obediently went — not to find his
host, who was probably in the dressing-room,
but to read " The Argus " by the
dining-room fire, while the servants set
the table. And the mother and daughter
sat down together to one of the confidential

gossips that they loved. Mrs.
Eeade began to unfold her little budget
of news and scandal, but immediately
laid it by — to be resumed between the
acts of the opera presently — while she
listened to Mrs. Hardy's account of the
transactions of the afternoon. It did
not take that experienced matron long
to explain herself, and the younger lady
was quick to grasp the situation. At
first she was inclined to scoff.

Oh, we all know Mr. Kingston,
mamma. He dangles after every fresh
face, but he never means anything.
He will never marryat any rate,
not until he is too old to flirt anymore."


"But, my dear, he is going to build
his house."

"I don't believe a word of it," said

Mrs. Reade. " He has been going to
build that house ever since I can
remember. It is just one of his artful
devices. Whenever he wants to make
a girl Hke him he tells her about that
house — just to set her longing to bethe
mistress of it. That is the only
use he will ever put it to. You'll see
he will tell Rachel all about it to-night.
He will beg her to help him with her
exquisite taste, and so on. Oh, I know
his ways. But he means nothing."

"He has already told Rachel," said
Mrs. Hardy, laughing. 'rand, what is
more, he is going to bring the designs
to show her, and he says he is really
going to put the work in hand at
once."

If so," said Mrs. Eeade, gazing
into the fire meditatively, " it looks as

if he had been proposing to settle himself
— though I shall not believe it till
I see it. But then he must have made
his plans before he ever saw Rachel.
It must be Sarah Brownlow he is thinking
of, mamma."

*' Sarah Brownlow passed him this
afternoon, Beatrice, and he hardly noticed
her. While as for Rachel — well, I only
wish you had been there to see the
way he looked at her, and the way
he said good-bye. My impression is
that he thinks it is time to settle — as
indeed it is, goodness knows — and so
has begun with his house ; and that he is
looking about for a mistress for it, and
that something in Rachel has struck
him. I am certain he is struck with
Rachel."

Mrs. Reade gazed into the fire gravely,

while she pondered over this solemn announcement.


It is possible," she said presently.
It is quite possible. All the men are
saying that she is the prettiest girl
in Melbourne just now. An elderly
club man, who has seen much of the
world, is very likely to admire that
kind of childish, simple creature. If
it should be so," she continued,
musingly, '' I wonder how Rachel will
take it."

"Rachel," said Mrs. Hardy, with
sudden energy, 'ris not so simple as
she seems. You mark my words, she
will be as keen to make a good marriage
as anybody as soon as she gets
the chance."

"Do you think so?" her daughter
responded, looking up with her bright.

quick eyes. " Now that is not at all my
notion of her."

"Nor was it mine at first, but I am
getting new lights. It never does to
trust to that demure kind of shy manner.
I assure you she made such use of her
opportunities this afternoon as surprised
me, who am not easily surprised. In
about ten minutes — I could not have
been in Aston's more than ten minutes
they were on the most frank and
friendly terms possible, and she had
given him a rose to wear in his buttonhole."


Nonsense !"

I assure you, yes. And I know, by
the look of him, that he never saw
through it. It is wonderful how even
the cleverest men can be taken in by
that ingenue manner. He evidently

thought her a sweet and unsophisticated
child. Sweet she is — the most amiable
little creature I ever knew; but she
knows what she is about perfectly
well''

Mrs. Reade gazed into the fire again
with thoughtful eyes ; then after a
pause she said :

I think you don't understand her,
mamma. I think she really saw no
more in Mr. Kingston than she would
have seen in any poor young man without
a penny."

No, Beatrice. She talked about his
new house, and all the money he was
going to spend on it, in a ridiculous
way. She was completely fascinated by
the subject."

I can't imagine little Rachel scheming
to catch a rich husband," the young

lady exclaimed, with a mocking, but
pleasant laugh.

*' You don't see as much of her as
I do, my dear Beatrice," her mother
replied, with dignity. "If you did, you
would know that she is as fond of
money and luxury as any hardened
woman of the world could be. She
quite fondles the ornaments I have put
in her room. She goes into raptures
over the silver and china. A new dress
sends her into ecstacies. She annoys
me sometimes — showing people so plainly
that she has never been used to anything
nice. However, it will make it
easier for me to settle her than I at
first thought it would be. It will be
all plain sailing with Mr. Kingston, you
will see."

*' Mother," said Mrs. Reade — she only

said " mother" when she was very much
in earnest — "let me give you a word
of advice. If you want to marry Rachel
to Mr. Kingston — and I hope you will,
for it would be a capital match — don't let
her know anything about it; don't do
anything to help it on ; don't let her
see what is coming — leave them both
alone. I think I know her better than
you do, and I have a pretty good idea
of Mr. Kingston; and any sort of interference
with either of them would
be most injudicious — most dangerous.
I shall see to-night — I'm sure I shall
see in a moment — • — "

There was a ring at the door-bell, and
the stir of an arrival in the hall, and
the little woman did not finish what
she wanted to say. She rose from her
chair, and shook out her pink train ;

and the mother to whom she had laid
down the law rose also, looking very
majestic.

''Mr. Kingston," said the servant,
throwing the drawing-room door open.

The great man entered with a springing
step, bowing elaborately. His glossy
hair (some people said it was a wig, but
it was not) was curled to perfection ;
his moustaches were waxed to the finest
needle-points ; he wore flashing diamond
studs on an embroidered shirt front ; and
there was a Marshal Noel rose in his
button-hole, not very fresh, and too
much blown to be any ornament to a
fine gentleman's evening toilet, hanging
its yellow head heavily from a weak and
flabby stalk.

VOL I.

MR. KINCxSTON S QUESTION.

HILE lier aunt and cousin were
discussing lier downstairs, Miss
Fetherstonhaugh was dressing
herself for dinner in lier little chamber
at the top of the house. This was a
part of the daily ceremonial of her
new life, in which she took a deep and
delighted interest. The whole thing, in
fact, was charming to her. To come
sweeping down the big staircase in
dainty raiment, all in the spacious light

and warmth — to have the doors held
open for her as she passed in and out
to 0^0 into the dining-room on her
uncle's arm, and sit at dinner with
flowers before her — seeing and feeling
nothing but softness and colour, and
polish and order everywhere — was at
this time to realise her highest conception
of earthly enjoyment.

Her bedroom was not magnificent,
but it had everything in it that she
most desired — the whitest linen, the
freshest chintz and muslin, a fire to
dress by, an easy chair, and above
all, a cheval glass, in which she could
survey her pretty figure from head to
foot. She stood before this cheval
glass to-night a thoroughly happy little
person. Hitherto, with a mirror twelve
inches by nine, that had a crack across

4—2

it, she had seen that her face was
fair and fresh, and that her hair had
a wonderful red-gold lustre where the
light fell upon it ; but she was only
now coming to understand what perfection
of shape and grace had developed
with her recent growth into womanhood,
to make the tout ensemble
charming.

She looked at herself with deep content
— no doubt with a stronger interest
than she would have looked at any
other lovely woman, but in much the
same spirit, enjoying her beauty more
for its own sake than for what it
would do for her — more because it
harmonised herself to her tastes and
circumstances, than because it was a
great arsenal of ammunition for social
warfare and conquest.

She was still in mourning for her
father, and had put on a simple black
evening dress. Her natural sense of
the becoming dictated simple costumes,
but education demanded that they should
be made in the latest fashion ; and
she regarded the tightness of her skirt
in front, and the fan of her train
behind, with something more than complacency.


As yet the lust for jewels had not
awakened in her, which was very
fortunate, for she had none. The
tender, milky throat and the round
white arms were bare ; and all the
ornament that she wore, or wanted,
was a bouquet of white chrysanthemum
and scarlet salvia on her bosom, and
another in her hair.

Pretty Rachel Fetherstonhaugh ! If

Rodenn Dalrymple could have seen her
that night, only for five minutes, what
a deal of trouble she might have been
spared !

The dinner bell rang, and she blew
Out her candles hurriedly, and flitted
downstairs. On the landing below her
she joined her uncle — a small, thin,
sharp-faced person, with wiry grey
hair, and '' man of business" written
in every line of his face — as he left
his own apartment ; and they descended
in haste together to the drawing-room,
where four people were solemnly awaiting
them.

The first thing that Rachel saw when
she entered was her Marshal Mel rose.
She glanced from that to its wearer's
face, eagerly turned to meet her,
full of admiring interest; and, as a

matter of course, she blushed to a
hue that put her scarlet sylvia to
shame.

Why she blushed she would have been
at a loss to sap ; certainly not for any of
the reasons that the assembled spectators
supposed. It was merely from the
vaguest sense of embarrassment at being
in a position which sbe had not been
trained to understand.

An hour or two before, her aunt had
made that rose the text of a discourse
in which many strange things had been

t/ CD Cj

suggested, but nothing explained ; and
now they all looked at her, evidently
with reference to it, yet with painful
ambiguity that perplexed her and made
her uneasy ; and she could only feel, ina
general way, that she was young and
ignorant and not equal to the situation.

Much less than that was amply
sufficient to cover her with a veil of
blushes.

At dinner she sat between Mr. Reade
and her uncle, and, being on the best
of terms with both of them, she confined
her conversation to her own corner
of the table, and scarcely lifted her
eyes ; but when dinner was over — dinner
and coffee, and the drive to the opera-house
— then Mr. Kingston, deeply interested
in his supposed discovery of a
new kind of woman, and piqued by her
shy reception of his generally much-appreciated
attentions, set himself to
improve his acquaintance with her, and
found the task easy. They were standing
on the pavement, in the glare of the
gaslight, with a lounging crowd about
them.

Mrs. Hardy lead dropped a bracelet,
for which she and her son-in-law were
hunting in the bottom of the brougham,
and Mrs. Reade was chatting to an
acquaintance, whose hansom had just
deposited him beside her — a bearded
young squatter, enjoying his season in
town after selling his wool high, who
stared very hard at Rachel through a
pair of good glasses, as soon as he had
a favourable opportunity.

Mr. Kingston stood by the girl's side,
staring at her without disguise. The
shadow of the street fell soft upon her
gauzy raiment and her white arms and
the lustre of her auburn hair, but her
face was turned towards the gaslight —
she was looking wistfully up the long
passage which had something very like
fairy land at the end of it — and he

thought he had never seen any face so
fresh and sweet.

You like this kind of thing, don't
you ?" he said, gently, as if speaking to
a child, when in turning to look for
her aunt she caught his eye.

*' Oh, yes," she replied, promptly, '' I
do, indeed '! I like the whole thing ;
not the singing and the acting only,
but the place, and the people, and the
ladies' dresses, and the noise, and the
moving about, and the lights — everything.
I should like to come to the
opera every night — except the nights
when there are balls."

Mr. Kingston laughed, and said he
should never have guessed from what
he had seen of her that she was such
a very gay young lady.

'you don't understand," she responded

quickly, looking up at him with earnest,
candid eyes ; 'rit is not that I am gay
^ — oh, no, I don't think it is that ! though
perhaps I do enjoy a spectacle more than
many people. But it is all so new and
strange. I have never had any sightseeing
— any pleasure like what I am
having now, that is why I find it so
delightful."

Come, my dear !" cried Mrs. Hardy
sharply (she had found her bracelet and
overheard a part of this little dialogue),
don't stand about in the wind with
nothing over you. What have you done
with your shawl ?"

'rit is here, aunt," replied Rachel
meekly, lifting it from her arm.

Her cavalier hastened to take it from
her and adjust it carefully over her
shoulders. During this operation Mrs.

Hardy swept into the lobby, taking the
arm of her big son-in-law; and Mrs.
Eeade, having parted from her friend,
glanced round quickly, followed her
husband, and put herself also under his
protection. Mr. Kingston, smiling to
himself like Mephistopheles under his
waxed moustache, was left with Rachel
in the doorway.

'' How does it go ?" he said, fumbling
with a quantity of woolly fringe. " All
right — there's no hurry. It is not eight
o'clock yet. Pray let me do it for
you."

She stood still, while he dawdled as
long as he could over the arrangement
of her wrap, but she cast anxious looks
after the three receding figures, and she
was the colour of an oleander blossom.
He was a little disconcerted at her embarrassment

; it amused him, but it
touched him too.

Poor little timid child ! Who would
be so mean as to take advantage of her
inexperience ? Not he, certainly. He
gave her his arm and led her into the
house, with a deferential attentiveness
that did not usually mark his deportment
towards young girls. On their
way they were accosted by a boy
holding a couple of bouquets in each
hand.

"Buy a bouquet for the opera, Sir ?"
said he, in his sing-song voice.

Mr. Kingston paused and put his
glass in his eye. They were bright
little nosegays, and one of them, much
superior to the other, had a fringe of
maiden hair fern and a rich red rose
in the middle of it. He took this from

the boy's hand, and offered it to Rachel
with his elaborate bow.

Permit me," he said, " to make a
poor acknowledgment of my deep indebtedness
to you for this''

And. he touched the drooping petals
of the Marshal Noel bud, and imagined
he was paying her a delicate sentimental
compliment.

If Rachel had been the most finished
fine lady she could not have undeceived
him more gracefully.

'' Thank you," she said, simply, and
she smiled for half a second.

To be sure her red rose was not
redder than she was, but she held her
head with a gentle air of maidenly
dignity that quite counteracted the
weakness of that blush.

Mr. Kingston began to suspect, with

some surprise, that site was not so
easy to get on with as she appeared.
However, that did not lessen his
interest in her by any means.

*' I am afraid you think I have taken
a liberty," he suggested presently. What
had come to him to care what a bread-and-butter
miss might think? But
somehow he did care.

*^ Oh, no," she said, "it is very kind
of you. But you must not talk of
being indebted to me. Flowers are not
not presents, like other things."

By this time they had reached the
top of the stairs, and Mrs. Reade was
sweeping out of the cloak-room, where
she had been "settling" her hair,
and putting a little powder on her
face.

Mamma is gone in," she said, taking

the girl's hand kindly ; " there are
plenty of people here to-night, Rachel.
You must look for a lady sitting on the
right of the Governor's box, in a high
velvet dress. She is one of our Melbourne
beauties."

So they went in and took their seats ;
and Rachel found herself sitting in the
front tier, not very much to the left
of the viceregal armchairs, and her
cousin Beatrice was on one side of
her and Mr. Kingston on the
other.

She was perfectly contented now.
She smiled at her flowers ; she furled
and unfurled her fan ; she looked
round and round the house through
her glasses, whispering questions and
comments to Mrs. Reade, who knew
everybody and everybody's history;

and it made Mrs. Hardy quite uneasy
to see how thoroughly and evidently she
enjoyed herself. Mr. Kingston recovered
his spirits which she had damped a
little while ago.

He watched her face from time to
time — generally when she was absorbed
in watching the stage; and the more
he looked, the more charming he found
it. So fresh, so frank, so modest, so
sweet, with those delicate womanly
blushes always coming and going, and
that child-like fun and brightness in
her eyes. He had never been so
"fetched," as he expressed it, by a
pretty face before ; that is to say, he
did not remember that he ever had
been.

It was, indeed, very seldom that he
regarded a pretty face with such a

VOL. I. 6

serious kind of admiration. He found
himself wondering how it would fare,
how long it would keep its transparent
innocence and candour in the atmosphere
of this new world — this second-rate
Hardy set, which was full of meretricious,
manoeuvring, gossip-loving women
with a touch of anxiety that was
quite unselfish. He was sure now that
she was not a coquette ; he was experienced
enough to know, also, that,
however humble her origin and antecedents,
she was a girl of thoroughly
good style ;" and it would be a
thousand pities, he thought, if the influence
of her surroundings should spoil
her.

When the curtain fell and the gas
was turned up, he noticed that people
all round the house were turning their

glasses upon her. Certainly she made
a charming study from an artistic
point of view. What taste she had
shown m the grouping of her white
chrysanthemums, and the way she had
mixed in those few velvety horns of
red salvia. They were colours proper
to a brunette, but they seemed to
accentuate the delicacy of her milky
complexion and the fine shade of her
red-gold hair.

What a chin and throat she had !
and what soft, yet strong, round arms 1
white, but warm, like blush rose
petals that had unfolded in the dews
of dawn at summer time, against
the black background of her dress.
And her shape and her colour were
nothing compared with the expression
of utter content and happiness that

5—2

shone out of her face, irradiating her
youth and beauty with a tender light
and sweetness that, like sunshine on
a sleeping crater, gave no hint of
the tragic trouble hidden away for
future years. No wonder people looked
at her. Of course they looked.

The glasses that she had been
using belonged to Mrs. Eeade, and
now that lady was busy with them,
hunting for her numerous acquaintances.
Mr. Kingston held out his
own, curious to see if she would
discover what attention she was
receiving, and what the effect of such
a discovery would be.

Thank you," said Rachel gratefully;
and she settled herself back
in her seat, and proceeded to take a
thorough survey of all the rank and

fashion that surrounded her. For a
long time she gazed attentively, shifting
her glasses slowly round from
left to right; and Mr. Kingston
watched her, leaning an elbow on the
red ridge between them, and twiddling
one horn of his moustaches.

He expected to see the familiar
blush stealing up over the whiteness
of her face and neck. But she
remained, though deeply interested,
quite cool and calm. Presently she
dropped her hands in her lap and
drew a long breath.

There is a lady over there,"
she said in a whisper, " who has
something round her arm so bright
that I think it must be diamonds.
Do you see who I mean ? When
she holds up her glasses again, tell

me if they are real diamonds in her
bracelet "

Much amused, Mr. Kingston did ashe
was bidden.

*' Oh, yes," he said, '' they are
real diamonds. That lady is particularly
addicted to precious stones.
She walks about the street in broad
day with a Sunday school in each ear,
as that fellow in Piccadilly says. Are
you like the majority of your sex — a
worshipper of diamonds? I thought
you did not care for jewellery."

I do," she replied, smiling. *' I
don't worship jewels, but I should
like to have some. I should like
to have some real diamonds very
much."

"I daresay you will have plenty
some day, and very becoming they'll

be to you. Not more so, though,
than the flowers you are wearing
to-night," he added, looking at them
admiringly.

Rachel touched up her ornaments
with a thoughtful face.

There is such a light about
diamonds," she said musingly ; " no
coloured stones seem so liquid and
twinkling. I don't care in the least
about coloured stones. If I were
very rich I would have one ring full
of diamonds, to wear every day, and
one necklace to wear at night — a necklace
of diamond stars strung together
and perhaps a diamond bracelet.
And I wouldn't care for anything
else."

Should you like to be very rich ?"
asked her companion, smiling to himself

over these naive confessions. He
was gazing, not only into her eyes,
but at her lovely throat and arms,
and imagining how they would look
With diamonds on them.

Yes," said Rachel. " But the great
tiling I wish is not to be poor. I
hope — oh, I do hope — I shall never be
poor any more !"

I don't think you stand in the
least danger of that," said Mr.
Kingston.

I know all about it," continued
the girl gravely; 'rand I don't think
you do, or you could not laugh or
make a joke of it. You cannot know
how much it means. You never have
debts, of course."

Debts ? Oh, dear, yes, I do —
plenty."

'' Yes, but I mean debts that you
can't pay — that you have to apologise
for— that hang and drag about you
always. I won't talk about it," she
added hurriedly, with a little shiver ;
"it will spoil my pleasure tonight."


DonH,'' said Mr. Kingston. He did
not find it a congenial topic either.
'' Tell me what you would do if you
were rich."

What I would do ?" she murmured
gently, smiling again. *' Oh, all kinds
of things — I would pay ready money
for everything, in the first place. Then
I would have a lovely house, with
quantities of pictures. That is one
great fault in our house at Toorak —
we have no nice pictures. And I
would wear black velvet dresses. And

I would have a beautiful sealskin
jacket. And a thorough-bred horse to
ride "

*' Oh, do you ride?" interposed Mr.
Kingston, eagerly.

'' I used to ride. I like it very
much. My father gave me a beautiful
mare once; but afterwards he rode a
steeplechase with her, and she fell
and broke her back. I can ride very
well," she added, smiling and blushing.
I can jump fences without being
afraid. But Uncle Hardy keeps only
carriage horses, and none of the family
ride."

But you must have a horse, of
course. I must speak to your uncle
about it," said Mr. Kingston. 'indeed,
1 think I^ have one that would suit
you admirably, and I'll lend him to

you to try, with pleasure, if you'll
allow me."

"Oh, will you? Oh, hot delightful!
When will you let me try him ? But
I forgot — I have no habit!"

"That is a difficulty soon got over.
rU speak to your aunt," said this
influential autocrat.

And here a bell rang, and the
curtain rose upon a fresh scene. Mrs.
Reade and her mother had had an
absorbing tete-astute, and now turned to
see what their charge was doing. Mr.
Eeade, redolent of something that was
not eau de cologne, came back to his
seat; and Rachel began to watch the
proceedings of the prima donna, who
was solemnly marching across the
stage. Mr. Kingston was aware, however,
that the girl's thoughts were not

with the spectacle before her. She
was evidently preoccupied about those
promised rides.

I shall have no one to go with
me," she whispered presently, in the
pauses of a song.

I shall be proud to be your
escort," he whispered back. " And
there will always be the groom, you
know," he added, seeing the colour
of the oleander blossom suddenly appear.
" Do not be anxious. I will
manage it all for you."

"You are very kind," she said, looking
up into his face with that shy
blush, and a charming friendliness in
her eyes, " and I am very grateful to
you; but please do not try to persuade
Aunt Elizabeth against her
wish." And she did not say much

more to him. From this point she
became silent and thoughtful.

When they reached Toorak, however,
Mr. Kingston redeemed his promise
faithfully in his own way, and at
considerable trouble to himself. Mr.
and Mrs. Hardy both liked to do things,
as they called it, '' handsomely," but at
the same time without any unnecessary
expense ; and neither of them could see
his proposal in the light of a paying
enterprise.

Rachel was driven out in the carriage
daily ; she appeared at all places of
fashionable resort; she took abundant
exercise. A riding-horse would be
expensive, and so would a saddle and
habit, not to speak of the addition to
the stable necessities ; and what would
there be to show for it ? But while

the uncle, and still more the aunt,
were delicately fencing with the proposition,
Mrs. Reade struck in and
swept all objections away.

'^ Of course the child ought to ride
if she has been used to riding," said
this imperious small person. " You
send your horse here, Mr. Kingston,
and Ned shall come round and see
what she can do with it." This was
in the hall, where he was supposed to
be saying good-night ; and Rachel had
gone upstairs to bed.

Thank you, Mrs. Eeade — if I may,"
he said, with an eager gratitude that
amused himself. " I am sure it would
be a great pleasure to her — and it
would be so good for her health.
Why don't you ride too ? It is such
splendid exercise."

*' I would in a minute, if I had a
figure like hers," laughed Mrs. Reade.
'' Mamma, we must get her a good
habit to set off that figure. I'll come
round in the morning, and go with
you to have her measured. Are you
going, Mr. Kingston, without a cup of
hot coffee ? Good-night, then ; mind you
send your horse."

The servant shut the door behind
him ; and he went out into the
solemnity of the autumn night. The
wind was rustling and whispering
through the shrubberies round the
house ; it had the scent in it of untimely
violets, mingled with a faint
fragrance of the distant sea.

Above, the stars were shining brilliantly
; below, the teeming city lay
silent in the lap of darkness, with a

thousand lamplight sprinkled over it.
In the foreground he could dimly seethe
lines of gravelled paths and grassy
terraces, and the gleam of great
bunches of pale clirysanthemums swaying
to and fro in the cool air.

'* It is a splendid site," he said to
himself; "but I think, if anything,
mine is better."

He stood for some time, looking
away over the illuminated valley to
the milky streak on the horizon wherein
three or four hours the waters of
Port Philip Bay would shine; and
then he sauntered down to the lodge,
and found his hansom waiting for
him.

Go up to my land there, will you ?"
said he, pointing his thumb over his
shoulder as he got in. *' I'm going to set

the men on soon, and I want to have a
look at it."

The driver, wondering whether he had
had more champagne than usual, said,
'all right. Sir," and drove him the
few dozen yards that intervened between
Mr. Hardy's gates and the
place where his own were designed to
be.

In the darkness he clambered over the
fence, made his way to the highest
ground in the enclosure, and stood
once more to look at the lamp-spangled
city and the dim and distant
bay.

'' Yes," he said, '' I am higher here.
I shall get a better view." And he
began to build his house in fancy —
to see it towering over all his neighbours',
with great white walls and

VOL. I. 6

colonnades, and myriad windows full
of lights, and lovely gardens full of
flowers and fountains. '' I must begin
at once," lie said. " I must see the
contractors tomorrow. I must not
put it off any longer, or T shall bean
old man before I can begin to enjoy
it."

And after long musing over the
details of bis project, he stumbled back,
through saplings, and tussocks, and
broken bottles, to the fence ; tore his
dress-coat on a nail getting over it ;
and subsiding into his cab, lit a cheroot,
and stared intently into vacancy all the
way to his club.

When he reached this bachelor's home
he did not know what to do with
himself. He thought he would write
to a celebrated firm of contractors to

make an appointment for the morning ;
but it was past twelve o'clock, and the
letters had been collected.

Some men called him to come and
play loo, but he was not in the mood
for cards. He tried billiards, and found
his hand unsteady ; he went into the
smoking-room, but it was hot and
noisy. He had always liked his club,
and maintained against all comers that
it was a glorious institution ; but now
he . began to see that after all a
middle-aged gentleman of ample fortune
might find himself pleasant lodgings.
He went out of doors, where the
air was so sweet and cool, rustling
up and down an ivied wall, and over
a strip of lawn that lay deep in
shadow below it ; and looking at the
clear dark sky and the clear pale stars.

he put to himself a momentous question,
for which he had a half-shaped answer
ready :

Who shall I ask to be the mistress of
my house ?"

THE Answer.

GIRL of eighteen is popularly
supposed to be grown up — to
have all wisdom and knowledge
necessary for her guidance and
protection through the supreme difficulties
of a woman's lot. When one
gets ten years older, one is apt to
think that this is a mistake. Life is
not so easy to learn. The treasures
of love, like visions of the Holy Grail,
are not revealed to those who have

known none of the waiting, and yearning,
and suffering, and sacrifice that teach
their divine nature and their immeasurable
worth.

And to all the vast meanings and
solemn mysteries that surround the
great question of right and wrong —
the great question of human life —
the spiritual eyesight is blind, or worse
than blind, until the experience of years
of mistakes and disillusions brings, little
by little, dim apprehensions of light and
truth.

Rachel Fetherstonhaugh, with the
snare of her beauty and her sensuous
love of luxurious surroundings newly
laid about her feet, entered upon her
kingdom more than ordinarily unprepared.


Poor little, helpless, foolish child !

How was she to know that marriage
meant something better than a richly-appointed
house and a kind protector?
How could she be held accountable for
the commission, or contemplation, of
a crime against her youth and womanhood
of whose nature and consequences
she was absolutely ignorant ?

She was flitting in and out through
the French windows of the drawing-room
one fine morning, with a basket
of flowers on her arm, busily engaged
in rearranging the numerous little
bouquets that she made it her business
to keep in perennial freshness all about
the house, when Mr. Kingston was
announced.

She had seen him several times since
the night of the opera ; he had left his
card twice when she had been away

from home; and Mrs. Hardy had had
polite messages respecting the horse,
which had been duly sent for her
approval. He came in now, with his
light and jaunty step, bowing low,
and smiling so that his white teeth
shone under his Napoleonic moustache,
carrying a large roll of paper in his
hand.

Good morning. Miss Fetherston-
haugh," he exclaimed gaily. '' I must
apologise for this early call; but I can
never find you at home after lunch these
fine days."

Rachel, who had not seen his approach
nor heard him enter the house, whose
hall-door was standing open for her
convenience, turned round with her
hands full of flowers. In the sunshine
of the morning she looked more fair

and refined than he had ever seen
her, he thought. The plainest little
black gown showed her graceful shape
to perfection ; her complexion, always
so delicate, was flushed and freshened
with the wind and her embarrassment.


As for her hair, half covered with a
shabby garden hat on the back of
her head, it was the central patch of
light and colour in the bright-hued room ;
he was sure he had never seen hair
so silky in texture and so rich in
tint.

His ideal woman, hitherto, had been
highly polished and elaborately appointed
; she had been a woman of
rank and fashion, in Parisian clothes,
a queen of society, always moving about
in state, with her crown on. Bat now,

in the autumn of his years, all ibis
theories of life were being overturned
by an ignorant little country girl, sprung
from nobody knew where ; and a coronet
of diamonds would not have had the
charm of that old straw hat, with a
wisp of muslin round it, which framed the
sweetest face he had ever seen or dreamed
of.

'* My aunt is in her room," she
stammered hastily ; " I will send to tell
her you are here. She will be very glad
to see you."

And she called back the servant who
had admitted him, and sent a message
upstairs.

Mrs. Hardy, however, did not hurry
herself. She was a thrifty housekeeper
still, as in her early days, and devoted
her forenoons religiously to her domestic

affairs. Just now lie was sorting linen
that had returned from the wash ; and,
hearing that her niece was in the drawing-room,
she had no scruple about remaining
to finish her task.

Say I will be down directly,"
she said. And she did not go down
for considerably more than half an
hour.

In the meantime Rachel tumbled her
flowers into the basket, took off her hat,
and seated herself demurely in a green
satin chair.

It is a lovely morning," she remarked.


Oh, a charming morning — perfectly
charming ! You ought to be having a
ride, you know. Have you tried Black
Agnes yet ?"

No, not yet. My habit has not come

home. They promised to send it last
night, but they did not. I am very
anxious to try her. She is the prettiest
creature I ever saw. I— I," beginning
to blush violently, " have not half
thanked you for your kindness, Mr.
Kingston."

Pray don't mention it," he replied,
waving his hand ; "I shall be only too
glad if I am able to give you a little
pleasure."

*' It is the greatest pleasure," she
said, smiling. " But she is so good
so much too good — I am half afraid
to take her out, for fear anything should
happen to her. Uncle Hardy says she is
a much better horse than he wants forme."


Your uncle had better mind his
own business," said Mr. Kingston, with

sudden irritation. " If you are to have a
horse at all, you must have one that is
fit to ride, of course."

But I think it is his business," suggested
Rachel, laughingly.

No ; just now it is mine. I mean,"
he added hastily, a little alarmed at the
expression and colour of her face, " that
Black Agnes is mine. Ana while I lend
her to you she is yours. And I trust
you will use her in every way as if she
were actually yours."

Thank you ; you are very kind. I
hope nothing loll happen to her. I
shall take great care of her, of course.
1 will not jump fences or anything of that
sort."

Oh, pray do," urged Mr. Kingston.
'-' She is trained to jump. She has
carried a lady over fences scores of

times." The fact was he had only
bought her a few days before, and had
selected her from a large and miscellaneous
assortment on account of
this special qualification. "I hope you
will let me ride out with you, and show
you my old cross-country hunting leaps.
You will not mind jumping fences with
her, if I am with you, and make you doit?"


No," she said, " for I shall show you
that it is not the fault of my riding if
accidents happen."

Exactly. I am sure it will not be
your fault. But we will not have
any accidents — I will take too good care
of you. Can't we go out this afternoon ?
Oh, I forgot that habit. I'll call on
your tailor, if you'll allow me, and
exhort ' him ; shall I ? I have done it

before, on my own account, with the
most satisfactory results."

''No, thank you," said Rachel, "I
would not give you that trouble. He
will send it home when it is ready, I
suppose."

And she rose from her chair and
began to move about the room, wondering
whether her aunt was ever coming
downstairs.

Mr. Kingston thought it would be
expedient to change the conversation.

I have brought you the plans of
my house," he said, taking up his roll
of papers, and beginning to spread
great sheets on a table near him. " I
meant to have asked your opinion before
I began to build it, but — well, I took
it for granted that you would like it as it
was."

All, yes," responded Rachel brightly,
coming to his side. '' Uncle Hardy said
you had begun. And you know I can
see all the men and carts from my
window. Oh ! oh !"

This enthusiastic exclamation greeted
the unrolling of the '' front elevation,"
which, in faint outlines, filled in with
pale washes of grey and blue and pink,
showed her the towers and colonnades
of her ideal palace. When he heard it,
Mr. Kingston's heart swelled. He was
more charmed with his pretty creature
than ever.

This, you see," said he, " is the
main entrance — fifteen steps. But won't
you sit down ? You will see better.
And this wing is where the drawing-rooms
are to be," he added, when
she had seated herself, and he had

taken a clair beside her. '' There are
three large rooms in a line, that can
all be thrown together on occasions —
when necessary. I have not decided
about the furniture yet, nor the colours
of the walls. You must help me with
those things presently. The dados, which
are being designed at home, are to be
of carved wood, most of them ; mantelpieces
to match. Some of the dados will
be of inlaid stone, tiles, and that sort of
thing. I suppose you don't know what a
dado is, do you ?"

"No," said Rachel, meekly. Whereupon
he entered into elaborate explanations.


I think I should not like tiles on
the wall," she ventured to remark ;
"they would feel very cold, wouldn't
they?

They tell me tile is the proper thing,"
he replied ; '' and of course I want to have
everything that is proper. But whatever
my — my wife wishes shall be law, of
course. In her own rooms, at any
rate, she shall consult her own taste
entirely."

Rachel stared at him, coloured and
laughed. " Oh, you did not tell me
about your wife before," she said. *' I
did not know you were engaged to be
married. That is why you are making
haste to build your house ? I am very
glad. I congratulate you."

Do not ; do not," he stammered
earnestly. " I speak of a possible
wife, because I hope to have a wife
some day. I am not engaged. I wish
I were."

Oh !" she said, looking down

basMuUy, with oleander blossoms everywhere.
" I beg your pardon."

I wish I were," he repeated. '' But
I am going to get ready for that
happy time against it does come. See,
these are to be her rooms. They face
the south, and I am going to have a
rose garden below them. This is to
be her boudoir. I thought of having the
walls and the ceiling painted in coral.
I have noticed that pink lights in a
room are very becoming to a lady's
complexion, rather pale on the walls,
for the sake of the pictures. You
said you liked plenty of pictures?"
I ? Oh, yes, I like pictures."
And I did mean to have a dado
of very fine, rich tiles to make a foundation
of colour, you know; but you
don't like tiles?"

Oh, but I dont know anything
about it, Mr. Kingston ! You had better
do what you said — furnish the other
rooms, and leave your wife, when you
get one, to choose the decorations of
her own herself."

'' She shall choose them herself.
But, Miss Fetherstonhaugh — "

Rachel, my dear, your habit has
come," said Mrs. Hardy, appearing at
this interesting moment. " Oh, how do
you do, Mr. Kingston ? Pray forgive
ife for leaving you so long. I hope
you have come to lunch? Oh, yes,
you must stay to lunch, of course.
We'll take you into town afterwards,
when we go out to drive."

Mr. Kingston stayed to lunch, and
made himself very agreeable. But then
he went into town by himself, and

returned in an incredibly short space
of time in riding costume, mounted on
a powerful brown horse. During his
absence, Rachel had put on her habit,
and found that it fitted her beautifully ;
and Black Agnes had been caparisoned,
and was pawing the gravel before the
hall door. Mrs. Reade, magnificently
attired for a series of state calls,
had appeared upon the scene, and was
regulating all these pleasant circumstances.


Now then, Mr. Kingston, you must
only take her along quiet roads. And
she is not to jump any fences when
Ned is not with her."

"Why, Ned?" inquired Mr. Kingston.
I am as learned in fences as Ned,
don't you think?"

Oh, yes, I know all about that.

But it is the look of the thing. You
remember, Rachel, you are not to jump
fences."

No, Beatrice, I won't."

"Have a good gallop, my dear, and
enjoy it," the little woman added. " I'll
take care of mamma ; and when we have
done all our calls we will come and meet
you."

Mr. Kingston stepped jauntily to
Black Agnes's side. He was an old
steeplechase rider before he was a
successful city merchant, and he looked
ten years younger in his riding-dress.
Rachel, with a radiant face, approached
him, and laid her small foot on his
proffered palm.

In a moment she was up like a
feather, and sitting square and light in
her saddle like a practised horsewoman

as she was ; and all her attendants, groom
included, looked up at her admiringly.
Even Mrs. Hardy forgot the expense she
had been put to.

The child certainly does look
well on horseback," she remarked, resignedly,
as Black Agnes' s shining
haunches disappeared round a clump of
laurels. " What a figure she has,
Beatrice !"

'' Oh, dear me, yes !" assented the
younger matron pettishly. " Why didn't
we have figures like that !"

Meanwhile, the black mare and the
big brown horse paced out into the
road, and for a little while the riders
contented themselves with friendly
glances at one another. Rachel was
crimson with pride and bashfulness,
looking lovely and riding beautifully.

as she could not but know lie was.
Mr. Kingston, sharing some measure
of her elation and excitement, was
absorbed in looking at and admiring
her.

By and bye they had a long canter,
which carried them well out into the
country, where there were no houses
and no people, and where the shadows
were beginning to rest on the peaceful
autumn landscape. And then
Mr. Kingston made her draw rein
under a clump of trees, while she looked
back at the city they had left behind,
glorified in the light of the sinking
sun.

So now there is something else you
like besides operas and balls?" he said,
laying his hand upon the black mare's
silky mane.

Yes," she replied, drawing a long
breath, " and I think this is best
of all ! She is like a swallow — she
seems to skim the ground ! And I —
I don't know when I have felt so
happy !"

All his years and his experience went
for nothing under these circumstances,
when she looked as sweet as she did
now.

'' You must keep Black Agnes," he
said eagerly. "I will speak to your
uncle. I will not have you riding
low-bred brutes. Nothing but the best
is fit for you; you, who know how
to ride so well, and enjoy it so
much ! You will keep her, to please
me?"

If she had been sitting in a green
satin drawing-room she would probably

have checked this ardent outburst at an
apparently harmless state. She would
have blushed, and looked grave and
majestic ; but now she was, in a
sense, intoxicated. She lifted a pair of
radiant, grateful eyes to his face,
and she held out her hand impulsively.


How good you are to me !" she
said. " How much pleasure you give
me!"

And then, of course, he succumbed
altogether.

'' That is what I want to do, not
now, but always," he said, drawing
the mare's head to his knee, and the
small, weak hand to his lips, which
had kissed so many hands, though
never with quite the same kind of
kiss. " That is why I am building

my house. It is you I wanted to
be its mistress — didn't you know
that ? — to do just what you like with
it, and with me, and with all I have !"
And, when once he had fairly set it
going, the flood of his eloquence,
running in a well-channelled groove,
flowed freely, and overwhelmed the
poor little novice, who had never been
made love to before.

I — we — we have only seen each other
a few times," she ventured to suggest
at last, but not until her imagination
had been captivated by the splendid
prospect before her. She had the
colour of a peony in her cheeks, and
frightened tears in her soft child's eyes ;
but her experienced lover knew that his
cause was gained.

"That has been enough for me," he

said. " Once was enough for me." Then,
after a long pause, " Well ? Is it to be
yes ' or ' no ?' "

Oh, I don't know !" she stammered
desperately, turning her head from side
to side. " I have had no time. Let
us wait until we know each other
better."

I know quite enough," he persisted,
" and I am not so young
as you are that I can afford to
wait."

She trembled and panted, gathering up
her reins and dropping them in an agony
of embarrassment.

Oh," she said at last, '' what can
I say? "Won't you let me speak to Aunt
Elizabeth?"

Of course, as soon as you like after
you get home. I am not afraid of Aunt

Elizabeth. I know what she will say.
But now, dear — while we are here by
ourselves — I want you to tell me, of
your own self, whether you like me —
whether you would really like to come
and live with me in my new house ?
You don't want anybody to help
you to make up your mind about
that ?"

No," she whispered, hanging her
head, feeling at once terrified and elated,
and wishing to goodness she could see
Mrs. Hardy and Beatrice driving along
the lonely empty road.

You would like it ? Turn your
face to me and say * Yes,' just
once, and I won't bother you anymore."


She turned her face, scarlet all over
her ears and all down her throat,

and she tried to meet his ardent eyes
and could not. Her lips shaped themselves
to say " Yes," but no sound
would come. However, sound would
have been, perhaps, less expressive than
the silence which overwhelmed her in
this proud but dreadful moment. At
any rate, Mr. Kingston was satisfied.

so SOON

HEY rode time sedately in the
cool and quiet evening. Mr.
Kingston, having accomplished
the end for which he had contrived this
unchaperoned expedition, was content to
keep close to his pretty sweetheart's side,
to look in her face occasionally with
significant smiles, and to ruminate on his
own good fortune.

Rachel, fluttered and dismayed at the
situation in which she found herself.

bestowed a wandering attention on the
near-side fields and hedges, and discouraged
conversation. It is needless
to remark that the carriage did not
come to meet them. The long shadows
lengthened, the sun sank down below the
glowing horizon, the glory of the evening
faded away into the soft dusk of the
autumn night.

Lamps were being lighted when they
entered Toorak ; the workmen who had
begun at the foundations of the new
house were " knocking off ;" the gates of
Mrs. Hardy's domain were standing open,
and the woman at the lodge informed
them that she had not returned from her
drive.

They rode up to the house, and Mr.
Kingston got off his horse and lifted
Rachel down. She disengaged herself

from this arms as quickly as possible, and
then stood on the doorstep, while the
groom led both horses away, and looked
at her /^a?i6'e anxiously, blushing with all
her might.

"Won't you let me come in?" he
asked smiling. But he did not mean
to be refused admittance ; and he
turned the handle of the door and
led her into the hall and into the
drawing-room, as if it had been his own
house.

The lamps had not been lit in the
drawing-room, but a bright fire was
burning, making a glow of rich and
pleasant colour all over its mossy carpet
and its shining furniture. Rachel's
flowers were blooming everywhere. Soft
armchairs stood seductively round the
cheerful hearth. An afternoon tea-table

VOL. I. 8

was set for four, with everything on it but
the teapot.

My aunt is late," said Rachel uneasily.
" I wonder what can have
kept her. I hope there has been no
accident."

Mr. Kingston showed all his teeth in a
momentary smile, and then addressed
himself to the opportunity that had so
happily offered.

"Oh, no, she is not late; it is the
days that are getting so short," he
said. And as he spoke he unfastened
her hat and laid it aside, and then
drew her burning face to his shoulder
and kissed her. She stood still, trembling,
to let him do it, one tingling
blush from head to foot. She liked
him very much ; she was very proud
and glad that she was going to marry

him ; she quite understood that it was
his right and privilege to kiss her, if
he felt so disposed. Still her strongest
conscious sentiment was an ardent long
ing for her aunt's return — or her
uncle's, or anybody's. The spiritual
woman in her protested against being
kissed.

I want you not to be afraid of me,"
said Mr. Kingston, half anxious, half
amused, as he patted her head. " I am
not an ogre, nor Bluebeard either ;
you seem to shrink from me almost as
if I was. You must not shrink from
me now, you know."

I will not — by and bye — when I
get used to it," she gasped, with a
touch of hysterical excitement, extricating
her pretty head, and standing
appealingly before him, with her pink

8-2

palms outwards. " rm not afraid of
yon, Mr. Kingston, but — but it is very
new yet ! I shall get used to it after
a little."

He looked down at her with sudden
gravity. She was on the verge of
tears.

Oh, yes," he said quietly, almost
paternally, " we shall soon get used
to each other. There is plenty of time.
Let me see — how old are you ? Don't
tell me; let me guess. Eighteen?"

She smiled and composed herself.
Yes, she was just eighteen. Somebody
must have told him. No, upon his
honour, nobody had ; it was his own
guess entirely. Did he not think he
ought to have chosen someone older for
such a position of importance and responsibility
? No ; she was gallantly

assured that site had been an object,
not of choice, but of necessity. And
so on.

When the dialogue had brought itself
down to a sufficiently sober level, he took
her hand, and drawing her into a seat
beside him, continued to hold it, and
to stroke her slight white fingers between
his palms.

They say good blood always shows
itself in the fineness of a woman's
hands," he said ; '' if so, you ought to
be particularly well-born."

*' I don't know what your standard
is," she answered, smiling. " My father
came of a border family ages ago, I
believe. I never knew anything about
my mother's parentage ; she died when
I was a baby."

I am sure you are well born," he

said, looking fondly and proudly at her
as she sat in the firelight , with her
golden hair shining. ^' I shall have
not only the finest house, but the
most beautiful wife to sit at the head
of my table. I don't believe there is
another woman in Melbourne who will
compare with you, especially when you
get those diamonds on."

'' Diamonds !" ejaculated Rachel.

'' Yes ; those diamonds you talked
about the other night, don't you know ?
that you would have if you were
very rich. Well, you are going to be
very rich. And I am going to order
you some of them tomorrow. You
must give me the size of your finger.
A 'ring full of diamonds,' didn't you
say ? How full ?"

Rachel smiled, blushed, and ceased to

feel that strong repugnance to the
amenities of courtship which had distressed
both herself and her lover at
an earlier stage.

Here a servant came in to light the
gas. The man appeared conscious of
the inopportuneness of his intrusion.
and despatched his business in nervous
haste, clinking the pendants of the cut-glass
chandelier in a manner that his
mistress would have highly disapproved
of.

Rachel and her visitor watched him
with a sort of silent fascination, as if
they had never seen gas lighted before.
When he was gone, Mr. Kingston took
out his watch. It was past six o'clock.
He had a dinner engagement at seven,
and had to get into town and change
his clothes.

'i'm afraid I dare not wait for
Mrs. Hardy," he said, rising. ''I hate
to go, but you know I would not if
I could help it. I will see your uncle
at his office the first thing in the
morning, and come to lunch afterwards.
Shall I ?"

*'If you like," murmured Rachel,
shyly. And then she submitted to be
kissed again, and being asked to do it,
touched her lover's fierce moustaches
with her own soft lips — not " minding"
it nearly so much as she did at first.
She was beginning to get used to being
engaged to him.

Ashen immediately after his departure
Mrs. Hardy, having left her daughter
at her own house, came home, and heard
what had been taking place, she could
hardly believe the evidence of her ears.

"So soon 1" she ejaculated, lifting
her hands. 'ris it credible? My dear,
are you sure you are not making a
mistake ?"

Remembering the wear and tear of
mind and body that the management
of these affairs had cost her hitherto
remembering the illusive and unsubstantial
nature of all Mr. Kingston's
previous attentions to the most attractive
marriageable girls — she found
the suddenness of the thing confounding.


*' Don't you think you may have
misunderstood him ?" she reiterated,
anxiously. " I'm afraid he is rather
given to say more — or to appear
to say more — than he means sometimes."

Rachel blushingly testified to the
good faith of her fiance, by references

to the ring for which her finger had
already been measured, and to the
impending interview at her uncle's
office.

I should never have thought of it
of myself Aunt Elizabeth," she said
meekly.

Mrs. Hardy sank into an easy chair,
and unbuttoned her furs, as if to give
her bosom room to swell with the
pride and satisfaction that possessed
her. Then, looking up at the slender
figure on the hearth rug, at the candid
innocent face of the child who had
been bequeathed to her love and care,
a maternal instinct asserted itself.

"My dear," she said, 'you are very
young, and this is a serious step. You
must take care not to run into it
heedlessly. Do you really feel that

you would be happy with Mr. Kingston
? He is much older than you
are, you know."

Rachel thought of the new house,
and of the diamonds, and of all her
lover's tributes to her worth and
beauty.

'' Yes, I think so, aunt. He is a
very nice man. He is very kind tome."


He has lived so long as a bachelor,
that he has got into bachelor ways,"
Mrs. Hardy reluctantly proceeded. '' He
has been rather — a — gay, so they say.
I doubt if you will find him domesticated,
my dear."

I shall not luisJi him to stay always
at home with me," replied the girl,
with a fine glow of generosity. " And
T do not mind tobacco-smoke, nor latch-keys,

nor things of that sort. And
if he is fond of his club, I hope he
will go there as often as he likes. I
shall not try to deprive him of his
pleasures, when he will give me so
many of my own. And, you know,
dear aunt, I shall be quite close to
you ; I can never be lonely while
I am able to run in and out here."

Mrs. Hardy was reassured. This was
the pliant, sweet-natured little creature
who would adapt herself kindly to any
husband — who was not, of course, an
absolutely outrageous brute.

And Mr. Kingston, except that he
was a little old, a little of a viveur,
a trifle selfish, and, it was said, rather
bad tempered when he was put out,
was everything that a reasonable girl
could desire. She smiled, rose from

her chair, and kissed her niece's pretty
face with motherly pride and fondness.


Well, my love, it is a great match
for you," she said, " and I hope it will
be a happy one as well."

And then, hearing her husband coming
downstairs, she left the room hurriedly
to meet and drive him back again, that
she might explain to him the interesting
state of affairs while she put on her
gown for dinner.

A Each PROMISE.

HERE was of course no opposition
to Rachel's engagement.
Mr. Hardy, away from
his office, was simply Mrs. Hardy's
husband, not because he had no will of
his own, but because he acknowledged
her superior capacity for the management
of that complicated business called
getting on in the world, to which they
had both devoted their lives for so
many years.

Mrs. Reade, who next to her mother
was the greatest " power" in the family,
approved of the match highly, though
she had herself proposed to be Mrs.
Kingston at an earlier stage of her
career; but she had a good deal to
say before she would allow it to be
considered a settled thing.

In the first place she had a serious
talk with the bridegroom-elect, in which
she demanded on Rachel's behalf
certain guarantees of good behaviour
when he should have become a married
man. She was a clever little
clear-headed woman, full of active
energies, for which the minding of her
own business did not supply employment
; and being blessed with plenty of
self-confidence and much good sense
and tact, she contrived to give her

friends a great deal of assistance with
theirs, without giving them offence at
the same time.

Occasionally she came across another
strong-minded woman who objected to
interference ; but the men never objected.
They rather liked it, most of them.

Mr. Kingston, at any rate, thought
it was very pleasant to be lectured ina
maternal manner by a woman five
feet high, who was just thirty years
younger than he was ; and he made
profuse and solemn promises that he
would be " a good boy," and take the
utmost care of the innocent young
creature who had confided her happiness
to his charge. And then she
fetched Rachel away to spend the day
with her, and, over a protracted discussion
of afternoon tea, gave her some

valuable advice as io the conduct of
lier affairs.

'' You know," she said, with much
gravity and decision, '' it is always best
to look at these things in a practical
way. Mr. Kingston is, no doubt, a
splendid match, and not a bad fellow,
as men go ; but it is no use pretending
that he won't be a great handful. He
has been a bachelor too long. The
.habit of having his own way in everything
will have before his second
nature. I doubt if anyone could properly
break him of it now, and I am
sure yoti could not."

I should not try," said Rachel,
smiling. " I should like my husband,
whoever he was, to have his own
way."

Airs. Reade shook her head.

VOL. I 9

'' It doesn't answer, my dear. What
is the use of a man marrying if his
wife doesn't try to keep him straight ?
And if you give in to him in everything,
he only despises you . for
it."

'' But, Beatrice," Rachel protested, 'all
men don't want keeping straight, do
they ? It seems to me that every case
is different from every other case. One
is no guide for another."

I know it isn't. I'm only thinking
of your case. And I want to make
you understand it. . You don't know
him as well as I do, and you don't
know anything about married life. If
you run into it blindfold, and let things
take their chance, then — why, then it
is too late to talk about it. Everything
depends upon how you begin.

You must begin as you mean to goon."



'rand low ought .1 to begin?"
inquired Rachel, still smiling. She
could not be brought to regard this
momentous subject with that serious
attention which it demanded.

Well, I should take a very high
hand if it' were my case — but you are
not like me. I should put a stop to
a great deal that goes on now at 07ice,
and get it over, while the novelty ,and
pleasure of his marriage was fresh and
my influence was supreme. 1 should
try to make him as happy, as possible,
of "course, for both our sakes. I'd'
humour him in little things. I'd
never put him out of temper, if I could
help it. But I would keep him well in
hand, and on no account put up with any

9-2 •

nonsense. If they see you mean that
from the beginning, they generally give
in ;' and by and bye they are used toit,
and settle down quietly and comfortably,
and you have no more trouble."
Rachel's smiling face had been growing
grave, and her large eyes dilating and
kindling.

*' Oh, Beatrice," she broke out, "that
is not marriage — not my idea of marriage
! How can a husband and wife
be happy if they are always watching
each other like two policemen ? And
they marry on purpose to be happy.
I think they should love one another
enough to have no fear of those
treacheries. If they are not alike — if
they have different tastes and ways —
oughtn't they to be companions whenever
they cab enjoy things together,

and help each other to get what else
they want. . Love should limit those
outside wants — love should make everything
safe. Jf that will not, I don't
think anything else will. I should never
have the heart to try anything else, if
that failed."

Mrs. Eeade gazed with intense
curiosity and interest at this girl, with
her young enthusiasm and her old-world
philosophy. She was so surprised
at the unexpected element introduced
into the dialogue, that for a few
minutes she could not speak. Then
she put out her hand impulsively and
laid it on Rachel's knee.

Is t/iat how you feel about Mr.
Kingston ?" she exclaimed, earnestly.
'' My dear, I . beg your pardon. I
did not know how things were. If

you think of your marriage in that
way, pray forget all I have been saying,
and act as your own heart dictates.
That will be your safest guide."

So Rachel was engaged with satisfaction
to all concerned. She conscientiously
believed that she loved
her elderly fiance, and that she would
be very happy with him; and the
rest of them thought so too — himself
of course included.

The. winter wore away, full of peace
and pleasure. The interesting event
was public property, and the engaged
pair were feted and congratulated on
all sides, and enjoyed themselves immensely.


Rachel had her diamond ring, and a
diamond bracelet into the bargain, with
a promise of the '' necklace ^ of stars,

strung together," on her wedding day :
and her aunt in consideration of her
prospective importance, bought her the
coveted sealskin jacket.
Black Agnes was made over to her
entirely, and she rode and jumped
fences to her hearths content. She went
to the opera whenever she liked. She
was the belle of all the balls ; and in
the best part* of Melbourne her splendid
home was being prepared for her, where
she was to reign as a queen of beauty
and fashion, with unlimited power to
aoforravate other women" — which is
supposed by some cynics to be the
highest object of female ambition.

And Mr. Kingston bore with extreme
complacency the jokes of his
club friends on his defection from that
faith in the superior advantages of

celibacy, which he and some of them
had held in common ; for he knew they
all admired his lady-love extravagantly,
if they did not actually go so far as
to envy him her possession. And he
attended her wherever she went with
the utmost assiduity.

When the winter was nearly over, an
event occurred in the Hardy family
which made a change in this state of
things. Mrs. Thornley, the second
daughter, who lived in the country,
having married a wealthy landowner,
who preferred all the year round to
manage his own property, presented
Mrs. Hardy with her first grandchild ;
and being in rather delicate health
afterwards, wrote to beg her. mother to
come and stay with her, and of course
to bring Rachel.

To this invitation Mrs. Hardy responded
eagerly by return of post, and
bade Rachel pack up quickly for an
early start. Rachel was delighted with
the prospect, even though it involved
her separation from her betrothed ; and
her preparations were soon completed.
Mr. Hardy was handed over to his
daughter Beatrice, '' to be kept till
called for ;" one old servant was placed
in charge of the Toorak house, and
others on board wages ; and Mrs.
Hardy, paying a round of farewell calls,
intimated to her friends that she was
likely to make a long visit.

Rachel rose early on the day of her
departure. It was a very lovely morning
in the earliest dawn of springs full
of that delicate, delicious, champagne
freshness which belongs to Australian

mornings. She opened lier window,
while yet half dressed, to let in the
sweet air blowing off the sea.

Far away the luminous blue of the
transparent sky met the sparkle of the
bluer bay, where white sails shone like
the wings of . a flock of sea-birds.
'Below her, spreading out from under
the garden terraces, far and wide, lay
Melbourne in a thin veil of mist and
smoke, beginning to flash back the sunshine
from its spiky forest of chimney
stacks and towers. And close by,
through an opening in the belt of pinus
insignia which enclosed Mr. Hardy's
dorian, and where just now a flock
of king parrots were noisily congregating,
after an early breakfast on almond
blossoms, she could see the dusty mess
surrounding the nucleus of her future

home, and the workmen beginning
their day's task of chipping and chopping
at the stones which were to build
it; even they were picturesque in this
glorifying atmosphere. How bright it all
was ! Her heart swelled with childish
exultation at the prospect of a journey
on such a day.

As for Mr. Kingston, to be left behind
to stroll about Collins Street disconsolately
by himself, just now she did
not give him a thought.

Two or three hours later, however,
when she and her aunt, accompanied by
"Ned" — who had no ' office, unfortunately
for him, and was therefore driven
by his wife to make himself useful
when opportunity ' offered — arrived at
Spencer 'Street, there was Mr. Kingston
on the platform waiting to see the

last of her. If lie was able to leave him
without any severe pangs of regret and
remorse, he for his part was by no
means willing to let her go.

You will write to me often," he
pleaded, when, having placed her in a
corner of the ladies' carriage, he rested
his arms on the window for a last few
words. Mrs. Hardy was leaning out of
the opposite window, deeply interested in
the spectacle of an empty Williamson
train patiently waiting for its passengers
and its engine.

Yes," .said Rachel slowly ; " but you
must remember I shall be in the
country, and shall have no news to make
letters of."

I don't want news," he replied
with a shade of darkness in his eager
face. " Pray don't give me news — that's

a kind of letter I detest. I want yoii
to write about yourself."

"I — I have never had many friends,"
lie stammered, '* and I am not used to
writing letters. You will be disappointed
with mine — and perhaps ashamed
of me."

"What rubbish! Do you think I
shall be critical about the grammar and
composition ? Why, my pet, if you
don't spell a single word right I shan't
care— so long as you tell me you think
of me, and miss me, and want to come
back to me."

"Oh," said Rachel bridling, "I know
how to spell''

Here . a railway official shouldered
them apart in order to lock the door,
and Mr. Kingston demanded of him
what he meant by his impudence.

Having satisfied the claims of outraged
dignity, he again leaned into the window,
and put out his hand for a tender farewell.

Good-bye, my darling. You till
write often, won't you? And mind
now," with one of his Mephistopheles
smiles, '* you are not to go and flirt with
anybody behind .my back."

I never flirt," said Rachel severely.

Nor fall in love with handsome
young squatters, you know."

"Don't talk nonsense," she retorted,
melting into one of her sunny smiles.
'' If you can't trust me, why do you
let me g© ?" .

"I would not., if I had the power to
stop you — you*may be quite 'sure of that.
But you will promise me, Rachel ?"

Promise you what ?"

'' That you will be' constant to me

while you are away from me, and not let
other men '*

She lifted her unloved hand, on
which shone that ring '' full of
diamonds" which, he had given her,
and laid it on his mouth— or rather on
his moustache.

Now you'll make me angry if you
go on," she said, with a playfully dignified
and dictatorial air. " Xo, I
won't hear any more — I am ashamed
of you ! after all the . long time-we have
been engaged. As if I was a girl of
that sort, indeed !"

Here ■ the signal was given for the
train to start, and Mrs. Hardy came
forward to make hel:* own adieux, and
to give her last instructions to hie
son-in-law, who had been meekly standing,
apart.

As they slowly steamed out of the
station, E-acliel rose arid comforted
her bereaved lover with a last sight of
her fair face, full of fun and smiles.

'' Good-bye," she called gaily; ''I
promise."

'thank you," he shouted back.

He lifted his hat, and kissed the tips
of his fingers, and stood to watch the
train disappear into the dismal waste that
lay immediately beyond the station precincts.
Then he walked away dejectedly
to find his cab. He had grown
very fond of his little sweetheart, and
he anticipated the long, dull days that
he would have to spend without her.

He wished Mrs. Hardy had been a
little more definite as to the time when
she meant to bring her home. It was
not as if he were a young man, with

any quantity of time to waste. However,
he had • her assurance that she
would be true to him under any temptations
that should assail her in his
absence ; and though too experienced
to put absolute faith in that, it greatly
cheered and consoled him. He stepped
into his hansom, and told the driver to
take him to Toorak, that he might see
how the house where they were going
to live together was getting on.

W^^

VOL. I. .10

TWO LOVE LETTERS.

Mr. Kingston ^0 Miss Fetherstonhaugh.

Y clearest love,

*' I had no idea that Melbourne
could be such a detestable hole !
Why have you gone away, and taken all
the life and brightness out of everything
?

If I had not the house to look after —
and there is not much to interest one in
that at present — I declare life would

not be worth the trouble it entails
in the mere matter of dressing and
dining, and slating the servants and
tradespeople.

'' I went to Mrs. Reade's last night.
Everybody was there ; but I was bored
to that extent that I came home in an
hour (and physicked eimui at the card-table,
where I lost ten pounds). I could
not get up any interest in anybody.
Mrs. Reade herself looked remarkably
well. She is a very stylish woman,
though she is so small. And Miss
Brownlow looked handsome, as usual — to
those who care for that dark kind of
beauty. I confess I don't. I could only
long for you, and think what a lily you
would have been amongst them all, with
your white neck and arms. (Be very
careful of your complexion, my darling,

10—2

while you are in the country ; don't let
the wind roughen your fine skin, nor
sit by the fire without a screen for your
face).

'' As usual, poor Reade got a good deal
snubbed. I would not be in his place for
something. But if a wife of mine told
me in the presence of guests that I had
had as much wine as was good for me,
I'd take care she didn't do it a second
time. , My little wife, however, will know
better than that ; I have no fear of being
henpecked. It was a kind of musical
evening, and Sarah Brownlow sang
several new songs. I thought her voice
had gone off a great deal.

I must say for Mrs. Beatrice, that
she-is a capital hostess, and manages her
parties as well as anybody. But this one
was immensely slow. Everything is slow

now you are away. Is it necessary for
you to remain at Adelonga for the whole
time of your aunt's visit ? Can't, you
come back to town soon, and stay with
Mrs. Reade ? ' Do try and manage it; I'm
sure your aunt would be willing, and it
woilld be a most delightful arrangement
all round.

You will find Adelonga very dull, I
fancy. It used to be a pleasant house in
the old days, when Thornley was a
bachelor ; but two marriages must have
altered .both it and him, and the second
Mrs. Thornley is not lively, even at the
best of times, and must be terribly-depressing
as an invalid. There are a lot
of children, too, are there not ? If your
aunt doesn't let you come back, can't you, .
when your cousin is well enough, manoeuvre
to get me an invitation ? I would

not mind a country house if you and I were
in it together. Nothing could well . be
drearier than town is without you. And
it would be so charming to be both under
the same roof !

"And this reminds me of something
I want to speak to you about seriously,
so give me your best attention. (I
wonder whether, having read so far, you
are beginning to cover yourself with
blushes in anticipation of what is coming ?
I am sure you are.)

"You told me, you know, my darling,
that you did not wish to be married fora
year or two — not until the house was
built and finished, you said — because you
were so young. But I have been thinking
that that will never do. The house
will probably be an immense time in
.hand ; it is not like an ordinary plain house,

you see. And I am not young, if you are.
I don't say that I am old, but still I
have come to that time of life when a
man, if he means to marry and settle,
should do it as soon as possible. And
you are not any younger than your cousin
Laura was when she married last year ;
and her husband, moreover, was a mere
boy. I remember when Buxton was
born, and he can't be five-and-twenty,
nor anything like it.- So you see, my
pet, your proposal is quite absurd and
unreasonable.

"And now I will tell you what mine is.
And I know my little girl's gentle and
generous disposition too well to doubt
that she will offer any serious opposition
.to it, or to any of my urgent wishes. I
propose that we marry without any
delay.; that is to say, with no more delay

than the preparing of your trousseau
necessitates.

'' We have already been engaged some
months, and by the time your visit is
over and your preparations made, we
shall have fully reached the average
term of engagements amongst • people of
our class. I want you to let, me write to
your aunt (I am sure she would see the
matter quite from my point of view), and
suggest a day in September, or in
October at the latest. That is a lovely
time of year, and all . my other plans
would fit in with such an arrangement
beautifully*

^^ You have never travelled, nor seen
anything of the world yet ; and I should
like to show you a little before you settle
down in your big house to all the cares
of state. So I thought we would go

for a short honeymoon to Sydney or
Tasmania — whichever you. like best ; then
come back for the races, and to see how
the house was going on. I think there
will be a club ball, too, about that time ;
if so, I know you would like to go toit
luitJi your diamond necklace on. Would
you hot? And then — while the shell'
of the house is building — I propose we
repeat the honeymoon tour on a larger
scale, and go to Europe.

''*! know you would like to see all that
Laura Buxton is seeing now ; and I will
take care that you see a great deal
besides. You shall make the old grand
tour, if you like it ; it will be new enough
to you.

And we will have a good time in
Paris; and we will amuse ourselves,
wherever we go, collecting furniture ;

and pictures, and ornaments for our
house.

You shall choose everything for
your own rooms — as I told you my wife
should — from the best looms and workshops
in the world. And then when
we come home we will take a house
somewhere while we superintend the
fitting up of our own.

And finally, we will give a brilliant
ball or something, by way of housewarming,
and settle down to domestic
life.

Now • is not this a charming programme
? I am sure you will think so —
indeed you musty for I have set my heart
upon it.

*' Pray write at once, dear love, and
give me leave to put matters in train.
Do you know you have been away four

days and I have only had a post-card to
tell me you arrived safely ! That is not
how you are going to treat me, I hope.
I know there is a daily mail from
Adelonga, and (though I repudiate postcards)
I don't care what sort of scribble
you send so long as you write constantly.*
Remember what I told you about that.
And remember your j;ro??iise.

And now, good-night, my sweetest
Rachel. Sleep well, darling, and dream
of me,

" Your faithful lover,

"Graham Kingston."

Miss' Fetheestoxhaugh to Me. Kingston

My dearest Graham,

I am afraid you will think I ought
to have written to you before, but I have
been so much engaged ever since I

arrived that I really have not had an
opportunity.

'' Mr. Thornley is always showing me
about the place, or the children are
wanting me to have a walk with them,
or my cousin sends for me to her
room to see the baby; so that I may
say I have scarcely a moment to call
my own until bedtime comes, and then
I am much too sleepy to write — the
effect of the country air, I suppose. I
am enjoying myself excessively.

The weather is lovely, and this is certainly
the most delightful place. It is
a regular old bush house, which has
been added to in every direction.

*' The rooms are low, and straggle
about anyhow ; there is no front door
or, rather, there are several ; and it
has shingle roofs and weatherboard

walls (though all the outhouses are
brick and stone, and Mr. Thornley is
going to build a new house presently,
which I think is such a pity.)

My own room has a canvas ceiling,
which flaps up and down when the
wind is high : and most of the floors
are of that dark, rough-sawn native
wood of olden times, which makes it
necessary that the best carpets should
have drugget, or some kind of padding
under them. But, oh, how exquisitely
the whole house is kept inside and
out.

'' The drawing-room is much prettier
than ours at Toorak; because .Mr.
Thornley has travelled a great deal
at odd times, and collected beautiful
things, and seems to have good taste,
as well as plenty of money. There

are quantities of pictures everywhere ;
lie is very fond of pictures.

"And the conservatories are half as
big as the house ; he is fond of flowers
too. Just now they are full of delicious
things — cyclamens, and orchids,
and primus, and begonias, and heaths
of all sorts, and azaleas, and I don't
know what. There are quantities of
flowers in the garden too, so early as it
is. . The great bushes — almost trees —-of
camellias are simply wonderful; and
there is a bed of double hyacinths
under my window of all the colours of
the rainbow.

"Then there is a fernery — part of it

roofed in, and part running down

through the shrubberies on one side.

The tree ferns make a matted roof

.overhead, and other ferns grow 'between

like bushes, and little ferns seront
everywhere underneath amongst stones
and things. There are winding paths
in and out through it, where it is quite
dark at mid-day; and there are little
rills aft waterfalls trickling there in all
directions, carried down in pipes from a
dam up amongst the hills behind the
house.

"Don't you think lue might have a
fern-tree gully ? If the water could
be got ■ for it, it would run down the
side of a terraced garden even better
than it does here, where the ground
falls very slightly. If you like I will
ask Mr. Thornley how he made his,
and all about it ; he is always delighted
if he can give any information. He is
such an excessively kind man. I like
him ^ much. How long is it since

you 8Siw him ? When he was a bachelor,
I think you said you stayed at
Adelonga. That must have been a longtime
ago, for his eldest daughter (just
now finishing her education in Germany)
is older than I am. There is a
painting of him in the dining-room as a
young man, and one of his first wife.
His is not the least like what he is
now. But I will tell you what might
really be his .portrait — Long's old inquisitor
in the "Dancing Girl" picture
I mean that genial old fellow in the
arm-chair, who leans his. arms on the
table and. grasps (I am sure without
knowing what he is doing) the base of
the crucifix, while he enjoys the sight of
that pretty creature dancing. If you go
and look at him the next time you
find yourself near the picture gallery,

you will see Mr. Thornley's very image.
He is the soul of hospitality ; he
is so courteous to everybody in the
house — even to his children ; he is one
of the nicest and kindest men I ever
met.

But I have not said a word about
my cousin Lucilla, or the baby, or the
other children. The baby is a
little duck, I am allowed to have him
a good deal, because the nurse says I
am much 'handier' than most young
ladies; and I certainly have the knack
of making him stop crying and of
soothing him off to sleep.

The other children — three dear little
girls — are in the schoolroom; but
Lucilla will not allow their governess
to keep them too strictly, because they
are not very strong. Lucilla herself I

VOL. I. 11

like excessively. Lie is much quieter
than Beatrice, and I don't think she is
so clever, and she is not at all pretty :
but she is very sweet-tempered and kind,
and very fond of Mr. Thornley. though
he is so much older than she is. I am
glad to say she is getting quite strong ; so
much so indeed that she is going to
have a large party next week.

There are to be some country races,
in which Mr. Thornley is interested,
and we are all going, and some people
are coming back with us to dine and
spend the night. There is some talk
of a ball, too, to celebrate the coming of age
of young Bruce Thornley, who is now
at Oxford — Mr. Thornley's eldest son.
That would be the week after. I hope
Lucilla will decide to have it ; they say
Adelonga balls are always charming,

and that people come to them from far
and near.

'' One enormous room, with two fireplaces,
which is gun-room, billiard-room,
smoking-room, and gentlemen's
sanctum generally (which in the general
way is divided by big Japanese screens,
and laid down with carpets), was built and
floored on purpose for dancing in those
old times that you remember. Perhaps
you have yourself danced there ? Tell
me if you have. I can see what a delightful
ball-room it would make, with
lots of shrubs and flowers. It opens into
the conservatory at one end, and a passage
leads from the other both into the
dining-room and out upon the verandahs,
which are wide, and lowered with
creepers, and filled with Indian and
American lounge chairs.

11-2

How are you getting on in town ?
Did you go to Beatrice's party, and was
it nice ? I hope William will look after
my dear Black Agnes properly, and not
let her out in the paddock at night.
Would you mind sometimes just calling
in to see, when you are up that
way ?

The workmen are having fine
weather, are they not? Aunt Elizabeth
and I have been telling Lucilla all about
the house, and she says it will be magnificent.
But Mr. Thornley does not
like pink for the boudoir. He says
if I have pictures, some shade of sage,
or grey, or peacock would be better asa
ground colour. What do you think ?
I must say I like the idea of pink.

'' Now I have come to the end of
my paper. And have I not written

you a long letter ? I hope you will
not find it very stupid.

Aunt Elizabeth and Lucilla send
their kindest regards, and with much
love, believe me,

My dear Graham,
Yours most affectionately,

Rachel Fetheestgnhaugh."

Pes. — Just received yours of Tuesday.
Please give me a little time to
think over your proposal, and do not
do anything at present. The tour in
Europe would be very delightful, but I
think, if you don't mind, I would rather
not be married quite so soon."

HOW RACHEL MET ''HTM.

Belong at about nine
o'clock on the morning of
the race day would have
presented to the eye of the distinguished
traveller — who, however, did
not happen to be there, though he was
a pretty constant visitor— a thoroughly
typical Australian scene; typical, that
is to say, of one distinct phase of
Australian life. It was the enchanting

weather of the country to begin with ;
which, say what grumblers will, is not
to be matched, one month with another,
in all the wide world ^ — clear, fresh
and sunshiny, with an air at once so
delicate and so invigorating that none
but exceptionally unhappy mortals could
help feeling glad to be alive to breathe
it.

There had been a cold mist overnight,
which was now melting away before
the sun in shining white fleeces that
swathed the hollows and shoulders of
the hills behind the house, long after
the upper slopes and peaks had stood
sharp and clear in their own forest
garments against a sky as pure as a
sapphire and as blue as wild forget-me-nots.


All the shrubberies that hemmed in

the great garden — all the smooth-shaven
wide lawns where croquet hoops still
lingered — all the lovely waves and
festoons of creepers that flowed over
and curtained the verandah eaves — all the
bright box borders, and all the gay flowerbeds
— glistened with a sort of etherealised
hoar-frost, and were greener than painter's
palette could express in this early springtime.


The rambling, old, one-storied house,
with its endless roofs and gables, was
the very type and pattern of that most
charming of all bush houses, the bush
house par excellence ; cottage in design,
palace in the careful finish and elaboration
of all its appointments, which,
when its owner is rich and cultured,
marks the latest of many developments
such as becomes, unhappily, rarer

every year, and will soon have disappeared
entirely.

Columns of white smoke rose from
half a dozen chimneys, testifying to
the noble logs that blazed away within ;
while French windows, sash windows,
lattice casements, and doors of all sorts
stood open to the morning sun and the
delicious morning air. Behind the house
rose a screen of budding orchard trees,
flushed here and there with peach and
almond blossoms. Before the house, on
the wide gravelled drive, where never
weed presumed to show its head, stood
an open break, large, but of light
American build, round which most of
the family and several servants were
congregated, while four powerful horses
fidgeted to be starting, the wheelers
only being attached at present.

Mr. Thornley stood in the break,
superintending the bestowal of luncheon
hampers, and shouting cheerily, but
with that touch of imperiousness which
indicated a man who had been a master
all his life, to the servants below him.
Mrs. Thornley, looking slight and
girlish, stood on the steps of one of
the numerous front doors, wrapped in a
shawl. She had wished very much to
go to the races too, and to take the
nurse and baby for the further glorification
of the occasion ; but her husband
had forbidden her to think of anything
so foolish, and she had ceased to do
so accordingly, with an abject meekness
that would have greatly disgusted
Mrs. Reade.

Mrs. Hardy stood on the doorstep
too, more imposing than ever beside

this gentlest and most unpretending
of lier children ; and the governess
came out of the house in festive
apparel with her two elder pupils
dancing after her.

Rachel was already on the box,
where she was to sit beside the driver,
to her great delight. She was in the
wildest spirits, and she was looking as
lovely as everything else looked on that
eventful morning. She had quite disregarded
Mr. Kingston's injunctions to
take care of her complexion.

A dark-blue felt hat worn rather on
the back of her head, left her soft face
exposed to the sun and wind, as well
as to the admiring gaze of all men.
Nothing could have shown up its
texture and colour, nor the wonderful
burnished richness of her hair, better

than that dark-blue hat. She wore
with it a dark-blue, close-fitting dress,
very tight about the knees, as was
then the newest mode, but setting
easily to her figure otherwise, and
strongly outlining all its perfect curves
of girlish beauty. She would rather
have displayed the sealskin jacket than
her own lovely shape, if she could have
found an excuse for doing so; but the
day was going to be warm, and her
aunt, who was a thrifty soul, would
not allow the sealskin jacket to be
made a mere emergency wrap of — to
be thrown into the boot with the rugs
and waterproofs.

Everything was ready at last, after
a great deal of commotion and much
running to and fro — the bountiful
luncheon that was to be available for

all comers when luncheon time came,
the hamper of crockery, the basket of
fresh-cut salad, the wine, the beer, the
soda-water, the spirit stove and kettle
to make afternoon tea with, &c. — and
the ladies took their seats.

Mrs. Hardy throned herself in an inside
corner. Miss O'Hara, the governess
in the opposite corner, next the door
sat the butler and a nursemaid, and
the children took up the room of four
grown-up people in the middle of the
vehicle. However, it was expected = to
have a full complement of passengers
coming home, which was a great satisfaction
to everybody.

Mr. Thornley climbed into his seat
and began to gather up his reins : the
two restive leaders where put to ; the
groom who was to accompany the carriage

rode off to open gates ; and
Steady ! steady !" roared the driver,
letting out his thong with lightning
flashes over the four bare backs, as the
impulsive animals after their immemorial
custom, mixed themselves all
together in promiscuous kicking and
backing prior to coming to a clear
understanding with themselves and
him.

For the few delightful seconds that
were occupied in getting off, Rachel
was deaf to the cries of her terrified
aunt, and blind to everything but the
wild movement beneath her ; then, as
the horses sprang into their collars simultaneously
with one great bound, and
swept out into the paddock, scattering
frightened sheep in all directions, she
looked back at her cousin, standing

forlornly alone on the doorstep, and
waved her hand rapturously.

Good-bye ! good-bye !" she called, in
her clear happy voice. " I do wish you
were coming !" And looking down on
Mrs. Hardy before she turned her head,
she rallied that stately matron in a gay
and reckless manner. 'rit is all right.
Auntie : there is nothing in the world
to be afraid of. We made a beautiful
start ! If the off-leader does get both
his traces on one side, Mr. Thornley
knows how to make him get between
them again. And, oh, ivhat a day it is !"

It was, indeed, a day — the kind
of day I suppose that has made us,
young and old, the holiday-loving, easygoing,
fate-defying people that we are,
and for ever unfits us, when we have
had a few years of them, for any more

of those stern experiences, social and
atmospherical, in which the youth of
many of us seems to us now to have
been so harshly disciplined.

Sir Henry Thompson has shown us
what a close affinity exists between
food and virtue; no grown Briton can
come out here for ten years and go
back without learning something of the
value of climate as a raw material of
happiness.

Though every settled township in the
colony has its racecourse and its yearly
meetings, this, the nearest to Adelonga,
was a two-hours' drive distant, even with
four fast horses ; and it was nearly the
time for the first event to come off when
our party reached the ground.

The course lay in the ring of a shallow
valley, hemmed in with low hills

on one slope of which the vehicles of
the " county families" of the neighbourhood
were withdrawn a little apart
from the space occupied by the bulk of
the crowd, and such booths, merry-go-rounds,
and other rural entertainments
as the bulk of the crowd affected.

There was no grand stand, no platform
even — except the judge's box,
which was dedicated to-day to Mr.
Thornley's use, and a gallery running
along one side of the saddling-enclosure,
where the betting men chiefly congregated.
But this slope, rising rather
steeply immediately behind the place
where a grand stand would have been,
was a favourable position, for ladies at
any rate, from which to view the main
proceedings ; and here the Adelonga
break was brought to anchor.

VOL. I. 12

Two grooms were waiting to take
out the horses, which were fed and
watered on the ground in the prevailing
picnic fashion, and " hung up" at the
boundary fence, where scores of others
were tethered.

Mr. Thornley looked about for the
people he expected to join his party,
found they had not arrived, and then
set forth to the saddling-enclosure to
see what horses were going to start and
when.

Rachel continued to sit on the box,
and thought it was delicious. She had
a powerful field-glass all to herself, and
through this she surveyed the units and
groups that composed the company —
women and children, a great many of
them, in charge of sporting husbands
and fathers of all ranks, all perfectly

orderly and well-behaved, and all apparently
enjoying themselves as much
as she was.

Some people from a neighbouring
buggy came up to speak to Mrs.
Hardy, and to inquire after Mrs. Thornley's
health ; and a carriage full of young-people
further down enticed away the
Thornley children and Miss O'Hara.

Before she was involved in any of
these social proceedings, however, Mr.
Thornley returned, and asked her if
she would not like to go with him and
see what was doing '' down there" —
pointing over his shoulder in the direction
from whence he had come.

In a moment she had sprung lightly
from her perch and was standing beside
him, pleading eagerly for her
aunt's permission, which was graciously

12-2

givGD, with certain vague qualifications
that she did not stop to listen to.

And then she tripped across the
green springy grass, shy and fluttered,
and charmed with her enterprise, blushing
vividly under the stares of those
dreadful men, and feeling in her innocent
heart not a little proud of the distinguished
position in which she found herself.

The bell was ringing for saddling,
and Mr. Thornley took her into the enclosure
to see this operation, which she
found deeply interesting. Crowds of
men — betting men, jockeys, owners,
stewards — elbowed one another in and
out, and the horses paced and pranced
amongst them ; and into the thick of
it marched the burly judge to show his
young charge what there was to be
seen.

And what did she see? Jockeys putting
on their jackets in semi-private
corners ; owners superintending the
adjustment of saddles and riders ; noisy
gamblers rushing hither and thither
with book and pencil ; graceful horses
lightly sailing out one after another to
try the chance on which so much
beside money was staked ; and — men falling
back respectfully to make way for
her wherever she went, and to gaze
with surprised curiosity and admiration
on the unique spectacle of so fair a
creature in so rude a place. It was
all very delightful.

"And now," said Mr. Thornley, who
for his own part was well pleased to
keep her with him, 'now you shall
stand in my box and see the race.
Come along."

And away they went into the outside
crowd, and she was escorted up the
steps and placed like a queen on her
royal dais, in sight of all the countryside
assembled. She was inclined to
think that — for once in a way — it was
even better than going to the opera.

Thereafter until the race was over,
she watched the proceedings with the
deepest awe and interest. She was so
afraid she should embarrass Mr. Thornley
in the performance of his professional
duty that she got as far away
from him as possible, and leaning over
the side railing enjoyed her observations
in silence.

The horses came to their starting-place
and had their usual differences
of opinion. Ambitious amateurs offered
advice to the starter, who recommended

them to mind their own business. Two
or three jockeys careered about wildly,
and one was fined; and then the flag
dropped, and they rushed away ; and
Rachel lifted her glass with trembling
hands and gazed at the flying colours,
mixing and fading as they passed into
the sunshiny distance, and held her
breath. Round they came presently,
and past her they flashed, two or three
together, two or three straggling
behind; and the roar of the men
beneath and around her made her turn a
little pale.

No word was uttered that was unfit
for her otI's ear to hear, but the waves
of shouts rolling all about her expressed
a fierce eagerness of suspense and expectation
that made her think of "poor
Lorraine Lore," whose husband sacrificed

her to the chance of winning a
race.

The clamour rose, and lulled, and
rose again, as for the second time
the green circle was traversed and the
horses came in sight — some lagging far
behind, some labouring along under the
whip, two keeping to the front almost
neck and neck, whose names were flung
wildly into the air from a hundred
mouths.

And then Mr. Thornley, standing
quietly with his eye upon the little slip
of wood before him, said, " Bluebeard
and Jessica — half a head." And it was
over.

Rachel drew a long breath. She
was not sorry that it was over, though
she was very glad to have seen it. She
shook herself, as if to get rid of a

painful spell, and felt that she might
begin to enjoy herself again.

Dear horses !" she exclaimed, with
an almost solemn rapture as she
watched them straggle away. She
would have liked to go up and pat
them all, and caress their heaving
flanks and their poor trembling noses,
after all they had gone through. And
then her face brightened as the winner
came pacing back, dropping and lifting
his beautiful head as he filled his lungs
again; and when his jockey saluted
the judge, she leaned forward over the
railing and smiled a smile in acknowledgement
of his prowess, which made
that jockey think himself a hero for
the rest of the day.

'' And now," said Mr. Thornley,
'' there is nothing more at present : so

we'll see low your aunt is getting on,
and look for the Digbys." The Digbys
were the people they expected to take
back with them to Adelonga.

But even as he spoke he was arrested
in his place by some of his many
friends, who crowded the steps below
him, wanting to have a few 'minutes'
gossip about the race, or perhaps
wanting to have a nearer view of her
own pretty person, never seen in those
parts before.

And while she waited she turned
aside to have another amused look at
the children in their merry-go-rounds, and
the lads playing Aunt Sally, and all
the simple festivities of the holiday-makers,
whose proceedings she could
so well survey from her present commanding
position; and it was then that

she saw for the first time a 
horseman riding slowly
through the crowd.

Her attention was attracted in the
first place bj the beauty of his horse —
for in a small way she was a good
judge of horses : and then she noticed
that the equipment of that noble animal
was slightly different from what she
was accustomed to see.

She supposed it was an English
saddle in which that tall man sab so
square and straight; then she wondered
why he wore his stirrup leathers so excessively
long ; and then lifted her glass
and stared intently at his face. There
was not much of this to see just now,
even through a strong glass ; for he
wore a small, soft cap with a peak toit,
low over his eyes, in which the sun

was shining, and though his jaws were
shaven and his brown throat bare, he
had a heavy, drooping, reddish moustache,
which was the largest she had
ever seen.

He was riding in the direction of the
judge's box, and as he came near she
dropped her glass, and shrinking back
shyly touched that potentate's arm.
Mr. Thornley turned round, and the
horseman took off his cap with a
stately sort of careless courtesy, and revealed
a clear-cut, keen-eyed, powerful,
proud face, neither young nor old,
rather thin and worn, and tanned and
dried to leather-colour, which Rachel felt
at once to be the most impressive face
she had ever looked upon.

'hullo!" cried Mr. Thornley, in an
accent of profound amazement. '' Why,

I thought you were gone to Queensland
!"

I ought to have gone'* the stranger
replied. He had a quiet, cool voice,
that nevertheless ranof clear through
all the noise about them. " I duly
started yesterday, but we broke a trace,
and I lost my train by two
minutes."

Two minutes ! Well, that was hard
lines. Are the Digbys here ?"

'^ Yes."

You are not going to make another
start immediately, I suppose ?"

Not till next week, I think."

Then you'll come back with us tonight
?"

Thanks."

Here he reined up his horse just beside
Rachel's railing, and sent a furtive

but searching glance up into lier pretty
blushing face.

Allow me to introduce mj wife's
cousin, Miss Fetherstonhaugli," said Mr.
Thornley, laying his hand on her shoulder
with a paternal gesture. '' Rachel, my
dear — Mr. Rodenn Dalrymple."

A BLACK SHEEP.

HO is Mr. Rodenn Dalrymple ?"
asked Racliel presently. Mr.
Thornley was escorting her
back to her aunt, and the person in
question was riding across the ground —
slowly, as he had come — in search of one
of the grooms of his party, to whom he
might deliver his horse to be stabled in
the township until the return from
Adelonga.

Who is he ?" repeated Mr. Thornley.

*' He is Mrs. Digby's brother. Nice
little woman, Mrs. Digby. You will like
her I know. I am very glad she has
come."

But what is he ?" persisted Rachel,
so absorbed in watching the tall rider
swinging along at that stately, easy
pace, with his long stirrups and his
dangling rein, that she nearly tumbled
over a couple of children who crossed
her path. 'ris he a Queensland
squatter?"

That is what he thinks of being,"
laughed Mr. Thornley, with an amused,
half-mocking laugh. " He has taken up
a big run with Jim Gordon, and they
are going to live there and manage for
themselves. A nice mess they'll make
of it, I expect."

'why?" inquired Rachel.

Why ? They know no more about
it than you do. How should they ?
Oh, by the bye, yes; I suppose
Dalrymple has dabbled in cattle a little
in that South American venture of
his. But that experience won't benefit
him much. He lost every penny he put
into that business."

"Has he lived in South America?"
asked Rachel.

'' He has lived all over the world, I
think. He's a rolling stone, my dear,
that's what he is — with the proverbial
consequences."

Is he poor, then ?"

Poor as a church mouse. That is
to say, he has got a bit of an estate
somewhere in Scotland or Ireland — I really
forget which — an old ruin of a house
mortgaged to the chimney-pots, and a few

VOL. I. 13

starved farms, that bring him in a few-odd
hundreds now and again. He tries
all sorts of queer schemes for mending
his fortunes, but they never come to
anything."

'' Perhaps he is one of the unlucky
ones— like my poor father," suggested
Rachel.

I don't know. I'm afraid he's a
ne'er-do-weel. Judging from his past
history — Jim Gordon knows all about
him — he has no worse enemy than himself."


What is his history ?" Rachel asked
the question with a vague sense of
resentment against her prosperous host,
who had probably never known misfortunes.


'' Well, he was an only son, and I
suppose spoilt — to begin with. He was

brought up for the army — simply, as far
as I can make out, from force of habit,
because his father and no end of grandfathers
had been soldiers before him —
instead of being taught how to manage
and improve that ramshackle old property
of his.

He was in a crack cavalry regiment ;
one of the worst of them — T mean
for folly and extravagance ; and he
went no end of a pace, as if he had the
Bank of England at his back, and got
all his affairs into a mess; and then he
got gambling at Newmarket. The story
goes that he played a brother-officer for
some woman that they were both in love
with; and he staked everything he had
in the world that he could lay his hands
on, except that old land and house, which
the law kept for his children. 



tunatelj, lie is not married, nor ever
likely to be."

"And lie lost her?" said Rachel, in
an awed whisper, with something very-like
tears in her eyes.

Her ? He lost more than ever she
was worth, I'll be bound. He lost
to that extent that he had to sell
his commission to pay. The young
fool ! he must have been a raving
lunatic."

"And what did he do then?" asked
Rachel, taking out her handkerchief and
blowing her nose ostentatiously.

No one quite knows what he did for
the first few years after he sold out. He
lived in Paris most of his time, and
knocked about on the continent, at Baden
and those places — up to no good, you
may be sure. Then he went to the Cape,

hunting and amusing himself ; and then
to California, gold digging ; and then all
about South America, trying farming or
cattle-raising, or something of that sort ;
and then Digby went home and married
his sister, and she persuaded him to come
here."

Has he been here long ?"

''A year or two. He has lived with
them most of the time — learning colonial
experience of Digby, I suppose. She
is awfully fond of him, that little
woman. And Digby never says a
word against him — for her sake, I
suppose."

Why should he say anything against
him?" asked Rachel rather warmly.
"He is doing nothing wrong now, is
he?"

*' Oh, no. He is older and wiser now,

I daresay. Still — still — " and Mr.
Thornley looked askance at the pretty
young creature who was about to make
this reprobate's acquaintance under his
roof, and bethought him that he ought
to secure her against temptation and
danger— "still there's no doubt that he
is rather a bad lot — what you would calla
black sheep, you know, my dear —
not the sort of man that it is desirable
to be very intimate with."

Rachel blushed one of her ready
blushes, and with such suddenness and
vigour that Mr. Thornley feared he
had accidentally made equivocal suggestions.


I don't mean that he is not a gentleman
— a thoroughly honourable gentleman,"
he explained hastily. " I don't
know the rights of that Newmarket

business, but in everything else, as far
as I am aware, his moral character is as
good as mine is ; otherwise I should not
ask him to Adelonga. I am only speaking
of him as a man who has lived a sort
of loose, extravagant, Bohemian kind of
life, you know."

'' I know," assented Rachel absently.
Already his prudent tactics were having
their natural effect. She was ready to
champion the cause of this apparently
friendless, as well as unfortunate man ; in
whom, had he been recommended to her
favour, she might — I do not say she
would, but she might — have felt only an
ordinary unemotional interest; and she
did not want to hear any more to his
disparagement.

'' Is that their buggy ?" she asked,
nodding in the direction of a covered

waggonette which, was now drawn up
alongside the break — in which three
ladies sat with Mrs. Hardy, while three
gentlemen leaned in and talked to
them.

'' Yes," he replied, '' and that is Mrs.
Digby — that little woman in a brown
hat. The one next her is Mrs. Hale,
a neighbour of theirs — cousin of
Digby's. The girl is Miss Hale. That's
Digby with the big light beard. The
little man is Hale. The man with a
brown beard is Lessel — engaged to Miss
Hale."

Are they all coming to Adelonga ?"
They are. And I am wondering how
we are going to stow them all. We
can pack ten inside, with a little
squeezing, but there is Dalrymple
extra."

I'll sit in the boot with the children."

And all the portmanteaus ? Indeed
you won't. I must take two on the box.
How do you do, Mrs. Digby ? How do,
Mrs. Hale ? How do, Miss Hale ? I am
delighted to see you all."

Here ensued many complicated greetings,
and protracted inquiries and explanations
as to everybody's health and
welfare ; and then Rachel found herself
absorbed in the group, and the business
of making all these new people's acquaintance.
She was a shy, but an eminently
adaptable, little person, ready to melt
like snow before a smiling face and a
kindly manner; and as she naturally
received a great deal of attention,
she was soon at her ease amongst
them.

Mrs. Digby was a graceful and 

woman, fair and pale,
with a soft voice and refined and gentle
manners, and her she admired excessively,
with the reverent enthusiasm of
eighteen for a sister beauty of eight-and-twenty.


Mrs. Hale was less attractive. She
was rather pompous and imperious,
rather noisy and bustling, anxious to
lead the conversation, and generally to
dominate the company ; and withal she
had no pretensions to good looks, except
in respect of her very handsome costume,
and not a great deal to good breeding ;
she was large and strong ; she was rich
and prosperous; she had a small, meek
husband. Such as she was, she monopolised
the largest share of Mrs. Hardy's
attention.

Miss Hale was a comfortable, round-faced,

wholesome-looking girl, pleasant
to talk to, but not intellectually, or
indeed in any way remarkable. She
devoted herself to Rachel ardently, with
the air of taking friendly relations as a
matter of course, under the interesting
circumstances; glancing archly at Rachel's
diamond ring, and displaying the less
magnificent symbol of her own betrothal ;
and otherwise, whenever opportunity
offered, suo-aestinsr the sentimental
situation with more or less directness.


Rachel, however, did not find her
engagement a matter of absorbing interest
; she preferred to talk to Mrs.
Digby about the little Digbys left at
home, or to muse in silent intervals —
which, to be sure, came few and far
between — of that sad and tragic story of

which a glimpse had just been given
her.

The men of the waggonette party were
pleasant, ordinary men ; all of them
Australians born, and two of them— Mr.
Digby and Mr. Lessel — fine, handsome
specimens of our promising colonial race.
They were assiduous in their attentions
to the youngest and prettiest lady of the
company, who, as a matter of course,
liked their attentions ; but she could not
help feeling a certain restless desire for
the return of Mr. Eoden Dalrymple,
whose absence seemed to make the circle
strangely incomplete.

He was a long time coming back.
They went down to witness the second
race; they wandered for half-an-hour
amongst the booths and merry-go-rounds
to amuse themselves with any rustic fun

that was going on ; the congregated
under the shelter of the judge's box —
Mrs. Digby and Miss Hale standing in it
on this occasion — to see yet another
event" disposed of; and then the butler
and the nursemaid with profuse amateur
assistance began to spread the tablecloth
for lunch on a bit of grassy level,
pleasantly shadowed in the now brilliant
noontide by the big body of the
break.

All the portmanteaus had been placed
in the boot of this capacious vehicle, and
the Digbys' waggonette and horses
had been sent to the hotel to
await their return from Adelonga ;
and still there was no sign of Mr.
Dalrymple.

Where can the fellow be ?" inquired
Mr. Digby of the general public, looking

up for a moment from his interesting
occupation of brewing "cup," in which
Rachel was helping him. " He is the
most unsociable brute I ever came across
always loafing away by himself. It
isn't safe to take your eye off him for a
moment."

How well Queensland will suit him !"
laughed Mrs. Hale.

"Sto doubt he rode down to the township
to give his own orders about Lucifer,"
said his sister, lifting her gentle face.
'' You know he never cares to trust him
to a groom."

He could have done that and been
back again an hour ago," rejoined her
husband. '' However, pray don't wait
for him when lunch is ready, Mrs. Hardy ;
he will turn up some time."

Rachel had an indignant opinion, to

which she longed to give expression, that
they would all be most grossly rude if
they did anything of the sort. She resented
this too ready inclination to slight
a man who in her estimation was
dignified by his heroic experiences so
much above them all ; and as far as in her
lay she did what she could to counteract
it.

She took a napkin and polished all
the wine-bottles, and peeled the foil from
all the champagne corks ; she mixed and
tossed the salad in a slow and cautious
manner; she garnished the numerous
meats with unnecessary elaboration ; she
would not allow luncheon to be ready, in
short, until either one o'clock or the
missing guest arrived.

She was standing on the step of the
break, helping to hand down rugs and

cushions for the ladies to sit upon — wliicli
was not her business, as her aunt's disapproving
eye suggested — when at last she
discerned him far away on the outskirts
of the crowd.

It wants ten minutes to one, Mr.
Thornley, and I see Mr. Dalrymple
coming," she called out in her fresh,
clear voice.

Where do you see him ?" asked Mr.
Digby, who was standing in the break,
hugging an armful of opossum rugs. '' I
don't see him."

She pointed silently, and for some
minutes Mr. Digby looked in vain for his
brother-in-law, knitting his brows, and
shading his eyes from the sunlight. At
last he saw him.

All that way off !" he exclaimed.
You must have very good sight. Miss



Fetherstonhaugh, to recognise him at
such a distance."

He is easy to recognise," said Rachel,
simply.

VOL. I.



OUTSIDE THE PALE.

HE races were over at four
o'clock, with the exception of
the " Consolation Stakes," and
a few other informal affairs, upon which
Mr. Thornley did not condescend to
adjudicate; and the Adelonga party,
swelled to fifteen, set off on their long
drive home.

It was a time of year when the twilight
fell early and it was dark between six and

seven ; but to-night there was a moon,
and. there was no need to hurry ; all
that was necessary was to get back in
comfortable time to dress for an eight
o'clock dinner.

There was a great deal of conversation,
but Rachel had not much share in
it. The break was crowded, of
course.

The two servants sat on the box with
with Mr. Thornley ; the boot was full of
portmanteaus. There was no room for
the children inside, except on the knees
of their elders ; and one of them Rachel
insisted on nursing (and she went fast
asleep), while Miss O'Hara sat beside her
with the other. Buxom Miss Hale was
wedged opposite, with (Rachel was sure,
and it offended her sense of propriety
deeply) her lover's arm round her waist.

14—3

Mr. Dalrymple sat by the door, almost
out of sight and sound.

Rachel bad scarcely spoken to bim all
day ; the profuse attentions of the other
gentlemen to ber bad interposed between
them, and perhaps, though she was not
aware of it, her aunt's little manoeuvres
also. But ber thoughts were full of bim,
as she sat, tired and silent, in her
corner, with the sleeping child in her
arms.

Her imagination was fascinated by the
story of bis life, which, given to her in so
brief an outline, she filled in for herself
elaborately, dwelling most of course
upon the dramatic Newmarket episode,
and wondering whether that woman was
worthy or unworthy of the sacrifice of
fame and fortune that be had made for
her.

What a lovely night !" remarked
Miss Hale, breaking in upon her
reverie.

Rachel looked up, with an absent
smile. The moon was beginning to outshine
the fading after-glow of a gorgeous
sunset; stars were stealing out, few and
pale, in a clear, pale sky; the distant
ranges were growing sharp and dark,
with that velvety sort of bloom on them,
like the bloom of ripe plums, which is the
effect of the density of their forest clothing,
seen through the luminous transparency
of their native air.

There was a sound of curlews far away,
making their melancholy wail — broken
now and then by the screaming of cockatoos,
or the delirious mirth of laughing
jackass, or the faint '* cluck, cluck" of
native companions sailing at an immense

distance overhead. The frogs were
serenading the coming night in every
pool and watercourse; the cold night
wind make a sound like the sea in the
gums and speaks under which the swept
along, crashing and jingling, at the rate
of ten miles an hour. The lonely bush
was full of its own weird twilight
beauty.

It is a very lovely night," assented
Rachel; and she sighed, and laid her
cheek on Dolly Thornley's head. She
was a little tired, a little sad, and she did
not want to talk just now. Seeing
which. Miss Hale gave herself with
an easy mind to her lover's entertainment.


However, when the four horses drew
up at the most central of the Adelonga
front doors, panting and steaming, with

their exuberance all evaporated, the
naturally light heart became light and
gay again. It was such a cheery arrival
too. The charming old house was lit up
from end to end; blazing logs on bedroom
hearths sent ruddy gleams through
a dozen windows; doors stood wide
like open arms ready to receive all
comers.

Mr. Thornley handed his guests out of
the break with profuse gestures of welcome,
shouting to his servants, who were
trained as he was himself, to all hospitable
observances, and hurried to take
traps and bags.

Mrs. Thornley, looking girlish and
pretty in a pale blue evening dress, stood
on the doorstep, eager and smiling,
scattering her graceful and cordial salutations
all around her.

Oh, Lucilla," exclaimed Racliel, when
she had given her charge to a nursemaid,
running up to kiss her cousin, between
whom and herself very tender relations —
based on the baby — existed, " we have
had such a lovely day. I am sorry
you were not with us."

'' I am glad you enjoyed yourself,"
responded Mrs. Thornley affectionately.
You have had splendid weather. Run
and see if the fire is burning nicely
in Mrs. Digby's room, there's a dear
child."

It took some time to get all the guests
collected in the house, and then to
disperse them, with their wraps and
portmanteaus, to their respective rooms.
Rachel assisted her cousin in this pleasant
business, trotting about to carry shawls,
and poke up fires, and get cups of

tea and cans of hot water. It was
the kid of service that she delighted
in.

When everybody was disposed of, and
she went to her own room, she found she
had barely half-an-hour in which to dress
herself. What, she wondered, should she
put on to make herself look very, very
nice. With all these strangers in the
house it behoved her to sustain the
credit of the family, as far as in her
lay. She set about her toilet with
a flush of hurry and excitement in her
face.

All her weariness was gone now; she
was looking as bright and lovely as it was
possible for her to look. Discarding the
black dress that was her ordinary dinner
costume, she arrayed herself all in white
the fine white Indian muslin which had

been brought to Adelonga for possible
state occasions, and which was, therefore,
made to leave her milky throat and arms
uncovered. She put on her diamond
bracelet, but she took it off again. She
fastened a pearl necklace — another of her
lover's presents — round her soft neck,
but she unfastened it, and laid it back in
its velvet case.

She went into the drawing-room at
last with her beauty unadorned, save
only by a bit of pink heath in her bosom —
without a single spark of that newly-acquired
jewellery that her soul loved —
lest she should help, ever so infinitesimally,
to flaunt the wealth and
prosperity of the family in the eyes of
impecunious gentlemen. And it is needless
to inform the experienced reader that
Mr. Dalrymple, turning to look at her

as she entered, thought she was one
of the loveliest girls he had ever
seen.

He was far away on the other side of
the room, and she did not go near him.
The ladies were rustling about in their
long trains and tinkling ornaments ; the
men were trooping in, white-tied and
swallow-tailed, rubbing their hands
and sniffing the grateful aroma of
dinner.

Then the gong began to clang and
vibrate through the house, and the
company, who were getting hungry,
paired themselves to order, and set forth
through sinuous passages to the diningroom.
Rachel being, conventionally, the
lady of least consequence, was left without
a gentleman to go in with ; and she
sat at the long table on the same side

with Mr. Dalrymple, too far off to see or
speak to him.

When dinner was over and the ladies
rose, she took advantage of a good
opportunity to pay a visit to the baby,
whom she had not seen all day — a terrible
deprivation.

She whispered her proposed errand
to Lucilla, who gratefully sent her
off ; and the baby being discovered
awake and amiable, she spent nearly an
hour in his apartment, nursing and fondling
him in her warm, white arms. It
was her favourite occupation, from
which she never could tear herself
voluntarily.

By and bye the baby dropped asleep,
and was tenderly lowered into his cradle ;
and then having nothing more to do
for him, she tucked him up, kissed

him, and went back to her social
duties.

When she entered the drawing-room
she found the whole party assembled, and
some exciting discussion was going on.
Mrs. Hale sitting square on a central
sofa was evidently the leading spirit;
and Mrs. Hardy sitting beside her, indicated
to the girl's experienced eye, by
the expression of her face and the
elevation of her powerful Roman nose,
that she was supporting her neighbour's
views — whatever they were — in a determined
and defiant manner. Miss Hale
and Mr. Lessel had retired to a distant
alcove, but they had suspended their
whispered confidences to listen to the
public debate. Mr. Thornley and Mr.
Hale were trying to play chess, but were
also distracted. Mr. Digby lounged

against a side table pretending to be
absorbed in The Argus, but peeping
furtively at intervals over the top of the
sheet. Miss O'Hara sat apart knitting,
with an expression of rigid disapproval.


Mrs. Digby, in a very central position,
full in the light, lay back in a low easy
chair, and fanned herself with gentle,
measured movements. Her eyes were
fixed on a picture in front of her, her
soft mouth was set, her face was pale,
proud, and grave ; very different from
Mrs. Thornley's beside her, which
was disturbed and downcast, as that of a
hostess whose affairs were not going
well. Rachel saw in Mrs. Digby for the
first time a strong resemblance to her
brother.

Mr. Rodenn Dalrymple stood alone on

the lieartlirug with his back against the
wall, and his elbows on a corner of the
mantelpiece. His face was hard and
cold, yet not without signs of strong
emotion.

It was evidently between him and Mrs.
Hale that the discussion lay, and it was
equally evident that the '' feeling of
the meeting" was against him. Rachel,
taking in the situation at a glance, longed
to walk over to the hearth rug and
publicly espouse her hero's cause, whatever
it might happen to be. What she
did instead was to glide noiselessly to the
back of her cousin's chair, and leaning
her arms upon it, to " watch the case" on
his behalf. They were all too preoccupied
to notice her.

"It is all very well," Mrs. Hale was
saying in an aggressive manner, *' but it

was nothing short of murder in cold blood.
And if you had been in any other
quarter of the globe when you did it,
you would not have escaped to tell the
tale to us here."

'' My dear Mrs. Hale— excuse me — I
am not telling the tale to you here. I have
not the slightest intention of doing so."

But everybody knows it, of course."

'' T think not," said Mr. Dalrymple.

That you had a quarrel with a man
who had once been your friend," proceeded
Mrs. Hale, with a vulgar woman's
unscrupulousness about trespassing on
sacred ground; 'rand that you hunted
him round the world, and then, when
you met him in that Californian diggings
place, shot him across a billiard-table
where he stood, without a moment's
warning."

'' Oh, yes," said Mr. Dalrymple,
calmly; "he had plenty of warning —
five years at least."

"Not five minutes after you met him.
Mr. Gordon was there, and said that he
was a dead man five minutes after you
came into the room and recognised
him."

Gordon can tell you, then, that I
satisfied all the laws of honour. The
meeting had been arranged and expected ;
there were no preliminaries to go
through — except to borrow a couple of
revolvers and get somebody to see fair
play. There were at least a dozen todo
that; Gordon was one."

"Poor fellow," ejaculated Mrs. Hardy
with solemn indignation. " And he
fired in the air, I suppose ?"

He would have fired in the air, I
VOL I. 15

daresay, if he lead any hope that I
would do so," replied Mr. Dalrymple,
with a face as hard as flint, and a deep
blaze of passion in his eyes. '' But he
well knew that there was no chance of
that. He was obliged to shoot his best
in self-defence."

'' Then you might have been killed
yourself ! — and what then ?"

That was a contingency I was
quite prepared for, of course. What
then ? — I should have done my duty."

'' Don't say ' duty,' Rodenn," interposed
Mrs. Digby, very gently and
gravely.

"My dear Lily, the word has no
arbitrary sense ; we all interpret it to
suit our own views. It was my idea
of duty."

Poor fellow !" exclaimed Mrs.

Hard J again. 'rit is a dreadful story.
And did he leave any family ?"

I would rather not pursue the
subject, Mrs. Hardy — if you have no
objection."

I wonder you are not afraid to goto
bed," Mrs. Hale persisted, undeterred
by the darkness of his face. " The
ghost of that poor wretch would haunt
me night and day. I should never
know what it was to sleep in peace."

Rachel listened to this fragment of
a conversation, which had evidently
been going on for some time ; and her
heart grew cold within her. Mr. Dalrymple
happened to turn his head, and
saw her looking at him with her innocent
young face scared and pale ;
and he was almost as much shocked as
she. A swift change in himself — a

15—2

straightening of his powerful, tall frame,
and a flash of angry surprise and pain
in his imperious eyes — aroused a general
attention to her presence.

"You here, my dear?" exclaimed
Mrs. Hardy, much discomposed by the
circumstance. '' That is the worst of
these irregular shaped rooms — with so
many doors and corners, one never sees
people go out and come in."

'how is baby?" inquired Mrs.
Thornley eagerly, thankful for the
diversion. " Is he sleeping nicely ?"

Mr. Dalrymple strode across the room
and wheeled up a chair. "Won't you
sit down, Miss Fetherstonhaugh ?" he
said, looking at her with a little appeal
in his still stern face. " You must be
tired after your long day."

Thank you," said she ; and she sat

down. But she felt incapable of talking
— incapable of sitting still, with her
hands before her. General conversation
of a more comfortable and conventional
kind than that which she had interrupted
was set going all around her.

The lovers resumed their tete-astute in
the corner ; the chess-players continued
their game ; Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Hardy,
suffering from a very justifiable suspicion
that they had been a trifle rude,
endeavoured to make themselves particularly
entertaining. But she sat silent
and miserable with downcast eyes, picking
at the embroidery on her dress, and wishing
the evening over — this disappointing
evening which had counteracted all the
brightness and pleasure of the day — so
that she could slip away to bed.

"You have had no tea," said Mr.

Dalrymple presently, when all the married
ladies were absorbed in discussing the
merits of their respective cooks. " It
came in while you were out of the room.
Won't you have some now ?"

Grateful for any interruption of the
spell of embarrassment which was holding
her painfully under his watchful
eyes, she thanked him, and rising
hastily went over to one of the
numerous recesses of that charmingly
arranged room, where the evening tea-table
usually stood between a curtained
archway and a glass door that led into
the conservatory.

Of course he followed her. The
curtains were looped back so as to permit
the glow of lamps and firelight to
stream in from the room, and on the
other side a full moon shone palely

down through a network of flowering
shrubs and fern trees. They could hear
the conversation of the rest distinctly
particularly Mrs. Hale's share of it.
But it was a very retired place.

You had better sit down," said
Mr. Dalrymple, '' and let me pour it out
for you. Yes — I do it every night for
my sister. She, too, likes to have the
teapot brought in. But I doubt if it is
fit to drink ; it has been in half an
hour. I thought you were tired and
had gone to bed."

"Did you?"

Yes ; I am afraid you are very tired.
You ought not to have comeback."

'' I — I wish I had not," she said,
hardly above a whisper, as she took the
cup from his hands. She looked into
his face for a moment with her timid,

troubled eyes, and then looked down
hastily and blushed her brightest
scarlet.

I know, I know," he replied, in a
low tone of emotion that had a touch
of fierceness in it. '* I saw how shocked
you were, and I could have bitten my
tongue out. But I should never have
spoken of that if Mrs Hale had not
badgered me into it. If it had been
one of the men — but they know better !
A woman, though she may be the most
prodigious fool, is privileged. I am
very sorry. I can't tell you how sorry
I am."

It is not hearing it that matters,"
stammered Rachel, stirring her tea
with wild and tremulous splashes ; 'rit
is knowing — it is thinking — of its being
true."

He paused for a moment, and looked
at her witty a look that she was afraid
to meet, but which she felt through all
her shrinking consciousness : and then
he said quietly, '' Drink your tea, and
let us go into the conservatory for five
minutes."

It was a bold proposal under the
circumstances ; but it did not occur to
her to question it. She drank her tea
hastily, and put down her cup ; and Mr.
Dalrymple opened the glass door, which
swung on noiseless hinges, and passing
out after her, coolly closed it behind
them both. It was very dim and still
out there. The steam of the warm
air, full of strong earthy and piney
odours, clung to the glass roofs through
which the moon was shining, and made
the light vague and misty. The immense

brown stems of the tree ferns,
barnacle with stag horns, and the great
green feathers spreading and drooping
above them, took all kinds of phantom
shapes.

Rachel herself looked like a ghost
in her white dress, as she flitted down
the dim alleges by that tall man's side,
tapping the tiled floor with her slippered
feet with no more noise than a
woodpecker.

Is that the lapageria ?" asked Mr.
Dairy male, when he thought they had
gone far enough for privacy, pausing
beside a comfortable seat, and pointing
upward to a lattice-work of dark
leaved shoots, from which hung clusters
of dusky flower bells. *' How well it
grows here, to be sure !"

Everything grows well here," responded

Rachel, relieved from some
restraint by this harmless opening of their
clandestine ^6^6-^- ^e^e; 'rand that creeper
is Mr. Thornley's favourite. The
flowers are the loveliest red in daylight."


"Now I want to tell you a little
about that story you heard just now,"
he proceeded gravely. '' Sit down ; it
won't take honos."

You said you would rather not talk
about it," murmured Rachel.

'' I would much rather not. There
is nothing I would not sooner do —
except let you go away thinking so
badly of me as you do now. I don't
usually care what people think of me,"
he added ; ''I am sure I don't know
why I should care now. But you
looked so terribly shocked ! It hurts

me to see you looking at me in that
way. And I should like to try if I
could to make you believe that I am
not necessarily a bad man, more than
other men, though bad enough, because
I fought a duel once and killed my
adversary."

Meaning to kill him," interposed
Rachel. '' That is the dreadful part of
it !"

"Yes; I meant to kill him. I staked
my own life on the same chance, if that
is any justification, but — oh, yes, I
meant to kill him, if I could. I had a
reason for that, Miss Fetherstonhaugh.
Shall I tell you what it was ?"

'' Yes," whispered Rachel. " But
how could there be any sufficient reason
for such a terrible crime ?"

'' Don't call it a crime," he protested.

That is how they speak of it who
know nothing about it — that is how
they will represent all my life, which
has been different from theirs — to make
you shun and shrink from me as if 1
had the small-pox. Wait till you know
a little more."

He was leaning forward with an
elbow on his knee, and looking into
her face. She met his ejQ^ now in
the uncertain moonlight, which was
shining on her and not on him ; and
he saw no sign of shrinking yet.

"Why did you do it?" she asked
sorrowfully.

Long ago," he said, after a pause,
he and I fell in love with — some one ;
and she loved him best. At least I
think she did — I don't know. Sometimes
I fancy she would have cared most forme,

if we lead bad our chances. But
we had no chances ; I had to give my
word of honour not to stand between
her and him — not to try to win her,
unless she distinctly showed a preference
for me."

"I understand," whispered Rachel.
She knew this part of the story
already.

'' At any rate," he continued, " she
made choice of him. He sold out of
the service, and they went away together.
I had sold out myself not long before,
and went away too— travelling about
the world. I was very lonely at that
time; I didn't much care where I went or
what became of me. It was several
years before I saw or heard of her

again."

Yes?'

'' And one night, when I had come
back home to look after my property,
I met her in London streets. It was
the middle of winter — it was raining —
she was all alone — she was almost in
rags — "

'' Don't tell me any more !" implored
Rachel, beginning to tremble and cry.

'' No," he said, and he drew a deep
long breath, " I can tell you any more.
Only this — she died. I did all I could
to save her, but it was too late. She
died of consumption — brought on by
exposure and want, and misery of all sorts
a week or two after I found her. And
now you know why I killed him. That
was why ?"

There was a long pause, broken once
or twice by Rachel's audible emotion.
She had still her own views as

to the right and justice of what
he had done ; but she did not dream
of the presumption of giving them
now.

This tremendous tragedy of love and
revenge dwarfed all her theories of life
to the merest trivialities. She could
only wonder, and tremble, and cry.

'' It is an old story now," said Mr.
Dairy male, more gently. " And I try
not to think too much of it. It was
all fair, thank Heaven ! — I comfort myself
with that. I could have shot him
once before in Canada ; but he was
unprepared then. He did not see me,
and I would not take him at a disadvantage.
I try not to think of it
now. I don't want you to think of
it either — after to-night. Will you try
not to ? And try not to let them

persuade you that I am quite a fiend
in human shape ?"

Rachel blew her nose for the last
time, put her handkerchief in her
pocket, and smiled a tearful smile.

I am afraid you are not very
good," she said, shaking her head, "but
I know you can't be a really wicked
man."

'' How do you know it ?" he asked
eagerly.

How ? I'm sure I don't know— I
feel it."

Thank you, thank you," he said,
in a low, rapid under tone. " You don't
know how I thank you for saying that.
At any rate, I have some rudimental
morality. I am honest, to the best of
my power. I tell no lies to myself, or
to any man — or woman. What I say

VOL. I. 16

I mean, and what I do I own to — if
called upon, that is. You may trust
me that far. And I hope you will."

I will," said Rachel, without a
moment's hesitation.

How often they thought afterwards
of their first strange talk, all alone in
that shadowy place. It was as if
they had known one another in some
other world, and had met after long
absence ; they felt — widely unlike as
they were — so little as strangers usually
do beginning a conventional acquaintance
in the conventional way. However,
it did occur to both of them that
it would be as well to go back to the
drawing-room before they should be
missed.

I am glad to have had this opportunity,"
said Mr. Dalrymple, who rose

first. '' I shall hope — I shall feel sure
that you will not let yourself be
prejudiced unfairly by anything you
may hear. ^or the rest, I hope you
will try not to think of this painful
story again."

And he began to saunter back, and
she to saunter beside him.

As they entered the drawing-room by
the glass door, they heard Mrs. Hardy
calling :

Rachel ! Rachel ! Why, where is
Rachel gone to ?"

The girl glided into the broad, warm
light, a little confused and dazzled,
and, of course, dyed in blushes, which
deepened to the deepest pink of
oleanders— nay, to the still richer red
of that lapageria which had attracted
Mr. Dalrymple's attention just now —

16-2

as she became conscious of the curious
observation of the assembled guests,
who, she well knew, would not regard
this characteristic demonstration as
lightly as those did who knew
her.

"" I am here, Aunt Elizabeth," she
replied, in an abject voice, as if she
had been caught in something very
disgraceful.

Oh !" responded Mrs. Hardy, '' I
thought you were gone to bed." She
looked sharply at the girl's downcast
face, and then more sharply at Mr.
Dalrymple, who met her eyes with a
stately and distant air of not putting
himself to the trouble of remembering
who she was that she found very
offensive and aggravating. " You had
better go, my dear," she said peremptorily.

"It is late, and you have had
a tiring day. I shall be having Mr.
Kingston complaining if I let you knock
yourself up."

Rachel was only too glad to say goodnight
and go. The other ladies began
to rise and stir about, gathering up
fans and fancy work, but she left the
room before they had come to any
unanimous decision about separating.
Mr. Dalrymple held open the door for
her. " Good night," she whispered
hurriedly, not looking at him. He
answered by a strong pressure of her
hand in silence. She did not understand
it then, but looking back afterwards
she knew that that first brief
hand-clasp stirred her erstwhile latent
woman's soul to life. She was never
the same afterwards.

Half an hour later, when she was
sitting by her own fireside, dreamily
brushing her long auburn hair over a
blue dressing - gown (blue was her
specially becoming colour), Mrs. Hardy
tapped at her door, and entered.

I have brought you a little wine
and water, dear," said she, looking
very friendly and amiable. '' I know
you seldom take it, but to-night it will
do you good. And Lucilla says you
are to be sure not to get up to
breakfast if you feel tired in the
morning."

Oh, thank you, auntie, but you
know I never lie in bed ! And I am
not in the very least tired. I have had
a delightful day."

Yes ; it has been a pleasant day.
I am glad you have enjoyed it so much.

I am only sorry we had to bring that
Mr. Dalrymple back with us. I consider
him a most objectionable, a most
disreputable, young man — not so very
young either ; he will never see forty
again, unless I am much mistaken. But
Lucilla and Mr. Thornley are both so
much attached to Mrs. Digby ; for
her sake they are obliged to be civil
to him."

Rachel was silent.

"You will, however, be careful, dear,
I know, not to get more intimate with
him than necessary," Mrs. Hardy continued.
"Mr. Kingston would dislike it
very much. He is a very wild young
man — he has not at all a good
character."

You said Mr. Kingston was wild,
auntie," the girl suggested timidly. It

was her sole feeble effort in defence of
her absent friend.

Nonsense ! I'm sure I said nothing
of the kind. He is a man
whom everybody looks up to. There
is no question of comparison between
them. At any rate," she added, with
solemn severity, " Mr. Kingston has
not taken a fellow creature's life, as this
man has. That is reason enough why
we must none of us have more to do
with him than is absolutely necessary.
You will remember that, Rachel? Be
civil to him, my dear, of course, but
no more. I should not have allowed
you to come into contact with such
a man if I could have helped it, and
we had no idea of seeing him to-day.
However, they will all be gone after
tomorrow, and you need not recognise

him again. The Digbys are coming to
the dance next week, but Mrs. Hale
says he means to start again for
Queensland on Monday. Let us hope
they won't break their traces a second
time. Good night, my dear ; you will
remember what 1 say ? It is what Mr.
Kingston would wish if he were here,
I know."

And Mrs. Hardy kissed her niece
affectionately and went away to bed,
with a sense of having done her duty,
and without the least suspicion that asa
domestic diplomatist, she had covered
herself with disgrace.

MR. Dalrymple HAS TO CONSULT GORDON.

F course it is well understood,
without further explanation,
that Mr. Dalrymple and Rachel
were in the position of the Sleeping
Beauty and her prince when the spell
that held life in abeyance was — or was
about to be — broken. At the same time
it is not to be inferred that the man,
with his years and experience, fell in
love at first sight with a merely
pretty face, nor that the girl was

more than ordinarily impressionable and
inconstant, or had any constitutional
weakness for wild young men.

Perhaps it is not necessary to essay
the difficult task of finding a theory
to account for it. Everybody kno\YS
that if there is a law of nature
that will not lend itself to system,
it is that which governs these
affairs.

The greatest force and factor inhuman
life comes to birth by a mere
chance — in Rodenn Dairy male's case by
the breaking of a trace, which was in
itself the result of a whole series of
trivial and quite avoidable circumstances ;
and then it thrives or languishes by the
favour of petty accidents — until time
and sanctifying associations put it
beyond the reach of accident. That is

its superficial history, taking a general
average.

Quality and potency are questions of
temperament; vigour of growth depends
in great measure on what may be
called climatic influences. But, as with
some other great mysteries of this
world, human understanding can make
very little of it.

At the same time people do not fall
in love with each other absolutely without
rhyme or reason. And these two
did not. Of course personal appearance
had, in the first instance, something todo
with it.

To a girl of Rachel's disposition (or,
indeed, of any other disposition), nothing
in the whole catalogue of manly graces
could have been more captivating than
that quiet air of power and dignity

which was the chief characteristic of
her hero's person and bearing.

And Mr. Dalrymple, who was not
the kind of man to be at any time
insensible to the charm of a sweet face,
had had sufficient experience to understand
and appreciate the peculiar charm
of this one — its unaffected modesty and
candour; and he had had, moreover,
little of anything to charm him in his
later wandering years.

And Rachel was not merely a pretty
girl, by any means. Being of a most
unselfish, unassuming, kindly nature, and
having a subtle apprehension oE the
general fitness of things, her manners
were exceedingly gracious and winning
not always conventional, perhaps, but
always refined and modest; and that
honest youthful enthusiasm for life and

its good tidings, which more or less
flavoured all she said and did, though
inimical to the prejudices of the British
matron, was a charming thing to
men.

Then Mr. Dairy male had the faculty
to perceive what made her look at him
with so peculiarly wistful and earnest
a look ; he recognised his friend, if not
his love and mate, in the earliest hours
of their acquaintance. A friend in so
fair a shape was doubly a friend
naturally; and the strong appetite that
he had for friendship, as a rudimental
phase of passion, had had little to feed
on but bitter memories for more than a
dozen years.

As for Rachel, it was almost inevitable
that she should lose her heart to
this hero of romance — this Paladin with

a touch of the demon in him — whom
circumstances combined to present to
her under such singularly impressive
auspices. If the truth must be told,
she fell in love much more suddenly
and hopelessly than he did; and the
fates— incarnate in the persons of his
enemies — did their best to precipitate
the catastrophe.

On the mornings following their strange
interview in the conservatory — of which
she had been dreaming all night — she
awoke with a dim sense of something
being wrong. It was so very dim a
sense that she did not consciously
apprehend it, and therefore made no
investigation into its origin. But instead
of jumping out of bed as usual,
eager to plunge at once into the unknown
joys of a new day, she lay

still until obliged to get up to receive
lier tea, and gazed pensively into
vacancy.

It was just such a morning as yesterday
— the sun shining in through the
white blind, the fresh wind rustling
along the leafy verandahs, the magpies
gossiping cheerily in great flocks about
the garden ; and there was that sweetest
baby cooing like a little wood pigeon
as he was carried past her door in
his nurse's arms. But she was deaf
to these erewhile potent influences.
Your hot water, miss," quoth a

housemaid in the passage.

Thank you, Susan," she responded

absently, and continued to gaze into

vacancy.

Your tea, miss," came, with another

tap, presently.

And then it was she had to get out
of bed. She took in her tea, set it
down on a chair and forgot it ; she
put on her sappers and dressing-gown,
and armed herself with towel and
sponge, but had to make three visits
to the bath-room before she could get
in.

Then she woke up to the fact that
she was late, and scampered excitedly
about the room in her anxiety to make
a becoming toilet in the shortest
possible space of time. Finally, she
went to breakfast five minutes after
the gong was supposed to have assembled
the family, and found that the
gentlemen had all gone out early on a
shooting expedition.

Isn't it too bad ?'' exclaimed Miss
Hale. " They arranged it in the .

I. 17

room last night, after we were gone
to bed ; and Harold knew that we
wanted to play croquet."

Croquet, it may be remarked, bad
not yet " gone out," and Harold was
Mr. Lessel.

They had their breakfast at six
o'clock," said Mrs. Thornley, smiling.
And you know, dear Miss Hale, it is
nearly the last day of the open season,
and my husband has been trying to
preserve those lagoons in the forest on
purpose. There were a great many
ducks there last week, and they will
have good sport and enjoy themselves,
I hope. They said they would be back
to luncheon."

Oh, don't you believe it !" snorted
Mrs. Hale, who, having given her lord
orders to stay at home, which had been

grossly violated, was in an aggrieved and
aggressive mood. " J know them ! — never
a thought will they give to luncheon, or
to us either, until they are tired of
their sport. If they are in time for
dinner, that's quite as much as you can
expect."

Rachel sat down, feeling fully as
much as anybody the blank that the five
gentlemen had left behind them. She
did not exactly say to herself that
it had been waste of time and trouble
to put fresh frills into her dress,
but that was the nature of her sentiments.


It was not a lively morning. None
of them expected it would be, so they
were not disappointed. The matrons
beguiled the dull hours with sympathetic
gossip on domestic themes.

Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Hardy had a
banquet of Melbourne news and scandal,
in the discussion of which they incidentally
glorified their respective connections,
each for the other's edification,
until a suggestion of Mrs. Hale's (to the
effect that Mr. Kingston was not much
better than he should be, in spite of his
wealth) caused a slight coolness to arise
between them.

Mrs. Thornley and Mrs. Digby, both
young wives and mothers, with many
tender interests in common, whispered
pleasantly over their needlework, chiefly
of their nursery affairs.

The two girls had no resource but to
keep each other company. They went
first to see the baby; but Miss Hale
was not an enthusiast in babies. Then
they had a little music ; and here

Racliel did not greatly distinguish herself.


After that they walked about the
garden and talked. Rachel was told all
about Mr. Lessel — how charming and
how good he was — what his father meant
to settle on him when he married —
when the wedding was to be, and what
the bridesmaids were to wear. Then she
was enticed into a few reluctant confidences
about her own engagement,
which led to a detailed description of
the new house, and an invitation to Miss
Hale, when she should be Mrs. Lessel,
to pay a visit there some day with
her husband. And so the morning
wore away, and luncheon-time
came.

They waited luncheon until past two
o'clock, and, to the sombre satisfaction

of Mrs. Hale, the sportsmen did not
return, and the made dishes were
spoiled.

Then the mail arrived, and there was
a letter for Rachel from her fiance,
begging her to write at once to relieve his
mind of a fear that she was ill, and to
tell him at the same time that she
acquiesced in the arrangements he had
proposed for their early marriage, and
whether she preferred Sydney or
Tasmania for the introductory wedding
trip.

He particularly wanted her to
settle these little matters without further
delay, as the spring was so much the
pleasantness time for travelling, and he
had had the offer of a charming house in
Sydney, on the shores of the bay, for
the first two or three weeks in October,

wliicli would only be open for a few
days.

When site had read this letter, she was
in a frantic hurry to answer it. Holding
it in her hand, she excused herself to her
companions, who were all setting forth
for a gentle walk ; begging to be allowed
to stay at home with an anxious eagerness
that provoked significant and
indulgent smiles, which said, " Oh, pray
don't mind us," as plainly as smiles could
speak.

So when they were gone, she made
herself comfortable in the smoking-room,
in one of the screened compartments
of which there was a sort of public
writing-table, supplied with great bowls
of ink, and shears of pens, and reams
of paper, on which " Adelonga" was
printed — as if Adelonga had been a club —

for the use of all-comers ; and where there
was always a glorious fire of big logs
whenever there was the least excuse for a
fire.

Here she began her second letter
to Mr. Kingston — with effusive conciliatory
excuses for having been such
a very bad correspondent. She had
really been so much engaged — time had
slipped away, she didn't know how — the
post had gone once or twice without her
knowing it — yesterday they had been
away from home ; altogether, fate had
been against her writing as often as she
had intended, but she would promise him
to be more regular in future.

Then followed a description of the
races, and an enumeration of the guests
they had brought back with them — who
they all were, what they were like, and

her estimation of them respectively. One
was dismissed without comment — " and
a Mr. Dalrymple, Mrs. Digby's brother"
(and of course her dearest Graham remarked
the extreme simplicity of this
phrase, and was curious about the interesting
details that were conspicuous by
their absence). And then, after a few
inquiries about the progress of the house,
she plunged into the really important
matter.

I have been thinking about your
proposal a great deal, and I want you,
please, not to be angry with me if I
cannot accede to it," she began in an
abject and deprecating manner that was
significant of her state of mind. " I want
to stay a little longer with my dear aunt,
to whom I have had so little opportunity
as yet of making what return is in my

power for all her kindness to me ; and I
want a little time to improve myself, too,
for my future position as your wife, dear
Graham. Lucilla is a beautiful housekeeper
and is teaching me lots of things ; and I
am brushing up my French and German
with Miss O'Hara, who said my accent
(but it is much better now) was enough
to set one's teeth on edge. Moreover, I
am really too young to be married just
yet. I am hardly nineteen, and Laura
Buxton was nineteen and a half. Perhaps

next year "

At this point she was interrupted by
the arrival of the sportsmen. They had
been to the drawing-room, apparently,
for they came in by way of the conservatory,
through a door just opposite the
writing-table. She put down her pen
and rose in haste.

Hullo, Rachel ! Good-morning,
■my dear. Don't get up — we won't
disturb you," shouted Mr. Thornley,
cheerily. " Come in, Lessel — come
in, Dalrymple. Here's where the guns
go."

What sport have you had ? And are
you not very hungry ?" she asked, moving
away from her chair and standing on the
hearth rug. According to her primitive
ideas of propriety, she was bound to stay
a little while and see to their hospitable
entertainment, there being no proper
hostess available.

Hungry ? I should think so. And
we had very good sport, though not much
to show for it," responded Mr. Thornley.
Only five ducks to five guns, and
Dalrymple shot four of them. They are
wild enough at the best of times ; but at

the end of the season there is no getting
near them."

*' You must be a very good shot," she
said, lifting her eyes meekly to Mr.
Dalrymple's face. And then, the moment
the words were spoken, she would have
given worlds to recall them, and looked
at him again with a dumb entreaty to be
forgiven.

He smiled gently, reading her like a
book.

Oh, no," he said ; *' I was only lucky
in having the birds."

They all came round her as she stood
on the hearth rug, except Mr. Thornley,
who had gone to order some bread and
cheese and beer ; and they looked pleased
with the situation.

Mr. Digby began to tell her what a
lovely day it was, and to ask her why

she had not gone out for a walk, too ;
and then, when she explained that she
had had letters to write, and found herself,
unfortunately, unable to do so
without blushing over it (blushing
because she feared she was going to
blush), Mr. Hale broke in; and Mr.
Hale in conversation was, in his very
different way, worse than Mrs. Hale.

*' To Melbourne, I presume?" insinuated
this little monster, with anarch
smile. Rachel, the colour of a
peony, lifted her head an inch nearer
to the ceiling.

I only heard last night," he continued,
rubbing his hands, and looking
a whole volume of vulgar pleasantries,
'' that the redoubtable Kingston has been
vanquished at last, and that it is to
your bow and spear that he has fallen.

?r —

Allow me to congratulate you, Miss
Fetherstonhaugh."

To congratulate him, I should think
you mean," broke in Mr. Dairy male,
who was studying the effect of sunset
on a picture of the Adelonga homestead
and pulling his moustaches violently.
Hadn't we better go and wash our
hands, Digby, and make ourselves more
fit for ladies' company?"

To congratulate him, too, certainly,"
said Mr. Hale ; " very much so, of
course. But still it is a great conquest
on the part of Miss Fetherstonhaugh.
Perhaps you don't know Kingston ?"

I have not that honour," replied
Mr. Dalrymple stiffly ; and the tone of
his voice strongly implied that he did
not in the least degree desire it.

•' Well, I do ; and I know that he

has openly defied the combined powers
of her charming sex for — I am afraid
to say how many years — as long as I
can remember."

I daresay that has not distressed
them," said Mr. Dalrymple.

Come, come, Hale," said Mr. Digby,
who thought his kinsman's allusion to
Mr. Kingston's age a terrible slip of the
tongue ; 'let us go and wash our
hands. Come alonsf, Lessel."

And my wife tells me," continued

the irrepressible little man, " that the —
a — the interesting event is to take place

very shortly !"

Rachel came out of her majestic reticence
with a rush that astonished
everybody.

'' Oh, oho, Mr. Hale — not for a longtime
— not for a year, at the very least!

Who could have told Mrs. Hale such
a thing ? I assure you it is quite, quite
wrong ! Do you know who told her ?
Was it my aunt ?"

She looked at him with an earnest,
imploring look that aroused Mr. Dairy
male to regard her with considerably
sharpened interest. The alarming
thought had struck her that her lover
might have privately enlisted Mrs.
Hardy's support for his new scheme ;
and if so, how should she be able bo
resist so formidable a pressure ?

I think it was Mrs. Thornley told
Mrs. Hale. She had a letter from her
sister, Mrs. Reade, yesterday ; and Mrs.
Eeade had mentioned it. Ladies' gossip.
Miss Fetherstonhaugh ! — ladies never can
keep secrets, you know. They tell
everything to one another, and then

to US. And we — we tell them nothing.
We know better, eh, Digbj?"

Come along," said Digby, who was
getting a little savage, " and don't talk
like a fool."

At this critical juncture Mr. Thornley
appeared to announce that there was
bread and cheese in the dining-room
for anybody who was hungry. Whereupon
the men trooped out — all but Mr.
Dalrymple, who apparently was not
hungry. He was lounging at Rachel's
side, with an elbow on the mantelpiece,
pulling his moustache meditatively; and
he did not move.

Rachel was fluttered and excited.

How do people get hold of those
things ?" she exclaimed, with a vexed,
embarrassed laugh. '^ It is very true
that everybody knows one's business

VOL. I. 18

better than one does one's self. I hate
that kind of impertinent gossip. No
one has the least ground for supposing
that I am going to be married shortly.
I have no intention of being married
for ever so long."

"Why do you care what people say?"
said Mr. Dalrymple. " I never care. It
is much the best plan."

''I would not, if I could help it; but
I can't," she responded, turning round
and mechanically spreading her pink
palms to the fire.

And, after all," he continued, slowly,
*' all the talking in the world can't
make you marry if you don't want
to."

She did not look up, but the blood
flew over her face.

I did not say I didn't want to,"

she murmured. " Of course I want to
not yet, for a long time, but some
day — or I should not be engaged."

I don't think that always follows,
Miss Fetherstonhaugh. I think many
people engage themselves, and live to
think better of it. And then, if they
don't refuse to consummate an admitted
mistake, they — well, they ought to, that's
all. Forgive me, I am speaking in the
abstract of course. I have had a great
deal of experience, you know."

** Of broken engagements ?" queried
Rachel, smiling faintly at the fire.

*' No, not of them — not personally.
The curse of my life was an engagement
that was kept. And I have seen
so much misery, such everlasting wreck
and ruin, come upon people I have
known and cared for — people who kept

18-2

the letter of the law of honour and
disregarded the spirit — who preferred
sacrificing all that made life worth
having, for certainly two people, and
probably four, to breaking an engagement
that had no longer any sense or
reason in it."

But surely an engagement — it is the
initial marriage ceremony — should be
kept sacred," protested Rachel, daring
at last to look up, in defence of pious
principles.

Yes," he said, " certainly — when it
is really the initial marriage ceremony."


And how — what — what is the proof
of that?"

Shall I tell you what I think it is ?
When the people who are engaged long
and weary for the consummation — for

the time to be over which keeps them
from one another''

There was a dead silence. Rachel
continued to gaze into the fire, but her
eyes were dim, and all her pretty
colour sank out of her face. He had
given her a great shock, and she had
to take a little time to recover. Presently
she looked up, pale and grave,
with a fuller and more open look than
she had ever given him.

'' You should not have told me," she
said gently; "you should not talk tome
so."

No — you are right — I should not —
forgive me," he replied, speaking low
and hurriedly, with something new and
strange in his voice. And then they
became simultaneously aware of the
dangerous ways into which their discussion

had led them, and, by tacit
consent, turned back. Rachel moved
away to the writing-table, and began
to gather her papers together ; Mr.
Dalrymple brought his arm down
from the chimney-piece and looked at
his watch.

*' It is five o'clock," he said ; " the
ladies are having a long walk, are they
not ?"

Iso ; it was nearly four when they
started. They will be in directly for
their tea."

Then, without looking to right or
left, Rachel hurried out of the room;
and Mr. Dalrymple, after silently holding
the door for her, strode away to
the dining-room, where he was still intime
for some bread and cheese.

The first thing Rachel did on reaching

her room, was to sit clown and
cry — why or wherefore she never asked
herself. She had not yet learned the
art of analysing her emotions.

She felt vaguely perplexed and hurt,
and ashamed and indignant ; and a few
tears were necessary to put her to
rights. They were very few, and soon
over.

In less than ten minutes she had
again addressed herself to Mr. Kingston's
letter, which she finished up
with the suggestion that their marriage
should take place '' next year," and a
profusion of unwonted endearments.

At dusk she went to the drawing-room,
where the reunited guests were
having tea in the pleasant firelight,
the gentlemen lounging about in their
knickerbockers and leggings, the ladies

sitting with hats tilted on the back
of their heads, Mrs. Hale victorious
over her subdued husband, Miss Hale
happy with her recovered beau. She
sat a little outside the circle and
talked in under-tones to Lucilla ; Mr.
Dalrymple stood far away on the other
side of the room, and talked to nobody.


That night Rachel was the first to
go to dress ; she was the last to come
back when the gong announced dinner.
And when she came she was arrayed
in all her glory — pearl necklace, diamond
pendant, diamond bracelet, jewelled fan
all her absent lover's love-gifts that
good taste permitted her to wear,
and a few more. And there was
no repetition of the conservatory
scene.

Mrs. Hardy was perfectly satisfied
with the result of her diplomatic
measures. Each el sat by her aunt's
side, and sewed industriously all the
evening at a pinafore for her precious
baby, who was about to be short-coated.
Mr. Dalrymple sat rather apart,
gnawing his moustache, apparently absorbed
in a photographic album of
Lucilla's, which he had discovered in a
cabinet near him.

Two or three times, when Rachel
stole a look across the room, unable
to repress her restless curiosity to
know what he was doing, she saw him
gazing meditatively at this open book,
and always on the first page of it.
She wondered whose photographs they
were that interested him so much, and
she felt that she could not go to bed

without satisfying her anxiety on this
point.

When after tea, music and cards
and other gentle entertainments were
set going, and Mr. Dalrymple was at
last enticed by his host from his
corner and his album to make a fourth
at the whist-table, she watched her
opportunity and stole round to the
chair on which he had been sitting.
He had his back to her, but he was
facing a mirror in which he could see
her distinctly; and while he watched
her movements, he trumped his partner's
trick for the first time in his life,
and otherwise disgraced a notorious reputation.


I suppose," said Mrs. Hale, who
was his partner, with considerable
asperity, "that you don't trouble to

play well if you haven't some great
stake to play for."

'*I beg your pardon," lie replied,
gravely bending his head. Rachel was
stealing back to her aunt's side and
her baby's pinafore, and he left off
looking into the mirror and making
mistakes.

Meanwhile Rachel had satisfied her
curiosity. When she opened the album
on the first page she saw two familiar
faces — one of a young, bright girl, with
pensive eyes, conspicuous for " that
royalty which subjects kings ;" the
other angular, aquiline, hollow, full of
the lines of age, and smirking with
the sprightliness of youth — herself and
Mr. Kingston, to whom, unknown to
her, Lu cilia had lately given this place
of honour.

She stood still for a few minutes,
looking down on them, with the colour
deepening in her cheeks. She seemed
to see for the first time how incongruous
a pair they made, and how
mean a presence her lover really
bore.

It was a bad likeness of him, she said
to herself; but in point of fact she
was shocked by a faithful representation
of his meagre features and his
peculiar smile — which after all was too
frivolous and artificial to be worthy of
comparison with the smile of Mephistopheles.


She did not consciously judge his by
the standard of that other face, which
was so impressively dignified and resolute;
but she had looked at this same
photograph two days ago, and then it

had not struck her unpleasantly, as it
did now.

Without thinking what she was doing,
she tore out her own likeness, and also
the last photograph in the book, which
was an old one of her Cousin Lucilla
as a child, and she made them change
places. Having effected which — surreptitiously,
as she thought — she closed the
album softly, laid it away in the cabinet,
and returned to her seat by her aunt's
side.

When the ladies were gone to bed,
the first thing Mr. Dalrymple did was
to get out that album again and look
at it ; and he had some very serious
thoughts when he found out what she
had done.

In the morning all the visitors left
early, for they had a long distance to

travel. Mr. Thornlej was to take them
part of the way home, and the break
and the four horses were brought round
at eight o'clock. Rachel came out to
the verandah with her aunt and cousin
to see them start.

Good-bye, dear Mrs. Digby," said
Lucilla, affectionately kissing her particular
friend. " Good-bye, Mrs. Hale.
Good-bye, Miss Hale. I am so sorry
you could not stay longer, but we
shall expect you back next week.
Good-bye, Mr. Dalrymple, I hear you
are off to Queensland again on Monday ?"

Mr. Dalrymple shook hands and lifted
his hat, and then said very quietly, but
with great distinctness,

Not quite so soon as that, I think,
Mrs. Thornley. I shall consult Gordon
before I make another start."

Oh, well, in that case we shall
hope to see you again, too. Of course
you'll come with your sister next week,
if you should be still with her?"

Thank you," said Mr. Dalrymple.
'*I shall be most happy."

Rachel was not looking at anybody
in particular ; and nobody was looking
at her. But her rather pale and pensive
face suddenly became of a colour
that might have put even the lapageria
rose to shame.

'' OH, IF THEY HAD !"

ANDERIISTG about that afternoon
in an aimless and restless
manner, Eacliel entered
the drawing-room through the conservatory
door, and found her cousin
sitting there alone, at her own little
davenport, writing letters. Lucilla
looked up with a smile of cordial welcome.


"Do you know what I am doing ?"
she exclaimed brightly. " Come here,

and say thank you. I am writing to
ask Mr. Kingston to come."

To ask Mr. Kingston to come ?"
the girl repeated blankly. " What for,
Lucilla ?"

Mrs. Thornley was not like Mrs.
Eeade ; she was amiable and sweet,
but a little dull of apprehension. She
did not grasp the obvious significance
of this reply. Still it struck her as
inadequate.

Why, my dear child, what a question
! Because you are here, of course,
and because he is moping about town,
Beatrice says, and doesn't know what
to do with himself."

Does Beatrice say that ?" inquired
Rachel, with a little pang of self-reproach.
This man, who had done her
the greatest honour, who had paid her

VOL. I. 19

the highest compliment that any man
could bestow on any woman — she was
conscious of requiting him with ingratitude
at this moment. " He is very,
very — kind," she faltered. " I am
afraid he thinks too much about me.
When have you asked him to come,
Lucia ?"

In time for the dance next week,
and as much sooner as he likes. I
have told him to send word what day
will suit him, if he can come, and that
we will send to the station. Of course
we could not allow Jim to come up by
coach. I am very glad we have that
dance in prospect ; it will be something
to amuse him. I should have been
half afraid to ask him into the country
if there had been nothing going on.
He used to hate the bush. However''

looking up archly, " Beatrice says I
need not be afraid of his feeling dull
on this occasion."

'' Did Beatrice tell you to ask him ?
I mean did lie suggest it to
you ?"

'' Yes, dear — to tell the truth. I
should not have asked him, simply
because I knew he didn't like the
bush. It did not occur to me that
he would be fretting after you — Mr.
Kingston fretting after anybody is
such a very novel idea ! Oh, my dear
Rachel " — and here she drew the girl
close and kissed her — " you are
luckier than ever I thought you
were !"

"Yes," sighed Rachel; '' 1 know I
am very lucky."

'' And Beatrice says," continued Mrs.

19— z

Thornley, with her arm round lier
cousin's waist, " that we shall behaving
everything settled soon, and
that sou are to have a delightful
tour in Europe. How you will enjoy
that ! It was the one thing I wished
for when I was married that I did
not get. Not but what," the gentlewoman
added quickly, " I am very
glad I did not get it now. I could
not have been happier than I have
been at Adelonga, and it must be
very inconvenient to have a baby when
one is travelling about. You must
tell me, darling, what you would like
for a present. John and I were talking
about it last night — John thinks
a great deal of you, you must know,
which is a thing you ought to be
proud of, for he is very particular

and critical about girls — and he says
lie would like to give you something
worth having. But I told him you
and I would talk it over before we
decided what it should be."

How good you are ! How good
everybody is !" exclaimed Rachel, folding
the girlish matron in a rather
hysterical embrace. '' But I don't
think I shall be married just yet,
Lucilla — wait till we hear what Mr.
Kingston says."

Oh, we know already what he is
going to say."

There is the party to be thought
of first," proceeded Rachel, determined,
now that Mr. Kingston was
coming, not to dissipate in fruitless
skirmishes the strength that she would
require to fight the inevitable battle

with him. '' You have only a week
before you, and you have not sent out
your invitations, have you ?"

"Yes, I have. I did that the day
you were at the races, and have had
answers to some of them. We shall
get about thirty or forty people together,
I hope — perhaps more. I wonder,
by the way, whether Mr. Dalrymple
could bring that friend of his, Mr.
Jim Gordon — I wish I had thought
to ask him. We have too large a
proportion of married people, unfortunately."
Lucilla had become thoughtful
and business-like. " Seven bachelors
altogether," she remarked musingly,
after a pause ; '' that is not nearly
enough. Does Mr. Kingston dance
now, Rachel ?"

Yes, but not a great deal — mostly

quadrilles. I think," she added, reflectively,
" he is rather troubled with
gout in one of his knees."

'' Poor fellow ! He waltzed with
me I remember when I first came
out, and that's not very honos ao'o.
Surely he can't have gout — a man
who walks with such a peculiarly
light and airy tread ! Though, to be
sure, I knew a man of twenty-five —
or was it thirty-five ? — who had gout
badly."

Perhaps it is rheumatism," suggested
Rachel ; " or lumbago."

Nonsense. Lumbago, indeed ! One
would think he was a patriarch. But
if he doesn't waltz "

Lucilla paused in perplexity.

'' Does Mr. Gordon waltz ?" Rachel
meekly inquired.

Oh, no doubt — sure to. I have
never seen him, but all those old army
men dance well."

Then I suppose Mr. Dalrymple
dances well ?"

'' Of course he does. Poor fellow,
he excels in everything that is of no
consequence. Oh, yes, Mr. Dalrymple
is decidedly an acquisition in a ballroom,
whatever he may be elsewhere."


'' Lucilla !"

What, dear ?"

Why do you all speak of him in
that hard way ? You are so kind to
everybody else, but for him nobody
seems to have a good word. I think
it is so cruel !" she broke out with,
sudden passion. " The way Mrs. Hale
insulted him the other night — a manlike

that, whom she was not fit to
associate with — and all of you sitting
round and letting her do it — I think
it is dreadful !"

'' Oh, my dear," responded Mrs.
Thornley, with tremulous earnestness,
a little frightened at the vehemence
that she was too dull to understand,
and deeply shocked by the implied
reflection on her hospitality, " you
don't suppose we encouraged or defended
Mrs. Hale ? We were as vexed
as you were at her gross want of
taste — of common courtesy, one might
say. John was excessively angry —
with dear Mrs. Digby sitting by to
hear it all ; he said at first that he
would never have her in his house
again."

'' But he is going to have her ?"

"Yes. Well, they are old neighbours
you see, and related to the Digbys.
And I daresay she knows no better."

She is a horrid woman," said Rachel,
viciously ; " and so is her husband."

"A horrid woman?" laughed Lucilla.
Oh, no, dear, be just — he is not so
bad as that. And you know, Rachel"
becoming gently argumentative—" it
is not surprising that people object to
a man who has had such a career as
Mr. Dalrymple's. You know what he
has done ?"

'' Only fought a duel," said Rachel.
No, I am not defending him, Lucilla,
but how many men have done the same
in old days, without being objected
to ?"

'' It was a very had duel," said Lucilla
gravely. " There were circumstances

connected with it that were very 
they say."

You shouldn't trust to hearsay,"
protested the girl eagerly. " Why
don't you go by the evidence of
your own senses ? Does he look like
the man to do disreputable things ?"

He looks like a man who could
never do anything mean or underhand,"
said Mrs. Thornley ; *' I admit that.
He has a noble face ; and he has
perfect manners ; and he is clever.
But, oh ! Rachel, when a man has been
in the dock, and for such a crime as
that—"

Do you mean he has been in
prison ?"

Of course. He was arrested and
put on his trial for murder, or manslaughter
— I forget which it was called.

He was acquitted we know, but by
the merest accident. Popular feeling
was with him, strange to say, and
Mr. Gordon fought hard for him. They
were not over particular in California,
I suppose, and there was a flaw somewhere.
But he might have been hung,
Rachel ! That is where it is — he was
tried for murder, and he might have been
hung!"

Rachel was leaning against the wall,
and looking into the recess that made
a passage to the conservatory. She
was calling up a vision of that memorable
night, which was the birthright
of her womanhood, so recently come
and gone — the fern-tree canopy, letting
the moonlight through, the little bench,
set in a bower of cork and maidenhair,
where she sat alone with him ina



world of brooding shadows — the
strong, proud face, bending forward to
look at her, darkly distinct in the soft,
green gloom.

And she heard his voice again, incisive,
imperious, yet melting her very
heart within her as he told her the
simple history of this terrible episode
in his life. He might have been hung !
he did not tell her that. She stole
away from her cousin, and walked up
and down the long alleys of the conservatory,
pale and passionate with her
fierce indignation. Would they indeed
have dared to hang him ? And if they
had— oh, if they had !

Some thirty miles away Mr. Dalrymple
was riding by his own short
cuts through the bush, with his peaked
cap drawn over his eyes. His beautiful

horse, tall and stately like himself,
with glossy dark coat, and a white
star on his forehead, paced with long
strides through saplings and brushwood,
swinging his head slowly up and
down on the loose rein with a rhythmical
movement that betokened ease of
body and content of mind.

His master gazed heedfully at the
brilliant parrots flashing about with
long, rushing darts over his head, and
at the myriads of wild flowers crushed
and trampled under foot. He wore
a sprig of paris in his button-hole,
and carried a sheaf of delicate orchids
with their stalks tucked under the saddle
in front of him.

He hummed a Strauss waltz as he
went along through the sunshine and
shadows of the waning day, and thought

of the time when he would go back
to Adelonga and carry that girl with
the sweet eyes away in his arms, on
the wings of just such a dreamy
measure, into the only realisable Utopia
of this world.

And perhaps he was more glad of
his life than he had ever been since
the day when he so nearly lost it —
caring not much whether he did so
or not.

END OF THE Test VOLUME.

London : Printed by A. Schuize, 13, Poland Street. fS. & H.)

/

/

3/d



/

^

i2

3 0112 041774958

sf*

,^. JaJK-^aityfgsg^

L I E) RA FlY

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of Ill Noise

C88^2rri

A NOVEL.

ADA CAMBRIDGE,

AUTHOR OF "IN TWO YEARS TIME," & C.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

i^uilisfjers in ordinary to ^cx iHaj£Stg tf)c Queen,
NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1882.
Eiffkl of Translation Reserved.

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME.

Chapter PAGE

I. — Another Rash Promise 1

II. —The Beginning of Troubles
III. — " Where there was never Need of Vows.'

IV.— After the Ball

v.— Rachel's First Visit in Melbourne .
VI. — In Mrs. Hardy's Store-room .
VII.— " He Has Come Back" .
VIII. — " The Light that never was on Sea or

Land"

IX. — Eleven p.m

X. — Mrs. Reade's Advice
XI. — Until Christmas
Xii—" The Ground-Whirl of the Perished
Leaves of Hope"
XIII. — Rachel on the Philosophy of Marriage






V6l











CHAPTER I.

ANOTHER Each Promise.

R. KINGSTON, as soon as he
received Mrs. Thornley's invitation,
sent a telegram to her
nearest post-town, to tell her he would
start for Adelonga on the following
day, and await at the inn where he left
the railway the buggy she was kind
enough to say should be sent to meet him.
There was much amusement at



VOL. II.

Adelonga over this unwonted promptitude
on the part of an idle and self-indulgent
man, who had never been known
to hurry himself, or to go into the
country willingly ; and Rachel was teased
in fun and congratulated in earnest on
the strong hold she had gained upon
his ere while erratic affections.

The buggy was ordered at once —
Mr. Thornley's own pet Abbott buggy,
that floated over the rough roads —
and a pet pair of horses were harnessed
into it, and another pair sent
forward to change with them on the
way, and Mr. Thornley himself set forth
to meet his guest.

Next day Lucilla ordered one of
her best rooms — usually reserved for
married ladies — to be prepared for
him, and had great consultations with

her cook on his behalf ; and at
about five in the afternoon he arrived,
wrapped in a fur-collared overcoat, like
a traveller in bleak and barren regions,
and had a royal welcome.

Lucilla, followed by her mother, went
out to the verandah to meet her old
friend — though, indeed, she never willingly
omitted that graceful act of
hospitality, whoever might be her guest
and was delighted to receive again
the same old compliment on her charming
appearance that had pleasantly
fooled her in her maiden days. Mrs.
Hardy was likewise greeted with effusion,
and responded cordially; and then
they all looked round.

'where is Rachel?" inquired Mr.
Kingston, with anxious solicitude; "isn't
she well?"

20—2

Eacliel was found in the drawing-room,
nervously re-arranging the cups and
saucers that had just been brought in for
tea. Lucilla ushered him in with a smile,
and discreetly retired with her mother,
upon some utterly unnecessary errand.

The lovers met in the middle of the
room, and Each el went through the
ordeal that she had been vaguely
dreading all day. It was worse than
she had expected, for she felt, by
some subtle, newly-developed sense,
that she had been greatly missed and
ardently longed for, and that they
were truly lover's arms that folded her,
trembling and shrinking, in that apparently
interminable embrace.

She had not yet come to realise
the magnitude and the ignominy of the
wrong that she was doing him, but a

pang of remorseful pity did hurt her
somewhere, through all her stony irresponsiveness,
for the fate that had driven
him, the desired of so many women, to
set his heart at last upon one who did
not want it.

For a brief intolerable moment she
felt that she had it in her to implore
him to release her from her
engagement, but — well, she was a
little coward, if the truth must be told.

And, moreover, she had not quite come
to the point of giving up her pink
boudoir, and her diamond necklace,
and all her other splendid possessions
in prospect, because she could not love
the contingent husband as was her duty
to him to do.

She did not know as yet that she
loved another man.

And you never came to meet me ?"
said Mr. Kingston, with tender reproach,
as he led her by one reluctant hand to
a sofa that was wheeled up comfortably
to the fireside. " And 1 was straining my
eyes all across the paddock, to see you on
the verandah looking out."

'' I was looking out," said Rachel ; " I
saw the buggy before it reached the

woolshed. But "

But you thought it would be nicer
to have our meeting heros with no
one to look on? So it is, darling;
you were quite right. I could not have
helped kissing you, if all the servants on
the place had been standing round ; and
one doesn't like to make a public exhibition
of one's self. Oh, my pet, I am so
glad to get you again ! And how are
you ? Let me have a good look at you.

Oh, if you are going to blush, how am I to
tell whether you are looking well or
not ?"

I am not going to blush,"
said Rachel ; " and I am quite
well. I never was better. The
country air is doing me ever so much
good."

I am not so sure of that," rejoined Mr.
Kingston, rather gravely, stroking her
soft cheek. '' You look fagged, as if
you had been knocking about too much.
I didn't like your going to those rubbishy
little races — I told Thornley so. Have
you been sitting up late at night ?"

No — I have been doing nothing''
pleaded Rachel ; ''I am really as well as
possible. How is the house getting on ?"

The house is not doing much at
present. They are still pottering at the

foundations, which seem to take a frightful
lot of doing to. Not that the have
had time to make much progress since you
were there — it is not much over a
fortnight yet, you know. Oh, but it has
been a long fortnight ! Rachel, now I
have got you, I don't mean to lose
sight of you again."

How did you leave Beatrice ?" inquired
Rachel, hastily.

Beatrice is quite well — as sprightly
as ever. 1 told her I meant to bring
you back to town, by force of arms if
necessary, and she said I was quite right.
We can't do without you in Melbourne —
I can't, anyhow; and what's more, T
don't mean to try."

How is Uncle Hardy ?"
'^ Uncle Hardy? I'm sure I don't
know— I was very nearly saying I don't

care. Of course tie is quite well ; lie
always is, I believe. Is there anybody
else you are particularly anxious about,
Mademoiselle ?"

"Yes," said Rachel, smiling and blushing;
" I am anxious about Black Agnes.
How is my dear Black Agnes ? Dues
William attend to her properly ?"

I don't leave her to "William," said
Mr. Kingston. " I have taken her away
to my own stables. And there she is
eating her head off — wanting yon, like the
rest of ns. If you have no more
questions to ask, I'll begin ; may I ? I
have some really important inquiries to
make."

Rachel gasped. But to her immense
relief Lucilla was heard approaching,
talking at an unnecessarily high pitch of
voice to her mother, who responded with

equal vigour ; and the two ladies entered,
followed by Mr. Thornley, all wearing a
more or less deprecatory aspect.

The men and the matrons grouped
themselves round the fire, and plunged
into an animated discussion of the latest
Melbourne news. Rachel poured out the
tea, and insisted on carrying it round to
everybody, regardless of polite protests ;
which charmed her lover Yere much.

He was rather cold, and a little stiff
and tired after his unwonted exertion ;
his seat was soft and restful ; and he liked
to see the slender creature gliding
about, with her sweet face and her
deft hands, and picture to himself with
what meek dutifulness she would serve
her lord and master when the time
came.

Rachel hoped they were in for a

pleasant gossip till dinner time, but she
was much mistaken.

*' I must go and see after mj baby,
Mr. Kingston, if you will excuse me,"
said Lucilla at the end of half-an-hour,
setting down her empty but still smoking
teacup, and rising with an air that
implied a pressing duty postponed to
the very last moment. Mr. Kingston
expressed an ardent desire to make the
baby's acquaintance, which flattered the
young mother greatly, but otherwise
led to nothing. Lucilla went out,
promising to introduce her son under
favourable auspices in the morning;
and as she disappeared, Mrs. Hardy
jumped up and followed her with apparently
anxious haste.

"Oh, Lucilla, I quite forgot that
aconite for Dolly's cold !" she exclaimed

; " shall I come and look for it
now?"

Mr. Tliornley, left behind, stood on
the hearth rug, shifting uneasily from
one leg to the other. He cleared his
throat, remarked that the days were
lengthening wonderfully, moved some
ornaments on the chimney-piece, and
looked at his watch.

Dear me," he muttered briskly, as
if struck with a sudden thought, '' a
quarter to six, I do declare ! Excuse
me a few minutes, Kingston."

Certainly," replied Mr. Kingston.
And then he went out.

How stupid they are !" cried poor
Rachel to herself, almost stamping her
foot with vexation. But there was no
help for it. The affianced couple were
once more left to themselves — as affianced

couples should be, and should like to be
in the pleasant firelight and no less
pleasant twilight shadows that were
filling the quiet room.

Mr. Kingston rose, took his reluctant
sweetheart's hand, and led her back
to the sofa by the hearth.

What time do they have dinner
here ?" he asked.

Seven o'clock," said Rachel, with a
sinking heart.

'' Then we shall have nearly an hour
to ourselves, shan't we? Come then,
and let us have a good long talk.
But first, I've got something for
you."

He began to fumble in his pockets,
and presently drew forth a little square
packet, neatly sealed up in paper,
which he laid on Rachel's knee. Wiseman

! he had not had his long and
varied experiences for nothing.

The girl in smiling perplexity turned
the mysterious parcel over and over,
broke first one seal and then another
with much delicate elaboration ; cautiously
stripped off the paper wrappings,
and revealed, as she expected, a morocco
jewel-case.

Oh, how kind !" she murmured,
stroking it caressingly with her white
fingers.

'' Open it before you say that," said
he; '' you don't know that there is
anything in it yet."

Ah, but I know your ways," she
rejoined ; " I know it is sure to be
something lovely." And then she lifted
the lid, and exclaimed " 0-o-oh !" with
a long breath. There lay, on a bed of

blue velvet, a beautiful little watch,
thickly set on one side of the case
with tiny diamond sparks, which on
examination proved to illuminate the
flourishes of a big R ; and a chain
of proportionate value was coiled around
it.

Rachel was in ecstacies. She had
longed for a watch all her life, and
had never yet had one, except an old
silver warming-pan of her father's,
which would not go into a lady's
pocket.

It was only lately that Mr. Kingston
had discovered this fact ; and he had
immediately had one prepared for her,
such as he considered would be worthy
of her future position in society, and
of his own reputation for good taste.
He felt himself well repaid for his

outlay at this moment. Of lier own
accord lie put up her soft lips and
kissed him, pouring out her childish
gratitude for his thoughtfulness, and
his kindness, and his goodness, in
broken exclamations which were charmingly
naive and sweet.

You are always giving me things,"
she murmured, shyly stroking his coat
sleeve.

Dear little woman !" he responded,
with ardent embraces, from which she
did not shrink — at least, not much ; "it
is my greatest pleasure in life to give
you things."

And from this substantial base of
operations the astute lover opened
the campaign which was to deliver
her, a helpless captive, into his
hands.

"And now' lie said, when the watch
having been consigned to its pocket in
her pretty homespun gown, and the
chain artistically festooned from a
button-hole at her waist, a suggestive
silence fell upon them — '' now I want
to know what you mean by saying
you won't be married till next year ?
Naughty child, you made me very
miserable with that letter. Though to
be sure it was better than the other
one, which was so horribly, so really
brutally, cold that I had to go to the
fire to get warm after reading it. Oh,
Rachel, you are not half in love yet, I
fear !"

*' Don't say that," she murmured, with
tender compunction.

And I believe that is why you wish

to put off our marriage."
TOL. II. 21

Oh, don't say that !" she repeated,
weakly anxious to re-assure and conciliate
him, and to postpone unpleasantness
— woman-like, afraid of the very
opportunity that she wanted when she
saw herself unexpectedly confronted
with it. " I don't wish to put it off —
only for a little while."

'' Do you call till next year a little
while ? Because I don't."

Of course it is. Why, here is
August !"

'' And there are five long months —
double the time we have been engaged
already. And it wouldn't be comfortable
to be travelling in the hot
season."

You said spring would be a nice
time," suggested Rachel. She was
touching his sleeve with timid, deprecatory

caresses, and she was desperately
frightened and anxious.

Yes ; this spring — not twelve months
hence. Oh, my pet, do let it be this
spring. There are three lovely months
before us, and I should like to get
that Sydney house. I have the offer
of it still for a few days ; I got them
to keep it open till I could consult
you. You must remember that I am
not as young as you are, Rachel ; a year
one way or the other may be of no
account to you, but it is of very great
importance to me."

There was a touch of impatience
and irritation in his voice, which helped
her to pluck up courage to cling to
her resolve.

At the same time she heard the soft
ticking of that precious watch at her

21—2

side ; lier heart was touched. and warmed
bj what she called his " kindness ;"
and she was anxious to do anything
that she could do to please him.

"Won't it do when the house is
built?" she asked, in a wheedling,
cowardly, coaxing tone, as she laid her
cheek for a moment on his shoulder.
I will come back to Melbourne as
soon as you like — I can stay with
Beatrice, if aunt likes to remain here.
We can be together almost as if we
were married. We can ride together
every day, and watch how the house
goes on; and you know aunt doesn't
mind hoi much you are with us at
Toorak. Only if you would consent to
put off the wedding till then — "

'' Will you promise to marry me then ?"
he asked quickly.

Yes, I will, really," lie replied,

without any hesitation, thankful for the

reprieve, which she had been by no

means sure of getting.

"As soon as the house is built?"
"As soon as the house is finished."
No — not finished ; that mayn't be

next year, nor the year after. As soon

as the roof is on ?"
Each el paused.

How long does that take ?"
Oh, a long time — ever so long."
She paused again, with a longer pause.

And then,

Very well," she sighed, resignedly.
"It is a bargain? You promise

faithfully ? On your solemn word of

honour ?"

Oh, don't make such a terrible

thing of it !" she protested, with a rather

hysterical laugh, that showed signs of
degenerating into a whimper. " I can
only say I will."

"And that is enough, my sweet. I
won't require you to reduce it to
writing. Your word shall be your bond.
It is a long while to wait, but I must
try to be patient. At any rate, it is
a comfort to be done with uncertainty,
and to have a fixed time to arrange
for. And now, perhaps, we ought to
go and dress. Tell me how much it
wants to seven, Rachel; you have the
correct Melbourne time."

THE BEGINNING OE TROUBLES.

T was in the afternoon that
Lucilla again expected her
guests, on the day of the
ball given at Adelonga in honour of
the coming of age of her absent stepson
; and the hospitable arrangements
characteristic of bush households on
such occasions, were made for their
reception on the usual Adelonga scale.
All the visitors were to be *' put up "
of course; and from the exhaustless

piles of material stowed away in the
ample store-rooms, bed-rooms were improvised
in every hole and corner, and
beds made up wherever beds could
decently go — in the store-rooms themselves,
in the school-room, in the
laundry, in the gardener's cottage, as
well as in the numerous guest-chambers
with which this, in common with other
Australian " country seats," was regularly
supplied.

Bright log pares burned on every
hearth; bright spring flowers adorned
all the ladies' dressing-tables; stupendous
viands piled the pantry shelves and
filled the spacious kitchens with delectable
odours.

Servants bustled about with a festive
air.

Mr. Thornley, in shirt sleeves, brought

forth treasures from the remote recesses
of his cellar that no one but he was
competent to meddle with.

Mrs. Thornlej moved complacently
about her extensive domain, regulating
all these exceptional arrangements with
that housewifely good sense and judgment
which distinguished all Mrs. Hardy's
daughters.

Rachel found her sphere of action in
the ball-room, where with Miss O'Hara
and the children, a young gardener to
supply material, the station carpenter
to do the rough work, and Mr.
Kingston to look on and criticise from
an arm-chair by the fire, she worked
all day at the decorations, which had
been designed in committee and partly
prepared the day before. The great
Japanese screens had been carried away

(to be made very useful in the construction
of bed and bath-rooms) and
the carpets taken up ; and now she
feathered the great empty room all
about with fern-tree fronds — hanging
them from extemporised chandeliers, and
from wire netting stretched over the
ceiling, and from doorless doorways,
rooted in masses of shrubs and blossoms
that made a bower of the whole place.
It was just such a task as she delighted
in, and she was considered to have
completed it successfully at four o'clock,
when she put her finishing touches
to a trophy over the chimney-piece,
which, though rather complicated as
to symbolism, being arranged on a
foundation of breech-loaders and riding-whips,
had a bold and pleasing
effect.

At four o'clock the guests began to
arrive. She was directing her attendants
to sweep up the last of her litters from
the newly-polished floor, when the Digbys'
waggonette drove in at the wide-standing
garden gates, and rattled upto
the house.

After them came other buggies in
quick succession. Grooms and house
servants poured out to receive them ;
doors banged ; confused voices and
laughter rose and fell in waves of
pleasant sound through the maze of
passages intersecting the rabbit-warren
of a house.

Rachel ran to a window and looked
out in time to see Lucifer led off to
the stables blowing and panting, and
jangling his bridle, but stepping out
still with unconquered spirit, as became

a brave old horse of noble lineage, whom
such a master owned.

Mr. Kingston, the only other person
just then in the room, came behind her
and laid his hands with the air of a
proprietor on her shoulders.

"Whose hack is that?" he inquired,
with languid curiosity. '' Looks a good
sort of breed, something like your mare
in colour, only much bigger."

Mr. Dalrymple's," murmured Rachel.

Dalrymple ? — that brother of Mrs.
Digby's you spoke of ? I've heard of
that fellow. I was curious to know
who he was, and I made inquiries at
the club. He is a rather considerable
scamp, if all tales are true."

All tales are not true," replied the
girl, with majestic calmness.

And pray how do you know ?" he

retorted quickly, a little amused and a
great deal irritated by her highly indiscreet
behaviour. '' I don't suppose
that you have heard all that I have—
at any rate, I hoj^^e not."

I know enough," she stammered
hurriedly; "I know the worst anyone
can say against him."

'•' I hope not," repeated Mr. Kingston,
with ominous gravity.

And I know he has done wrongs
done very wrong, indeed ; but he
has had such terrible provocations — he
has been, oh, so dreadfully unfortunate
!" she went on, wishing heartily
that she had not undertaken her new
friend's defence, yet finding it easier
to go through with it now than to
turn back and desert him. 'rand,
whatever he may have been once, he

is doing nothing to harm anybody
now; and it is cruel of people to be
always raking up the past, when it is
done with and repented of, and throwing
it in his teeth. Any of us would
think it hard and unfair — you would
yourself."

Never mind me, my dear ; my past
is not being called in question that I
am aware of."

Mr. Kingston's not very placid temper
was rising.

He is doing nothing wrong now,"
she repeated, frightened but reckless ;
*' if he were, Mr. Thornley would not
invite him here — he said so himself.
And Lucilla, though she does not like
him — nobody likes him, indeed — says
he would never do a mean action,
and that he has perfect manners,

and that lie is a thorough gentleman
every way. 1 think they all agree about
that

"And yet don't like him. That is
rather inconsistent. And what about
yourself, Rachel ? If it is not a rude
question — are you an exception in this
respect, or not?"

He had taken his hands from her
shoulders, and was standing sideways
in the embrasure of the window, so
that he could see her face ; and he
was smiling in a most unpleasant
manner.

Rachel had never seen him like this
before, and the first seed of active
dislike was sown where as yet there
had been nothing worse than indifference.
The familiar colour rose and
flooded her white brow and her whiter

throat. She clenched her hands to still
the flutter of her heart. She shut her
teeth and struggled in silence against
an ignominious impulse to cry.

But Mr. Kingston continued to watch
her with that sardonic curiosity ; and
presently, like the traditional worm, she
turned on him.

Yes," she said, " I am an exception.
I like Mr. Dalrymple very much — what
little I know of him. I have seen no
reason to do otherwise. I do not pay
any attention to vulgar gossip."

A timid woman, trying to be defiant,
generally fails by overdoing it; and so
did she, poor child. Mr. Kingston heard
the emphasis of strong emotion, that
she would have given worlds to keep
back, vibrating through her tremulous
accents, and it drove him beyond those

considerations of policy and politeness
which he made a boast of as his rule
of Hfe and action — especially in his
dealings with women. Rachel, however,
in the category of women, was exceptionally
placed with respect to him ; and
I suppose one must do him the justice
to concede that this was an exceptional
emergency.

'TU tell you what," he said,
smiling no longer, and speaking with
a rough edge to his voice that betokened
the original rude nature,
usually so carefully clothed, and that
she instinctively resented as an indignity,
" Thornley can do as he likes
about the people he brings here to
associate with his wife, but I won't
have you making acquaintance with a
vagabond like that."

VOL. II. 22

I have already made his acquaintance,"
she said quietly.

Then I beg you will break it
off."

How can I break it off while he
is in the same house with me ?"

She was surprised to find how
strong she was to withstand this
incipient tyranny ; and yet her heart
contra-acted with a pain very like despair.


There will be so many people
that one — and he a man — may be
easily avoided, if you wish to avoid.
And you ^vill wish to do what would
please me, wouldn't you, dear ?" he
demanded, perceiving that he was
bullying her, and trying to correct
himself.

*' Yes," she replied ; " certainly. But

I hope you will not ask me to be
rude to one of my cousin's guests. I
don't mind what else I do to please
you. And when I am married, I will
of course know nobody but the people
you like."

'' You are as good as married tome
already' he said, putting his arm
round her shoulder as she stood before
him, with all sorts of changes
and revolutions going on within her.
And of course I don't want you to
be rude — I don't want you to be
anything. Simply don't take any notice
of Dalrymple— he will quite understand
it ; don't dance with him, or have anything
to do with him."

Not dance with him !" she broke
out sharply.

Her evident dismay and disappointed



ment, together with her unconscious
efforts to evade his embrace, exasperated
his already ruffled temper
afresh.

Certainly not," he said, with angry
vehemence. "I shall be exceedingly annoyed
and vexed if I see you dancing
with that man."

Each el did not know until now
how much she had secretly set her
heart upon doing this forbidden thing ;
as her exigent lover did not know
until now that he had it in him to be
so horribly jealous.

He will be sure to come and ask
me," she said, with a despairing
sigh.

Very well. If he does, I beg you
will refuse him."

"Then I must refuse everybody."

Not at all. He will quite understand
that there are reasons why he
should be exceptionally treated."

And do you think I will make
him understand that V she burst outwith
pathetic indignation that filled
her soft eyes with tears. " Do you
think I would be so — so infamously
rude and cruel ? Oh, Mr. Kingston "
she never called him '' Graham "
except in her letters, though he tried
his best to make her — '' you don't
want to spoil all my pleasure to-night,
which was going to be such a happy
night ?"

Your pleasure doesn't depend on
dancing with Mr. Dalrymple, I Ao/^e."

*'No— no; but may I not treat him
like all the rest, for Lucilla's sake —
for common politeness' sake ?"

No, Rachel. I don't want to be
unkind, my dear, but you must remember
your position, and that now
you belong to me. A lady who understands
these matters can quite easily
manage to get off dancing with a
man if she wishes, without being rude.
You must learn those little social
accomplishments, and this is a very
good time to begin. Now let us
change the subject. Kiss me, and
don't look so miserable, or I shall
begin to * think — but that it would
be insulting you too much — that you
have fallen in love with this disreputable
ruffian."

Mr. Kingston tried to assume a
light and airy manner, but his badinage
had a menacing tone that was very
chilling.

Rachel, strange to say, did not
blush at all ; she quietly excused herself
on the plea that she must go
and arrange her dishevelled costume,
and (having no private bedroom tonight)
went a long way down the
garden to a retired harbour for half
an hour's meditation.

'^WHEEE THERE WAS NEVER NEED OE Vows."

HEN Rachel came back to the
house it was nearly five
o'clock.

There was to be a great high tea
at six, for which no dressing was
required, in place of the ordinary
dinner ; and as she did not feel
inclined to meet the crowd of company
that was assembling in the 
sooner than was necessary
to tell the truth, she had been

crying, and her eyes were red
she returned by a back way
to the ball-room, which she knew
would be to all intents and purposes,
empty.

As an excuse for doing so she
carried in her arms some long wreaths
of spire which she had discovered
on a bush at the bottom of the
garden, with which she intended to
relieve the masses of box and laurentius
that made the groundwork of
her decorations.

Lightly flitting up a stone-flagged
passage at the rear of the house, she
suddenly came upon Mr. Dalrymple.
He emerged from the door of the
laundry, which had been assigned to
him for sleeping quarters, just as she
was passing it.

A MERE CHANCE,

Oil !" she cried sharply, as if lie
had been a ghost ; and then she
caught her breath, and dropped her
eyes, and blushed her deepest blush,
which was by no means the conventional
mode of salutation, but more
than satisfied the man who did not
know until this moment how eagerly
he had looked for a welcome from
her.

'' How do you do ?" he said, clothing
the common formula with a new
significance, and holding her hand ina
strong grasp ; "I was wondering
where you were, and beginning to
dread all kinds of disasters. Where
are you going ? May I carry these
for you ?"

He saw by this time the traces of
her recent tears, and the cheerful

cordiality of his greeting subsided to a
rather stern but very tender earnestness.


Silently he lifted the white wreaths
from her arm, and began to saunter
beside her in the direction of the
ball-room, much as he had led her
away into the conservatory on that
memorable night, which was only a
week, but seemed a year ago.

All the time she was thinking of
Mr. Kingston's prohibition, and dutifully
desiring to obey him ; but she
had no power in her to do
more.

They passed through the servants'
offices, meeting only Lucilla's maid,
who was in a ferment of excitement
with so many ladies to attend to, and
had not a glance to spare for them ;

the J heard voices and footsteps all
around them as they entered the
house ; but they reached the ballroom
unperceived and unmolested, and
found themselves alone.

The great room, with its windows
draped and garlanded, was dim and
silent ; the gardener's steps stood in
the middle ready for the lighting of
the lamps ; nothing but this remained
to be done, and no one came in to
disturb them.

For ten minutes they devoted themselves
to business. Mr. Dalrymple
mounted the steps, and wove the
spiraea into whatever green clusters
looked too thin or too dark ; he
touched up certain devices that seemed
to him to lack stability ; he straightened
some flags that were hanging

awry ; and Rachel stood below and
offered humble suggestions.

When they had done, and had
picked up a few fallen leaves and
petals, they stood and looked round
them to judge of the general effect.

It is very pretty," said Mr.
Dalrymple ; " and it makes a capital
ball-room. I have not seen a better
floor anywhere."

'' It was laid down on purpose for
dancing," said Rachel, who knew she
ought now to be making her appearance
elsewhere, yet lingered because
he did.

'' Are you fond of dancing ?" he
asked abruptly.

Yes," she said ; " very."

'' Will you give me your first waltz
to-night ?"

He was leaning an elbow on the
piano, near which lie stood, and looking
down on her with that gentle
but imperious inquiry in his eyes,
which made her feel as if she had
taken a solemn affidavit to tell the
truth.

I— I cannot," she stammered, after
a pause, during which she wondered
distractedly how she could best explain
her refusal so as to spare him
unnecessary pain ; "I am very sorry
I would, with pleasure, if I
could."

Thank you," he said, with a slight,
grateful bow. " Well, I could hardly
hope for the first, I suppose. But I
may have the second ? Here are the
programmes," he added, fishing into a
basketful of them that stood on the

piano, and drawing two out ; " let
me put my name down for the
second, and what more you can spare;
may I ?"

She took the card he gave her,
opened it, looked at the little spaces
which symbolised so much more than
their own blank emptiness, looked up
at him, and then — alas ! She was a
timid, tender, weakly creature when
she was hurt, and she had not yet
got over the effect of Mr. Kingston's
harshness ; and she had been crying
too recently to be able to withstand
the slightest provocation to
cry.

She tried to speak, but her lip
quivered, and a tear that had been
slowly gathering fell with an audible
pat upon the piano. He drew the

card from lier in a moment, and
at the same time swept away any
veil of decorous reticence that she
might have wished to keep about
her.

What is the matter ?" he asked,
with gentle entreaty, which in him
was not inconsistent with a most
evident determination to find out. " I
am not distressing you, asking you to
dance with me, am I ?"

Oh, no — it is nothing ! Only
please done ask me," she almost
sobbed, struggling against the shame
that she was bringing on herself, and
knowing quite well that she would
struggle in vain.

He watched her in silence for half
a minute — not as Mr. Kingston had
watched her, though with even a

fiercer attentiveness, and then he said,
very quietly,

Why ?"

But he had already guessed.

Because — because — I have promised
not to."

You have promised Mr. Kingston
?"

Scarlet with pain and mortification,
in an agony of embarrassment, she
sighed almost inaudibly,

Yes." •

'' Not to dance with me ? or merely
not to dance waltzes ?"

'' Must I tell you ?" she pleaded,
looking up with appealing wet eyes
into his hard and haughty face.

'' Not unless you like. Miss Fathers
I think I understand perfectly."


VOL. II. 23

A MERE CHANCE.

Oil, Mr. Dalrymple, I want to tell
you about it, but I cannot. I am saying
things already that I ought not to
speak of."

I don't think so," he replied
quickly, suddenly softening until his
voice was almost a caress, and set all
her sensitive nerves thrilling like an
soliman harp when a strong wind
blows over it. 'rit is Id your nature
to be honest, and to tell the truth.
You are not afraid to tell the truth
to me?"

I would not tell you an untruth,"
she murmured, looking down; "but
the truth — sometimes one must, sometimes
one ought — to hide it. And I
hoped you would not need to know
about this."

Why, how could I help knowing

it ? Did you think it likely I might
by chance forget you were in the ballroom
to-night ?"

What she thought clearly " blazed
itself in the heart's colours on her
simple face." But she did not lift her
eyes or speak.

I am very glad I know," he continued,
in a rather stern tone. " If
you had done this to me, and never
told me why "

I should have trusted to you to
guess that it was not my fault, and
to forgive me for it," the girl interposed,
looking up at last with a
flash in her soft eyes that, as well
as her words, told him a great deal
more than she had any idea
of.

It was really so ?" he demanded

23—2

eagerly. '' It was not your own desire
to disappoint me so terribly?"

'' Oh, no:'

If you had been left to yourself
you would have danced with
me ?'

Yes, of course."

Quite willingly ?"

'' You Jcnoiv I would !"

Mr. Dalrymple drew a long breath.
It was rather a critical moment.
But he was no boy, at the mercy
of the wind and waves of his own
emotions, and Rachel's evident weakness
of self-control was an appeal
to his strength that he was not the
man to disregard. Still it was wonderful
how actively during these last
few minutes he had come to hate
Mr. Kingston, whom he had never seen.

I suppose," ho said presently, " I
must not ask the reason for this preposterous
proceeding ?"

Do not," she pleaded gently.
'' There is no reason, really. It is but
Mr. Kingston's whim."

'' And are you determined to sacrifice
me to Mr. Kingston's whim ?"

She did not speak, and he repeated
his query in a more imperious
fashion.

Are you really going to throw
me over altogether. Miss Fathers
? I only want to know."

She looked up at him piteously, and
he softened at once.

Tell me what I am to do," he
said, in a low voice. '^ Do you wish
me not to ask you for any dances ?
It is a horrible thing — it is enough

to make me wish I had gone to
Queensland on Monday, after all — but
I will not bother you. Tell me, am I
not to ask you at all ?"

If you please," she whispered
with a quick sigh, full of despairing
resignation. " I am very sorry, but it
is right to do what Mr. Kingston wishes."

That is not my view in this
case. However, it is right for me
to do what you wish. And I will,
though it is very hard."

Here Rachel, feeling all her body
like one great beating heart, moved
away to the door, driven by a stern
sense of social duty.

Her companion did not follow her,
and she paused on the threshold,
turned round, and then suddenly
hurried back to him.

*' Mr. Dalrymple," she said, putting
out her hand with an impulsive
gesture, " do not wish you had gone
to Queensland instead of coming here
to-night. If you do I shall be 'miserable /"

He seized her hand immediately, and
stooping his tall head at the same
moment, brushed it - with his moustache.
Then, looking up into her scared face,
he said — like a man binding himself by
some terrible oath :

That I never will."

Once before in that room they had
touched the point where not only mere
acquaintance but warmest friendship
ends. Then it had been to her a new,
incomprehensible experience ; now she
could not help seeing the reason and
the meaning of it, though, perhaps, not
so clearly as he.

In a moment she lead drawn her
hand away, and like a bird frightened
from its nest, had vanished out of his
sight, leaving him — thoroughly aroused
from his normal impassiveness — gazing
at the empty doorway behind her.

When they met again, ten minutes
afterwards, it was in the drawing-room,
which was crowded with people; and
through all the crush and noise, she
was as acutely conscious of his presence
as if he alone had been there.

She moved about with tremulous restlessness
and downcast eyes ; afraid to
look at him — afraid he should look at
her; paying her little civilities mechanically,
and conducting herself generally,
to her aunt's extreme annoyance, more
like a bashful schoolgirl and a poor
relation than ever.

Mr. Kingston, doing his best to fascinate
Miss Hale, who stood beside
him, giggling and simpering and twiddling
her watch-chain, looked anxiously
at his little sweetheart when she entered,
thought he saw signs of his own
handiwork in her disturbed and downcast
face, called her to him, and until
the great tea-dinner was over, and they
all had to disperse to dress, compassed
her with devout attentions, intended to
assure her of his royal forgiveness and
favour.

But he did not remove the prohibition,
which made her more and more
resentful as she continued to think
about it, and less and less responsive
to his ostentatious " kindness ;" and he
treated Mr. Dalrymple — when he condescended
to acknowledge his presence

at all — with a supercilious rudeness
that Mr. Thornley, in conjugal confidence,
declared to be '' very bad form,"
and that prompted the gentle Lucilla
to be " nicer " to the younger man than
Rachel had ever seen her. He was
so open in his hostility that it
was generally noticed and talked of
(and the cause of it more or less
correctly surmised).

The only person who seemed absolutely
indifferent to it and to him was Mr.
Dalrymple himself ; and in his secret
heart he was much more glad than
angry to have earned such pronounced
dislike from such a quarter, though as
impatient of what he called '' impudence"
as anybody.

That Adelonga ball was a memorable
event to most of the people that it

gathered together — as what ball is not ?
Mr. Thornley celebrated the coming of
age of his son and heir, to begin with.
Mrs. Thornley appeared for the first
time, 'officially," after the birth of her
baby, who was the hero of all occasions
to her, and inaugurated a great " county"
reputation as a charming hostess and
woman.

Mrs. Hardy got her best point lace
irretrievably ruined by catching it on
an unprotected corner of the wire-netting
upon which Rachel had worked
her decorations ; and she also saw the
lamentable frustration of several wise
plans that she had made.

Two young people became engaged;
others, male and female, fell in love,
or began those pleasant flirtations which
led to love eventually.

Miss Hale on the other hand, quarrelled
with Mr. Lessel, who took upon
himself to object to her extravagant
appreciation of Mr. Kingston's rather
extravagant attentions ; and their engagement
was broken off.

Mr. Lessel at the same time captivated
the fancy of a charming young
lady, only daughter of the Adelonga
family doctor, resident in the township
close by, who was destined in less
than twelve months to be his
wife.

Mr. Kingston, surfeited with balls,
had a deeper interest in this one than
in any of the hundreds that he had
attended in the course of a long and gay
career.

Never before had he admired a pretty
woman with such ferocious sincerity ashe

admired his little Rachel to-night ;
never before had he used such rude
tactics to make the object of his affections
jealous — thereby to subdue rebellion
in her; never before had he been so
defied and circumvented by a being in
female shape as he was to-night by this
presumptive little nobody, whom he bad
singled out for honour, and who was
bound to honour him, and his lightest
wish.

As for Mr. Dalrymple and Rachel —
they must be classed together in this
catalogue of special experiences, for they
shared theirs between them — the Adelonga
ball marked a new and very memorable
departure in the history of their lives.
For half the evening they danced
decorously apart.

Mr. Dalrymple justified Mrs. Thornley's

expectations, of course, and distinguished
himself above all the dancing men assembled
; Rachel, who had had but
little teaching, was a dancer by nature
and instinct, as light and effortless, as
airy and graceful as a bit of windblown
thistle-down.

She loved it, as she loved all pleasant
and poetic things ; and though she could
not have the partner she wanted, and
had to take whom she could get, she
felt to-night, and more and more as
the evening wore away, that she had
never heard and felt, in the strains of
mere senseless instruments and in the
thrill of responsive pulses, music of
mundane waltzes and galops of such
inspired and impassioned beauty.

There was a young artist from Melbourne
who played lovely airs on a

violin to a piano accompaniment, and
he seemed literally to play upon her,
spiritually sensitive as she was to-night
to the lightest touch of that divine
afflatus which makes poetry of certain
passages in the most prosaic lives.

Now rapturously happy, now tragically
miserable, and tremulously fluctuating
up and down between these two
extremes, she was blown about like
a leaf in autumn wind by the subtle
harmonies of that magical violin. At
least she thought it was the violin.
We know better.

At about twelve o'clock she went into
the house on an errand for Lucilla,
and came back by way of the conservatory,
as the first bars of a
Strauss waltz were stealing through
the fern-roofed alleys, with nameless

tender associations in every liquid
note.

For a few seconds she paused in
the shadowy doorway, a slight, white
figure against the dim background, with
hair like a golden aureola, and milk-white
neck and arms — a gracious vision
of youth and beauty as prince could
wish to see.

But the Sleeping Princess now was
acutely wide awake ; the life that ran
in her quickened pulses was almost
more than she could bear. Her eyes
shone restlessly, her breath fluttered
in her throat, her heart ached and
swelled with some vague, irresistible
passion, as the waves of that delicious
melody flowed over her, like an enchanter's
incantation.

A few paces off, within the ball-room,

Mr. Dalrymple stood with his back to
the wall watching her; his dark face
was lit and transfigured with the same
kind of solemn exaltation. She turned
her head, and they looked at one
another, mutually conscious of the
supreme moment that had unawares
arrived.

He held out his . hand — she almost
sprang to meet him ; and then, oblivious
of betrothals, and promises, and houses,
and diamonds, she floated down the
long room, under the very noses of
her aunt and Mr. Kingston, lying ina
reckless ecstasy of contentment in
her true love's arms.

VOL. II. 24

AFTER THE BALL.

Whatever might have been
Rachel's confusion of mind as
to the nature and consequences
of her escapade, Mr. Dalrymple, from
the moment that he took her in his
arms, understood the situation perfectly.
It was sufficiently serious to a man in
his position, who, whatever his faults,
was the soul of honour; but it was
never his way to dally with difficulties,
and he left himself in no sort of

suspense or uncertainty as to how he
would deal with this one.

Whether right or wrong, whether
wise or foolish, in any sudden crisis
requiring sudden choice of action, he
obeyed his natural impulse, subject
to his own rough code of duty only,
without an instant's hesitation, and
followed it up with unswerving determination,
totally unembarrassed by any
anxiety as to where it might lead or
what it might cost him, or as to
any ultimate consequences that might
ensue.

In nine cases out of ten a man of
honour, placed as he was now, would
have regretted an unconsidered act of
folly, and have cast about for means
of extricating himself and the girl who
was behaving badly to her affianced

2i— 2

husband from the position into which
it had led them — even, perhaps, to
the extent o£ using

Some rough discourtesy
To blunt or break her passion."

But he was the one man in ten who,
equally a man of honour, felt himself
under no obligation to do anything of
the kind. If she loved him — and now
he knew she did ; if he loved her, or
was able to love her — and he allowed
himself no doubt upon that point
from this moment of her self-revelation,
though he had not meant to permit
anybody (least of all a mere child like
this) to supplant the dead woman on
whom the passion of his best years
had been spent — then the thing was
settled. They might waltz together till

daylight, and no one would have any
right to interfere.

The social complications that surrounded
them, and which a conventional
gentleman would have considered
of the last importance, were
to him mere matters of detail. They
must manage to get out of them as
best they could.

So he carried her round and round
the room, the most perfect partner
he had ever danced with, who moved
so sympathetically with all his movements
that she might have been his
shadow — but for the electric current
of strong life that her hand in his,
and her light weight on his shoulder,
and the subtle sense of her emotion,
sent thrilling through his veins ; and
in the teeming silence his brain was

busy making rapid plans and calculations
for effectively dealing with the many
difficulties that would come crowding
upon both of them as soon as this
waltz was over.

Clearly, the first thing to do was
to dispose of ambiguities between
themselves.

Come into the conservatory," he
said, in a quick under tone, when five
silent, delicious minutes had passed;
I want to say something to you
before these people begin to spread
all over the place again."

But even as he spoke, as if a spell
had been broken, the light and rapture
died suddenly out of her face, her
limbs relaxed, her airy footsteps faltered,
she seemed to melt away in his
arms.

'' Oh," she whispered, looking up
at him with tragic eyes, full of fear
and despair, '' how wicked I have been !
What till he say to me ?"

"Never mind /im," replied Mr.
Dalrymple ; " you must not let him
have any right to dictate to you anymore
— you must break off your engagement
at once, and get out of his
hands. Wicked ! — the only wicked
thing would be to deceive him any
longer. You hioiu you don't love him.
Come into the conservatory, and let us
talk about it. Do come — there is nobody
there now !'*

But Rachel, being a woman, and a
coward, and only eighteen years old,
would not come. She knew what she
wanted, but she dared not do it — she
dared not even think of it.

"I must not — I must not!" she
protested, in a childish panic of terror.
'' Let me go, Mr. Dalrymple, please —
I have done very wrong — I am afraid
to stay "

And slipping out of his arms, which
did the utmost that courtesy permitted
to hold her, she fled through a doorway
near and disappeared ; and thus
threw away an opportunity the loss of
which was to cost them both long
days and nights of suspense and
suffering — as she foresaw with agonies
of regret, even while she did it.

Mr. Dalrymple danced and talked,
and sauntered about, proud and cool
as usual to the superficial observer,
but raging with impatience in his
heart, and watched for her return;
but he saw her no more until supper

time, when she was led into the
dining-room, looking very pale and
quiet, on Mr. Kingston's arm.

The whole night passed, and he
never had a chance to get near her
again ; though as may be supposed, it
was from no lack of effort on his
part ; and he went to the laundry at
last, hours after she had gone to bed,
to change his clothes preparatory to
taking a morning walk up the hills,
without even having had the satisfaction
of one look from her eyes,
which, however timid and terrified,
he felt sure would have told him the
truth.

She did not come into the drawing-room
before breakfast ; and at that
irregularly conducted meal she sat
again by Mr. Kingston's side, the

whole table's length from him. But
glancing round her as she took her
seat, she met his fixed gaze, and
bowed with a subtle, wistful impressiveness
that reassured him completely
as to the state of her mind towards
him, let her outward actions be what
they might.

It was very tantalising; all his
habitual calmness was upset ; his very
hand trembled as he took his coffee
from Lucilla, and once when his
gentle hostess spoke to him, he did
not hear her.

The fret of this state of things,
it is needless to say, chafed his
incipient passion into flame ; and the
flame was kept up thereafter, at a
more or less fierce heat and brightness,
by the winds of adversity that

ought to — and in nine cases out often
would — bave put it out.

After breakfast the company began
to disperse in a desultory manner
by instalments. Some of the guests
lingered until the afternoon ; some until
the next day.

The Digbys were the first to leave
partly because they had so far to
go, partly because Mrs. Digby was
anxious about her children — and of
course Mr. Dalrymple had to go with
them.

He hunted in vain for Rachel when
the breakfast party broke up. She
kneiv he was hunting for her, and she
longed to go to him, and therefore
as a matter of course, she hid
herself.

Only at the last moment, as he

was about to ride gloomily away, she
appeared on the threshold of one of
the inferior front doors, pale and
shrinking, but desperate with vague
despair — thinking to solace herself with
one more glimpse of him when he
would not know she was looking.
But he saw her in a moment, flung
himself from Lucifer's back, and
caught her before she could steal away
again.

It was not the sort of farewell he
had hoped for — several of the ladies
came straggling about them before
they could exchange half a dozen words
but it was infinitely better than
none.

Are you going to Queensland ?"
Rachel asked, in a tone which said plainly
" Are you going away from me ?"

I must go," he replied ; '' but I
shall not stay — I shall come back as
quickly as possible. And you — what
will you do ?"

She flushed scarlet and dropped her
eyes, and her lips began to quiver.
The rustle of Mrs. Hardy's majestic
skirts was heard approaching. It was
too late for confidences.

I hope, when I come back, I shall
find you free," he whispered hurriedly,
emphasising the significance of the
words with the crushing clasp of his
hand over hers and the eager desire in
his eyes ; and then he took off his cap,
included all the ladies in one last
silent adieu, remounted his horse, and
departed.

As he rode through the bush this
lovely spring morning, near enough to

the waggonette to open the gates for it,
but far enough away to indulge in his
meditations undisturbed, he pondered
many things; and particularly he
wondered, with a devouring anxiety,
what Rachel had been doing and thinking
of since she left him so abruptly
at midnight, after practically giving herself
to him.

If he could have known it is doubtful
if he would have felt so certain
of her as he was, though nothing would
have deterred him now from making
the best fight in his power for the
possession of her.

When, in terror of the consequences
of what she had done, she broke
away from him and escaped out of
the ball-room, she rushed to her own
room, forgetting until she dashed into

the middle of an untidy litter of open
boxes and portmanteaus which Miss
Hale had left on the floor, that it was
not hers to-night ; and then she turned
and sped down one of the innumerable
passages into the quiet starlight outside,
and sought refuge in that lonely arbour
at the bottom of the garden, which
already, not many hours before, had
given sanctuary to these new emotions.

That she courted bronchitis and
consumption, exposing her bare warm
arms and bosom to the chill of a frosty
night, was a trivial circumstance quite
unworthy of consideration.

In this arbour she abandoned herself
to the full luxury of that passion
which was neither joy nor grief, and
yet had the pain and ecstasy of both
in the sharpest degree.

She knelt on the damp floor,
and leaned her arms on the dusty
bench, regardless of panic-stricken
ants and enterprising black beetles,
and she shook from head to foot with
sobs.

Oh my love !" she murmured to
herself. " Oh, my love !"

And then presently lifting herself up
and appealing to the star-worlds faraway,
and the immutable universe in
general :

"Oh, what shall I do? Oh, what
can I do ?"

By and bye she sat down on the
bench, clasped her hands on her
knees, and tried her best to * compose
herself.

The keen air made her shiver,
and perhaps it did something to cool

her agitation and brace her nerves as
well.

Slowly she gathered her wits together,
made tremulous efforts to
school herself to be womanly and
courageous, and at last crept back
to the lighted and crowded house,
hugging a brave but terrible resolution.


She went to the nearest fire to
warm herself. It was in a little room
adjoining the dining-room, where the
last preparations for supper were going
on.

As she knelt on the hearthrug,
extending her white arms to the
blaze, Mr. Kingston came behind her
and laid his hands on her shoulders, so
silently and unexpectedly that she gave
a little startled cry.

VOL. II. 25

Did I frighten you, my pet ?'*
said lie, daily ; ''I beg your pardon.
I couldn't think where you were
gone to. I am afraid you are tired.
You have been waltzing too much.
That fellow Dalrymple does go round
at a killing pace with his long legs.
Poor Miss Hale couldn't stand him
at all — she nearly fainted. Ah, naughty
child ! Didn't I tell you not to dance
with him ? And you never paid the
least heed ! If this is how you defy
me now, what am I to expect after
we are married, eh ?"

She looked up in his face with
guilty, bewildered eyes. He was not
by any means so cool as he assumed
to be, but it was evident that
he intended to ignore her offence,
and was not going to scold her.

He was • not young and rash, if
she was ; and the few minutes he
had taken for reflection, during her
absence in the garden, had shown
him where the path of wisdom lay.
Her first sensation was one of extreme
relief ; and then she became slowly
conscious of a vague sinking at her
heart.

Once more she sighed to herself —
feeling discouraged and overpowered,
and unequal to the formidable vastness
of her resolution — '' Oh, what shall
I do ?"

It would have been much better
much easier — if he had scolded
her.

Before the revels of the night were
quite over, Mrs. Hardy sent her to
bed, noticing that she was looking

25 — 2

unusually quiet and pale. She was
very glad to go, and made haste to
hide herself in the little impromptu
nest that had been prepared for heron
a couch in her aunt's room, before
that lady should require the use of
her apartment.

She was wide awake, however, when
Mrs. Hardy joined her, and too restless
to disguise it ; and the elder
woman, who knew nothing of the
girl's entanglements with her two
lovers — who had, indeed, congratulated
herself on the prudent abstinence
which had been unexpectedly practised
with reference to " that objectionable
young man " who was such a dangerously
delightful dancer — gossiped and
grumbled over the little events of the
evening, chiefly of the accident to her

lace and the absurdities of Miss Hale
and Mr. Lessel, who were publicly
known to have had a serious misunderstanding,
unaware of her listener's
pre-occupation, until the candles were
finally extinguished.

About an hour later, as she was
anxiously cogitating what steps she
should take towards the repairing of
her own mishap, Mrs. Hardy thought
she heard a suspicious sound in the
silence of the room.

Rachel," she called, softly ; " is
that you, child ?"

No answer. Only a rustle of drapery,
indicating that Rachel had turned over
in her bed. She listened a few
minutes, and the suspicious sound
was repeated. Raising herself on her
elbow, she called more loudly.

You are not crying, Rachel, are
you ?"

The girl flung herself out of bed,
ran across the room, a little white
ghost in the faint dawn, and threw
her arms round her aunt's neck. She
had no mother, poor little thing, to
tell her troubles to ; and she wanted
a mother now.

Oh, dear aunt Elizabeth," she
sobbed passionately, *' do help me — I
am so miserable ! I don't want to
marry Mr. Kingston ! I don't love
him — I have made a mistake ! I didn't
think enough about it, and now I
know we should never suit each
other. Won't you tell him I was too
young, and that I made a mistake ?
Won't you — oh, please do ! — help me
to break it off?"

On what a mere chance does destiny
depend.

If Mrs. Hardy's evening had been
triumphant and prosperous — if she had
not torn her best lace, and torn it inconsequence
of Rachel's carelessness —
she would probably have received the
girls touching confidence as a tender
mother should. As it was, she felt that
after all her fatigues and worries, this
was really too much.

What nonsense are you talking,
child?" she exclaimed angrily. 'ris it
any fault of Mr. Kingston's if Miss
Hale behaves like an idiot ? She is
nothing but a vulgar flirt, and he
knows it as well as you do — only
it is his way to be attentive to all
women."

•' Miss Hale !" repeated Rachel vaguely ;

'' I'm not thinking of Miss Hale.
I am not blaming anybody — only myself.
I was very wrong to accept Mr.
Kingston at the first — oh, aunt, you
know we are not suited to each other !
He ought to marry somebody older and
grander, and I — I thought I should
like to be rich, and to live in that
house — and I thought I should come to
love him in time; but now I know it
was all a mistake. Do — do let me
break it off before it goes any further !
Let me stay with you — I shall be qidte
happy to stay with you and Uncle
Hardy, if you'll only let me ! "

'' You are dreaming," replied her
aunt, giving her a slight shake in the
extremity of her dismay and mortification;
'you talk like a baby. Do you
think a man is to be taken up one day

and thrown away the next ? And it is
worse than that to jilt a man — and Mr.
Kingston of all people — after being
engaged to him for months, as you
have been, and after leading him into
all sorts of preparations and expense.
The bare idea is monstrous ! And all
for nothing at all, but some ridiculous
sudden fancy ! You may have seen
things of that sort done amongst the
people you have been brought up
with, but no lachj would think of
disgracing herself and her family by
such conduct."

Oh, aunt ! " moaned E-achel piteously,
as if she had had an unexpected
blow.

"I don't like to speak harshly to
you, my dear," Mrs. Hardy proceeded,
in a rather more gentle, but still irritated

tone. " Only you must not vex
me with such absurd and childish
notions. I know it is only a passing
whim — you are over-tired, and you are
hurt because Mr. Kingston paid Miss
Hale so much attention, though it is
only what he does to all women, without
meaning anything whatever; but still
it is a serious and horrible thing —
breaking an engagement, a really happy
engagement, as yours is — jilting a kind,
good man, after giving him every
encouragement — even to think of ! Don't
let me hear you mention it again,
unless you want to break my heart
altogether. And after all I have done
for you — I don't want to boast, but I
have been a good aunt to you, Rachel,
and you would have been in a poor
place but for me — the least you can dois

to respect my wishes, especially as
you know I wish nothing but what is
for your real good and welfare."

Rachel wandered back to her bed,
laid her head gently on the pillow, and
closed her eyes. Mrs. Hardy in the
dead silence that presently ensued, was
relieved to think that she had " settled
off" at last; but it was not sleep that
kept her so quiet — it was the calmness
of defeat and despair.

RACHEL S EIEST VISIT IN Melbourne.

N the last week of August,
when the place was looking
its loveliest — the rustic gables
of the pretty house all hung with
wistaria, and the shrubberies full of
fragrant bushes of purple and white
lilac — Mrs. Hardy, Mr. Kingston, and
Rachel took their departure from Aden
It was to one of them a truly
heart-breaking business.

Rachel stood on the verandah while

the horses were being put to, clasping
Lucilla and the baby alternately to her
heart, and wept without restraint, until
her eyes were swollen, and her delicate
colour resolved into unbecoming
red patches, and there was scarcely a
trace of her beauty and brightness
left.

No one but herself was at all able
to realise what this moment cost her.
She was not only leaving a place where
she had spent the happiest period of
her youth ; not only parting from
friends with whom she had established
the most tender and sympathetic relations;
she was closing a chapter, or
rather a brief passage, which was the
one inspired poem of her life ; and she
was saying good-bye to Hope.

As long as she was at Adelonga,

there was the chance that Mr. Dalrymple
might come back — at any rate, notwithstanding
the Queensland arrangements,
there was a constant impression that
he was near. And as long as she was
at Adelonga she had felt bold to strive,
by various feeble and ineffectual devices,
to extricate herself from her engagement.


Now she was going where it seemed
to her her lover would never be allowed
to reach her, and where in a hard
world of money and fashion, and under
the terrible dominion of " the house,"
she would be a helpless victim in the-hands
of Fate.

"Good-bye, darling Lucilla!" she
sobbed ; '' thank you so much — I have
been so happy here — I am so sorry to
go away !"

The gentle woman was inexpressibly
touched, and of course cried for company.
Mrs. Hardy had her own maternal
reluctance to face an indefinite term of
separation from her daughter. And
altogether Mr. Kingston was not without
justification for his unusually irritable
frame of mind.

He did not like to see women crying ;
he was particularly annoyed that Rachel
should exercise so little command over
herself, and that she should have red
eyes and a swollen nose ; and he was
uneasy about the untoward episode
which had been the first hitch in the
smooth current of his engagement, and
wondered whether it could be possible
that a lingering fancy for that Dalrymple
fellow was making her so unwilling to
return to her Melbourne life.

Moreover, he hated country travelling
long drives over rough bush roads,
and bivouacs at country inns, where the
food was badly cooked and the wine
detestable ; and he was suspicious about
the behaviour of the Adelonga horses,
whose little traits of character came
out rather strongly in the invigorating
air of spring; and he had a nasty
touch of gout.

However, the day was fine, and the
drive was lovely. As she was carried
along, with the soft air blowing in her
face, full of the delicious fragrance of
golden wattle, Rachel ceased to cry —
becoming calm, and pensive, and pretty
again — and took to meditation; wondering,
for the most part, what Queensland
was like, and how it was she
could ever have thought Melbourne, asa

place of residence, preferable to the
bush.

They passed a charming little farmhouse,
more picturesque in the simple
elegance of its slab walls and brown
bark roof than any Toorak villa of
them all, set in its little patch of
garden, with fields of young green corn
and potatoes, neatly fenced in, behind
it. It had its little rustic outbuildings,
its bright red cart in the shed,
its tidy strawyard, its cows and pigs
and poultry feeding in the bush close

by.

The farmer was working in his garden;
the farmer's wife, on her knees beside
him, was weeding and trimming the
borders of thyme that ringed the little
flower beds. They both paused to gaze
at the imposing equipage crashing

VOL. II. 26

along with its four strong horses, and
at the ladies and gentlemen perched so
high above them ; and Rachel, looking
down from her box-seat, thought she
had never seen such a picture of rural
and domestic peace. She had suddenly
ceased to regard material wealth and
splendour as in any way essential to
happiness.

To live in some such home as this
(provided one had enough to live on
and to pay one's way), working
with one's own hands for the man
one loved — that seemed to her at this
moment the ideal lot in life.

Having started from Adelonga an
hour before noon, the horses were taken
out at two o'clock to be fed and
watered, and the little party camped
beside a shady water-hole for lunch.

Lucilla had put up a bounteous
basket of good things, and all the
materials for afternoon tea ; and the
fun of arranging the grassy table first,
and of making a fire and boiling the
kettle afterwards — not to speak of the
very satisfactory meal that intervened
had its natural effect upon our impressionable
heroine of eighteen.

Her fiance, much revived by a tumbler
of dry champagne, carefully cooled in
the water-hole, was also in improved
spirits and temper, and he set himself
to be very kind to his little
sweetheart, and forgave, her all her misdeeds.


Between three and four, having had
their tea, the horses were put to, and
they started on their way again ; and
just at nightfall they arrived at the

26—2

railway, and at the inn where they were
to spend the night.

Here they found dinner awaiting them,
of which Rachel partook in sleepy
silence ; and she went to bed soon afterwards,
and slept too soundly even to
dream of trouble.

In the morning they parted from Mr.
Thornley, and started by the first train
to town ; at noon they lunched in a
railway refreshment-room ; and in the
middle of the afternoon they found themselves
once more in Toorak, being helped
out of the family brougham by good-natured
Ned, and welcomed into the
green satin drawing-room by his bright-faced
wife.

"And so you are back again at
last !" exclaimed Beatrice gaily, as she
took her young cousin into her arms.

And how are you, dear child ? Why
you look quite pale. Take off your hat
and sit down at once, and have some
tea. Mr. Kingston, I don't think this
country air that they talked so
much about has done anything very
wonderful after all. Rachel is not
looking so well as she was when she
left."

Rachel blushed a lovely rose-colour
immediately, of course, and Mr. Kingston
looked up at her with vague
anxiety.

"I don't think she is, myself," he
said ; " I noticed it as soon as I got up
there. But she will be all right now she
is home again."

I am only tired," murmured
Rachel.

A girl like you has no business to

be tired," retorted the little woman
brusquely.

It did not escape her sharp eyes
that something was the matter, and
she determined to take the earliest
opportunity to find out what it
was.

I do hope to goodness," she said
to herself, " that it is not her engagement
that she is tired of — and everything
going on so nicely !"

And then she took off Rachel's sealskin
cap and jacket, settled her by
the fireside, furnished her with a cup
of fragrant tea and some thin bread
and butter, and left her to herself
while she attended to her mother's
wants.

Beatrice and her tea had a generally
cheering and invigorating effect.

Mr. Kingston, making himself comfortable
in a very easy chair, grew
talkative and witty upon the news of
the day and the latest items of fashionable
gossip ; in the society of this
charming little woman of the world — his
world — the satisfaction of being in town
again began to creep over him pleasantly.


He stayed for half an hour — outstaying
Iste, who retired modestly at
the end of twenty minutes ; then
he led Rachel into the hall, kissed
her, told her to go to bed early
and come out with him for a ride
in the morning, and went off to
his club — sorry to leave his little
lady-love, but glad to be able to
get his letters, to hear what was
efoino^ on in Melbourne, and to read his

"Argus" on the day of publication
again.

After his departure Mrs. Hardy and
Beatrice plunged fathoms deep in talk.
Mrs. Hardy wanted to know how her
husband and her servants, and her
neighbours and her friends, had been
conducting themselves during her absence,
and Beatrice wanted minute particulars
about Lucilla and the baby.

Rachel had no occasion to feel herself
de trop ; at the same time she
saw she was not wanted. She sauntered
softly round the room, laid some
music scattered about over the piano
in a neat pile, re-arranged some yellow
pansies that were tumbling out of a
green Yallauris bowl, and then stole
noiselessly into the hall and out of the
house.

The grounds of the Hardy domain
were more beautiful with flowers
now than she had ever seen them;
but she did not stay amongst the
flowers. She went down little lonely
paths, intersecting vegetable beds
and forcing-frames, to a gate at
the bottom of the kitchen-garden,
where she was within speaking
distance of the workmen engaged
on the new house, with nothing
to impede a full view of their
operations.

She was feverishly anxious to know
how they were going on — whether they
were still '' pottering at the foundations,"
or whether the stage of walls had set
in.

The working day was not yet over,
and the well-known chinking and clinking

of the stonemason's implements smote
her ear. She thought, when she began
to count them, that there were a great
many more men than there used
to be, and she wondered why this
was.

The young man who was sent out by
the architects to supervise the builders,
and whose acquaintance she had made
with Mr. Kingston, was walking about
the dusty enclosure, and presently
recognising her, he lifted his hat,
and then seeing that she still lingered,
came up to the gate to speak
to her.

"How are you getting on, Mr. Moore?"
she asked pleasantly. " Are you still
doing the foundations ?"

Mr. Moore assured her that they
had completed the foundations, and

that they were getting on splendidly.


Won't you come out and have
a look at what has been done ?" he
inquired.

She thanked him and said she would ;
and he opened the gate with alacrity,
and escorted her through a labyrinth
of bricks and stones, over ground
strewn thickly with sharp-edged chips
that cut holes in her boots, very well
pleased to be the first to show her
the progress that had been made in her
absence.

She could see for herself that a great
deal had been done. The trenches were
filled up ; great square blocks of stone
ridged the outlines of the ground-floor
rooms — little bits of rooms they
looked, and not at all like the stately

and spacious apartments of the architect's
design; but it seemed to her that what
had been done could not be a tenth or
twentieth part of all that there was todo.


I suppose," she said, " it takes a
long time to build the walls and make
such a quantity of windows ?"

Oh, dear, no," responded Mr. Moore
cheerfully. "All the worst of the work
is over now, as far as the shell is
concerned ; the walls will run up in
no time. It is a big house, but there
are plenty of men on it, and all
materials ready. It is after the shell
is done that the real tedious work commences."


You mean after the roof is
on?"

Yes. The interior decorations are

the chief thing about this house. The
outside is not much."

When do you expect the shell will
be finished?" asked Rachel, in fear and
trembling.

Some time in the course of the 
the next two or three months
probably."

"And thereof on?"

"Oh, yes; of course the roof on," he
replied.

There was a pause ; and then she said
in a very small, thin voice :

"Thank you, Mr. Moore. I think I
must go back now."

He escorted her back to the garden
gate, lifted his hat, and bade her good
evening; and it struck him suddenly
with far more force than it had
struck Beatrice-that she was looking

A MERE CHANCE.

extremely unwell, and not at all like
the bright and blooming creature that
she was when she went away.

IX MES. Hardy's STOEE-EOOM.

ACHEL was very young, no
doubt, but she was growing
rapidly. To all intents and
purposes she was at least five years
older when she came home from
Adelonga than she was when she went
there ; and the process of development
by no means ceased or slackened at
that point.

The blossoming of her womanhood
had come suddenly, like the blossoming

of the almond trees, in one warm
burst of spring ; but the inner heart,
that budded in secret, continued to swell
and ripen, in spite of — perhaps because
of — the absence of sunshine in her
spiritual life.

The physical change in her was noticeable
to everybody. Her constitution
was much too sound to be easily
injured by mental wear and tear; but
her health was necessarily affected ina
greater or less degree, temporarily,
for the better or for the worse, by
the more powerful of those mental
emotions to which her body was
peculiarly sensitive and responsive at all
times.

So she lost some of her delicate
pinky colour, and her large eyes grew
heavy and dreamy, and she looked

generally faded and altered, in the
dulness of these empty days. She had
no more enthusiasm for Toorak life
and Melbourne dissipations. She went
into no raptures over jewels and
dresses, or any pretty things ; she had
none of the old zest for operas and
balls.

She was quiet, and silent, and preoccupied,
moving about the house with
a strange new dignity of manner
(resulting from the total absence of
self-consciousness), a sort of weary
tolerance, as if she had lived in it all
her life, and was tired of it.

After watching her for a few days,
secretly, and in much perplexed anxiety,
Mrs. Reade made up her mind that
something was seriously wrong, and
that it was time for her to interfere

YOL. II. 27

to set it right. Lie went to her
mother in the first place for information.


It was eleven o'clock in the morning,
and Mrs. Hardy was in her store-room,
counting out the day's allowance of
eggs to an aggrieved and majestic
cook.

The little woman stood by silently,
watching the transaction with a smile
in her brilliant eyes, thinking to herself
what a great mistake it was, if
poor mamma could but see it, to insist
on an inflexible morality and economy
in these petty matters ; and when it
was completed, after a little acrimonious
discussion, she quietly shut the door,
and addressed herself to her own business
in her customary straightforward
way.

'' I want to know what is the matter
with Rachel," she began, spreading
her handkerchief on a keg of vinegar,
and sitting down on it deliberately.

Mrs. Hardy mechanically sought repose
in the one chair of the apartment,
which stood in front of the little table
where she was in the habit of making
out her accounts.

I'm sure that is more than I can
tell you, my dear. What an insolent
woman that is ! — if she thinks I am
going to let her have the run of my
stores, as Mrs. Robinson did, she is very
much mistaken."

Something is wrong with Rachel,"
proceeded Mrs. Reade calmly; 'rand I
want to find out what it is."

Mrs. Hardy made an effort to smooth
her rushed feathers down.

07— y.

'' I think the child must be fretting
for Lucilla and the baby, Beatrice. She
and Lucilla were bosom friends, and she
just went wild about the baby — it
was quite ridiculous to see her with
it. And when she left them she cried
as if she were completely heartbroken;
and she has never been like herself
since. I can't think what else ails her
unless she is out of sorts, and wants
some medicine. I did give her some
camomile yesterday, but it does not
seem to have done her any good."

'' No," said Mrs. Reade, with a sudden
smile, " I don't think it is a case for
camomile. She is not ill ; she is unhappy
— anyone can see that. You can
see it, can't you ?"

I'm sure no girl has less cause to
be unhappy," protested Mrs. Hardy

evasively, in a fretful and anxious tone.
"It is very ungrateful of lier if lie is."
But what can have caused it ? She
was all right when she went to Adelonga.
Something must have happened while
she was there. She is not merely
fretting after Lucilla and the baby —
oh, no, it is a deeper matter than
that. I am afraid — I really am seriously
afraid, by the look of things — that it
has something to do with Mr. Kingston."
Her mother, though silent, was so obtrusively
conscious and uneasy that she
felt assured, the moment that she looked
at her, of the correctness of her surmise.
'* Oh, do tell me what has happened!"
she continued, eagerly. " Something has,
I know. It is what I have been
dreading all along — with these tiresome
delays ! They ought to have been

married out of hand, and then there
would have been no trouble."

'' If there is anything wrong between
them," Mrs. Hardy reluctantly admitted,
'' it is — I must say that for Rachel,
though she is very trying with her
silly childishness — it is Mr. Kingston's
doings."

Of course," assented Mrs. Reade,
promptly.

It was on the night of the ball.
He rather neglected Rachel — the first
time I ever knew him to do it — and
he flirted in that foolish way of his
with Minnie Hale. You know Minnie
Hale? — a great, fat, giggling creature —
quite a common, vulgar sort of girl —
not in the least Ms sort, one would
have imagined. I don't wonder that
Rachel was offended; I was extremely

vexed with him myself, for he did it so
openly — everybody noticed it. It was
so bad, really, that the man that horrid
girl was engaged to, Mr. Vessel, broke
off with her on account of it. That
will show you. She was a great deal
worse that he was, of course. But he
went great lengths. Perhaps he had
been taking too much wine," she sighed,
plaintively.

"No," said Mrs. Reade. "He has
plenty of faults, but that is not one of
them."

Rachel was deeply hurt and shocked,"
Mrs. Hardy proceeded. "Naturally, for
it was not a thing she had been used
to, poor child. She took it very much
to heart — so much that she wanted,
like Mr. Lessel, to break off her engagement
there and then." Here Mrs. Hardy

went into details of poor Racliel's unsuccessful
struggle for deliverance. "But
of course I reasoned with the foolish
child," she added conclusively; "I talked
her out of that

Mrs. Reade sat very still, tracing
patterns on the floor with the point of
her parasol.

"And did they have a quarrel?" she
asked, vaguely. She was evidently thinking
of something else.

No. There was a coolness, of course,
but — oh, no, I am sure they did not
quarrel. He has seemed anxious to
make up for it, and she has not shown
any temper or resentment. But things
have been uncomfortable if you can
understand — very unsatisfactory and
uncomfortable — ever since. I think she
was disappointed in him, and cannot

get over it. I have been hoping that
it was all right, and that she was
only unsettled and dispirited about
leaving Adelonga. But now you mention
it — yes, now I think of it — I'm
afraid she is brooding over that other
trouble still. Foolish child ! she lives
in a world of romantic ideals, I suppose."


'' Why did Mr. Kingston flirt with
Minnie Hale ?" asked Mrs. Reade,
looking up at her mother impressively.


*' Oh, my dear, you know him as
well as I do."

'' You think he was worn out with
being good ?"

He has been good, Beatrice —
very good — ever since his engagement."


Yes, he has. But if lie had had
a mind to misbehave, I don't think
his duty to Rachel would have stopped
him. The fact is, since his engagement
he has never wanted anyone
but her. I have watched him closely,
and wonderful as it seems, he has
never shown the slightest disposition
to flirt beyond the stage of pretty
speeches — not even when she was
away — not even with Sarah Brown-low."


"It is a great pity," sighed Mrs.
Hardy. '' I wish they were safely
married."

And at the worst o£ times," the
younger lady proceeded thoughtfully,
regardless of the interjection, " he
was fastidious in his choice — he liked
someone who was either pretty or

clever, or decidedly attractive in some
WSJ. I never knew him take any
notice of a girl of that sort before."


'' There is no accounting for men's
tastes, my dear."

Oh, yes," Mrs. Reade replied
promptly ; ''I know that Minnie Hale
is not his taste. I know he did not
go on with her as you say he did,
merely for the pleasure of it to himself.
I think it must have been to
spite Rachel."

Beatrice !"

'' Yes, mother — that is what I think.
It is the only reasonable motive he
could have had."

But why on earth should he wish
to spite Rachel ?"

That is what T want you to tell

me. You were in the house with
them — try and think of all that happened
just before the ball. I'm
certain something was wrong between
them, to begin with. Perhaps you did
not notice it at the time, but you
might remember little circumstances — "
Mrs. Reade broke off, and watched
her mother's disturbed face with
bright attentiveness. " Rachel did not
flirt with anybody, did she ?"

Now, my dear, you know the
child is incapable of such a thing."

'* Oh, I don't mean deliberately, of
course. But she might do it accidentally,
with those sentimental eyes
of hers. And she u so charmingly
pretty !"

No, she certainly did not flirt,"
said Mrs. Hardy ; " she has never

given him any uneasiness on that
score, pretty as she is, and never
will, I am quite sure. But there was
a man "

Ah !" sighed Mrs. Reade, laying
her parasol across her knees, and folding
her hands resignedly.

Why do you say ' ah,' Beatrice,
before you hear what I am going to
tell you ? There was a man there
whom Mr. Kingston disliked very
much. He gave himself airs, and they
somehow came into collision, and Mr.
Kingston was in rather a bad temper.
That was all that went wrong before
the ball, and Rachel had nothing todo
with that."

Do you think so ? I am certain
she had," the young lady replied
deliberately.

Well, if you think you know better
than I do, who was there to
see "

Go on, dear mamma. Tell me all
about him. "Who was he ? What was
he like ?"

Mrs. Hardy, pocketing her dignity,
proceeded to describe Mr. Dalrymple,
with great amplitude of detail, ashe
had appeared from her point of
view.

The result was a kind of superior
Newgate villian, of good birth and
distinguished presence, whom Mrs.
Eeade regarded with a sinking
heart.

'' Oh, dear me !" she sighed, blankly,
what a pity ! What a previous
pity !"

I caiit see why you should look

at it in this way, Beatrice. I tell
you she had little or nothing to say
to him, and she only danced with
him once the whole evening. I took
care to point out to her the kind of
man he was, and to warn her against
him."

'' You ought not to have done
that."

"My dear, you will allow me to bethe
best judge of what I ought todo.
She was very good and obedient,
and she acted in every way as I
wished her."

"But she liked him, didn't she?"
asked Mrs. Eeade.

Yes," Mrs. Hardy admitted, with
evident reluctance, " I am afraid she
did like him."

I am sure she did," said Mrs.

Reade, decisively. " And there is more
than liking in the matter, unless I
am much mistaken. I have never
been in love myself," she remarked
frankly, 'but I fancy I know the
symptoms when I see them. I feared
from the first that it was something
of that sort that was the matter with
her. At any rate—" putting up her
hand to stay the imminent protest on
her mother's lips — " at any rate, if
he has not made her love him, he
has made her discontented with Mr.
Kingston."

Well, Beatrice," the elder woman
exclaimed, with an impatient sigh,
rising from her chair, " if such a
thing should be — if such a misfortune
should have happened after all my
care — we must only do the best

we can to mend it. Thank goodness
he's gone. He is not at all likely
to give her another thought. If he
does — " Mrs. Hardy shut her mouth
significantly, and her Roman nostrils
dilated.

You can't help his thinking what
he likes," said Mrs. Reade, with a
gleam of mockery in her bright
eyes.

I can help his doing anything
further to disturb her. I can see
that he never meets or speaks to her
again."

Mrs. Eeade continued to smile, looking
at her majestic mother with her
bird-Hke head on one side.

I hope so," she said. " I'm sure
I hope so, if you can do it without
her knowledge. But if you should

VOL. II. 28

A MERE CHANCE.

have to act, whatever you do, don't
make martyrs of them."

Don't talk nonsense," retorted Mrs.
Hardy.

''he has co:\rE back."

ES. Head, being satisfied
that she had found out
Rachel's complaint — as indeed
she had — put her under treatment
without delay.

On the very day of her interview
with her mother in the store-room,
she sought and obtained permission to
take the patient home with her for a
week's visit, in order to try the experiment
of change and a new set of

28—2

dissipations, and to make her preliminary
investigations undisturbed.

Sbe bad a charming bouse of ber
own at South Yarra, wbicb sbe 'kept"
admirably, and were, in an pretensions
manner, sbe bad established a
little salon that was a fashionable bead
centre in Melbourne society, and well
deserved by virtue of its own legitimate
merits to be so.

Sbe was not severely orthodox in
these matters, like Mrs. Hardy, who
weighted her entertainments with any
number of dull people, if they only
happened to be in the right set ; though
she was quite ready to acknowledge
the propriety of her mother's system in
her mother's circumstances.

There was no want of refinement in
ber hospitality, but there was a delicate

flavour of Bohemianism that, like the
garlic rubbed on the salad bowl, was
the piquant element that made it
delightful — to those, at any rate, who
were sufficiently intelligent to appreciate
it.

If men and women were uninteresting,
she could have nothing to do with
them, though they were the very " best
people;" that is to say, she limited her
intercourse to those ceremonial observances
which rigid etiquette demanded.


If they were clever and cultured, and
otherwise respectable and well-behaved,
and were capable of being fused harmoniously
into the general brightness
of her little circle, she was inclined to
condone a multitude of sins in the
matter of birth and station.

Artists of all sorts, travellers and
politicians, distinguished members of
every profession (so long as their own
merits and accomplishments distinguished
them) were welcome at her house ;
where they would be sure to meet the
most interesting women that a judicious
woman, superior to the petty
weakness of her sex, could gather together.


So it was that Mrs. Edward Reade's
afternoons and evenings where synonymous
with all that was intellectually
refreshing and socially delightful to
those who were privileged to enjoy
them.

But so it was, also, that Rachel, inconsideration
of her youth, her impressionable
nature, and what were supposed
to be her democratic tendencies, had

not been allowed to know much about
them hitherto.

Now, however, the case is different,"
said Beatrice, authoritatively, as she
sat in her little pony carriage at the
front door, waiting for her cousin to
come down stairs. " It will do her
good bo shake up her ideas a little,
and draw her out of herself. And if
she does take an undue interest in
people of the lower orders " — looking
at her mother with mocking bright eyes
" it will be so much the better.
Perhaps Signor Scampering, with that
lovely tenor of his "

Oh, no, Beatrice. Mr. Kingston
would very much dislike anything of
that sort."

'anything of what sort?" laughed
Mrs. Reade. ''Mr. Kingston can trust

me, mamma. And we must counteract
Mr. Dalrymple somehow."

"Mr. Kingston himself ought to
counteract him — if there is any counteracting
necessary."

''Ah!" sighed Mrs. Reade, shaking
her head slightly. She said no more,
but in her own mind she put that
argument aside as useless.

There had been a time, indeed, when
she had believed Mr. Kingston sufficient
for all purposes, on the basis of
Rachel's apparently modest spiritual
needs; but now she knew she had been
mistaken.

The girl had grown and changed
since then, and the old conditions no
longer fitted her. The little woman was
disappointed, but she was too wise to
make a fuss about it. Difficulties had

come that she ought to have foreseen
and provided for, but since they had
come, they must be dealt with. "Ah!"
she said, with a sigh and a smile; and
that was the extent of her lamentation.


So Rachel went away with her to
South Yarra, and had a brilliant week
of it. The weather was warm and
lovely, and the soft air full of the
delicate intoxication of spring time, to
which she was peculiarly susceptible.

She basked in sunshine as she rattled
about Melbourne streets and suburbs in
Beatrice's little basket-carriage, and as
she sat in Beatrice's bow windowed
drawing-room, gossiping over afternoon
tea.

She had a month's allowance of society
dissipation of the most seductive description

in that week — music, dancing,
tableaux vivants, dressing, shopping,
sightseeing, swarms of gay and witty
company from noon till midnight, every
conceivable kind attention from her
cousin, and the most flattering homage
from everybody else — all in an easy and
cosy way that was very charming and
luxurious. It certainly cheered her up
a great deal.

We do get cheered, against our intention
and desire, against our belief
almost, by these little amenities that
appeal to our superficial tastes, even
when we seem to ourselves to be full of
trouble.

It is well for us that we are so
susceptible to light impressions, to the
subtle influences of the daily commonplace,
which are like delicate touches to

a crude picture in their effect upon our
lives ; if we were not, our lives would
hardly be worth having sometimes,
crippled as they are with great sudden
griefs and disappointments, and wasted
with the lingering paralysis of spiritual
loss and want.

Mrs. Reade, watching the effect of
her prescription day by day, thought
things were going on very nicely, and
took great credit to herself. She could
plainly perceive that the disturbing-element
in the family arrangements was
no trifling ball-room fancy ; but she had
great faith in the girl's youth and
gentle character, and in the efficacy of
judicious treatment, and it seemed to
her that her faith had not been misplaced.


At any rate, she justified her reputation

as a clever woman by the tact she
displayed in the management of her
self-imposed task. No one could have
done more, under the circumstances, to
further the desired end. She did not
have Mr. Kingston about her house
too much; she thought Rachel v^ould
appreciate him more if she had time to
miss him a little. Nor did she force
the girl's confidence with respect to
Mr. Dalrymple, or even invite it in anyway
— that is to say, not in any way
that was apparent to Tier.

She took no notice of the obvious
indications of her cousin's anxiety to
extricate herself from her engagement,
though secretly they caused her acute
uneasiness. She was a kind little soul,
and though quite content with a mariage
de convenance herself, did not like to

see another woman driven into it against
her will.

It was for Rachel's good that she
should be tided over those temptations
to squander a substantial future for a
romantic present, which were peculiarly
dangerous to a girl so undisciplined in
worldly wisdom as she, and it was absolutely
necessary to guard her against
the machinations of profligate spendthrifts
; but if she coidd have fallen in
with the excellent arrangements that
had been made for her, without repugnance
and suffering, what great cause
for thankfulness there would have been !

So, although she never wavered in
her determination to do what she considered
her duty, she did it, not only
with judgment, but with the utmost
gentleness and consideration.

She took Rachel to call on certain
shabby and faded women who had made
rash marriages with poor or unsteady
men, that she might see the consequences
of such imprudence in the
sordid tastelessness of their dress and
their household furniture.

She likewise presented to her notice
the charming spectacle of a young bride
of fashion, as she '^ received " on her
return from her honeymoon, surrounded
by all the refinements of wealth
and culture in a perfectly-appointed
home.

She spoke incidentally, but often, of
the habits and customs of fast young
men, in general and in particular,
drawing picturesque illustrations from
her own experience, which tended to
show that they invariably made love to

every girl they came across, and forgot
all about her the moment her back was
turned. She showed her poetic photographs
of foreign cities ; she taught
her the value of old lace and china.

And by these and other insidious
devices, she really contrived to do something
towards weakening the impression
that Mr. Dalrymple had made, and
strengthening the antagonistic cause.

But when the week was over, and she
took her young charge back to her
mother, intending to apply for an extension
of leave, that she might pursue
the treatment that had proved so
beneficial, alas ! all her patient work
was undone in a moment, like the
web of the Lady of Shalt, when she
left off spinning to look at the irresistible
Sir Lancelot riding by.

They arrived at the Toorak house
rather late in the afternoon, after a
visit to the Public Library to see the
last new picture, and one or two entertaining
calls ; and they were told
that Mrs. Hardy was out, but was
expected in every minute.

Rachel jumped down from the carriage
first, and ran lightly up the
white steps into the hall, with a pleasant
greeting to the servant who admitted
her; and there she stood a few seconds,
to look round upon all the familiar appointments,
as people do when they return
home after an absence.

And as she looked, her eye fell upon
a card on the hall table, which she
immediately picked up.

John," she called sharply, wheeling
round upon him with a sudden fierceness

of excitement that Mrs. Reade, a
dozen yards off, understood to mean
disaster of some sort; "John, when did
this gentleman call?"

About half an hour ago, miss."
'' Oh, John — only half an hour !"
'' He said he would call again tomorrow,
miss."

Mrs. Eeade came softly into the hall,
carelessly adjusting her long train behind
her.

Who is it, dear ?" she asked.
But she had already guessed who
it was.

Rachel held out the little slip of
pasteboard with an unsteady, shrinking
hand. She could not speak. There was
a great light and flush of excitement
in her face, which yet was as full of
fear as joy.

VOL. II. 29

Rodenn Dalrymple," murmured Beatrice,
reading hesitatingly, as if the name were
unfamiliar to her. " Is not that one of
Lucilla's friends ?"

Yes," said Rachel, drawing a long
breath and speaking softly. " He was
at Adelonga when we were there. He
went away to Queensland, but — he has
come back."

'' Evidently he has. What a pity we
missed him. He may have brought us
some news from Adelonga. Oh, dear me,
don't you want your tea very badly ? I do.
John go and get us some tea, will you ?"

Mrs. Reade did not intend to commit
herself to any course of action until she
had time to think over this new and
most embarrassing complication, so she
dismissed Mr. Dalrymple from the
conversation.

Rachel turned the card about in her
hands, reading its inscription over andover
again. She was going to carry it
away; but she reluctantly went back
and laid it where she had found it.
Then she followed Beatrice into the
drawing-room like one in a dream.

The little woman watched her closely
from the corner of her bright eyes, and
she was terribly alarmed. She had had
no idea until now what a formidable
person this Rodenn Dalrymple was. The
girl was in a quiver of excitement from
head to foot. She wandered restlessly
about the room, vaguely fiddling at the
furniture and ornaments ; she could not
control her agitation.

John brought in the teapot, and Mrs.
Reade peeled her gloves from her small
white hands, and rolling them into a

29-2

soft ball, tossed them down amongst
the cups and saucers. She began to
pour out the tea in silence, wondering
what in the world she had better
do.

The silence was broken by the sound
of carriage wheels crunching up the
drive. Rachel came to a standstill in
the middle of the room, and listened
with a rigid intensity of expectation that
was quite as painful to her companion
as her more demonstrative emotion had
been.

They heard the bustle of Mrs. Hardy's
arrival, heard John open the front door,
heard the sweep of silken draperies in
the hall. And then they heard a familiar
voice, raised several notes above its
ordinary pitch.

John !"

Yes'm."

"When did this gentleman call?"

"About an hour after you left'm."

Did you tell him we were all
out ?"

"Yes'm. And he'll call again tomorrow,
he says."

Oh, indeed— will he ! You'll just
tell him, whenever he calls, that I am
not at home, John — that nobody is at
home. Do you hear ? That gentleman
is not to be admitted."

Oh, you stupid woman !" Mrs. E-eade
sighed to herself, not meaning to be
disrespectful, but grudging to see delicate
work marred by inartistic hands.

And then she looked at Rachel, and
realised the catastrophe that had occurred.
All the colour had gone out
of the sensitive face, all its agitation,

all the soft, submissive tenderness that
had characterised it hitherto. She looked
straight before her, with stern eyes full
of indignant passion, and with her lips
set in a hard, thin line.

The meek little child, who had been
so easy to manage, was going to assert
the rights of womanhood, and to take
the conduct of her affairs into her own
hands.

THE LIGHT THAT NEVER WAS ON SEA OR
LAND."

R. DALRYMPLE was in Melbourne
for almost the whole
of the time that he had
intended to spare from his partner
and his property in Queensland, which
was nearly three weeks, and he never
once succeeded in communicating with
Rachel, which was the special mission
on which he had come down.

He called at the Toorak house
again and again, and was always

told that the ladies were not at
home.

There was not much else that he
could do at this stage of courtship,
knowing nothing of Rachel's circumstances
in connection with Mr. Kingston,
and having had no definite
assurances of her disposition towards
himself; but he did this persistently,
until he became suddenly aware that
Mrs. Hardy did not mean to admit
him.

Then he wrote a short note to
Mr. Gordon, containing certain instructions
in the way of business,
and an intimation that he might have
to stay in town longer than he
had anticipated, and, therefore, was
not to be calculated upon at
present.

Having despatched which, he addressed
himself to the matter he
had in hand, with a quiet determination
to carry it through, sooner or
later, by some means.

It was not his way to plot and
scheme clandestinely, but being driven
to do it, he did it promptly and with
vigour.

He wrote a long letter to Rachel,
reviewing with delicate significance
the position in which they had stood
to one another on the day of their
parting at Adelonga, and formally
offering himself for her acceptance ;
and he begged her to appoint sometime
and place where, if she were
willing, she could give herself and
him an opportunity for coming to a
mutual understanding.

This letter lie did not put into the
post, being naturally distrustful of
Mrs. Hardy, but he carried it in
his pocket ready for any chance
that might enable him to deliver
it with his own hands — for which
chance he began to search with
diligence in every place of public
resort where Rachel would be likely
to appear.

Rachel, in the meantime, was
distracted with suspense and misery.
She saw all possibilities of a legitimate
meeting relentlessly and effectually
circumvented.

She was kept under such strict
surveillance that she did not even
see her lover's face, except on one
occasion, when she was at the opera,
and when, sitting between her aunt

and Mr. Kingston, lie was afraid
to lift her eyes to look at
him.

She could do nothing in her own
behalf, while she was uncertain of
his intentions. She felt herself more
and more hopelessly in the toils of
her engagement, as day by day, Mr.
Kingston — who yet had mysteriously
changed somehow — became more and
more obtuse to the state of her
mind towards him, and more and
more persistently affectionate and
amiable, and as day by day, Mrs.
Hardy, grown hard and unsympathetic,
impressed more and more
strongly upon her the fact that she
was a penniless and friendless orphan
who owed everything that she had to
her.

And all the time she loathed the
very sound of Mr. Kingston's voice
and the very touch of his hand, with
an unreasoning passion of repugnance
that she had never thought it possible
she could feel for one who had
been so kind to her ; and as a
natural consequence — or cause — she
was consumed with a sleepless fever
of expectation and longing for that
other lover whom she loved.

But such a state of things could
not last, and after all it came to
an end much sooner than either of
them expected.

There came a night when Mr. and
Mrs. Hardy had to go to a stately
dinner party which did not include
young girls. A most lovely night it
was, in perhaps the loveliest month

of the year, when there was no
need to put candles in the carriage
lamps, and no need for a fire in the
big green drawing-room, where between
seven and eight o'clock Rachel was
left to amuse herself, in apparent
safety, until bed time. A young moon
shone in at the open windows before
the mellow daylight was gone, as
Mrs. Hardy, in rustling silk and
tinkling jewels, entered to say
good-night.

The evening wind went whispering
round the house, ruffling a thousand
tufts of bougainvillea that embossed
the outer wall, and breathing into
the dim room the sweetness of early
roses and the fresh fragrance of the
sea.

To Rachel, ever afterwards, it was

the most beautiful night that the
world had known.

"Now, my dear, John will light
the gas for you — two burners will do
to-night, John — and you can practise
your music undisturbed. Don't leave
the windows open any longer ; it will
be chilly by and bye. And don't sit
up late. Good-night."

Good-night, auntie," responded
Rachel.

She proffered the regulation kiss
in an absent manner, nodded with a
smile to her uncle, who was waiting
outside, and stood on the threshold
of a French window to watch the
carriage until it passed out of the
gates and disappeared.

Then instead of going to practise
her music, she went out and sat

down on the top of one of the
square pedestals that flanked the
steps of the terrace upon which the
window opened, and clasped her hands
about her knees.

John left the window open for
her, lit the gas and the piano
candles, returned to find her still
sitting in the same place, as if she
had not stirred, and went away to
make his own arrangements for a
pleasant evening.

Half an hour later she was wandering
about the garden, heedless of the
chill that was creeping on with
nightfall, and looking before her with
eyes so full of dreams that they did
not see where she was going to —
gliding up and down the level
terraces like a ghost in the dusky

twilight, with the silver of the moonshine
on her golden hair.

And then, by mere mechanical
submission to the force of habit,
she found herself presently at that
back gate which overlooked '' the
house," leaning her arms upon the
upper rail, and staring at the low
ridges of gleaming wall a few dozen
yards off, which were rising as it
seemed to her, with the rapidity of
magic from the foundations that had
taken so long to do, the stony embodiment
of a relentless fate.

It was very quiet there to-night.
No swarms of carpenters, and bricklayers,
and stone masons; no idle boys
gaping at them over the fence ; no
people walking and driving about the
road.

She tried the gate, and found it
locked; then she climbed lightly over
it, and holding up her skirts, stole
across the strip of arid waste that lay
between it and the nucleus of the
building which was once to have been
her palace, and now could only be
her prison-house, eager to discover
anything she could that would indicate
the real progress that was being
made.

She threaded her course daintily
through heaps of brick and stone and
broken debris ; she entered the skeleton
house by its gaping porch, and she
wandered about the labyrinth of its
passages and vestibules, feeling her
way with cautious feet and outstretched
hands, until she came to her own
boudoir ; and there she sat down on
VOL. II. 30

a joist of the flooring, and laid her
face on her knees and cried.

The sweetness of the solitary night,
quite as much as the sight of all those
permanently-adjusted ground-floor door
and window frames, melted her into
these sudden tears, full as she was of
the aching rapture of her love and
trouble, which needed but a touch to
overflow. The possibility of a human
spectator of her emotion never for a
moment occurred to her.

However, Mr. Rodenn Dalrymple had
also taken it into his head to have an
after-dinner walk in the moonlight, and
happening for a very good reason, to
be prowling about in this neighbourhood,
he had seen the slender little figure
gliding across the open space between
the back gate and the new building,

and he had guessed in a moment whose
it was.

And so, as Rachel sat with her feet
in subterranean darkness, her hands
clasping her knees just above the level
of the floor that was to be, and her
face hidden in her lap, she heard a
sound, suggestive of midnight robbers
and murderers, that for a moment
paralysed her timid heart ; and then a
voice, calling her softly,

'' Miss Fetherstonhaugh ! Do not be
frightened. It is only I — Rodenn Dalrymple."


He came in through the gap of the
doorway, while she stared at him and
held her breath ; he stepped swiftly
and lightly from joist to joist until
he reached the corner where she was
sitting.

30-2

Then he sat down beside her quietly,
as if he were taking a place she had
been keeping for him ; and the next
moment — with no question asked and
no explanation given — they were sealing
the most sacred of all contracts irrevocably,
in the silence of the solemn
night.

It was well for Rachel that, with all
his faults, Rodenn Dalrymple was not
the reprobate he was supposed to be,
but a man of stainless honour, in
whose keeping the welfare of an
ignorant and imprudent girl was safe;
for — from the day when she went into
the conservatory with him in the first
hours of their acquaintance, stranger ashe
was, and she the most modest of
girls, simply because he asked her — she
had laid herself, metaphorically, at his

feet — too simple and single in all lier
aims and impulses not to love unreservedly
when she began to love at
all, too strong in her young enthusiasm
for her own ideals to be hampered by
doubts either of herself or him, too
thoroughly natural and ingenuous to
disguise her heart or to bend it to
the yoke of conventional law and
order.

Now she gave herself up at once,
turning to meet his outstretched arms,
lifting her face to his strong and eager
kisses with a passionate responsiveness
and abandonment that, while it infinitely
quickened his love and gratitude, showed
him plainly that all the responsibility of
her future happiness would rest with him.

*'0h," she said, with a long sighing
sob, '' I have wanted you so !"

'have you indeed?" lie replied,
tightening his arms about her with a
gesture that was more significant
than speech. " My little love, you shall
never want me any more, if I can help
it."

These were the terms of their "initial
marriage ceremony."

And it is just to Mr. Dalrymple to
say that he not only never took the
slightest advantage of the irregularities
that she innocently allowed, but — at
any rate, not until long afterwards —
he never even saw them.

That they were candid and truthful
in themselves and to one another was
from the first the essential bond
between them, otherwise unlike as they
were ; and to him the absence of the
usual maidenly reticence and reluctance

displayed on these occasions indicated,
all circumstances considered, rather a
finer delicacy of nature than the ordinary,
and never the faintest suspicion
that she held the treasures of love
and womanhood cheaply, even for his
sake.

Feeling no need of further explanation
— understanding one another, by
that subtle sense which defies analysis,
that instinctive recognition of spiritual
kinship which, in its early development,
was to them what is called
'love at first sight," but which had
in it the germs of a true companionship
and comradeship that might defy
all the accidents of time and chance —
they sat for a few blessed silent
moments side by side, she with her
young head leaning trustfully against

his worn brown face, not wanting to
speak, unwilling even to think of all
the difficulties that lay in ambush
around them, ready to break into this
ineffable peace with the breaking of the
silence ; looking over a low windowsill
before them into the quiet night,
with grave and happy eyes — at Melbourne,
lying in a glorified haze of
twilight beneath them, and at the silver
of the sea beyond.

ELEVEN P.M.

ACHEL," said Mr. Dalrymple
presently, speaking her name
as if tie had had it in
familiar use for years, " I suppose you
have broken off with him ?^

Rachel did not reply for a few
seconds ; he felt her trembling in his
arms.

Oh, forgive me," she whispered,
turning her face a hair's-breadth nearer
to his as he stooped to listen.

And then she told him all the story
of her engagement, as far as her new
experiences enabled her to read it, and
all the circumstances which had combined
to keep her still in captivity
so long after she should have been
free.

The simple narrative gave even him,
who was rather inclined to make molehills
of mountains, a sense of the
difficulties of the situation, that kept
him silent for a few minutes in unwonted
perplexity of mind.

How old are you?" he asked abruptly,
at last.

'•' I shall be nineteen in three weeks,"
she answered.

You are sure you won't be twenty-one
?"

'' I'm sure I shan't. Why ?"

Because if you are only nineteen,
I cannot carry you off and marry you,
love, which would have been the simplest
way out of it."

I should not like that way," whispered
Rachel. '' It would be a wrong
way."

Yes, dear — except as a last resource.
Of course we would try all the other
ways first. But we must have our
rights, you know. If they won't give
them, we must take them — we must get
them as we can."

Cannot we be married until I am
twenty-one ?" she queried timidly.

ISTot without your guardian's consent.
Is there any chance of my getting that,
or any kind of toleration even, if I call
on him at his office tomorrow and
use all the eloquence at my command ?' '

"No. Aunt Elizabeth won't let him
have anything to do with it." .

"If I call on her, then?"

Oh, no — not the slightest. In the
first place, she won't see you. And
if she did — oh, no, you must not try
not yet ! I think it would make
everything worse than it is already."


Then you see the alternative ? — a
separation for perhaps two whole
years."

If I know we are going to be so
happy at the end of it "

Ah — at the end of it ! It will be a
fine test for you, Rachel."

Why for me, any more than for
you ? Oh, don't talk of tests !" she
pleaded ; "I only want to feel sure
I shall never lose you, and I

don't mind waiting two years. If
only "

If only what ?"

''If only Mr. Kingston would go
away !"

Now listen to me," he said gently,
but with his grave peremptoriness, " you
must not let another day pass without
breaking off with him. You
must send him away, Rachel. I am
sorry for him, poor devil, but you
couldn't do him a worse wrong than
let him go on deceiving himself about

you."

Oh, do you think I would do that ?
Of course I will not. I can do it now
now that you have come. For now
I shall feel strong, and now I can tell
them why. I shall write him a letter
before I go to bed, and I shall tell

Aunt Elizabeth as soon as I have sentit.
But what will they say to me ? It
will be dreadful."

Poor little woman ! Can't I take the
dreadful part of it for you ? I shan't
mind it."

You can't. I know it will be better
for us both if you will not have anything
to do with it just yet."

I think I Qiiust see your uncle, dear,
before I go away again."

'well— if you think it best. But it
will do no good with Aunt Elizabeth. He
leaves it all to her."

Mr. Dalrymple gazed thoughtfully at
the distant horizon, where little points
of yellow twinkled in the silvery obscurity
of the moonshine bay.

He was deeply troubled and perplexed
about this tender little creature, and

the idea of leaving her to bear the
brunt of unknown trials for bis sake,
seemed too preposterous to be taken
seriously. And yet what else could he
do?

Tell me," he said presently, stroking
her silky head as it lay on his breast,
'' tell me what is the worst that can
happen to you, Rachel ?"

'the worst," sighed Rachel, 'will
be hearing Aunt Elizabeth tell me that
I have repaid all her generosity and
kindness to me with ingratitude and
treachery."

That will be very bad. But you
will have to try and make her understand
the real right and justice of it,
love. She must see it, unless she is
stone blind. She can't expect us to
outrage all the laws of nature to suit

her narrow schemes. You don't think
there will be anything still worse ? — that
she will make your life wretched by
making you feel your dependence — that
kind of thing ?"

'' I am not sure," said Rachel. " She
has been very, very good to me; but
lately — since she has got suspicious
about you — she has been hard. However,
if the worst comes to the worst,
I can go and be a governess or companion
somewhere until you are ready forme."


No, Rachel, no ; you must promise
to tell me if you are persecuted in anyway
— if you are miserable in your aunt's
house— and my sister Lily will take care
of you. You are not to let the worst
come to the worst — do you hear ? You
must let me know of anything that

happens, and I will come at once and
see about it. Oh, my poor little one, I
begin to realise what sacrifices you
will have to make for me ! Will you
think the game was worth the candle,
I wonder, when you are as old as I
am?"

Yes," said Rachel ; '' I know I shall
if you will be as contented with me
then as you are now."

"Do you really think you have
counted the cost ? " he persisted
anxiously. " Remember, you were going
to marry Mr. Kingston, because you
thought it would be nice to be rich
and to hive in a grand house and to
wear diamonds."

That was before I had seen yon.
I don't want to be rich now. Indeed,
I would rather not."

VOL. II. 31

Has anybody told you how poor I
am ?"

'' Yes," she whispered, stealing a timid
hand to his shoulder. " I have been
thinking of it. Beatrice says it is a
mistake for poor men to marry — that
they cripple their career. But I hope
I think — I shall not be any burden
to you. Once I was poor, too, and I
know all about it, and I can manage
with a very little. I think I could help
you in lots of ways, and not be a
hindrance."

"A hindrance, indeed !" he interrupted.
My darling, if I had you for my companion,
life would be sweet enough forme,
under any circumstances. It was
your comfort and happiness I was thinking
of."

I only want to be with you," she said.

under her breath. '' I don't care where —
I don't care how."

'' Really, Rachel ?"

"Really, indeed."

Yon are so young ! Think what a
number of years you have before you,
in all probability. If you should lose
the colour out of your life too soon, if
you should have to drudge — but I won't
let you drudge," he added, with a sudden
touch of fierceness, " T will take care
of you, and you shall have all you
want. It won be a sacrifice — not
even all this" — looking round him — "if
you give it up for a man you love, who
has health and strength to work for
you. It would make you miserable if
you had it. You know it would?"

I do know it," she responded, without
a moment's hesitation.

31—2

She had finally made up her mind
that after all material poverty was not
the worst of life's misfortunes. Indeed,
provided the element of debt were
absent, she thought it might in Eoden
Dalrymple's company, " far from the
madding crowd," in the lonely wilds
of Queensland, be rather pleasant than
otherwise ; for it would mean the delight
of working for and helping one another,
and a blessed freedom from interruption
and restraint in the enjoyment of that
wonderful married life which would be
theirs.

'but I should like to know what
made you take to me," he went on,
in the immemorial fashion, stroking
ber soft face. " I should like to
know why you chose, for your first love
I am your first, am I not, Rachel ?"

You knoiv you are. And it was no
matter of choice with me — you know
that, too."

A man who made shipwreck of his
fortunes for another woman almost before
you were born "

'' Hush !" interrupted Rachel. " I have
no rights in your past, and I don't want
any. This present is mine, and that is
enough for me."

A battered old vagabond "

"No," she persisted; "I won't allow
you to call yourself a vagabond. It is
bad enough to hear other people doit."


'after seeing him under what one
would be inclined to consider, well, anything
but favourable auspices— for how
many days, Rachel?"

Oh," she said, hiding a scarlet

face, " don't remind me of that ! It
was too soon — but I could not help
it"

"The sooner the better, my sweet —
if it lasts," he responded, kissing her
with solemn passion; 'rand I will make
it last."

Do not be afraid of that," she whispered
eagerly. *' I know I am young —
I know one ought not to be too positive
about the future — but Feel that it will be
impossible to help loving you always, even
if I try not to, which I certainly shan't.
I am sure I began it when I saw you
riding across the racecourse that day —
I am sure I shall not stop any more
as long as I live. I don't think there
can be another man in the world like
you."

And so they talked, until it occurred

to one of them to wonder what the
time was. Mr. Dalrymple struck a
match and looked at his watch, Rachel
shielding the small flame from the wind
with her hand.

Ob," she exclaimed in dismay,
'' what would Aunt Elizabeth say if
she knew I was sittings out here at

o

eleven o'clock at night !"

"Call it eleven p.m," he suggested,
looking at her with his slow smile ;
'' that sounds so much better."

"Did you think it was so late? The
time has flown."

"I felt it flying," he replied. "But
I did not think it was so late. I'm
afraid you must go home, little one.
Oh, dear me, when shall we have
such a time again ! Will you come
here tomorrow night, and tell me

how sou have got over your day's
troubles ?"

This was not a proposal that Rachel
could accept comfortably, nor that he
could bring himself to press upon her.
But when they came to reconsider their
position and necessities, it was hard to
find an alternative.

'' You see, I must go back to Queensland
in a day or two," Mr. Dalrymple
explained, when, having taken her out
of her hole and dusted her skirts with
his handkerchief, he led her through
the labyrinth of walls into the open
moonlight, and they paused, hand in
hand, for a few last words. " We have
an immense deal to do up there, and
Gordon wants me. I must look after
getting things together for you too.
There is not even a roof for your head

yet. But I can't bear to leave town
without knowing first how matters
are likely to go with you."

If you should be obliged to do that
if I cannot see you again," said
Rachel, " when will you come back?"

I will come back in — let me see,
this is October — in two months. I
will be back at Christmas. I should
have liked to see your uncle tomorrow,
just that there should be no mistake
about what I mean to do \ but if you
think it will make things harder for
you, I won't, of course. You shall
just tell Kingston what you like, and
the rest of them I will enlighten when
I come. By that time he will be out
of the way and done with, and
we shall have a straight road before
us."

"Yes," said Rachel, sighing; '' I
think that will be best. And perhaps,
hj that time, Aunt Elizabeth will let
you in."

"If she doesn't, I shall bombard the
house."

"You will be sure to be back at
Christmas ?"

"If I am alive, dear, and a free
agent — certainly. And I shall find you
ready for me then?"

Oh, yes !"

With this compact between them, and
the giving to Rachel of her lover's town
address, and very explicit directions as
to where she might find him at any
given hour when she might happen to
want him until the day of his departure,
they kissed one clinging, lingering kiss in
motionless silence, and bade one another —

though they did not know it — a long
farewell.

Which is your window, Rachel ?
Can I see it from here?"

She pointed to it in silence, it was
very distinct just now in the moonshine,
between two dark pine trees. She was
crying a little, and she could not
speak.

"I will be here tomorrow night," he
said; "and if you can't come out tome,
have a light in your room at twelve
o'clock, darling, to let me knows you are
all right."

And then they separated; and Rachel
felt rather than saw her way home, so
dazzled with tears was she, while Rodenn
Dalrymple at her desire remained behind
and watched her.

She went straight into the house and

upstairs to her room, to gather together,
in a feverish hurry of renunciation, all
her diamonds and jewels, which like
Dead Sea apples, had suddenly become
dust.

And he, long after she was gone,—
long after Mrs. Hardy's carriage returned,
and all the chimes in the city
had rung the midnight hour — lingered
where she had left him, leaning his
arms on a convenient wall, watching a
lighted window, and thinking. He was
very happy. He had come unawares
upon his happiness, when he was most
in need of it, and it seemed to him
that it was the best he could have
had.

Anything sweeter than this fresh and
simple heart, which was satisfied
to invest all its wealth in him —

anything brighter than the future she
had spread before him — he did not want
or wish for. It was the amplest compensation
that he could imagine for the
mistakes and disappointments of his
wasted past.

And yet, though he was hardly conscious
of it — though he would not have
owned to it if he had been — he had a
vague misgiving about her. He did not
wish that she had been less easy to
win ; he had no fear that she was mistaking
a sentimental girlish fancy for
love ; he did not for a moment apprehend
that she would forsake or wrong
him.

But there was a suggestion of untried
and untested youth about all the circumstances
of this sudden betrothal, as
far as she had influenced them, and there

was an intangible suspicion that somewhere
she was weak.

He did not recognise, and therefore
did not formulate, the sentiment that
infused that touch of grave and sad
anxiety into his happy meditations ; but,
nevertheless, it was there, and the time
came when it was justified.

MRS. READE S ADVICE.

ACHEL was not a heroine.
She was simply a sweet and
interesting girl ; except that
she was unusually pretty, by no means
above the ordinary level of nice girls.
She was better than a great many
that we are acquainted with, no
doubt, but she was not so good as
some.

And she had, as has been already
indicated, that fault which, of all

faults, perhaps, is most common to
girls, whether nice or otherwise — that
amiable weakness that is more disastrous
in its consequences than many a
downright vice — she was, if not quite
a coward, cowardly.

She was afraid to meet difficulties
in the open, as it were — to attack the
main body and scatter them, and have
done with it ; she sheltered herself
in ambush, and made desultory attacks
on flank and rear with temporary
compromises, hating the thought of
duplicity and longing to do right, yet
most of all dreading the violent, harsh
hurt to tender sensibilities (whether
her own or other people's) that was
inevitable in the shock of a pitched
battle.

It is a defect in a woman's character

very raucli to be deplored, of course,
and it is one that seems unpardonable
to a strong-minded person.

Nevertheless, it is much more of a
misfortune than a fault (and we mayas
well say the same, while we are
about it, of all our constitutional
defects, from red hair to kleptomania,
since we did not choose our parents
nor the social conditions to which we
were born) ; and. to Rachel, whose
instinctive truthfulness and. high sense
of moral rectitude prompted her to
struggle hard, if vainly, against it, it
was purely a misfortune, and at no
time in her life more so than
now.

For, after turning the question over
and over in her mind through all that
feverish and wakeful night, she finally

VOL. II. 32

decided that in breaking off her
engagement with Mr. Kingston she
would not mention, either to him or
to anyone else, the place that Mr.
Dalrymple 'now occupied in her affections
and affairs.

As no one was aware of their
having met, and as he was coming
back himself so soon to clear up
everything much better than she could,
she persuaded herself that it would
be not only unnecessary, but in
the highest degree inexpedient, to
aggravate the inevitable pain and difficulty
that was before her and all of
them.

Hating his very name as they did,
would she not expose her lover to
insult, and his motives and actions
to misconception, and probably prejudice

their chances of happiness irrevocably
?

And at the same time do no good
whatever, but only add an element
of unspeakable bitterness to the disappointment
of her aunt, and to the
mortification of her already ill-used
and much-wronged fiance, and, as a
matter of detail, an incalculable amount
of difficulty to her own sufficiently
formidable task? She was certain that
she would, and she felt that she could
not, and need not do it.

It took her all night to mature
her course of action, but having
finally brought herself to believe that
it was not only so much the easiest
to herself, but in every way the best
for all concerned, to ignore Mr.
Dalrymple for the present, she 



mitted herself to it by writing a long
letter to Mr. Kingston — a tender, penitent,
self-accusing letter, in which she
begged him to forgive her for having
discovered so much too late that they
were un suited to one another, and
prayed that he might some day be
happier with a better woman than it
was in her power to make him, and
that he would ever believe her his
attached and grateful friend, without
suggesting the existence or possibility
of any other lover, present or to be.

The natural results followed » Mr.
Kingston, seeing no sufficient reason
for these sudden strong measures,
refused to treat them seriously.

He was quite aware, and it troubled
him deeply, that she was not happy
in her engagement, and he was very

jealous and suspicious of Mr. Dalrymple,
-whom lie had seen once or
twice about town ; but lie had set his
hearse upon her, as we sap, with the
perverse obstinacy of a fickle man who
had been spoiled by women's flattery,
and the more she seemed to shrink
from him the more he wanted to have
her, and the more he was determined
not to let her go if he could possibly
help it.

His love not only lacked reciprocity
without which love is never worthy
to be spelt with a capital L — but it
was so diluted with all sorts of vanities
and egotism that, though its flavour
was there, the potent spirit was absent,
and he was incapable of making a sacrifice
for her happiness at the expense
of his own.

When he solemnly assured himself
that he loved her as he had never
loved anyone before, and that he could
not and would not give her up— when
he declared, moreover, that he was
ready to spend his future life in her
service, and would take his chance of
making her care for him — he not only
told the truth, as far as he understood
it, but perhaps he touched the
highest point of heroism of which his
selfish nature was capable.

All the same, the strong necessities
of the case were the carrying out of
the great enterprise which was symbolised
by the half-built house, and
the realisation of his schemes for his
own enjoyment ; the possession (and
the securing from other men) of the
most attractive, the most admired,

and to him most loveable woman of
his set, who had so to speak given
him. a legal lien upon her person;
the maintenance of his social position
and dignity, and the avoidance of
ridicule and embarrassment.

So when he had read Rachel's letter,
with a great expense of bad language
in the first place, and of wise reflection
subsequently, he made up his
mind that it was merely the result of
their Adelonga differences, which had
been rankling in her sensitive heart,
and not the formal resignation that he
would be required to accept.

Into, no, young lady," he said to
himself, as he made a careful toilet
before setting forth to see her, '' I
have not sacrificed my liberty and all
my comfortable habits, at your instigation

and for your sake, to take
mj cone at the eleventh hour in this
way."

And then he cast about in his
mind anxiously for ways and means
whereby he might meet and overcome
this strange reluctance, which not only
seemed to him a cruel injury and
injustice after all he had done for
her, but really distressed him acutely,
and made him extremely unhappy.

Was there anything amongst Kilpatrick's
glittering treasures that would
tempt her to smile and kiss him, and
be sorry that she had given him this
heartless blow ?

He felt to-day that he would spend
a thousand pounds cheerfully for anything
that would please her.

But at the same time he was

uneasily conscious that even the largest
and purest diamonds would not appreciably
affect the situation.

She was no longer open to these
fascinations, as she used to be ; several
little circumstances had convinced him
of that.

It was a bad sign, he feared ; but
he hoped it indicated nothing more
serious than that the novelty of wealth
and luxury had worn off.

He recognised its existence so far
that he went on his delicate mission
to Toorak, trusting to his own merits
and eloquence, with no bribes of any
sort in his pocket.

After all, he did not see Rachel that
day. She was weeping hysterically in
her bedroom at the top of the house,
and therefore was not presentable.

Mrs. Hardy, much excited and discomposed
by the shock she had just
received (on being told by Rachel that
she had not only written a letter to
her fiance, to break off her engagement,
but had sent it), received him in
the drawing-room, and did the best
that wisdom, at such short notice,
suggested to repair the catastrophe
which she had been powerless to
prevent.

She tried to smile and joke, in a
considerate and well-bred manner ; she
rallied him upon his misconduct in the
matter of Miss Hale, which had evidently
been at the bottom of all the
mischief, gently pointing out to him
that a sensitive nature like Rachel's,
and a tender heart that loved and
trusted him, could not be played with.

even in the conventional fashion, with
impunity.

And then she hastened to explain
the suddenness and unexpectedness of
this 'freak;" how sure she was that
it had been perpetrated under the
influence of a fit of temper or dejection,
or some other unhealthy condition
of mind ; how equally sure she was
that it was already repented of —
though, of course, it was not for her
to give an opinion or to interfere. All
of which would have been very proper
and sensible, but that the effect was
marred by a bubbling under-current of
angry excitement that her utmost efforts
could not hide.

Mr. Kingston watched and listened,
with smiling self-possession. Finding
that he was not to see Rachel, nor to

get any fresh information, lie did not
prolong the interview. He had no
confidence in Mrs. Hardy — few men
had, in matters of this kind. He received
her communications in a friendly
manner, as one receives an embassy
under a flag of truce ; he never thought
of allowing himself to be influenced by
them one way or the other, or of
asking her assistance and advice.

As soon as courtesy permitted, he
bowed himself out of her presence, with
magnanimous expressions of good will
and a request that nothing might be
be said or done to distress or embarrass
Rachel. And then he got into his cab
thoughtfully, and went to South Yarra
to call on Mrs. Reade.

It was not one of this young lady's
reception days, as no one knew better

than himself; nor had she left her
house in pursuit of tea and gossip at
other people's "afternoons," as he half
expected would be the case.

The sprightly maid-servant (all Mrs.
Eeade's servants were maids, and all of
them sprightly), who opened the door
to his thundering knock, recognising a
privileged friend of the family, admitted
him with alacrity; and he walked into
the drawing-room and found his hostess
sitting' there alone, nestling in one of
her seductive low chairs with an open
letter on her knee.

She, too, had just received the news
of Rachel's escapade ; the letter, full
of dashing and incoherent sentences,
was in Mrs. Hardy's handwriting, and
had arrived half an hour ago from
Toorak. But there were no signs of

excitement and discomposure about this
little person, who rose to meet him,
looking cool and bright, with even
the suspicion of a twinkle in her
eyes.

Have you come for a gossip ?" she
asked, looking up at him with friendly
frankness. '' Because if you have you
had better send your cab away. I am
going out at five o'clock, and I'll drive
you into town."

The cab was sent away; and Mr.
Kingston, with a feeling of comfort
and safety about him, sat down in a
bow-windowed recess, in his favourite
of all the cunningly-devised chairs, and
with his elbows on his knees, began to
fiddle with the top of a silk sock, at
the toe of which his companion was
now knitting industriously.

Is this for Ned ?" he inquired, after
a pause.

Now, isn't that a superfluous question
? " she replied, holding it up.
Look at the size of it. Could any
foot but his fill out that enormous
bag ? Of course it is for Ned. Don't
you know it is the new fashion for
wives to knit their husband's socks ?
One must be in the fashion, even if
one's husband is a giant."

Very nice for one's husband. It
seems beautifully soft ; pretty colour,
too." Then, after a pause, " Does
Rachel know how to knit?"

'eyes," said Mrs. Reade, calmly;
we both learned together while she
was staying with me, and she does it
much quicker than I do. I suppose
you are thinking you would like to

participate in the benefits of the fashion
too?" she added, lifting her face suddenly,
with a quick look in her bright
eyes that was like the opening of a
masked battery.

"If I thought that Rachel would
ever knit socks for me, for the pleasure

of it " He paused with a change

and break in his voice, regarding her
wistfully.

Mrs. Eeade immediately made a sheaf
of her needles, wound them up in the
sock, and impaled her ball of silk upon
them. *' Tell me," she said, folding her
hands on her knees in a business-like
manner, *' tell me, what has Rachel been
doing ?"

Don't you know ? She has written
to me to break off our engagement."

'what for?"

I can't imagine — she doesn't say. I
thought yoio might be able to help me
to find that out."

Mrs. Reade looked at him in silence
for a few seconds, kindly and gravely.
Even she felt herself a little at a loss
as to what course to pursue.

'what have you done?" she asked
abruptly.

"Nothing. I went up to see her just
now, but I was disappointed. She could
not, or would not, come in. I rather
fancy your mother had been scolding
her."

"I have no doubt she had. She
doesn't approve of independence on the
part of young people."

''I won't have her scolded," Mr.
Kingston broke out, with sudden
vehemence. " If I like to blame her,
VOL. II. 33

that is another matter. I won't have
her set against me by other people.
Nothing would make her hate me more
than that kind of thing."

Mrs. Reade felt the justice of this
protest, but she did not see fit to
discuss her mother's little mistakes.
'MVhat are you going to do?" she
inquired.

'' Do you mean am I going to take
my dismissal in this off-hand way? No,
certainly not. After all the time we
have been engaged — after all that has
come and gone between us — after all
the preparations that have been made
it would be too preposterous ! I
should be the laughing-stock of the
colonel's

That would be very sad," said Mrs.
Reade, with her head on one side.

"Now be a good little woman, and
don't jeer at me — I didn't come to you
for that. You know — or you ought to
know — that I am horribly upset and
miserable about all this business, and
that I want you to help me."

I don't see how I can help you,"
she said.

Tell me about Rachel. "What is
the matter with her ? What does she
mean ?"

sewell, evidently she means that she
doesn't want to marry you," sighed Mrs.
Reade. " Tiresome child, why didn't
she think of it before ? "

Why should she think of it now ?
Oh, yes, I know she has not been keen
about it for some time, as she should
have been. But she has not seemed to
dislike it ; she has looked forward toit

as as much a matter of comes as
as it has been to all the rest of
us. And I felt so sure it would be
all right — that I could make her as
happy as possible — when we were
once married and she had settled
down !"

It was not often that Mrs. Eeade was
perplexed, but now — between her duty
to her family, her strong affection for
Rachel, and her desire to assist her
friend — she really did not know what
to do. While she was silent, struggling
with the dilemma in her active mind,
Mr. Kingston went on.

"It is since she went to Adelonga
that she has changed so much. Haven't
you noticed ?"

"You did not behave very well to herat
Adelonga, you kno^v."

Who told you that ? Did she ?"

Never mind who told me. There is
never any secrecy about your proceedings
— I will give you that credit.
You treated her very badly at Lucilla's
ball."

"Not worse than she treated me,"
he began, impetuously ; and then he
paused and looked at his hostess. He
was gentleman enough to shrink from
discussing Rachel's misdeeds in connection
with " that Dalrymple fellow,"
but he longed to find out how much
her wise cousin and late companion
knew. Mrs. Reade fingered her knitting
with a placid and impenetrable
face.

*' Tell me — you know Rachel so intimately
— do you think "

Do 1 think what ?"

That there is anyone she cares for —
more than she cares for me ?"

He was impelled, against his better
judgments to ask this awkward question.
Mrs. Eeade gathered herself together,
so to speak ; it was one of those
sudden emergencies that inspire a brave
woman.

'^If I thought she cared for anyone
who was a better man, and could make
her happier than you," she said deliberately,
looking him straight in the face,
she should have him, or it would not
be my fault."

'' But she does not ?"

So far as I know she does not.
But," she was an honest little woman,
and it gave her a pang to mislead
him, even though she did it for what
seemed to her a good end, "but, at

the same time, no doubt she does
not care for you as she ought todo."


I hope that will come," he said cheerfully."


If only Mr. Dalrymple did not stand
in his way, he felt all difficulties manageable.


"It is a great risk ; you ought to
think well before you take it."

I have thought well."

And I will be no party to making
her take it against her will."

But I think she will be willing if
she is treated properly. Of course I
don't want to marry her by force. I
want to bring her round to like it as
she used to like it. If there is nobody
else, why not? And you ill help me,
won't you?"

Mrs. Reade looked at him with bright
and friendly eyes. He was really taking
it very well considering how badly he
had been treated, and how extremely
susceptible he was to indignities of
this, or indeed any description. He
certainly must be strangely in love
with that perverse child, she thought
much more in love than she had
ever expected to see him — to be able
to put his wrongs in the background
like this. He deserved to be helped.

And as far as human judgment was
to be trusted, to help him would be to
play Providence to Rachel.

I will do what I can," she said
kindly. 'that is to say, I won't
interfere, but I'll give you good advice
whenever you do me the honour to
ask for it."

Thank you ; I ask for it now. What
do you advise me to do ?"

She pondered a few moments, watching
him thoughtfully.

You are quite sure, once for all,
that you think it worth while to
throw yourself away on an ungrateful
little monkey who doesn't appreciate
you ?"

'* I'm quite sure I want to marry
Rachel. I hope she will appreciate me,
but if she doesn't — well, I want to marry
her all the same."

*' And are willing to take the consequences
?"

Oh, yes ; I'm not afraid of consequences
— once the wedding is over."

He smiled as he made this almost
sacrilegious assertion, which implied a
marital control of consequences that was

offensive in the ears of the little woman,
who liked to see husbands kept in their
proper places.

Don't boast," she said sharply, "you
might find yourself in a very unpleasant
position when the wedding was
over. And you will, too, if you don't
mind."

The dialogue was interrupted at this
point. A little brougham rattled past
the window on its way from the
stable-yard to the front-door, and a
servant came in with tea.

Mrs. Reade looked at her watch, and
her guest's face fell.

Is it five o'clock ?" he exclaimed testily
; '* and you have not given me any
advice 1"

'will you have a cup of tea?" she
inquired, coolly.

No, thank sou. Must you go out this
afternoon ?"

Well, I could hardly countermand
the carriage now, because you are here,
could I? We'll have a drive somewhere
before we go in to town,
and I'll give you advice as we go
along."

She drank her tea standing in the
middle of the room, and then leavings
him to fret and fume by himself, went
away to dress, and in the retirement
of her own apartment to concoct a
definite scheme of action.

In a few minutes she came back alert
and bright, in a very charming French
bonnet, and with yards of silken train
behind her. She was ready for him in
every sense of the word.

As soon as they were out upon the

road, and she had finished buttoning
a refractory glove, she said gravely,
with an air of having solved all
doubts,

Now I will tell you what you must
do."

Yes ?"

You must accept Rachel's dismissal."

'' What ! I'm sure I shall not do anything
of the kind."

Mrs. Eeade laid herself back in the
carriage and folded her hands.

Very well," she said, calmly.

No, but really — I beg your pardon —
I don't understand you. Do you mean
I must just give her up and have done
with it ? Because you know it is just
that that I can't do."

Not at all. But don't ask my
opinion "

'rob, ses, do tell me what you
mean."

"Well, I was going to suggest that
you see or write to Rachel and tell her
you will do what she wishes rather than
distress her; but that, while leaving her
free, you will consider yourself still as
much bound to her as ever, and wait
in hope that she will come back to you
comedy. That kind of thing, you know."

Oh, yes, that is all very well. And
in the meantime I shall be getting old —
that is to say, I shall be losing time —
and she will be sure to be run after
by other men the moment my back is
turned."

It will be better to lose a little time
than to worry her now," said Mrs.
Reade. " If you draw off from her a
little, she will miss you, and then probably

lie will want you, and provided
you left her assured of your faithfulness,
and didn't go flirting with Miss
Hales and people, it would be just the
kind of delicate and chivalrous consideration
for her that she would appreciate.
Yes, I know Rachel; it would
touch her heart deeply."

But some other fellow might get
hold of her — finding she was free, you
know."

'' I think," said Mrs. Reade, smiling
slightly, *' that we may safely leave my
mother to look after that."

Upon consideration Mr. Kingston
thought so too. He began to see
glimmerings of wisdom and reason in
this proposed course.

'' But your mother will have to be
looked after herself," he said, breaking

a little pause abruptly. " If I am not
to worry Rachel, nobody else shall."

*' Of course. I will look after my
mother."

And suppose," he continued presently,
deep in troubled thoughts, '' suppose
she never renews the engagement
after all?"

"Oh, well— suppose the world comes
to an end tomorrow — we can't help
it!"

"Do you think she will?"

"I do think she will — honestly, I
do — if you are patient and gentle, and
do as I tell you. She will be dull
and lonely; she will miss you about
her, and not only you, but many
pleasant things that are associated with
you ; she will bethink herself that she
has treated you badly — as indeed she

has — and she is so tender-hearted that
it will fret her. And if she sees you
occasionally, not in season and out of
season, but now and then, at opportune
times, and you do her little voluntary
services in a delicate and unobtrusive
way — then some of these days, seeing
you still, she will suddenly think that
she loves you, and— well, then it will be
all right, you know."

Oh, I hope so !" he broke out, with
a deep, impatient sigh — though it was
not a great deal to hope for when it
came to be reckoned up. " But how
long will she be reaching that point ?"

"It depends."

'• And we were to have been married
in a couple of months — three at the
most. Upon my honour, it is too
bad !"

I shouldn't be surprised if you were
married quite as soon as you arranged
to be," Mrs. Eeade proceeded calmly,
building this comfortable theory upon
the conviction that Mr. Dalrymple, in
spite of his persistence in calling at
Toorak, was not the kind of man to
remain faithful to a ball-room fancy,
nor to undertake anything so expensive
and so respectable as matrimony under
the most favourable conjunction of circumstances
; and feeling sure that Rachel,
with her clinging, impulsive nature,
finding her desires frustrated in this
direction, would be under an imperious
necessity to seek — or, at any rate, to
accept — support elsewhere. ''If I had
her with me for six weeks, I think
I would not mind risking a small
bet "

VOL. II. 3i

Can sou have her with you ?" Mr.
Kingston interposed eagerly.

No, I fear not. My mother would
not consent to let her go from home
just now. The situation is too grave.
But even as things are, if you manage
the child properly, I don't at all despair
of seeing you married — or, at any rate,
engaged again — before the year is out.
Very far from it."

'' I would give a thousand pounds
at this moment if I could be certain
that that would be," sighed Mr. Kingston,
plaintively.

Only you must do what I tell you.
I assure you, if you leant to succeed,
that is your best, if not your only
chance* Will you do what I tell
you?"

I will see Racliel first."

'' Of course. See her and give her
plainly to understand what a pain and
and disappointment it is to you to give
her up, and that you only do it for her
sake. Perhaps, if you talk it over with
her, she will cancel her letter, and it
will be all right at once ; in which case
you had better arrange for your marriage
as quickly as possible. But if it should
be otherwise — if she should still press
for a dissolution of her engagement —
let her go for a little while. It need not
be for long."

I think I will," said Mr. Kingston,
thoughtfully. And he did.

34-2

UNTIL CHRISTMAS.

RS. Evade was accustomed
not only to give advice and
to see it taken, but to seethe
wisdom of it justified in the success
of its practical application.

Nevertheless, she was more surprised
than Mr. Kingston himself at the great
and good results which apparently followed
her interference in his affairs.
Matters were a little critical for a week
or two.

Of course he " saw " Rachel, and
attacked the position which she had
taken up with all the forces at his
command. He was, in his Mentor's
judgment, indiscreetly zealous and persevering
; and the almost fierce obstinacy
of Rachel's resistance, which neither
science nor brute force could overcome,
being an altogether anomalous demonstration
of character, was even more
portentous.

But when presently Mr. Kingston, ina
dignified and graceful letter, accepted
his defeat, while at the same time
clearly intimating that the withdrawal
of his former pretensions in no way
indicated any change in his affections
and fidelity, then everything seemed to
go well.

The girl was touched and grieved to

the depths of her tender heart for the
wrong and the trouble that she had
inflicted upon him, and was in agonies
of anxiety for his welfare.

Do you think he will go back to
Miss Brownlow ?" she inquired one day
of Beatrice, with pathetic eyes full of
tears ; "and, oh, do you think she will
make him happy ?"

She was terribly taken aback when
her cousin with much asperity upbraided
her with the heartlessness of the suggestion.


For a little while, having received her
aunt's grudging acquiescence in the dissolution
of her engagement, having sent
back all her jewels, having surreptitiously
despatched a note to her lover in
Queensland (which she implored him not
to answer) to tell him that she was

honourably free, and living in the
anticipation of his return, Racliel began
to blossom in beauty and brightness
again, like a flower that night had
chilled in the warmth of morning


It was, perhaps, a little discouraging
to see how very much relieved and
refreshed she was in her freedom— that
she did not even hanker after her lost
diamonds, and the riches and luxuries
that had once been so desirable and
so precious ; but Mrs. Eeade, as washer
custom, looked below the surface
of things, and found her compensations.


That the girl had recovered her
balance, so to speak, and was in sound
health, mentally and physically, was of
the first importance in this sensible

young woman's view of the case ; and
her eager friendliness to Mr. Kingston
whenever she met him — eager in proportion
to the modesty of his demands
of course, and sometimes warm
with impulsive tenderness such as she
had never voluntarily manifested in
the days of her engagement — seemed to
foreshadow the most hopeful possibilities.
Indeed, if Mr. Kingston behaved
well, Rachel, apart from her
specific misdemeanour, behaved even
better.

Mrs. Hardy, outwardly conforming to
her daughter's scheme, would not, or
could not, disguise her resentment at
the failure of the original enterprise,
and visited it upon the girl, as perhaps
was natural, more roughly than she
would have done had Rachel been her

own child or less deeply indebted to
her.

She was ostentatiously cold and indifferent,
or she was sarcastic, and harsh,
and rude ; she was rigorous to the
verge of tyranny in her determination
to allow no other man the smallest
opportunity for improving the occasion
in the manner that Mr. Kingston had
indicated — withdrawing her niece from
all the gay assemblies where she
had hitherto disported herself with
so much enjoyment and eclat, and
keeping her to a petty routine of
study and household duties that was
made as dull and irksome as
possible.

Yet Rachel, always so sensitive to
both kindness and unkindness, and as
much hurt by a snub as she would

have been by a blow, took it all with
the sweetest patience and temper.

She devoted herself to her aunt's
service as she never had done before,
compassing the sombre woman with
every possible delicate attention that
tact and thoughtfulness could devise ;
and she not only persevered in this
amiable conduct, but kept a certain
placid and gentle brightness about her,
under all discouragements, for weeks
and weeks together.

Mrs. Reade, as a matter of course,
was greatly touched and pleased ; for
it was evident — as far as her sharp
eyes could see— that Mr. Dalrymple
was not the source of inspiration ncnv,
seeing that he had been effectually
circumvented on his first attempt to
renew her acquaintance, and had never

been seen or heard of since. It seemed
to the anxious Httle woman that the
girl had only wanted her freedom for
awhile, and that, by and bye, by the
mere drift of the current, she would be
borne back to the arms that were waiting
for her.

Things seemed to be going on so
well that Mrs. Reade, when the gaieties
of the " Cup" season were over, thought
she might venture to leave town for a
few weeks. She wanted very much to
pay a long-deferred visit to Adelonga.

She had not been there since Lucilla
was a bride, and of course she had
not seen the baby. She was also
anxious to find out for herself "the
rights " of the story that her mother
had told her concerning Rachel's conduct
and experiences while sojourning under

her sister's roof, and if possible to
make the acquaintance of some of Mr.
Dalrymple's people.

So, with customary promptitude, she
made her preparations. She sent for
Mr. Kingston and gave him judicious
advice and encouragement to direct and
uphold him in her absence.

Then she interviewed Mrs. Hardy, and
expressed herself so strongly on behalf
of her own views as to what was
right and proper in the management of
Each el's case, that they nearly came
to " words."

And, finally, having fortified the position
to the best of her power, she
sought out Rachel herself, and, in the
privacy of that little chamber at the top
of the house, bade her an affectionate
and reluctant good-bye.

I don't know if my mother has
told yon, dear, that Lucilla wanted me
very much to bring you with me,"
she said, when they were sitting
together by Rachel's window, hand in
hand.

"Did she? Dear Lucilla, how I
should like to see her !" ejaculated
Rachel, but not in the tone of voice
that Mrs. Reade had expected.

And I begged very hard for permission,
but mamma thought it better
not to interrupt your music and painting
lessons again so soon. It is a
great disappointment to you not to
go, isn't it? At first I thought
I would not tell you anything about
it."

"Ah, but I am glad you told me,"
said Rachel; "for I must send a message

to Lucilla to thank her. She
knows how I loved to be at Adelonga —
I think it is the sweetest place in the
wide world."

I wish I could take you," said
Mrs. Eeade; "but "

Oh, no, Beatrice, I cannot go, I
know. Indeed, I would rather not. I
would rather stay with Aunt Elizabeth,
and go on with my lessons."

Mrs. Reade was considerably astonished
and disconcerted by this
evidently genuine sentiment. There
was something in so ready a relinquishment
of the pleasures of Adelonga,
which had always been so great, and
also in the tremulous eagerness with
which the girl put the proposal from
her — a proposal which Mrs. Reade
had feared would be cruelly tantalising

at this time ; but it was not immediately
apparent.

Rachel could not stand the silent
scrutiny of her cousin's brilliant eyes.
Blushing violently, she rose from the
couch on which she had been sitting*,
and rested her arms on the win-downhill,
and looked out upon the
sombre pine trees that stood perfectly
motionless in the golden summer
air.

*' Do you see how that house is
getting on ?" she said, breaking an
awkward pause. '' The walls are simply
rushing up. They will be ready for the
roof directly."

Mrs. Reade stood on tiptoe and
peeped over her shoulder.

I wonder you have the heart to
look at it," she replied.

Oh, Beatrice !*'

'' I do, when you think what a wreck
you have made of all the hopes and
plans that that poor dear man has been
building with it."

He will build some more, and better
ones, by and bye, I hope."

Not he. Men don't do that so
easily at his age."

Oh, yes," she persisted, imploringly,
I think he will, indeed. He did it
very easily with me."

For an exceedingly good reason
because he loved you from the
first. Oh, you ungrateful little monkey,
it's to be hoped you'll die an ugly old
maid!"

That would be better than being
the wife for years and years of a man
I did not love."

'' Rubbish. As if one could have
everything all at once in this world.
■ You girls think of nothing but yourselves.
You don't take into account
that it. might be worth while to make
somebody else happy."

How could I make him happy
unless I loved him, Beatrice ?"

'' Oh, don't talk about it. . You have
pleased yourself, I suppose, and he
must do the best he can. He is
terribly miserable as he is, poor
fellow ; but I daresay he'll get over
it."

'ris he miserable now .?" inquired
Rachel anxiously. '' Have you seen
him lately ?"

"I saw him yesterday, and he told
me that his life had no value for him
now that he had lost you, and that he
VOL. II. ■ . 35

should never live in his house 'unless
you were the mistress of it. I
shouldn't imagine he felt particularly
jolly under those circumstances. However,
it is lio use worrying ourselves
on his account," the little woman added
cheerfully, seeing tears in her cousin's
gentle eyes.

"But I am so sorry for him !"

"that won't help him much, my
dear. And if you are happy, I suppose
■ that is all we need care
about."

Oh, no, Beatrice!"

"We haven't time to fret over
other people's troubles," Mrs. Eeade
proceeded, in what Rachel thought an
exceedingly heartless manner ; " life is
too short."

But, Beatrice—"

"Now, I can't talk ' about Mr.
Kingston any. more. I have all my
packing to do yet, and I must runaway
and see after it. Good-bye,
dearest cold. Mind you write often.
I wish, you were going with me
I ■ can't bear . to leave you behind."


Rachel flues; .her arms round her
small" cousin with characteristic fervour.


When do you think you will come
home again?" she inquired tremulously,
almost in a whisper.

"I can't say, dear, exactly."

Before Christmas, won't you ?"

"I think so ; it will all depend on
circumstances."

Oh, do be back by Christmas,"

Rachel pleaded, with an almost tragic

• 35-^

eagerness. '' It would be dreadful
if Christmas came and you were sofar
away !"

*' Am I so necessary to the festivities
of the season?" laughed Mrs. Reade,
much touched and flattered. " Well,
I'll see what I can do. Suppose I try
and bring Lucilla and the children
back, and make a regular family gathering
of it ?"

'' Oh, if you could r sighed
Rachel.

All the terrors of her time of trial
would be gone, she thought, if she
could have these two faithful cousins
beside her.

So Mrs. Reade went off by the morning
train, tolerably easy in her mind.
She took her big husband with her,
"to keep him," as she said, ^' out of

mischief;" and she stayed away much
longer than she had intended todo.
She was. delighted with Aden
and with her sister's companionship.


Ned, also, while being kept in order,
enjoyed himself excessively ; and as
long as he was " good " in the matter
of his besetting sin, his lady and
mistress liked him to enjoy himself.
There were plenty of bush gaieties in
the shape of sporting meetings and
balls, and the time slipped away
rapidly, as time at Adelonga usually
did.

A dance at the Digbys' gave Mrs.
Reade the desired opportunity for
making the acquaintance of Mr. Dairy
male's people, and she learned a few
facts with respect to that gentleman

which, while considerably aggravating
her alarm, tended to modify Bnd dignify .
the impressions of him that her mother
had given her.

Lncilla showed her a fine photograph
of his powerful, melancholy, highbred
face, and she was quite overcome
by it.

''Oh, dear me!" she said to herself,
with . a sort of angry dismay-sit is
no wonder that Each el was infatuated.
If I had had attentions from that
man —little as I am given to falling, in
love— I think I should have been as
bad as she."

When Christmas came the sisters
were still at Adelonga. Lucilla could
not leave home, and persuaded Beatrice
not to leave her. They contented
themselves with . sending pretty presents

and many loving messages and excuses
to their relatives in Melbourne, and
plunged into a series of festive
entertainments that . lasted for several
weeks.

Then suddenly, as she was dressing
for a ball, Mrs. Reade was startled to
receive a letter from her mother, begging
her to return to town at once,
as E-achel was very ill.

THE GROCJND-WniRL OF THE PEmSHED
LEAVES OF HOPE."

]RS. ■ READE lost no time in
obeying her mother's summons.
In two days she was back in
Melbourne, and having given ten
minutes to the inspection of her
domestic affairs, and refreshed herself
with tea and bread and butter, she
went on to Toorak in the carriage that
had brought* her from the station,

without even waiting to change her
travelling-dress.

At Toorak she found things in a
most discouraging and deplorable condition
— as they never would have been,
she told herself, had she remained 'in
town.

Mrs. Hardy, who met her in the
hall, and took her to her own room
for elaborate explanations, was herself
a most puzzling and unsatisfactory
feature in the case, for she made it
evident to her daughter's keen perception
that something more had
happened than was accounted for in
her rather disconnected narrative, and
that she did not intend to disclose
what it was.

There was a touch of nervous recklessness
and defiance ti the way she

•

spoke of Rashers illness— as if the
poor child • had crowned a systematic
series of misdemeanours by falling ill
on purpose — and of her hearty regret
that she had ever had anything to do
with ■ such a perverse and ungrateful
girl, which conveyed to Mrs. Reade
the impression that her cousin had in
some way been persecuted, or had
at any rate, been subjected to more
heroic treatment than her own judgment
and advice had sanctioned.

Under such circumstances it . was,
perhaps, natural that her mother
should be somewhat reserved, since
to be fully confidential wild be to
confess that she had made mistakes ;
but this sudden reversal of old habits,
occurring at this important crisis in
the family fortunes, was a serious.

aggravation of the already sufficient
difficulties that the little woman had to
deal with.

What . complicated • her task still
further was. the discovery .that Mr.
Kingston was again a frequent visitor
at the house, and a strong suspicion
that he was cognisant of those unauthorised
measures — whatever they
were — which she was not to hear of.
The only thing she could hope for
was that Rachel would make a clean
breast of all her secrets.

And if she trusts me, I will
stand her friend against them all,"
declared the baffled conspirator to
herself, as she sat and listened to her
mother's tangled story.

It appeared that Rachel's ' first signs
of illness had become apparent very

soon after the Reader had left town.
She began to fade in colour and to
fail in appetite, and grew nervous,
flighty, and restless ; and, upon investigation,
it was discovered-that
she had lost the habit of sleeping asa
healthy girl should sleep at night.

The family doctor was called in,
who, amongst other remedies prescribed
a return to horse exercise, which,
since the breaking-off of her engagement,
had been abandoned; and Mr.
Kingston thereupon begged so earnestly
that she would ride Black Agnes
again, that she reluctantly consented
to do so to please him.

Mr. Kingston behaved most delicately,
it was explained, and did not force
himself upon her in her rides. She
always went out with William.

Always," however, turned out to be
only twice, and on both occasions the
carriage had accompanied her with Mr.
Kingston in it.

• Just before Christmas she refused
to ride any more, and she behaved
in the most rude and ill-bred manner
to Mr-kingston. On Christmas Day
she was very aggravating — in what
way did not appear — and Mrs. Hardy
had to "speak" to her; and the result
was that she flew into a violent
passion, and then had a fit of
hysterics, and then fainted dead away,,
and did not come round for nearly
five minutes.

'' I don't recognise Each el in any
of those performances," remarked Mrs.
Reade. " Why did you not send forme
then, mother ?"

Because I thought it was nothing
but a temporary attack. The weather
was sultry — she was full of whims and
fancies. "What could you have done if
you had come ? And she was better
again next day."

"Weir : '

'well, then, when I was doing all
I could to nurse and take care of
her, she went out of a warm room one
night, and rambled about the garden
or somewhere in a heavy dew, and,
got her feet wet. Wasn't it too bad?
I could have shaken her when I
saw her come in, with a face as
white, as ashes, and .chilled to her
very bones !" •

'' She caught cold, I suppose ?."
*' Of course she did. And then she
had a touch of fever — what else was

to be expected? Her pulse was very
high, and she was excited, and
inclined to be" delirious— indeed, we had
as much as we could do to manage
her. It did not last long, and it
was really nothing but .the consequences
of her imprudence, the
doctor said — and there waS a little
low kind of fever going about just
now — and he did not think her constitution
was very strong. He says
she will . soon be all right, with care ;
and indeed, the fever is quite allayed
since I wrote to you, and any little
danger that there might • have been
is' over. But she keeps low. She
doesn't seem to gain strength — and
no wonder, considering we can't
get her to eat anything. I am
glad you have come back; perhaps

you will have more influence with
her than I have."

/'I suppose I may go up ?" Mrs.
Reade inquired, after a pause. Her
mother gave her permission readily ; it
was a great surprise and relief to her
to find herself .spared the searching
cross-examination . which she had
rather uneasily looked forward to.

"You had better put on your
bonnet and have a drive," the
young lady proceeded, pausing with
her hand on the door. " It will
do you good, after being in the
house so much. I don't want the
horses taken out, and they will
only scratch holes in the gravel
if they stand here doing nothing.
I am not going away till dinner
time."

Thank sou, my .clear, I think
I ■ will," said Mrs, Hardy. Mrs.
Reade went upstairs to Rachel's
room, and without knocking, opened
the door . softly.

It was a bright January afternoon,
but the heat of the day
was . over, and a sea breeze was
springing .up. The window was open,
and the chintz curtains softly rustling,
to and fro. There was ' a
magnificent bouquet on a table at the
foot of the bed ; the air was full of
the perfume of roses; a few flies were
buzzing over' a plate of strawberries
get on a chair at Rachel's side.

The invalid was lying on a sofa,
in a white dressing-gown, in an
attitude, of extreme languor, asleep
One hand holding a fan had

VOL. II . '36

dropped beside her; the other was
under her head. Her dark gold
hair was loose and tumbled, and
curling in damp rings on her temples ;
her face was flushed and thin ; * there
were hollows and shadows under the
tired closed eyes She looked as if
she had been ill for months.

Mrs. Reade, examining her attentively
as she knelt by the sofa,
was deeply shocked and concerned.
Never would she have gone away
to Adelonga if she could have foreseen
this ! And never should the
poor little thing be harried and
worried, as she had evidently been,
again, if she had any power to
prevent it — no, not though twenty
Mr. Kingston and all their twenty
fortunes were at stake.

A mosquito settled upon the girl's

white arm, and the light brush of the

finger that removed it wakened her.

She drew a deep breath, and opened

ber eyes languidly; then seeing her

visitor, she stared at her for a

second in a dazed and startled

way; and then to Mrs. Reade's

great embarrassment and distress,

she suddenly flung herself into her

arms, and broke into the wildest

weeping. . '

"Now, Rachel! sow, my dearest
child—"

But it would have been as hopeless
to try and stop the Falls ' of Niagara
as this tide of-passion at the flood ;
seeing which, Mrs. Reade waited for
the ebb in silence. By the time it
came" the girl was completely exhausted ;

16—2

she seemed to have the merest fragment
of strength.

Now," said Beatrice, when she had
sponged her face and hands and otherwise
taken steps to revive and soothe
her, "now tell me what all this is
about. I know you. are in some great
trouble, and I have come home on purpose
to help you."

''No one can help me !" Rachel cried
despairingly, tears rushing afresh into
her hot eyes. '

Oh, nonsense. Just tell me what
is the matter, and see if I can't.
Are they trying to make you marry
Mr. Kingston? Because I can soon
send him about his business."

No ; Mr. Kingston is very kind
oiow. He sends me flowers every day.
He does not worry me. He is very

considerate and thoughtful. For I think
he — knows."

Well, and now I want to know.
Is it about — someone else ? Is it about
Mr. Dalrymple?"

"Who told you?" the girl demanded,
with sharp entreaty. " Oh, Beatrice,
what have you heard? Did Mrs. Digby
tell you anything about him ? Is hein
Queensland ? Is he alive ? What is
he doing?"

Mrs. Reade replied that she had
heard nothing of Mr. Dalrymple beyond the
fact that he was believed to be in
Queensland, and doing well.

^' If he had. lot been, they must
have known," said Rachel. " Oh, my
love, if I could see you for myself
just once;"

She began tory again, naore bitterly

than before, and to wring her hands.
There was a fierce excitement in her
grief and despair that for a moment
stunned the Httle woman who had
never known what it was to be in
love.

And then Rachel told all the* story
of her clandestine engagement, as the
reader already knows it, without any
reservations. The denoioeraent was exactly
what Mrs. Eeade expected — "And
he never came !"

Poor little thing !" she ejaculated
pitifully.

*' I was as certain that he would
come as that Christmas would come,"
said Rachel, reckless in her confessions
now that she had begun to open her
heart. " And there was a strange gentleman
here, and he was shut up a

long time with Aunt Elizabeth, and I
thought it was he—"

Are you sure it was not he ?"

Quite sure. "When he was going
away I ran out into the garden and
watched for him ; he was an ugly little
man. And if it had been Eoden, and
he had wanted to see me, he would not
have allowed himself to be sent away." •

That would have depended on
mamma ; wouldn't it ?" ^

"Oh, no. He would never have let
her send him away ; and Aunt Elizabeth
says, solemnly, that he never came'"

You told her, about him then ?" asked
Mrs Reade. •

Beatrice, I was nearly mad — I don't
know what I said. She was very
angry — she always hated him. But I
did not care — I was too miserable to

care. And I made lier swear that he
had never come; and now — it is nearly
February — now I know he didn't. I
don't want anybody to tell me."

Mrs. Eeade pat all these revelations
into her mental crucible, and in a few
seconds she had the product ready. • On
presenting it to Rachel, wrapped up
in the gentlest language, it came to this
simply — that "it was always the way
with mqjCL of that kind."

He is not like other men," said
Rachel. *' I do not blame him. I
have thought of it, over and over andover,
every night and every day, and
I know why it was. I ran after Jim,
Beatrice— I took him before he offered
himself to me — I had only, seen him
once or twice when I showed him I
loved him, and made him think I wanted

him— lie did nat ask me to be his
wife until I had given myself to hips
already! I did not think of it then,
but I see it clearly now. I dragged
him into it — I gave him no choice.
And now he is away, and he thinks
.about it, and he knows I am not
enough for* him. How should I be
enough — J. for such a man as that ?
Oh, that happy woman, who died in his
arms ! Oh, how I wish I had been she !"

^' Well," said Mrs. Reade, * after a
pause, trying to speak cheerfully, but
feeling profoundly disheartened; "you
ought not to have had anything to do
with lovers and marriages at your time
of life, and you. must just give up
thinking of such things until • you are
older and wiser."

''I shall never give Mm up," said.

Rachel quietly ;" never, if I live to bea.
hundred I have told Aunt Elizabeth
— I told her to tell Mr. Kingston: —
that I shall never love any other man.
It would be impossible, after loving
him. When I am well I shall ask her
to let me go out and be a governess,
and earn my own living. I don't want"
to be rich, I want to be. .poor, like
him. And some day, perhaps, I may
see him again, and be able to do
something for him — if it isn't till he is
an old, old man, I don't care. If only
God lets him live and lets me live, so
that we are both in the world together
— I'll take my chance of the rest.
But^but," and she turned her head
from side to side, and began to tremble
and cry in a weak, hysterical
abandonment of all self-command, "if I

have to wait for years and years, without
a sight of his face or a sound of
his voice, how shall I be able to live?
The longing for him will kill me I"

Mrs. Eeade went away when her
carriage returned, more humble-minded
than she had been in her life. She
wanted very much to stay and nurse
her cousin until she was better, but
she could not do that, because she could
not trust iced to keep house and keep
sober by himself ; so she set off to seethe
doctor to get a confidential report
of the " case," meaning to intimate her
suspicions that there was a touch of
fever on the brain, and to gain his
sanction to a scheme for removing the
invalid to her own cheerful abode at
South Yarra as soon as she became
moderately convalescent.

RACHEL ON THE PHILOSOPHY OF Marriage.

Probably no girl of nineteen
probably no man or woman
of any age — ever died of a
broken heart, unless when that complaint
was complicated and aggravated
by the presence of physical disease of
some sort.

Rachel's- constitution was sound, albeit
her nervous organisation was extremely
delicate, and she did not die, neither
under this bitter first blow nor later

on, when she had still sharper ■ provocations.


A little tender petting and coddling
sat the hands of her cousin Beatrice, who
was now her devoted ally and friend,
did more to restore her than ' all the
doctor's medicines and all • her aunt's
jellies and broths.

The very talking of her troubles eased
and. soothed her, and gave her a-
sense of refreshment and rest, and
though Beatrice offered her no encouragement*
on Mr. Dalrymple's behalf —
and indeed hinted pretty broadly that
the terrible thing which had happened
was an inevitable sequel and corrective
to a lapse of reason that partook of
the character of temporary insanity, to
say the least of it — she was heartily
if not demonstratively sympathetic.

Within a fortnight of her cousin's
return she reached that stage of convalescence
which made the removal to
South Yarra justifiable, and in the"
doctor's opinion expedient.

Mrs. Eeade had great difficulty in
carrying out "this little enterprise. Her
mother had never shown herself so impracticable.


She was determined not to let Rachel
out of her sight, she said; and she
stuck to that determination against
many artful manoeuvres so steadily that
the powerful small woman, little accustomed
to be thwarted, and still less
to own to it, nearly made up
her mind to confess, herself beaten,
and to break the disappointment to
Rachel.

Mrs. Hardy, however, relented in a

sudden and unexpected manner. Lie
received a consignment of furniture and
bric-a-hrac from her travelling daughter,
together with most interesting and bewildering
advices.

Laura wrote to say that the Toorak
House, if it had any respect for itself,
must immediately get rid of its pier-glasses,
its whitewash, and its aniline
colours ; and poor Mrs. Hardy, who
had ever walked with the complacent
dignity of a priestess and oracle in the
sacred regions of household art, was
too much excited and disturbed by the
humiliating discovery that she was old-fashioned
and behind the times, and
'by her agonising desire to recover
her proper position, to pay the customary
. attention even to Rachel's
business.

While sie was absorbed in beginning
the mighty task of re-adjusting her
ideas of taste and the. details of her
domestic environment, which, after a
few years of painful struggle with • the
impracticabilities of Eastlake mediae-valise,
was to .result in the existing
combination of Chippendale and the
Japanese, she felt that it would be a
relief to divest herself of superfluous cares.

So she laid her daughter under solemn
obligations to protect Rachel's interests
and the honour of the family, and
allowed her to take the invalid away
with her for a week or two, that
so she might give, her undivided
attention to the choice of new coverings*
for the drawing-room furniture, and the
question what should be done to the
ceiling.

The two young women were very
grateful for the chance which set them
free to follow their own devices. Mrs.
Reade brought her new brougham —
a propitiatory offering from Ned after
he had scandalously disgraced himself
by going to a public dinner and coming
home in a dishevelled condition at noon
next day — and conveyed her charge to
South Yarra in a nest of soft cushions,
and laid her on a pillowy sofa in the
brightest of homely boudoirs, where
they discussed the situation and afternoon
tea with much content and cheerfulness.


Rachel was strangely peaceful and
amiable at this time. She puzzled her
companion excessively. She had, indeed,
a sort of exalted transcendentalism about
her that was almost aggravating to that
VOL. II. 37

practical and most unsentimental person.
Her way of moralising upon love and
lovers, after such an experience as she
had had, was very naive and touching,
but eminently preposterous, Mrs. Reade
considered — and she did not at all mind
saying so.

A lover who is unfaithful does the
deadliest dishonour that is possible to
love, in my opinion," said she, with her
customary air of decision. " To break
any pledge is bad enough, but to
break that pledge ought to disqualify a
man from ever again calling himself a
man."

I do not think there should be any
pledges in love, either given or asked
for," said Rachel softly. " Love is nota
thing to be tied and bound. Fancy a
man feeling that he had to keep a

promise if he did not wish to do it !
And, oh ! fancy a woman letting him —
being deceived into letting him make a
sacrifice for her ! It would be an outrage
and a degradation to both of them. I
think Rodenn — Mr. Dalrymple — is above
that, Beatrice."

From all she had heard, Mrs. Reade
was decidedly disposed to think so
too.

'' He says that they are a curse upon
people's lives — those engagements that
are kept," continued Rachel, looking
solemnly out of the window with her
pensive eyes.

'' Did he tell you that ? Dear me,
he must be a most extraordinary man."

'' I understand it perfectly — I know
what he means. When we love one
another we are not responsible ; 



thing in us makes us do it. When we
leave off loving — when we get dissatisfied
we can't help it either. It is nature
that tells us to do the one as well as
the other ; and nature should be obeyed,
Rodenn says."

Mrs. Reade made no comment upon
this, but thought to herself that it was a
remarkably wise provision of nature —
under the circumstances — that her devotee
was endowed with the courage of his convictions.


It is very hard for me now, but
it is the truest kindness and gentleness
on his part," the girl went on, with a
tremor in her quiet voice. "He knows
we understand each other better than
any one else can do. I think some
day he will come and tell me all
about it — when he thinks I can bear

it ; how he could not help it ; that that
other woman's memory was more to
him than any new love a few days
old could be, and how he was true
to her and to himself, and to me, not
to wrong any of us any further to gratify
my foolishness. It will be something
of that sort, I know ; it will be
nothing that is a disgrace to him.
Ah, Beatrice, you think I am talking
childish nonsense, I see it in your
face."

I certainly do, my dear. I think you
are fully qualified for admission into the
Yarra Bend, if you wish for the candid
truth."

No ; you don't know him, and T do.
I am puzzled, I don't deny that I am
puzzled a little ; but I trust him. He
may do what he likes ; I shall never

think that he will do anything wrong.
Some day it will be explained, and I
shall see that he was right. I shall
love him the more for not being afraid
to break off with me when he felt it
was a mistake. Under any circumstances
I love him too well not to be
thankful I am spared the misery of
seeing him suffer from a irksome marriage
that could not satisfy him. And
love — as he and I understand love —
would be degraded by vulgar efforts to
keep it under lock and key."

I don't know whether it occurs to
you," remarked Beatrice, with her head
on one side ; '* but it is a very dangerous
doctrine that you and Mr. Dalrymple
seem to believe in. Logically worked
out, it leads — goodness ' knows where it
doesn't lead to."

The blood flew over the girl's pale
face. She was the most sensitively
delicate, the most maidenly, of girls;
and she scented a meaning in her cousin's
words that shocked her terribly.

'^ I am sure that cannot be," she
said, with a majestic gentleness that
was full of severe reproach.

You don't imply that husbands and
wives, when they are tired of each
other — or even when only one is tired
are at liberty to make fresh combinations
?"

You knoio I am not alluding to
married people, Beatrice. They are like
nuns who have taken the veil; they
have nothing to do with — with — such
things as we have been speaking of."

Oh, indeed— haven't they?" •

They are in a sacred place. They

are out of the common world — out of
the arena, so to speak. The have
taken their prizes, and gone to sit with
the spectators. Even if they do marry
wrongly, and do not love each other
afterwards, in the fullest way, after
such a dedication as they have
made — with such ties and confidences,
and intimacies between them, so sacred,
and so close, and so delicate, and soso
— oh, Beatrice, don't look at me
like that ! You know what I mean."
I am trying to follow you, dear."
You are married yourself, and you
know how it is— better than I do. Yet
I know, too. If I were married — if I

were Eoden's wife "

'' You would lie down at his feet
and let him clean his boots on you, if
there did not happen to be a door-mat

handy — oli, yes, T quite understand
that

I would never make demands upon
him that he should love me always,"
the girl proceeded, with a gentle
solemnity that this kind of flippant
witticism could not discompose. '' I
would never even ask him if he loved
me. It would seem to me a coarse and
insulting question, and it would tempt
him to doubt whether he did. If he
went away from me, I would never say
to him, 'Write to me often — write me
long letters.' It is so stupid of people
to do that ! Of course, if he wanted
to, he would; and if he did it because
he was asked, his letters would be valueless,
and worse. He should never have
to think of me as a mortgage on his
life and his happiness — he should do

as he liked — he should love me as he
liked. And if ever he left off loving
me, I should know he could not help
it — I should not blame him — I should
not ask him why. I should feel it ina
moment — I am sure, long before he
did — as one feels a chill in the air
when the sun goes in, even if one's
eyes are shut; but I should never say
a word about it. And yet — "

"And yet it would never occur to
him, you think, to provide himself with
a more congenial companion ?

Beatrice, I cannot talk to you, if
you make those suggestions."

I am only making your own suggestions,
my dear. You said it was a
degradation to love to keep it under
lock and key."

'rand I said I was not speaking of

married people. You hnoio there is
something — whole worlds of things —
besides love to be considered in their case."

"Married people are just as human
as single people — and so, for the matter
of that, are nuns who have taken the
veil, I suppose. Vows, if I understand
you rightly, are immoral; and the
dictates of nature should be obeyed.
Nature is uncommonly likely to dictate
to man who is not in love with his
wife that there might possibly exist a
more desirable woman."

'' I don't know how to explain
myself," said Rachel, who felt herself
in a distressing entanglement, and yet
was conscious that her principles were
being utterly misconstrued; 'but I
know that that — what you allude to —
would be an impossibility."

"Well, I daresay it would," said Mrs.
Eeade, after a pause. She was suddenly
struck with the impropriety of
insisting upon strict logic in the discussion
of these delicate matters, all
things considered. Yet she was not
quite content to leave off at this point.

'' Put Mr. Dairy male aside, Rachel.
Suppose you were yourself married, not
to him, but to someone you did not
particularly care for?"

'' That could never be," the girl replied
quickly.

Oh, I don't know. It was very
nearly being, I may take leave to remind
you. None of us can forsee what will
happen, and 'never' is a ridiculous word
for a child like you to use. You will
not live an old maid for fifty or sixty
years because you are disappointed ina

lover whom you have known for a
few days — don't you believe it."

"I will make no vows," said Eacliel
with a faint smile ; " but I express to
you my sincere conviction that I shall
never marry anybody. If T do — and I
can't say I wish to be an old maid — I
shall tell the person, whoever he is, all
about Rodenn, frankly."

Of course you will. And very
probably he will like you the better for
that frankness, and be quite willing to
take you on your own terms. But
then, suppose after years of married
life Mr. Dalrymple turned up again, and
you found you felt towards him as you
do now — what then ?"

"What then?" repeated the girl,
much disturbed and a little affronted ;
*' I should not recognise that I felt so."

'' But suppose — for the sake of argument
— that you could not help yourself ?"

I hope 1 could help it, Beatrice. I
should not allow him to remind me of
the past."

"Would not the past suggest itself
sufficiently ? Ah, my dear, he is a very
strong man ! And you are as weak as
well, we needn't say anything about
that. If he wanted your love back, and
you had it in your heart "

"If he did," interposed Rachel; "but
I know he never would — I should love
him no more."

Would that be in accordance with
the terms of your philosophy ?"

Yes, it would. For nature makes
us with many capacities. Some of them
counteract the others. Don't talk of these
things any more, Beatrice — I don't like it."

<« Very well, dear ; I won't."

The little lady got up from her seaton
the floor, opened a window, put the
teacups on the table, and asked her
cousin if she had seen the beautiful
Persian tiles that Mr. Kingston had
just had sent out to hin for one of
the dados in the new house.

Rachel responded absently, gazed fora
little while in silence upon the sleepy
garden full of flowers and humming
bees, and as Mrs. Reade had expected,
returned herself to the abandoned topic.

"At any rate," she said thoughtfully,
'' there is one thing I would always do.
I would tell the truth. I would never
have secrets. I would sooner do the
wrongest thing, the wickedest crime,
than hide it. If I feel things in my
heart — well, my husband, if I have one.

shall know all that I know. And I
will never do anything that he — that the
whole world — may not see."

Does that seem to you so easy ?'*
inquired Beatrice, settling a top-heavy
rosebud in a slender Venetian vase.
"Did you never have any secrets that
you were afraid to tell'*

The girl was silent for several minutes.
She was crimson to the throat, and her
face was turned away from her companion.

I will do what is sure to be right
and — safe," she said at last, falteringly;
I will never marry anybody, if I do
not marry Rodenn."

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

^:^<:^i\-^''

'tejj

'«

>^(

tC";

1.

^t%

'M\

*tri

I

C^^^^^(l\y^

L I E) RA FLY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY
Of Ill N015

8Z3

A NOVEL.

BY

ADA Cambridge,

AUTHOR OP "IN TWO YEARS TIME," &C.

IN There VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

JPul)Usi)crs in ordinary to lUcr Jfiajcstp tf)e ©ucen,
NEW BURLINGTON STREET.

1882.

Right of Translation Beseemed.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

I— A Parable 1

IL— "When Yule is Cold." 17

III. — A Discovery 40

Iv—" To Meet Mr. and Mrs. Kingston." . 58

v.— A Crisis .95

VI. — Mrs. Reade meets her Match . . .113
VII.— Good-bye . . 131

VIII.~Consolation 166

IX. — Reparation 189

X— Fulfilment 209

XI.— Conclusion 230

CHAPTER I.

A P ARABLE.

T was about a month after the
foregoing conversation took
place, that Melbourne society
was fluttered by a rumour that the
engagement between Mr. Kingston and
Miss Fetherstonhaugh, which had been
unaccountably broken off, was "on"
again, and that the long-delayed wedding
was to take place immediately. Rumour

VOL. III.



for once in the way, was perfectly
correct.

People went to call at Toorak, and
found the aunt serene and radiant, and
the bride-elect wearing all the honours
of her position — not shyly as of yore,
but with a quiet candour and dignified
self-possession that was not generally considered
becoming under the circumstances.

It was thought that a little humility
would be proper in a young person who
was going to enjoy such altogether undeserved
good fortune.

It happened while she was staying at
South Yarra. Hoi it happened nobody
quite knew. Gossip attributed it to
Mrs. Reade's manoeuvres ; but Mrs.
Head, far from encouraging anything
of the sort, set herself steadily against
it, and warned Mr. Kingston of probable

consequences in the most terse and
trenchant manner (she had taken a very
different view of the situation since, her
return from Adelonga).

Gossip likewise attributed it to the
seductions of the new house, which was
beginning to shadow forth in Palladio-gingerbread
of the most ambitious
pattern, the magnificence of the establishment
that was to be ; but gossip
was equally misinformed in this respect.

Rachel was as ready as ever to admire
the house, and the beautiful tiles, and
carvings, and hangings, and upholstery,
that were constantly being designed and
produced for its adornment ; she fully
understood how much they represented
for whoever was to possess and enjoy
them. But they had not a feather-weight
of value in her eyes as compared

38-2

with the happiness she had hoped for
and lost ; they did not suggest the idea
of compensation or consolation in even
a slight degree. The fact was that
Mr. Kingston was determined to have her.

Of late he had seemed — not to Rachel,
but to Mrs. Reade — to have a sort of
half-sullen doggedness in his determination,
indicating that he was as much bent
upon winning the game as upon winning
the stakes — that he meant, before all
things, not to be beaten in the enterprise
upon which he had set his heart.

And in this frame of mind he waited
upon opportunity ; and in the end, opportunity,
as so often happens in such
cases, served him.

One day Beatrice and her husband
went out of town to lunch, and Rachel
had a long, lonely afternoon. It came

on to rain, and it was grey and chilly.
Dull weather always sent her spirits
down several degrees below the normal
temperature, and just now she was
morbidly sensitive to its influence.

If Beatrice had been at home there
would have been a fire in no time,
summer though it was ; in her absence
Rachel did not like to take upon herself
to order one. She lay on a sofa
with a shawl over her feet, and listened
to the rain pattering on the window,
and felt cold, and dismal, and deserted.

At five o'clock she was pining for
her tea, and thinking it had been forgotten,
rang for it ; and the smart young
parlour-maid, interrupted in an interesting
tete-astute with the next door coachman,
and blessed with few opportunities for
the indulgence of a naturally restive

temper, brought it in with a protesting
nonchalance, a teapotful of nasty liquid,
made with water that had not boiled,
and a couple of slices of bread and
butter that would have charmed a
hungry schoolboy — such as would never
have been presented to the mistress
of the house, as Rachel well knew.

This small indignity, so very small as it
was, greatly aggravated the vague sense of
desolation and orphanhood — the feeling
that she was a person of no consequence
to anybody — which possessed her just
now. And while she was in the lowest
depths of despondency, in the deepest
indigo of blues, Mr. Kingston calling,
discovered her solitude and came in,
tenderly deferential, full of solicitude
for her health and comfort, stooping
from his higher sphere of social importance

to pay homage to her still in
her forlorn insignificance.

For the space of half-an-hoiir perhaps
she felt that it would be good to be
married to somebody — to anybody — who
would love and take care of her, and
make the servants treat her with proper
respect ; and a mere chance enabled Mr.
Kingston to take advantage of that accident.

Looking back afterwards she never
could understand how it was that she
had felt disposed to re-accept him ; but
the causes were as distinct as causes
usually are. Badly-made tea, and the
want of a fire in dull weather are,
amongst the multifarious factors of
human destiny, greatly underrated.

Having said the fatal " yes " — or,
rather, having failed at the proper
moment to say '' no," which Mr. Kingston

justly took to mean the same thing —
Rachel was allowed no more opportunities
for what her aunt called 'shilly-shallying."

The day of the marriage was fixed
at once, and the preparations for her
trousseau simultaneously set on foot.

The girl had hardly come to realise
the extraordinary thing that she had
done when she found herself being
measured for all sorts of wearing apparel,
and consulted about the arrangements
for her honeymoon tour. Then she set
herself to do her duty in the state of life
to which she imagined herself " called,"
with a kind of hopeless resignation. She
recognised the fact that this second
mistake was not revocable like the first ;
and therefore she understood that it was
not to be considered a mistake.

All her life and energy now had to

be dedicated to the task of making it
justifiable to lier own conscience and in
the eyes of all men.

And so she was sweet and gentle to
her affianced husband, promising him
that, though she could not love him
first and best, if he was content to have
her as she was (and he assured her he
was quite content), she would do all
in her power to prove herself a good
and true wife to him ; and she was
tractable and obedient in the hands of
her aunt, and ready to fall in with all
the arrangements that were made for her.

But, as the wedding-day drew near,
the dread of it showed itself to Mrs.
Reade, if to no one else, in the dumb
eloquence of the sensitive, truth-telling
face. That little person who had such
a talent for managing, stood aside at

this crisis, and did not intermeddle with
the strange course of events.

In none of the affairs that she had
promoted and directed and brought to
successful terminations, had she taken
such a deep and painful interest as
she now felt in this, which she had been
powerless to control; but, for the first
time in her life, she was afraid to speak
to her young cousin of the thoughts
that both their minds were full of,
lest she might be called upon to advise
where she found it was impossible to
decide what was for the best, and only
waited helplessly upon Fate, like an
ordinary incapable woman.

On the night before the wedding — a
soft, bright, early autumn night —
Rachel gave her a distinct intimation
if she had wanted it, that the marriage

however it might turn out eventually,
was by no means undertaken as marriages
should be.

The girl stole away from the drawing-room
while the others were temporarily
absorbed in the preparations that were
going on for the great ceremonial, and
Mrs. Reade, hunting for her anxiously,
found her standing in the moonlight
by the kitchen-garden gate.

Looking at that house again !" the
little woman exclaimed. '' ^^hy, you
must know every stick and stone by
heart. I never miss you that I don't
find you here."

I am like our poor Jenny and the
tank," said Rachel, gazing still at the
imposing pile before her, sharply black
and white against the soft light of the sky.

Who is Jenny, may I ask ?"

"A dear cat we used to have. She
fell into a deep tank one day when
father and I were not at home, and
for two days she was struggling at
the edge of the water clinging to a bit
of brickwork, and no one came to help
her. Some men heard her cries, but
did not know where she was. As soon
as we came home, of course I found it
all out ; and I got a large bough of
wattle and lowered it down, and so she
was saved when she was very nearly
gone. Oh, poor thing, what a state
she was in ! I sat up with her all night.
But she never got over it. She was
not exactly mad, but she was never in
her right mind afterwards."

'well?" said Mrs. Eeade who was
greatly mystified. "I can't see the
drift of your allegory so far."

No ; I was going to tell you. Ever
after this happened, we had to keep a
constant watch upon her to prevent her
from throwing herself into the tank
again. If she heard the sound of the
lid being moved, she would rush to it
in a sort of frenzy. A bricklayer was
doing something to it one day, and we
had to lock her up, she was in such a
frantic state. She would be gentle and
quiet at other times, but as soon as
she thought the lid was being opened,
she got quite mad to go to it. And
at last a new servant, who did not know
of this, left the lid off one day, and
poor Jenny seized her chance, and
jumped in and drowned herself."

And that is your well, you mean ?"
said Mrs. Reade, pointing to the house.
And you are immolating yourself, like

Jenny ? Oh, Rachel, what are you talking
about !"

'' I am talking nonsense, I know,"
said Rachel, with an impressive air of
artificial composure ; " but somehow
Jenny happened to come into my head.
Beatrice, do you know I have been
thinking of something."

'' Of what? Oh, dear me,. T wish to
goodness you would think like a sensible
girl, who knew her own mind sometimes."


I have been thinking what I ought
to do. I ought to just put on my hat
and jacket and run away. I could goto
a friend, a poor widow, who used to
be very kind to me in the old daj^s, and
she would let me stay with her until I
could get a situation. 'No, don't scold
me — it is ten o'clock, isn't it ? It is

too late for a gii-l to be out at night
alone. I can do it, if I would."

'' And would you, indeed if you could ?"
demanded Mrs. Reade, holding her by
her wrists and looking imploringly into
her face. '' Do you really mean that
you have a mind to do such a thing,
Rachel ?"

Rachel was silent for a few seconds
and then she began to cry bitterly.

Oh, I don't know— I don't know !"
she said, turning her head wildly from
side to side. '' Sometimes I feel one
way and sometimes another. I want
somebody — somebody strong, like Rod en
to tell me what it is right to do !"

For a moment Mrs. Reade weighed
the merits of the proposition, and all
that lay against it, with as near an approach
to impartial judgment as true

friendship and human fallibility allowed.
And the thought of Rachel's weakness
of purpose and inability to take care of
herself, and of Mr. Dalrymple's traditional
character, turned the scale.

You cannot go back 7ioiv,^' she said.
'' My darling, you have doubly given
yourself to Mr. Kingston, and you must
try to make yourself happy with him —
much can be done by trying, if you will
only make up your mind !"

It was the last chance that Rachel
had, and she accepted the fate that
deprived her of it with characteristic
meekness. -

*' Yes, I will try," she said, wiping
her eyes. " It is too late to go back now."

WHEN YULE IS COLD.

ACHEL, when she did at last
get married, had a very
stately wedding, if that was
any comfort to her. The weather
was beautiful, to begin with ; a lovelier
autumn morning: even Australia

could not have furnished, to bean



omen of good luck for the future
years.

Each of the eight young Melbourne

VOL III.



belles who had been invited to assist
at the interesting ceremony took
care to point out the significance
of sunshine and a cloudless sky
when offering their congratulations
to the bride and to the bridegroom
also.

The bridegroom on this occasion
by no means filled the humble office
which tradition and custom assigned
to him. There was not a bridesmaid
of them all who did not feel that she
was much more Mr. Kingston's bridesmaid
than Mrs. Kingston's.

Not only were they better acquainted
and on more friendly terms generally
with him than with her, but he had
far more to say to them, and practically
far more to do with them,
in the course of the day and in the

discharge of his and their official
duties.

He was the prince of bridegrooms,
indeed. He had made magnificent
settlements upon his wife (though the
credit of that really belonged to Mr.
Hardy, who, for once in a way, had
to be reckoned with in the progress of
these arrangements) ; and his wedding
presents were on an equally noble
scale.

The bridesmaids' bracelets were solid
evidences of his worth in every sense
of the term, and inasmuch as each
bracelet slightly differed from the rest,
though all were equally costly, of the
excellence of his taste and tact. They
were valued thereafter by their respective
recipients rather as parting
keepsakes from their bachelor friend

89—2

than as mementoes of his auspicious
marriage.

And the diamond necklace that was
his special wedding-day gift to his
bride, and which lay just under the
ruffled lace encircling her white throat
a dazzling ring of shifting lights
and colours — a magnet to the eyes
of all spectators — was worthy to have
been a gift from Solomon to the Queen
of Sheba.

There was not a servant in the
house, nor near it, who did not receive
some token of the princely fashion in
which he improved this great occasion,
and who did not participate in the
general impression that he more than
rivalled, in popularity and importance,
the beautiful young lady whom he had
won.

Of the company, all were charmed
with his gaiety, his affability, and his
delightful sang-froid. He was never
for a moment embarrassed. He overflowed
with airy courtesies, not only
to his bride, but to all her maids and
friends.

He made a brilliant speech, that
exactly hit the happy medium between
tearful pathos and unfeeling jocularity,
and that was full of well-bred witticisms,
provocative of gentle, well-bred
laughter. He was, in short, all
that a bridegroom ought to be, and
so very seldom is. He covered himself
with honour.

E-achel, on the contrary, seemed to
have been mesmerised into temporary
lifelessness. It was expected that she
would be shy and fluttered, and bathed

in blushes ; but she was not agitated
at all, and she did not blush at all.
She bore herself generally with a
statuesque composure that was thought
by some to be very dignified, and by
others very wooden and stupid, and
that was a little depressing to witness
from either point of view. From the
beginning of the day she wore this
unnatural calmness.

Mrs. Eeade had been in terror lest
she should give way to unbecoming
excitement at some stage of the ceremonies,
and was prepared to combat
the first symptoms of hysteria with such
material and moral remedies as were
most likely to be efficacious.

She had strictly enjoined Lucilla,
who had brought the baby to the
wedding, not to let that irresistible

child appear upon any account, and
bidden her restrict herself to the most
perfunctory caresses until the public
ordeal was over. But long ere this
point was reached the little woman
was lonmnof to see some sirens of the
emotional weakness that she had deprecated,
and there were none.

The bride was as beautiful as a
sculptor's ideal, but as cold as the
marble which dimly embodies it. She
had apparently nerved herself for a
sacrificial rite, or else the greatness
of lier suffering had numbed her ;
or she was calm with resignation and
despair.

I wish," said Mrs. Reade to herself,
in the middle of the marriage service,
I wish I had stopped it last night. I
have made a mistake."

But as this thought occurred to
her, she was standing — a splendid little
figure in ruby velvet and antique lace
in the midst of scores of other
splendid figures, a helpless witness to
the irrevocable consummation of her
mistake, which after all was less hers
than anybody's.

Rachel had given her '' troth " to her
husband, and he was putting the ring
that was the sign and seal of it — the
token and pledge of the solemn vow
and covenant betwixt them made — upon
her finger.

When the breakfast was over, that
domestic pendant to the religious
ceremony having " gone off " with
great success, Mrs. Kingston, in due
course, retired to put on her travelling
dress.

The bridesmaids proper were dispensed
with, at this stage, and the two
married cousins went upstairs with the
bride.

It was Beatrice now who was tender
and caressing ; Lucilla, who did not
see very far below the surface of anything,
and was delighted with the
pomp and circumstance of this new
alliance in the family, and charmed, like
all happy matrons, to welcome a newcomer
into the matrimonial ranks, overflowed
with unwonted gaiety.

Now we are all married !'' she
exclaimed, sinking upon a sofa in
Rachel's room, and looking very fair and
young— as if marriage had thoroughly
agreed with her— in a pale blue French
dress of the highest fashion. " And
we have all married so well, haven't

we ? And we have all got such good
husbands. Oh, how nice it will be
when Rachel and Laura come back
and begin housekeeping ! John is going
to let me have a house in town, too,
as soon as Isabel and Bruce come
home, so that we shall be down for
part of the year ; and then what a
cosy little family circle we shall make !
But Rachel will be at the head of us
all. Ah, dear child, you will know now
how nice it is to be a married woman
to have your own husband with you
always — such a delightful, attentive
husband, too, as I know he will be —
and your own home — such a beautiful

home "

"You lock up her diamonds, Lucilla,"
Mrs. Reade interrupted, handing the
starry necklace to her sister. " And,

Rachel, dear, don't stand and tire
yourself. Sit down, and let me dress
you."

Rachel, when her bridal lace and
satin had been taken off, sat down to
be sponged and brushed, and to have
her travelling boots laced up.

Beatrice performed her lady's-maid
offices in silence, while Lucilla handed
her what she wanted, and pleasantly
chatted on ; and when all was done,
and the bride, in russet homespun, was
ready for her departure, there were a
few words whispered that Mrs. Thornley
did not hear.

*' My darling, you said you would try."

*' Yes, Beatrice, dear; yes, I am
trying."

You are not finding it very hard —
too hard — are you."

It will be easier in a little
while."

If you make an effort, Rachel — if
you make up your mind — if you are
kind and good to your husband, and
try to keep him straight, and to make
his home happy "

'* Yes, dear; yes. I am going todo
all I can. But to-day I can only
feel that I have lost — quite lost — Rodenn.
I feel now as if he were dead. Even
the memory of him I must not comfort
myself with any more. That is what
I feel hard. But I am trying to get
over it. I have promised Mr. Kingston
Graham — all those solemn promises,
and I must keep them — I will. It is
only at first that I don't know how
to bear it ; but it will be easier by-and-bye.
We must not talk about it,

Beatrice; it is wrong to talk about it
now. And, oh ! I do so dread that I
shall break down."

She did break down at last. When
she descended the staircase into the
hall she found all the company awaiting
her, the front door open, and the carriage
that was to take her away being packed
with her travelling bags and wraps.

She shook hands with all the guests,
and smiled a gentle response to their
congratulatory farewells ; she shook
hands with John and his fellow-servants;
she kissed her uncle and
thanked him for all his kindness to
her; she embraced Lucilla and Beatrice
with silent fervour, and then her stately
aunt, to whom she repeated her grateful
acknowledgements for the home and care
that had been given her."

A MERE CHANCE.

I am afraid I have not made much
return to you for your goodness to me,
dear Aunt Elizabeth," she said, with
pathetic earnestness, but with no agitation
of voice or manner.

To her intense surprise the majestic
woman suddenly burst into tears.

"Oh, my child !" she said, tenderly,
I hope I have been as good an aunt
to you as you have been a good niece
to me. I hope you will be very, very
happy, my darling. If you are not, I
shall never forgive myself."

Mr. Kingston, of course, was standing
by, and a frown fell like a cloud
over his face. Mrs. Reade was also
standing by, and she looked at him
steadily for a few seconds with clear,
bright eyes.

Come, Rachel," he said, and he only

looked at his wife ; " we shall lose our
train if we don't make haste."

Rachel withdrew herself from her
aunt's arms, and Mr. Kingston took
her bj the hand and led her away,
followed from the house to her carriage
by all her train. She was a good deal
shaken by the little incident that had
so unexpectedly occurred.

There was no mystery to her in
what Mrs. Hardy had said, but the
thing she had done was very strange
and very touching. It invested the
Toorak House and all its belongings
with a new charm that the orphan girl
had never felt before with all the kindness
that she had enjoyed there.

At no time in the fourteen or fifteen
months that she had lived in it had
it seemed so much her *home" as at

this moment, when her aunt cried Hke
a mother at parting from her — so desirable
a place to stay in now that she
had to go.

'swells' said Mr. Kingston, when the
carriage was fairly out of the Hardy
grounds, and he had waved a gracious
adieu with the tips of his fingers to
the woman at the lodge, who stood in
her Sunday best and white satin cap-ribbons,
smiling and curtseying, to see
them pass ; " well, that is a good thing
over, isn't it ? Of all the senseless institutions
of this world, a wedding a la
mode is about the most preposterous.
You look knocked up already, when
you ought to be fresh for your
travels."

He spoke with a little nervous irritation,
and Rachel did not answer

him. Her heart was beating very fast,
beating in her ears and in lier
throat, as well as in the place where
its active operations were usually carried
on.

All her powers were concentrated
upon a desperate effort to postpone that
breaking-down which she had dreaded,
and which she felt was inevitable, until
she could shut herself within four
walls again. But she could not postpone
it.

Her husband took her hand and
asked her what was the matter with
her — whether she felt ill, or whether
she was regretting after all that she
had married him ; whether she was
going . to make him happy, as she had
promised, or to curse his life with its
bitterest disappointment — speaking half

VOL. III. 40

in love, half in anger, with a sudden
outburst of protesting entreaty provoked
by her irresponsive silence. And
she began to cry — almost to scream —
in the most violent and alarming
manner.

'^ My dear love ! my sweet child !"
cried the bridegroom, aghast. " T did
not mean to vex you, Rachel. I did not
mean to blame you, my pet. Rachel,
Rachel, hush ! do hush ! Don't let that
confounded coachman go back and say
Rachel, do you hear ? " — giving
her a little shake — '' there are people
passing. For Heaven's sake don't make
a scene in the street, whatever you
do !"

Rachel was almost beside herself with
excitement, but she was awake to the
indecency of betraying her emotion to

the servants and the passers-by. Moreover,
something in her husband's voice
steadied her.

By a strong effort she checked the
headlong impulse to rave and scream
that for a few seconds was almost
overpowering, and held herself in with
shut teeth and tight-locked hands, wildly
sobbing under her breath, and by-and
bye, when the first rush of passion had
spent itself, she became quiet and tractable,
fortunately, before they reached the
railway-station.

Mr. Kingston was terribly shocked
and outraged by this behaviour. He
would have given anything to be able
to scold her — in a gentle and judicious
manner, of course — but he was afraid
to attempt such a thing, or even to
speak of the probable causes that

40—2

had led to such deplorable impropriety.


He rummaged for his spirit-flask, and
made her drink a few drops of brandy,
which nearly choked her ; he found
some eau-de-cologne and bathed her
face; he got her to put on a thicker
veil, which happened to be amongst
the luxuries that her aunt and cousins
had stuffed into her travelling-bag ;
and he kissed her and petted her, and
when she attempted to explain and
excuse herself, bade her " Hush ! till
another time," and would not listen to her.

His immediate anxiety was to restore
her personal appearance and her powers
of self-command. The more important
matters could wait. And he succeeded
in his efforts ; she did not break down
any more.

Their journey that day was not very
far. An hour or two in the train, and
then half a dozen miles in a comfortable
covered buggy, and they reached
the country house which had been
placed at their disposal — the best substitute
to be had for that charming
residence on the shores of the bay at
Sydney — where they were to spend two
or three weeks in their own society
before starting by the next mail to
Europe.

As they were driving through the
silent bush, in the dusk of that
autumn day, and the bridegroom,
wrapped in his fur-collared overcoat,
was musing not very happily upon
the success that had crowned his lono^-
cherished hopes and plans, his young
wife slipped her hand under his arm,

and laid her cheek upon his coat-sleeve.


'' Graham," she whispered softly.

He turned round quickly, and took
her in his arms. It was the first time
she had spoken his name and offered
him a caress voluntarily, and he was
greatly touched and cheered.

Will you forgive me P" she said,
not shrinking away from his embrace,
but creeping into it as she had never
done before. '' And, oh, will you love
me, in spite of it all?"

Love you !" he echoed, tenderly.
My sweet, I have always loved you
more than anybody in the world, and I
always shall. It will not be on my side
that love will be wanting."

She said no more, but she lay still,
with her head in its soft little sealskin

cap on Lis breast, as if lie liked to feel
his arms about her.

It was so new to him, and so immeasurably
delightful. He had never
expected to feel happier (even on his
wedding day) than he felt now, with
his best beloved, who had been so impracticable,
his own at last, giving herself
up to him in this way.

Poor, parasitic little heart, full of
spreading tendrils ! It was essential to
its very existence that it should have
something to cling to — which was a view
of the case, that happily did not chance
to strike him.

A DISCOVERY.

HERE was a great ball at
Toorak on the night of the
wedding, and like all the
nuptial ceremonies, it went off with
great eclat.

Mrs. Hardy recovered her serenity
very quickly after the bride's departure,
and appeared in the evening, clothed in
smiles and sapphire velvet, looking the
proud woman that it was generally conceded
she had a right to be. Lucilla,

at home for the first time since her
sister Laura's wedding, and since her
accession to the dignities of maternity,
and carrying herself very prettily as a
personage of consequence amongst the
unmarried friends of her girlhood, looked
extremely well and very happy, and
reflected great honour upon her family
in a variety of ways. Beatrice also
was unusually brilliant, not only in her
personal appearance, but in her mode of
discharging the duties of the occasion
a little too much so, indeed, if anything.


Some elderly ladies, and a very few
young men, were 'subsequently heard to
express an opinion that she carried that
sharp and satirical manner of hers to
an excess that was unbecoming in a
person of her sex and years, even if she

had married money and become a leader
of fashion.

A little after midnight, these two
young women, the one for the sake of
her baby, and the other on account of
her husband, excused themselves from
further attendance on Mrs. Hardy, and
drove back to South Yarra, where the
Thornleys were staying, carrying their
willing lords along with them.

When they reached home, where of
course they found bright fires ready
for them, the men retired to the smoking-room,
Mrs. Reade having laid upon her
brother-in-law the responsibility of keeping
his host from getting " any worse
than he was already ; " and the ladies
went upstairs to Lucilla's apartment.

Lucilla having only arrived in town
the day before, she and her sister had

had no opportunity for what they called
a good talk; and now the baby being
found asleep and in his nurse's charge
for the night, they sat down to begin
it, having previously got rid of ballroom
finery and made themselves comfortable
in their dressing-gowns.

"Does Ned often get— a— like this?"
Mrs. Thornley began, with a compassionate
inflection in her soft voice. She
knew of course that one couldn't expect
everything, but still she was sorry that
her sister's excellent marriage should
have this particular drawback, than
which she could hardly imagine one
more unpleasant and embarrassing, and
that a nice fellow Hke Ned, with a
noble pedigree and the sweetest temper in
the world, should take his social pleasures
as a shearer would celebrate pay-day.

Mrs. Reade was thinking, at the same
moment, that John was ageing very fast
and getting immensely stout, and that
his manner of addressing his wife, and
his bearing towards her generally,
was more peremptory and dictatorial
than she would feel inclined to put
up with if she were in Lucilla's
place.

''Oh, no," said the little woman,
sharply; "it is only on these festive
occasions, when I am not able to look
after him properly. And at the worst
he is not very bad. He never gets
obstinate and quarrelsome, as some men
do— only vaguely argumentative and subsequently
sleepy. I should think no
husband, with so pronounced a tendency
that way could be easier to manage —
if one knows how to manage."

You were always a splendid manager,
Beatrice."

"Well, I just hold him well in hand
that's all. I know he can't help it,
to a certain extent, so I don't keep
always worrying at him about it. It
is only now and then that I give him
a real good talking to — to prevent his
thinking I might grow indifferent, as
much as anything."

He is such a dear, good fellow,"
said Lucilla, " but for that."

'' He is a dear, good fellow, in spite
of that," replied Beatrice, who allowed
no one but herself to disparage her
husband. " He is better worth having,
with all his faults — and that is about
the only one he has — than most of your
brilliant society men. I only hope Mr.
Kingston will be as little trouble to

Rachel as Ned lias been to me — and
half as good and kind to her."

*' Yes, dear. I didn't mean to say
that he wasn't the best of husbands —
far from it. Indeed, we may both be
thankful for our good luck in that respect
— all of us, I should say. I should
think no four girls in one family are
more happily situated than we are."

'' I hope so," sighed Mrs. Reade. " I
hope we are all as happy as — as weare
well off otherwise."

'dear little Rachel!" said Mrs.
Thornley, musingly. '^I don't think
there is any doubt about her being
happy. It is quite extraordinary to see
how fond of her Mr. Kingston is — really
fond of her, I mean. Did you think he
would ever marry such a young girl,
Beatrice ? and be so terribly anxious todo

it, too? I didn't. I suppose it washer
beauty captivated him."

Sto," said Beatrice; "it was the
fact that she didn't want to captivate
him. That has been her charm all along
he has felt that his honour was concerned
in making her, and it has been
a difficult task."

'' Oh, but I know he thinks a great
deal about beauty, and she is really the
prettiest girl in Melbourne, 1 do think,
though she does belong to us. She did
not look so pretty to-day though, as
I expected she would. That dead-white
in the morning that brides have to wear
does spoil even the best complexion. I
thought hers could stand anything, but
it can't stand that. When she wears
it in the evening, now — not dead-white,
but transparent white — she is a perfect

picture. At that ball of ours last
year everybody was talking of her.
She was in Indian muslin. John
said she was like a wood anemone."


Mrs. Reade was gazing thoughtfully
into the fire. The mention of the
ball at Adelonga stirred many troubled
thoughts. The real importance of
that event, in its effect upon Rachel,
had never been known to Mrs.
Thornley, who was led to suppose
that the suspension of Mr. Kingston's
engagement in October was solely
due to certain vanities on his part,
which the girl would not condone.

Mrs. Hardy's terror lest " people"
should get to know that a member
of her family had had any dealings
of a compromising nature with

such a person as she considered
Mr. Dalrymple to be had been
the cause of this extreme reticence.


A general impression prevailed amongst
the guests who had attended the
ball, that the handsome ex-hussar
had admired the belle of the evening
to an extent that had roused
the wrath of her fiance against him ;
but no one, strange to say, had
been able to discover more than
that.

Mr. Dalrymple himself never had
confidantes in these matters; and
Mr. Kingston, when he was enlightened
at Christmas, was as little
desirous as Mrs. Hardy that the
facts of the case should be published.
Beatrice and Rachel, who alone dis-vol.

III. 41

cussed them freely, did so with the
strictest secresy.

Mrs. Reade had no confidential
intercourse with her mother, as of
yore, on the subject of her cousin's
welfare. They had jointly resolved,
just before the younger lady set out
for her summer visit to Adelonga,
that it would be safer to exclude
Lucilla (as a married woman who
told her husband everything) from
any participation in the knowledge of
the mischief that Mr. Dalrymple had
done, and of Rachel's unfortunate infatuation
for him — which did not
seem so very serious at that time ;
aud since then his name had scarcely
been mentioned between them.

Now, however, the anxious little
woman, with a load of care that she

was by no means used to weighing
on lier heart, was impelled to take
advantage of the opportunity offered
by Lucilla's reference to that momentous
ball to put a question that
had suddenly become to herself,
tormenting importunate.

Has anything been heard of that
Mr. Dalrymple lately ?"

Oh, yes," said Lucilla ; " he is
gradually getting better."

*' Getting better !" echoed Beatrice,
sharply. " Why, what is the matter with
him? Is he ill?"

'' Didn't you hear ? He had a
dreadful accident. He was breaking
a young horse that was very wild,
and it bucked him off, or did something,
and he fell on his head. It is
a wonder he didn't break his neck.

41—2

No one saw it happen, for he was
away on the plains by himself, and
it was only when he did not come
home at night that Mr. Gordon went
to look for him. They were a longtime
finding him, and he had been
there for hours, and he was quite
insensible. There were some wild dogs
sniffing at him, as if he were really
dead. Indeed, Mr. Gordon said, if
they hadn't found him when they
did, the dingles would probably have
made an end of him. Was it not
dreadful?"

Mrs. Reade was staring at the fire,
not displaying that interest in the
narrative that its tragic details demanded,
apparently.

When did it happen ?" she asked
quietly, without lifting her eyes.

Oh, some time ago — in December.
We did not hear of it until January.
But he is only now able to get out
of bed and crawl about, poor fellow.
He was dreadfully hurt. His brain
was affected, and the summer weather
in that hot place was so much
against him. And, of course, he
couldn't have what he wanted up
there, and was too bad to be moved.
Mrs. Digby went there to nurse him
the Hales took the children for her.
It was enough to kill her, so delicate
as she is ; but she would go. She
idolises him almost. Mr. Digby went
with her, and stayed till the worst
was over. And Mr. Gordon was most
devoted — he went all the way to
Melbourne to consult the doctors
there about him, travelling night and day."

Were there no doctors nearer than
Melbourne?"

Yes, of course ; they had two.
But he wanted the best opinions.
He is Mr. Dalrymple's partner, you
know, and they were old friends
before they came out here."

'sand did Mr. Dalrymple seem to
be any better after he got the Melbourne
prescriptions ?"

*' No ; it was not a case where
doctors could do much. He seemed
to rally a little while Mr. Gordon
was away, but he had a bad relapse
afterwards. The weather became frightfully
hot, and the fever of course
got worse. He was delirious for a
whole fortnight, and then he was so
low that he just seemed sinking. However,
he must be an amazingly strongman

naturally. He managed to struggle
through it, and now be is getting
about, and all danger is over, though
Mrs. Digby says he is like a walking
skeleton. I expect she will have
brought him home with her by the
time we go back ; he will soon get
well when she has him in her own
house. I shall go over and see him,"
added Lucilla, compassionately ; " and
I shall ask him to come to Adelonga,
as soon as he is strong enough,
and let me nurse him for a few
weeks."

Mrs. Reade had before her mind's
eye that photograph which her sister
had shown her in Mrs. Digby' s
house. She saw every lineament of
the powerful, impressive face distinctly
even in a photograph it was nota

face that once looked at, could
be forgotten ; and she pictured to
herself the changes that months
of wasting illness would have made
in it.

A warm rush of indignant pity,
mingled with something near akin to
admiration, filled her heart, which was
wont to indulge itself in womanly
weaknesses — an impulse to champion
and befriend this man of so kingly
a presence, whose sins, whatever they
were, were balanced with so many
misfortunes. And yet for a moment
she could not help regretting that his
fall from his horse had not broken
his neck.

Ned, guiltily creeping into his 
about half an hour later,
never had the fumes of superfluous



champagne dispersed from this bi^ain
so quickly. He saw this wife sitting
by her own fireside, with her feet on
the fender and her face in her hands,
crying — actually crying — like any
common woman .

TO MEET MR. AND MRS. KINGSTON.

ACHEL was away for nearly a
year and a half, seeing all the
kingdoms of the earth and the
glory of them in the most luxurious
modern fashion. It was such a tour
as a romantic and imaginative woman
born to a humdrum life would feel to
be the one thing to '' do " and die ; and
according to her account, she enjoyed
it extremely. She came home very

much improved by it in the opinion of
her aunt and other good judges.

'' Certainly," they said, '' travel is the
very best education ; there is nothing:
like it for enlarging* the mind, and
for giving polish and repose to the
manners."

Mrs. Kingston, indeed, when she took
her place in the society of vrhich her
husband had honos been so distinguished an
ornament, was a very interesting study,
as exemplifying this soundest of popular
theories. She was o-reatlv altered in all
sorts of ways. She had quite lost
that bashful rusticity which had been
Mrs. Hardy's despair', and in her unpretentious
fashion, was really very
dignified.

o

There was no hurry and flutter about
her now as there used to be; none of

that indiscriminate enthusiasm, which in
her aunt's eyes branded her as a poor
relation who " had never been used to
anything nice." She expressed her appreciation
of things smilingly and
sweetly, with more or less of her natural
bright frankness, but with a well-bred
moderation and serenity that might
have become a duchess. To please her
husband she wore rich raiment, " composed"
by the most distinguished
Parisian artists, and it symbolised the
change that all her individuality seemed
to have undergone.

She was no longer a girl, an ingenue
a bread-and-butter miss, a pretty little
nobody ; she was an experienced and
cultured woman, a leader of society,
fully equipped for that high position,
with a just appreciation of her own

importance, and relatively to that of
other people's.

Indeed, there seemed to certain persons
Miss Brownlow amongst others — indications
in her reticent and reposeful
manner of a tendency to be exclusive,
and to think a great deal too much of
herself.

Mrs. Hardy, who was immensely interested
in the unforeseen development,
was beyond measure gratified by it —
more especially as the young wife was
evidently on the best of terms with
her husband, though she had the good
taste to refrain from drawing public
attention to the fact.

Many apprehensions were set at rest
by the sight of her entering a room
on his arm, carefully and beautifully
dressed, as if she had enjoyed dressing

herself, and twinkling with diamonds
everywhere, responding to respectful
greetings with quiet grace, moving in
her comparatively higher sphere as if
she felt thoroughly at home in it. It
seemed to the anxious matron that an
end had been reached which justified
all the means that had been taken to
compass it.

Mrs. Reade was not so satisfied. She
looked at the change in Rachel from
another point of view. She did not
like to see a girl who had been
exceptionally girlish, turned into a
sober woman with such unnatural
rapidity.

Her sister Laura had come home, and
was now settled at Kew, giving entertainments
in a severely-appointed high-art
house; she had had quite as much

of the education of travel as Rachel —
perhaps more, inasmuch as her young
husband was a dabbler in bric-a-bric,
and had a taste for old churches, and
palaces, and pictures ; whereas Mr.
Kingston's interest in foreign cities,
however famous, had chiefly concerned
itself with the quality of the society
and the cuisine of the hotels.

But Laura, though stored with information
and experience., and lately
the happy mother of twin daughters,
was much the same as she had been
in her maiden days — cheerful, enterprising,
a rider of harmless hobbies, a
great believer in herself, and in the
force and variety of her fascinations.


She had improved and developed, of
course, but the experiences of travel

had not changed her as Rachel was
changed.

The acute Httle woman who practically
had never solved the meaning of
love and marriage, and quite understood
her disqualifications in this respect,
yet had glimmerings of the state of
things that existed in Rachel's heart.
She knew — though she had come to
the knowledge by slow degrees — that
the girl was not weak all through, but
only weak as the water-lily is,

Whose root is fix'd in stable earth, whose head
Floats on the tossing waves."

And that just as she had been tenacious
of certain principles in her earlier life,
when living with her father in an
atmosphere which she had only her
own instinct to teach her was tainted

with dishonour, so she would hold fast
to some other things, if they had taken
root, with a secret, blind integrity in
spite of her emotional fluctuations in the
winds and waves of circumstance.

She had adapted herself to the conditions
of her marriage with the pliant
submissiveness of her disposition ; but
there was a part of her that refused
to be reconciled to all the degradation
that was involved, and it was a tough
and vital part of her.

Since this was violently repressed,
comprehending as it did all those
aspiring ideals which had had so much
poetry and promise, and which represented
for her, in their loss as in
their possession, the meaning of human
happiness and the diviner aspect of
human life, there was naturally a great

VOL. III. 42

vacuum somewhere — a great emptiness
for which no compensating interests were
available. Hence that serene impressiveness
of mien and manner which
had so mature and distinguished an
air.

Mrs. Reade's own marriage was very
much of the same pattern in one
respect — it was but an outward and
visible sign of marriage that had no
inward and spiritual grace ; but then
she did not know what it was that she
missed, and Rachel did. And the difference
between the two cases was
perfectly obvious to that intelligent
woman.

On the return of Mr. and Mrs.
Kingston to Melbourne, a number of
fashionable parties were of course given
in their honour. At the chief of these,

a great ball in the Town hall, the
dramatic action of this story, temporarily
suspended by our heroine's
absence from the country which held
all its elements in solution, so to speak,
was suddenly set going again.

It was towards the end of October,
just when the gay season of the races
was about to set in, and when the
spring was in its glory. It strangely
happened to be also the anniversary of
the night of her clandestine betrothal
to Rodenn Dalrymple, which was the
memorable last time — two whole years
ago — that she had seen or heard of
him.

Nowadays she never mentioned Rodenn
Dalrymple's name. She had never
mentioned it to her husband since he
and she came to a certain under -

42 — 2

standing on their wedding-da j, and her
husband had scrupulously avoided mentioning
it to her ; which reticence on
his part was odd and uncomfortable
rather than considerate and delicate, inasmuch
as she was intensely anxious to
pursue the line of conduct that she had
laid down for herself in her relations
with him — to have no secrets and to
tell the truth — and to bring their companionship
into such harmony and
sympathy as the nature of things made
possible.

And since her return she had never
even suggested the existence of her
lost lover to any of those who might
have given her information about him
not even to Beatrice. She '^ would
not recognise that she felt " any interest
in his existence.

Nevertheless, she Kved in a perpetual,
absorbing, all-pervading consciousness
that he and she were " in the world
together," and that the key. to the
whole system of the universe lay somehow
in that fact.

And the years and months, and days
and hours were all dates in the first
place, and periods of time in the
second ; and every date was a
register of ineffaceable memories of
him, which she could not destroy or
ignore.

So on this great anniversary, as the
hour approached which witnessed their
last interview in the solitude of the
half-built house (the boudoir was in
the hands of the decorators now, and
the sacred spot of floor was covered
over with inlaid woodwork), she tried

to put the thought of it out of her
mind — tried to shut her eyes to the
inevitable agonising and tantalising
perception of what might have been —
and yet was acutely responsive to
every tick of the clock on her mantelpiece,
checking off the reminiscent
moments one by one. She followed
the events of that long-ago happy
night perforce as an unquiet spirit
'' raised " against its will.

Now we were sitting together,"
she remembered, as the little clock
struck nine silvery notes. '' We were
looking at the moonlight on the bay.
Ah, me, how lovely that moonlight
was !"

Rachel," called her husband from
his dressing-room within, whither he
had just arrived from a dinner at the

club, " aren't you dressed yet ? I rue
that young woman of yours on the
stairs ; she seems to have more time
on her hands than she knows
what to do with. Why don't you
make her wait on you better? She
ought to be getting you ready by this
time."

Rachel jumped up hastily and
rang for her maid, whose ministrations,
essential to the dignity of her
present position, she certainly did not
appreciate.

I shall not be long dressing,"
she replied ; 'rand it is early
yet."

And then she went into his room
to ask him if he had had a pleasant
party at dinner, and whether he had
enjoyed it, anxious to show him some

special tenderness on this special night
anxious to find some shelter in his
affection from the reminiscences that
beset her.

He was a little irritable, for his gout
was troubling him, and he did not
respond to her advances. He patted
the hand that she laid on his arm ina
perfunctory manner, and sent her
back to begin her preparations for
the ball. He did not wish her to
dress herself quickly ; he wanted her
to make the most of her beauty and
her supplementary resources on such a
great occasion.

He was very fond of his wife still,
and proud of her, and good to her
in his own rather tyrannical way; but
his marriage with her, after a year
and a half of it, had become to himself—

as under the circumstances was
inevitable — a very un romantic and
commonplace affair.

They had lived together in tolerable
peace and comfort ; they had never
quarrelled, simply because it was
Rachel's habit to efface herself at
the first symptoms of rising temper ;
but neither had they been companions,
in any proper sense of the
term.

As yet he had no active sense of
injury and injustice, in that the possession
of his treasure gave him such
meagre compensation for all that he
had paid for it, but he did feel, in a
general way, that matrimony was — ashe
confessed he had been well warned
that it would be— very tame and dull,
and uninteresting, and that it would

be too unreasonable altogether to
expect a man to devote himself
exclusively to its demands. Even
little Rachel herself, he was quite sure,
would not wish him to be bored to
death.

And so he fell back insensibly into
many of his old self-indulgent habits,
and the pleasures of his bachelor life
grew more than ever pleasant. This
was particularly the case after his
return to Melbourne, where his face
became as familiar to club men as in
the ante-nuptial days. Some excuse
for this independence was supposed
to lie in the fact that he and his
wife had not yet settled down to
housekeeping.

The Toorak mansion was being furnished
and decorated with the treasures

of art and upholstery that they had
brought out with them ; and until
everything was completed, and the
entire establishment was in proper order
for their reception, and for the giving
of that magnificent house-warming to
which the world of Melbourne fashion
•^as looking forward, they were inhabiting
a suite of rooms in an hotel,
and domestic life, consequently, was to
a certain extent disorganised.

On this night of which we are speaking,
Rachel thought it was very kind and
attentive of him to come home to her a
full hour before he needed to have done.
It never occurred to her, any more than
to him, that he neglected her.

The servants of the hotel, who were on
the watch for a sight of her as she went
to her carriage, thought her not only one

of the most lovely, but one of the most
fortunate of women ; and so did the
majority of the gay company at the Town
Hall, when she made her appearance
amongst them.

She had come back from Europe and all
her sea-voyaging, in excellent physical
health, and the last year or two of her
life, in spite of sorrowful vicissitudes, had
ripened and developed her beauty in a
very marked degree.

She was dressed in white, but with
great richness, of course — her husband
had seen to that ; covered with precious
lace, that was as attractive to the eyes of
the Melbourne ladies as the delicacy of her
pure complexion was to those of the men.
And she wore her necklace of diamond
stars, and diamonds on her arms, and on
her bosom, and in her hair ; and she was

altogether very magnificent, and made a
great sensation.

Amongst her many admirers she noticed,
when she had been in the room a little
while, a short, stout man, of about forty
or fifty years of age, apparently, who was
a stranger to her, regarding her with
much attention.

He had rather an air of distinction
about him in spite of bis low stature, and
a noticeable absence of beauty; and she
had a dim — very dim — impression that she
had seen him, or someone like him,
before.

He wore a fair moustache but no beard
or whiskers, and his florid face was
marked down one side with the puckered
white scar of an old wound.

His eyes were quick and bright, and
the keen observation that he brought to

bear upon lier through an eyeglass that he
put into one of them whenever she came
near, obviously with the intention of
studying her to the best advantage, was a
little disconcerting even to an acknowledged
beauty.

She was waltzing with Mr. Buxton — it
was her second waltz, and he danced very
well — when suddenly, high in the air over
her head, the great clock chimed eleven,
and all the associations of that sacred hour
gathered like ghosts around he rode
Dairy male holding the lighted match to
his watch, while she sheltered the little
flame from the wind — her head touching
his cheek and his huge moustache as they
looked down together to see the time —
the mystic light and stillness of the peaceful
night, through which the sound of the city
bells came up to them, to warn them that

their happiness was a thing too good to
last.

"Eleven p.m," he had called it; and
"you must go home, little one," he had
said. Could it have been at that moment
that he meant to send her away so far,
and never to take her back to his
arms and his heart again ?

Aw — what's the matter ? Are you
dizzy ?" asked her partner, feeling a
break and a jar in the rhythm of the
measure that had been flowing so very
harmoniously.

"A little," she whispered. "1 should
like to sit down for a few minutes —
we'll go on again, if you like, presently."


He led her to a retired bench, and
while she rested stood beside her,
silently watching the people who continued

to revolve before them. She had
hardly sat down, and was beginning
mechanically to fan herself, when the
stranger with the eyeglass came up,
with a lady, who was also unknown to
her, on his arm.

Here's a seat," said the little stout
man ; and his partner, an elderly and
amiable matron, sat down, bestowing
the deprecatory smile of old-fashioned
courtesy upon the two already in possession.


He took the end of the bench
himself, and chatted away to her — she
was his aunt, apparently — leaning a little
forward, with an elbow on his knee;
and Rachel, dreamily occupied as she
was, was quite conscious that his keen
eyes dwelt persistently, not upon his
neighbour's face, but upon her own.

"Why don't you go and get a partner,
James?" said the elderly matron. " You
don't want to dance attendance upon
me, my dear — I shall do very well here
until Lucy wants me. Go and find
some pretty young lady, and enjoy yourself
like the rest of them."

'' I don't believe in pretty young
ladies," replied the little man, rather
bluntly. " Except Lucy — and she is
engaged for the whole night, as far as
I can make out."

Here ensued some comments upon
Lucy, who appeared to be the lady's
daughter, generally favourable to that
young person. And the little man then
began to inveigh against the abstract
girl of the period with trenchant
vigour— obviously to the great embarrassment
of his companion, who tried her

VOL. III. 43

best, but vainly, to divert him to other
topics.

"In fact, there are no girls nowadays,"
he remarked coolly; *They are
all calculating, selfish, heartless, worldly
women — always excepting Lucy, of
course — as soon as they cease to be
children. They have only one object in
life, and that is to marry a man — no,
not a man necessarily, a forked stick
will do— who has plenty of money."

'' My dear, that is a popular sentiment,
I know, and supposed to be full
of wet and wisdom, but it always seems
to me that it is just a little vulgar,"
replied his companion, frowning surreptitiously,
and giving uneasy sidelong
glances at Rachel. " There are girls
and girls, of course, just as there are
men and men ; we see bad and good

in every class. How beautifully this
place lights up, to be sure !"

They like a fellow to dance with
them and dangle after them, and make
love to them, and break his heart for
them— nothing pleases them better —
when they have no serious business on
hand," the little man proceeded, with
unabashed composure, and still gazing
steadily at Rachel ; '' but when it comes
to marriage — "

"My dear James, I am not recommending
marriage to you — only a
harmless waltz."

*' Then they are for sale to the
highest bidder, whoever he may happen
to be. The poor, impecunious lover —
be he ever so much a lover, and
the best fellow that walks the earth
into the bargain — must take himself o-ff

43—2

and cut his throat for all she
cares."

At this sudden change from the plural
to the singular, and at something personal
and impertinent that she recognised in the
tone and look of the speaker, a deep blush
flooded Rachel's face, and she rose from
her seat with dignity, but trembling in
all her limbs.

Aw — who the dickens is that fellow?"
Mr. Buxton whispered, with a scowl— supposing,
however, that he could only be a
disappointed aspirant for Rachel's hand.
'' He's an impudent brute, whoever he is,
and I have a good mind to tell him so.
What's his name, eh?"

I don't know," said Rachel. But as
she spoke, and was about to move away,
the stranger rose and stood with an air of
courteous deference to let her pass him —

an air that somehow indicated the breeding

and manners of a gentleman; and all at

once it flashed across her where and when

she had seen him before. He was the man

who had called at Toorak and been closeted

with her aunt at the time when Rodenn

Dalrymple had promised to come for her,

nearly two years ago. She had gone out

into the garden, thinking he might possibly

have been Rodenn, to intercept him as he

was going away. She had had only a

distant glimpse of him—of his short,

square figure, and the lower part of his

face — but she recognised now that this

was the same man. She had not gone

many steps into the room, feeling strangely

overwhelmed by her discovery, when a

pair of exhausted waltzers went trailing

by, and one of them said to the other,

'' Didn't somebody say Jim Gordon was

here to-night ? Where is the old fellow
hiding himself ? I should like to see him
again."

The little man with the eyeglass was —
of course he was— Rodenn Dalrymple's
friend and partner.

She drew her hand from her cousin's
arm, turned round, and walked deliberately
back to the seat she had just
quitted.

No," she said to her pursuing cavalier,
'* do not come. Go and dance with somebody,
and fetch me presently."

'•' My dear Rachel, you must allow me —
aw, I couldn't really — "

I want to speak to Mr. Gordon," she
said, pausing in front of that gentleman.
Mr. Gordon, I want to ask you something.
Will you kindly take me out to
the lobbies — somewhere where it is quiet —

if this lady will excuse you for a few
minutes?"

Mr. Buxton was utterly bewildered, as
well lie might be. He stared, stiffened
himself, and then went off to find Laura,
and to tell her of the extraordinary proceedings
of her cousin "with some insolent
beofo^ar whose name she said she didn't know,
though she addressed him by it almost in
the same breath," and to intimate (merely
by way of soothing his own injured dignity)
that there seemed to him something
"rather fishy" going on.

And Mr. Grordon, after losing his presence
of mind for about half a minute, and then
only partially recovering it, silently offered
his arm to the lady who had made that
strange appeal to him. He had never seen
her until to-night; he had hoped he never
should see her, or have anything to do with

her. She had been, in his imagination of
her, the embodiment of all that was detestable
in woman. But now something in
the candid young face, unnaturally set and
pale, and in the suppressed passion and
purpose of her manner, gave him compunctious
misgivings, and a vague but
alarming impression that there had been
some blundering somewhere.

You are Mr. Gordon, are you not ?"
she began hurriedly, as soon as they
were out of the crowd and glare of the
ball-room. 'eyes, I thought so: but I
did not recognise you at first. I should
have waited for an introduction, but I
was afraid you might go away. I think
you know who I am. What you were
saying just now— had it not some reference
to me ?"

The little man began to stammer incoherently.

He was completely overbalanced
'hj the shock of this unexpected
attack. Rachel, on the contrary, usually
so fluttered by an emergency, had a
sort of fierce, collected calm about her.

''I am sure it had," she said. '' And
I want to know what you meant ?"

I — a — perhaps you are aware that
I am Mr. Dalrymple's friend, Mrs.
Kingston. I am therefore, perhaps,
something of a partisan — forgive me,
if I forgot myself for the moment — ■"

'' Ah," she broke out sharply, " there
has been some great mistake ! Tell
me — quickly — before anyone is here to
interrupt us — did you come to see my
aunt that Christmas — the Christmas
before last ?"

Certainly I came to see her and you,"
he replied.

'' Did he send sou ?"

'' Of course he did."

Why ?"

"Why!" he echoed angrily. ''Do
you mean to say you don't know
why ?"

''I know nothingness said Rachel. She
stood before him shining in her satin
and diamonds, without a trace of colour
in her face ; and the anguish of her beseeching
eyes told him plainly that she
spoke the truth.

Oh, dear me, this is terrible !" he exclaimed,
in a flurry of dismay and consternation.
" Do you mean to say that
you didn't know that he was ill ? — that
you didn't tell Mrs. Hardy to write that
letter ?— that it was all done without your
knowing anything about it? Good
Heavens ! would anybody believe there

were such malignant fiends in existence
and such fools!" he added bitterly.

Then he told her the whole story —
how her lover had got hurt, and had lain
insensible for many days, between life
and death — how his first anxiety upon
recovering consciousness was about his
appointment with her — how he had deputed
his friend to go to Melbourne and
explain his inability to keep it ; and
how he (Mr. Grordon) had seen Mrs.
Hardy and afterwards Mr. Kingston, and
been led by them to an apparently unavoidable
conclusion.

She said you were not willing to seeme,
but that she would give you my
messages and explanations," said the
little man, thinking it would be best for
his friend (and not much caring what it
would be for other people) to have it all

out at once, while he was about it ;
'' and that she would send me a note to the
club, where I was staying, in the evening,
or instruct you to do so. She had
already told me that you were re-engaged
to — a — your present husband. At night
I got the letter, in which she repeated
this assertion, stating that you had empowered
her to do so."

*' And you went and told him that ?"

'' I did not go and tell him that — for
I did not want to kill him — until I had
taken every possible precaution to get
it corroborated."

Yes ?" ejaculated Rachel, breathlessly.


I obtained an introduction to Mr.
Kingston at the club, and I asked him
on his honour to tell me if what Mrs.
Hardy had said was true."

You told him why you wanted to
know ?"

I did."

She stood still for a few seconds to
collect her strength ; whole years of effort
and agony were concentrated in that
little interval.

Shall you be going back to Queensland
soon ?" she asked quietly.

I am going back tomorrow," he
said — though he had not previously
thought of doing so.

'* Tell him when you see him —
tell him from me — that I never
knew anything — never, never, from
the day I saw him last until tonight."


It will break his heart to hear it,
Mrs. Kingston."

"No— he will be glad to know that

I was not utterly base. And I — I want
him to know it."

'' And shall I — can I — tell him that
you were really not engaged when they
said you were — when he thought you
were waiting for him ?"

She flushed deeply and drew herself
up with a little stately gesture.

He will not wish you to go into
those particulars, Mr. Gordon. If
you will give him my message simply,
that is all I want you to do. He will
understand it. Will you take me back
to the ball-room now ? I should like to
find my cousin, Mrs. Reade."

A Crisis.

S nature makes us, so to a great
extent, the roost of us remain,
when education has done its
very best, or its very worst, to modify
the great mother's handiwork. Her
patterns, of which no one ever saw the
original designs, and that have been
unknown centuries a-weaving, cannot be
sensibly altered in the infinitesimal fragment
that one human lifetime represents,
though every thread of circumstance, in

its right or wrong adjustment, must
have its value in the ultimate product,
whatever that unimaginable thing maybe.


Still, in the individual man or woman,
here and there, the type that he or she
belongs to is temporarily obscured by
accidental causes ; the lines of character,
laid down by many forefathers, are
twisted or straightened by violent
wrenching of irresponsible fate — as in
less important branches of nature's business
her processes are interrupted by
lightning and earthquakes, and other
rebellious forces.

Rachel, from the hour when she discovered
how it was that she and Eoden
Dairy male had been defrauded of their
'rights," was apparently quite changed
(though — as she is still a very young

woman — we are not prepared to suppose
that she will never be her old weak and
timid and clinging self again). She was
turned, from a soft and shrinking girl,
into a hard and fearless, if not a
defiant, woman.

The immense strength of her love —
always an incalculable " unknown quantity
" in the elements of human character
and the factors of human destiny — had
already given force and point, and meaning
and dignity, to her whole personality
and her relations with life ; but now the
magnitude of her wrongs and misfortunes,
and still more of his, seemed to
dwarf and crush every feeble trait and
sentiment in her.

She went back to the ball-room,
very white and silent, on Mr. Gordon's
arm; and the first person of her own

VOL. TII. 44

party whom she met there was Mr.
Reade, under whose protection she
placed herself, dismissing her late escort
with a quiet "good-night."

She asked to be taken to Beatrice ; and
Ned, who never knew from whom he had
received her, piloted her through the
crowd until he found his small wife,
whose bright eyes no sooner rested on
Rachel's face than they recognised a
new calamity.

"Has she heard anything, I
wonder ?" she asked herself in
dismay. "Are you ill?" she inquired
aloud.

I want to go home," said
Rachel.

The little woman did not waste
time asking useless questions. She
took her cousin to the cloak-room.

sent Ned for a cab, and in a few
minutes the three were driving to the
Kingston' hotel.

When they reached Rashers ,
and Ned had been sent
downstairs to see if her maid was
on the premises, Mrs. Reade put her
arms round her tenderly, and begged
to know what was the matter with
her.

But Rachel, singularly unresponsive
to the rare caress, would not tell —
would not talk at all. She would
not betray the mother's crime to the
daughter, and she would not mention
the name of her beloved, even to
her dearest friend, in these married
days.

"I am not well," she said, gently
but with an odd harshness in her

44—2

face and voice. '' I could not dance
I could not stay in that place. I
shall be better here. Go back, Beatrice,
and make excuses for me. Say I was
not well."

I shall do no such thing," said
Beatrice bluntly. " I shall not leave
you until Graham comes home."

Each el begged and protested with
a sharp peremptoriness that was very
unusual to her. Beatrice, full of
anxiety and consternation, was obdurate.


In the midst of their discussion,
they heard Mr. Kingston coming upstairs,
bustling along in great haste.
He flung open the door, with an air
of angry irritation.

"Oh, here you are !" he exclaimed
loudly. " What on earth are you

doing? Everybody is inquiring for
you, Eacliel. Aren't you well? Why
didn't you tell me, and let me
bring you home, if you wanted to
come ? You have set all the room
talking and gossiping, slinking off
before midnight in this way — as if
you were a mere nobody, who
would not be missed — and not letting
me know. What's the matter,
eh ?"

Rachel, without changing her position
by a hair's breadth, lifted her eyes
steadily and looked at him, but she
did not speak.

Mrs. Reade saw the look, and
she needed no words to tell her
that some crisis in the conjugal
relations of this pair had come,
which no outsider had any business

to see or meddle with ; and she
guessed correctly what it was.

"I will go back, and make what
explanations are necessary," said she ;
and I will come round in the morning,
Rachel."

And she went out quickly, and closed
the door behind her. On the stairs she
met Rachel's maid going up, and told
her her mistress would ring when she
wanted her ; and in the lobby of the
hotel she replied to her husband's anxious
inquiries by declaring irrelevantly that
she wished Mr. Kingston, and his house
and his money, were all at the bottom of
the sea.

That gentleman, meanwhile, after following
her out upon the landing, and
looking over the stairs to see that her
natural protector was in attendance,

returned to his wife with a vague presentiment
of unpleasantness in some
shape or other.

He, too, had been struck with the
peculiar expression of Rachel's face, and
a guilty conscience intimated at once
that she had " found out something,"
though it did not suggest any catastrophe
in particular. There were so
many things that, by unlucky accident,
she might find out.

However, I am not going to be
called to account by her," he said to himself,
in that spirit of swagger which she
had herself nursed and nourished by
her excess of wifely meekness. " I
am not Ned Reade, to submit to
be dictated to and sat upon by
my own wife — so she needn't begin
it."

And he walked into the drawing-room
in a lordly manner.

The reception that he met with
staggered him considerably.

Graham* said Rachel, in a very
quiet voice, " did you send word to Mr.
Rodenn Dalrymple that I was engaged to
you that Christmas — you know when I
mean — two years ago, when I was ill?
Did you tell that he to Mr. Gordon
deliberately, when you knew how things
were with us ?"

He was silent — intensely silent — for a
few minutes, amazed, ashamed, embarrassed,
and savage. He did not know
how to answer her. Then he gave a little
short surly laugh.

What about it ? Who has been talking
to you of those things ? What is Mr. Dalrymple
to you now, I should like to know ?"

Did you ?" lie persisted.

"And what if I did?" he retorted
roughly, but still making a ghastly
attempt at badinage. " All's fair in love
and war, you know, my dear ; and it was
that aunt of yours who told the lie, as you
elegantly term it — if it was a lie — not I ;
I merely did not contradict her."

She looked at him steadily, with that
implacable hardness in her once soft
eyes.

''I will never forgive you," she
said ; "I will never, never forgive
you."

'' I am sure I am very sorry to
hear it; but I suppose I can manage
to get on without your forgiveness,"
he began. And then he gave up
trying to make a joke of it, and
turned upon her savagely. *' Have you

been seeing that fellow, Eacliel ? Tell
me this instant; I insist upon knowing."


"I have seen his friend," she said,
quietly.

"And did he send his friend to
make those explanations to you — to
you r*

No ; he did not send him. It was
by accident that I met Mr. Gordon tonight
?"

And what business had you to talk
to Mr. Gordon — to talk to anybody —
about your old love affairs ? Do you
forget that you are a married woman
that you are my wife ? It was bad
enough when you were single to be
mixing yourself up with a disreputable
scoundrel like that "

'' He is not a disreputable scoundrel,"

.:- i:^-:;:: : . i^. " He is the not
1 ht rents V — V is the most nobleman
— m the tvi h;--]:'/ . I roiglit have
k:: ::. h . : : herself up

p 'that he would never have fors

ItH ir ! I might have been sure that
he would neve £ his word; that

whoever was :: i : t for what happened
to me that i.r. ~ - 1:1'. But
I let mvsci: . r'l.Tci- i:;.-:i anybcav's
fingers rather than trust in cii. I: serves
me right, it serves me right ! I was not
worthy of him."

Well — upon my word !"

•' You need not look at me so, Graham.

I have never deceived you. I told you

before I married yon exactly how it was

with me. I have nevci -^ . c-.-j sejVrTS

from ycu. aiicl I never vn v,- .w^j. \ :\i

/i7i-.:/.' as well as I u. :-:.: 1 .: „:m —

ah ! I did not love him enough, that is
what has ruined us ! — and so I shall while
I live, if T live to be a hundred."

You mean to say you can sit there and
tell me that to my face ?"

'' I can only tell the truth," she replied,
with the same hard deliberation. '' I
could no more help loving him, especially
now I understand how things have been
with us — no one will know it, but it will
be in my heart — than I could help
breathing. When I leave off breathing,
then I shall forget him perhaps, not
before."

Mr. Kingston was beside himself with
passion — as, indeed, so was she.

Forewarned is forearmed," he said,
with a sort of sardonic snarl ; '' I shall
know now what steps to take to protect
my honour."

You know perfectly well that your
honour — what you call your honour — is
safe," she replied proudly. "If I am not
to be trusted, he is. Do not insult us anymore.
We have had enough cruelty ; we
shall have quite enough to bear — he
and I."

And so they went on with these bitter
and defiant recriminations — Mr. Kingston,
of course, insisting upon giving due prominence
to his own wrongs, which were
very real ones in their way, and both of
them making reckless proposals with
respect to their domestic arrangements —
until suddenly, without any apparent
warning, Rachel went off into wild
hysterics, and the doctor had to be sent
for.

Perhaps it was the best thing that could
have happened under all the circumstances.

She was very ill for several
hours ; and in the morning, when passion
was spent, and she was lying in her bed
still and quiet, with her head swathed in
wet bandages, her husband knelt down
beside her and asked her to forgive him.

It was for love of you that I did it,"
he said ; " and / am punished, too. We
can't undo it now, Rachel, if we would,
and there's no good in making a public
talk and scandal. Let bygones be bygones,
won't you, dear ?"

She lifted her heavy eyes to his face.
They were cold and hard no longer, but
unutterably dull and sad.

'' Yes," she said wearily ; " we have
both been wrong ; we have injured one
another. We must try to make the best
of it ; it is the only thing we can do

He kissed her and stroked her face, and
adjusted the wet bandages.

There, there," he said soothingly,
we both forgot ourselves a little. We
said a great deal more than we meant, I
daresay. People do when they are out of
temper."

And he bade her go to sleep, told her
he would take her for a drive in the
afternoon if she felt well enough, and
went forth with the sense that he was
treating her magnanimously to receive
and reply to inquiries after her health in
person.

Bv noon, '* all Melbourne," according
Mrs. Hardy's calculation, was aware
that Mr. and Mrs. Kingston had had a
quarrel (though there was every variety
of conjecture as to the cause of it. and a
division of opinion as to which was the

A MERE CHANCE.

most to blame) ; but it was not Mr.
Kingston's fault if all Melbourne was not
satisfied by nightfall that the quarrel had
been made up.

CHAPTER VI.

MRS READE MEETS HER MATCH.

ILL Mr. Rodenn Dalrymple do
Mrs. Edward Reade the great
favour to call upon lier tomorrow
(Thursday) morning, if convenient
to him, between ten and twelve
o'clock? She is particularly anxious to
see him upon a matter of private business."


This note was despatched from South
Yarra to Menzies on a certain night in the
early part of December few weeks after

VOL. III.



the Town Hall ball. Mr. Dalrymple had
just come to Melbourne, and Mrs. Eeade,
through the gossip of afternoon visitors,
had heard of it.

She had heard of a great deal more
besides — from Laura's husband chiefly;
and the critical nature of the situation,
and her anxious solicitude for Each el's
welfare in the midst of the perils and
temptations to which, while a meeting
with her old lover was possible, she would
be exposed, made it seem absolutely necessary
that the person who was most capable
of doing so effectually should interfere
once more.

The course she adopted in undertaking
this delicate and difficult enterprise was
worthy alike of her courage and her good
sense. She had never met Mr. Dalrymple,
and she had no definite knowledge of his

character, only an impression that he was
*' wild " — a man of the world, with a
touch of the libertine and the vagabond
about him — and that he was also undoubtedly
a gentleman, with some of the
finer qualities that are the heritage of
good blood.

Yet she determined that she would
abjure all schemes and artifices, and see
him herself before there was time for anything
to happen, and appeal to his honour
and generosity on behalf of the woman
he loved — upon whose peace it seemed
evident to her he had some selfish if not
distinctly evil designs.

'' He has come to town in consequence
of Mr. Grordon's representations, of
course, for no other purpose than to
see her," the little woman said to
herself the moment she heard of his

45—2

arrival ; '' and if lie does see her,
nothing but trouble can possibly come
of it."

So she determined to prevent trouble
if possible, and this seemed to her the
proper way.

She prepared herself for the interview
on the Thursday morning, without any
sense of having undertaken a difficult
task.

When he arrived she was discussing
dinner with her cook, and she walked
from the larder to the drawing-room
with a very grave and thoughtful face,
but feeling perfectly serene and self-possessed.


He was standing in the middle of
the room, facing the door, with his hat
in his hand when she entered. He
looked immensely tall, and stiff, and

stately. There was an air of impracticable
independence in his attitude,
and in the distant dignity of his salutation
that disconcerted her a little. He
was wonderfully like his photograph she
thought, and yet he was a much more
imposing personage than she had bargained
for.

'* Oh, Mr. Dalrymple — it was so kind
of you to come," she said, in her quick,
easy way. ''I must apologise for summoning
you in such a very informal
manner, but — a — won't you sit down ?"

She dropped into one of her soft, low
chairs ; and her visitor seated himself at
a little distance from her, not hesitatingly,
but with just so much deliberation as
indicated a protest against the prolongation
of the interview.

*' I understood from your note that you

wished to see me upon some business,"
lie suggested gravely.

'' I did," she replied, feeling unaccountably
flustered. "Perhaps you will think
it rather impertinent of me — perhaps it is
a liberty for me to take — but the fact is I
have so deep an interest in my cousin's
welfare — she is so very dear to me — I
must plead that as my excuse "

You are speaking of Mrs. Kingston ?"
he interposed in the same cool and distant
manner, ''I hope she is quite well? I
have not had the pleasure of seeing her
since her marriage."

She is quite well, thank you. I trust
she will keep so, but I am afraid she is
not very strong. Mr. Dalrymple, I ought
perhaps to tell you that I — that Rachel
told me — that I am aware of the relationship
that has existed between you."

We will not speak of that, if you
please, Mrs. Reade."

But I sent for you on purpose to-speak
of it."

Then I must ask you to excuse me,"
he said, rising haughtily. " I cannot
discuss those matters with strangers — •
still less with a member of Miss Fathers
family."

But, Mr. Dalrymple, I am not to
blame for anything that has happened —
for any mistakes that have been made
I assure you I am not. I never
knew of your accident — I never knew
that Mr. Gordon came down — I
never knew anything more than
Rachel did, until it was too late.
And I was her intimate friend all
that time, and she made me her
confidante, I served her interests as far

as a friend who loved her could, to the
best of my power."

If that is so, I am very grateful to
you," he said gently, " though I am afraid
you failed to see what her interests were.
May I ask if you are acting under her
instructions now ? Did she authorise you
to make this appointment for the purpose
of speaking of these things ?"

Of course she did not."

Then we will not speak of them.
There would be very grave impropriety in
doing so. You must see, Mrs. Reade,
that nothing you can say will in the least
degree affect the case for anyone. 1
think we all know the truth of the story
now. It is too late to take any action
one way or the other. For Mrs. Kingston's
sake, the fewer reminiscences we
allow the better. Our business is to

reconcile ourselves to circumstances, since
they are irrevocable, and to let the past
alone. If it was your intention to explain
to me that you were guiltless of active
participation in the crime which parted
us, believe me, I appreciate the kind
motive, and I thank you from my heart.
But it is much better not to say any more
about it."

He was still standing with his hat in
his hand, and that peculiar distant lookin
his sad and haughty face. Mrs. Reade
sat before him in her low chair silent,
with her eyes cast down.

Not one of the numerous gentlemen in
whose affairs she had condescended to
take an interest had ever treated her like
this, and she felt inexpressibly humiliated.
Yet she had no sense of resentment,
strange to say, against the individual

who dominated her, and the position
generally, in such an unexampled
manner.

Did I understand you to say that Mrs.
Kingston was not strong?" he inquired
after a short pause.

T think she is very well," Mrs. Eeade
meekly responded. '' Her constitution is
quite sound; but her nervous system is
delicate. She cannot stand worry, or
shocks, or any great excitement or fatigue
any of those things upset her."

I should imagine so. But it is always
possible to keep her free of those things,
is it not ?"

Mrs. Reade replied, not so much to
the letter as to the spirit of the
question.

Her husband takes good care of her,"
she said. " He is very thoughtful for her

comfort. She does not run any risk of
harm that he can spare her. If we are
all as careful of her welfare as he is, Mr.
Dalrymple — if we are as scrupulous to
protect her peace now she is at peace "

She broke off, and lifted her eyes wistfully.


Mr. Dalrymple looked down upon her
with stately and impenetrable composure.


'* I am deeply thankful to know that
her marriage has so far been satisfactory,"
he said. " I suppose the house in Toorak
is nearly finished, is it not ?"

"It is quite finished. They went into
it three weeks ago."

It promised to be a very good house,
though rather of the nouveaux riches order
of architecture," he proceeded coolly; " and
unfortunately it is impossible to manufacture

trees, without which the best
house looks bald and naked. But it stands
well. It must be a very healthy situation ;
and that, after all, is the principal consideration."


I hope she will be happy in it," said
Mrs. Reade. Her soul rebelled against
this mode of treating the question, and
yet her efforts to divert the discussion
into the channels that she had
designed for it were absurdly feeble and
futile.

I hope so, indeed," he replied gravely.
'' I suppose you see a great deal of her,
do you not?"

Yes. I seldom miss a day without
seeing her. Either 1 go to Toorak, or
she comes here, or we meet somewhere
about town. I do whatever is in my
power to help to make her happy."

'' It must be a happiness to you, too,
to have her friendship and confidence in
such a marked degree."

It is," said Mrs. Reade.

I — if you will excuse me — I will say
good morning. Allow me to thank you
very much for permitting me to call,
and for your kind interest in my misfortunes
— and in Mrs. Kingston's welfare.
But the greatest service you can do
her, Mrs. Reade, is to be silent yourself,
and to discourage gossip in others,
about anything that occurred either
before or since her marriage in connection
with me. I hope I do not seem
discourteous in saying this — if so, pray
forgive me. I speak to you frankly,
because you are her friend. I am
afraid she has not had many friends —
there is the more reason that we who

desire her welfare and happiness, should
take every precaution against imperilling
it bj allowing any hint of these
private matters to reach the ears of
vulgar scandalmongers. A great crime
has been done, for which if there
is anything in the theory of retribution,
some one will have to answer
some day ; but in the meantime our
part is to take care that she is spared
as much difficulty and suffering as
possible."

"Yes, Mr. Dalrymple. That is what
I think— that is what I was going to
say."

I am sure you think so. I am sure
you see that that is all we can do for
her now. Good morning. I am much
obliged to you for your kindness. It
looks rather as if we were going to

have a storm, does it not ? The air is
close and sultry, and the glass is falling
very fast."

He turned from looking out of the
window and made a stately bow ; she
laid her hand upon the bell mechanically
she had no arts wherewith to keep
him ; and in another minute he had
passed out of the house, and the door
was shut upon him. The interview which
was to have had such great results was
over.

We have heard it said of a pioneer
colonist, lessee of a Crown-land principality,
that, after bearing the reverses of fortune
which, with the advent of free selectors,
overwhelmed him, the loss of land and
stock and the accumulated treasure of
toilsome and prosperous years, with the
fortitude and equanimity of a gentleman,

he was broken down at last by the unspeakable
humiliation of the circumstance
that he had '' lived to hear himself called
a boss-cocks'*

Mrs. Reade had not only been defied
and defeated, and made to feel small and
ridiculous in her own drawing-room, where
never man or woman — man, especially —
had never dared dispute her supremacy ;
but she had lived to hear herself called,
or at any rate to find herself considered,
a gossip — a common tattler and busybody,
who intrigued in other people's private
affairs from the vulgar feminine love of
meddling — and the blow was equally
bitter.

She stood in the bow window of her
drawing-room, and watched the tall figure
leisurely striding through the garden as if
South Yarra and the adjacent suburbs

were but a small part of his possessions ;
taking in all the details of his strong majestic
figure, his thin, dark, proud face,
with its immense moustache, the perfection
of his quiet dress, and the repose
and dignity of his bearing generally,
and of every distinct movement that he
made — even when trying to open a
gate with a mysterious fastening, at
which most people fumbled and bungled
awkwardly.

But she was riot consumed with a
passion of angry resentment against him
for the indignities and humiliations that
he had heaped upon her. No, she was
filled with a vague but intense respect
and admiration for him, a feeling that
she had never before entertained for any
individual of his sex.

She did not say it to herself in so many
VOL. 111. 46

A MERE CHANCE.

words, but the thought of her heart undoubtedly
was that here was the man,
who as a husband, would just have suited
her.

Good-bye.

N that same day, at a little after
four o'clock in the afternoon*
Mrs. Kingston might have been
seen — she was seen, in fact — going into
the Town Hall by herself, having left her
carriage in the street below. She mounted
the stone steps lightly, with the train of
her dress held up in her hand, looking
exquisitely fresh and dainty in the dusty
sultriness that everywhere prevailed ; and
she glided through the vestibule as if time

46—2

were precious, paid her sixpence, and
entered the hall, where she took a solitary
seat under the shadow of the gallery at
the lower end.

The organist was interpreting Mozart
to some hundreds of receptive citizens,
making the great organ sing like a choir
of angels in the '* Gloria" of the Twelfth
Mass, "e^ in terra ajax, pax, pax omnibus ;
hon, once voluntas. ^^ All the spacious
place was flooded with the impassioned
harmonies of that inspired theme.

Rachel was not what is popularly
called musical, but in the dulness of
her empty life her soul slacked its thirst
in this way, as a soul of a lower order,
which had been denied its natural
nourishment, might have found comfort
in the emotional stimulus of champagne
or brandy.

She could uot play well herself, but
she was like a fine instrument to be
played upon ; not one sweet phrase of
melody passed from her listening ear
to her sensitive heart without wakening
an echo that had the very divine afflatus
in it in response. And in this resonance
of enthusiasms and aspirations, dumb and
suffocated in the bondage of her artificial
life — in the sense of breathing spiritual
air, and freedom, though with a passion
of enjoyment that filled her with far
more pain than peace — she found the
one true luxury of her much-envied
lot.

Long ago — oh, so long ago ! ~ the music
of a violin had led her into enchantment,
as the Pied Piper of Hamelin led away the
children. To-day the music of the Town
Hall organ, speaking now in Mozart's

dramatic choruses, and again in Baptiste's
Andante in Gr, was a similar but a sadder
incantation.

She sat solitary in lier far-away chair,
with her feet on the rung of the one in
front of her, her hands, gloved to perfection,
folded in her lap, her delicate,
neat dress daintily adjusted, much as she
might have sat in the pew at church,
a model of matronly grace and propriety.


But who could tell, from the expression
of her quiet jose and her dreamy eyes,
what ineffable raptures and fancies, what
infinite longings and yearnings — nameless,
even to her own consciousness, but all
reminiscent of the blessed past — soared
out of captivity on the wings of those
alluring harmonies !

Who could see that in her heart she

was crying — crying bitterly — for the
poetry and the beauty that were lost out
of her life !

There was an interval of silence, during
which she sat quite still, looking at the
great organ-pipes, and seeing nothing;
and then there grew out of the hush the
delicious rhythm of the "Faust" waltz,
beating like a soft pulse through the
summer air.

What spell is there in the '' Faust"
waltz, or in any waltz, for one whose heart
is capable of receiving and responding to
the inspired message of Mozart ?

How can we tell ? But this wee know,
that those whose hearts are warm and
young — who understand how to love and
how to dance, and have done the two
things at the self-same moment — have
seldom any more power than they have

honest inclination to resist the subtle wiles
of this simple measure.

There is a vox human stop out in
whatever organ plays it, magnetic to the
human passions that memory and imagination
keep. Rachel did not ask why it
was, but she felt, as soon as the air began
to unwind itself from a confusion of sweet
sounds, and she heard the slow time
throbbing softly in her ears, that she did
not know how to bear it.

It filled her soul with a great wave of
suffocating emotion — it ran like an electric
current over all her sensitive nerves — it
contracted her white throat with a choking
pain that was like incipient hysteria — it
set abnormal pulses bounding in her brain.
She did not think of Adelonga, and the
hour when she and her true love had their
first and last waltz together.

'No definite picture of the past arose at
the magician's bidding, or if it did, she
shut her eyes to it. But she could not
help the forlorn rapture of longing for
that nameless something that was the
most precious of her woman's rights,
which fate and fraud had taken from
her, when the notes of this dreamy waltz
measure, so charged with passionate and
poetic associations, pulsed from the
heart of the organ into her warm young
blood.

Oh, my love ! my love !" — that was
the burden of the music which was not
set to words.

And she turned her face a little, and
saw Rodenn Dalrymple standing in the
doorway. He had come in quietly, and
was waiting, with his hat in his hand,
apparently for a pause in the performance.

which he did not wish to interrupt, but
really until he could find where someone
whom he was looking for was
sitting.

It was the first time she had seen him
since that October night when they had
parted in the moonlight under the walls
of the house that was now her home ; but
she had been, unknown to herself, expecting
him, and there was no shock in her
surprise.

She knew that he was looking for her,
when she saw his eyes travelling over the
rows of occupied chairs in the upper
division of the hall, and she longed to call
out to him,

"Rodennnn, Rodennnn, here I am !"

But not a dozen seconds passed before
he saw her far away from him in her
shadowy corner ; and when he saw her,

with that solemn eagerness in her face, he
knew— but he said to himself he had
already known— that, though she had
forsaken him, she had never done him
wrong.

Of course before the day was over
it was reported in various circles,
more or less select, that pretty Mrs.
Kingston, who had married an old
fogey for his money, was in the habit
of coming to the organ recitals alone
and unbeknown to her husband, in
order to enjoy clandestine flirtations
with younger and more fascinating
men.

It was also darkly whispered that the
favoured individual was a person who
made it his constant practice to run away
with married women, and to murder
their lawful spouses in sham duels

afterwards if they ventured to make any
objections.

But of all the human beings collected
in the Town Hall that afternoon,
perhaps no two were less capable of
violating the spirit of the moral and
social law whereof the letter is so
sacred to the ubiquitous and lynx-eyed
Mrs. Grundy, who persists in suspecting
everyone of a desire to evade or
infringe it, simply for the sake of doing
so, whenever he or she is presented with
an opportunity.

That they loved one another as
much as it was possible for sympathetic
hearts to love, and that they seized one
brief half-hour out of a lifetime of
separation in which to say farewell,
might have been reprehensible from the
conventional point of view ; but then

the conventional point of view does not
embrace the universe, bj a very long
way.

He came down the hall, and round
to her chair, and she drew her dress
close that he might sit down beside her.
She was too innately pure to make any
mere outward and artificial demonstrations
of modesty in such a moment
as this ; and she trusted him too well to
be afraid of him.

She put out her hand, and he took it
in a long, close clasp ; and they looked
at one another the while with loving,
despairing eyes, which said, " Oh, Rachel,
why did you?" and " Oh, Rodenn, forgive
me !" and bridged the only gulf that
could be bridged between them, without
any help of words.

And then, though the organ began to

fill the air with the sonorous crash and
thunder of Bach's great pedal fugue in
D, they heard nothing but the beating
of their hearts, and the memories that
called to them from their brief past,
vibrating through the void and silence
of a world in which they were alone
together.

When the music ceased for an interval,
Mr. Dalrymple rested his arm on the
back of the chair which had served
Rachel for a footstool, and looking into
her face, said under his breath,

Gordon gave me your message — I
came down to thank you — and I
thought we should get on better if
we could see each other just once.
Dear, we must try and comfort ourselves
with knowing that neither of us
played the other false."

"I did — I did," lie whispered
hurriedly. "I ought to have trusted
you, Rodenn."

«« Yes— that was a mistake. But you
did not know any better, poor child.
And they were too many for you,
those people. Gordon ought to have
insisted on seeing you, himself, or
getting some message to you, and not
have left you in their hands. But he
did his best, he says. He was too
anxious to get back to me to have
much patience over it, and he didn't
bargain for being told lies of that
magnitude in cold blood. However, —
however "

He broke off and looked at her with
a passion of love and grief in his eyes
that he dared not trust to speech. And
she looked back at him, with her

simple soul laid bare — longing to make
him know, if they were never to be
together like this again, how absolutely
in her heart she had been true to him.
She would not tell him a lie, at any rate.

Oh," he said in a sort of groaning
whisper, drawing a long hard breath,
oh, my little one, isn't it hard
lines !"

Don't," she gasped, feeling that
clutch on her throat tighten with a
sudden spasm ; '' oh, Rodenn, don't !"

And he straightened himself quickly,
and sat back in his chair. And the
organ began to play again — a stately
march of Schubert's, which acted like
a tonic on her disordered nerves, and
as a sedative to the hysterical excitement
that for a moment had threatened to
overmaster her.

The echoes of that march rang in her
ears, when Roche was gone back to
Queensland and this chapter of her
life was finished, for many a long
day.

And then at last the thunders of the
National Anthem brought the performance
to a close, and the audience
trooped out, casting curious glances as
they went at the distinguished-looking
couple standing conspicuously apart —
the tall stranger with the peculiar
moustache, who had soldier and gentleman
written on him from head to
foot, and the graceful young lady with
the lovely complexion and the irreproachable
French dress, whom nobody " who
was anybody" failed to recognise.

The two were left together amongst
all the empty chairs, in a silence that
VOL. III. 47

was liarcllj broken by the organist's
movements at the far end of the hall,
closing the stops and keys of his
enormous instrument.

"Well," said Mr. Dalrymple, looking
down upon his companion, who lifted
to his sombre eyes a pale but
solemn face, " well — so this is all, I
suppose !"

Her lips twitched a little ; she could
not answer him.

*' You are not sorry that I came, are
you, Rachel ? It will not make it harder
for you, will it?"

Oh, no, Eoden ! But it is you on
whom it is so hard — you will be so
lonely without me ! I can't bear to
think what I have brought on you
and sou had so many troubles
already !"

'' Not you, dear — not you. And I can
bear all my part of it, if only things go
well with you."

'' Why did you break that trace ?"
she exclaimed, with a touch of bitter
passion. " But for that — but for two
minutes lost — you would never have
seen me, and then I should never
have spoiled your life like this."

But, dear, we are not going to
regret that, I hope. We have got something
' saved from chance and change,'
if not much, that to me at any rate — yes
and to you too, I know — is worth even
this heavy price that we are paying for
it now. It need not spoil our lives,
Rachel, to know — what we know. It
is an agonising thing to see how
blessed it might have been for us, and to
be obliged to give it all up ; but I shall

47—2

never think of those two hours, when
we belonged entirely to each other — only
two hours, Rachel, out of our whole
lives ! — without being thankful for the
chance which gave them to us. Yes, and
I think we shall be the better for them
I don't say happier, because I really
don't know what that word means —
but I think life will somehow have
a finer quality henceforth, whatever
happens, on account of those two hours.
Dear, I am forcing myself to give into
the hard fate that has done us out
of our inheritance ; but there is one
thing that I don't think I cotdd get
reconciled to — and that is to thinking
that you would ever live to wish
that we had never known each
other."
'' I could not wish it," she whispered ;

I could only try to persuade myself that
I did."

*' Do not try. You are under no

obligation of duty to do that. Try to

be happy with your husband — try not to

fret over what is irrevocable, and not

to hanker after what is hopeless. But

don't try to turn me out of the only

place in your life where I have a corner

of my own. Let me keep the little of

you that I have got— it is little enough !

Do you remember what you said to me

that night ? — you said you had no rights

in my past. He has no rights in our

past. Keep it sacred, Rachel, for my

sake. That will not hurt anybody. You

are not afraid that such remembrances,

if you shut them away in your heart,

will militate against your efforts to do

what is right by him ? And you are not

afraid that I will ever tempt or trouble
you ?"

'' Oh, Rodenn, I am not afraid of you —
you well know that !"

Treat me as if I were dead," he
said gently. " If I had been killed that
time when I was thrown — if I were in
my grave now — I know how you would
think of me. You would not wish you
had never seen me then. That is how
I want you to think of me, Rachel'*

I know," she said, drawing a deep
breath. '' But to me — even if you had
killed yourself — to me you could never
be dead."

By this time they had sauntered slowly
out of the deserted hall and through the
empty vestibules, and were standing in
the doorway, looking out upon the street
below them.

The storm that had threatened in the
morning was gathering up. Heavy
clouds weighed upon the sultry air, and
gusts of wind were beginning to blow
the dust about ominously. Pedestrians
were hurrying to gain shelter before the
rain came on, but, as they passed, they
took note of the lingering pair, who were
apparently heedless of the warnings of
the elements, with more or less curious
eyes. Neither of them, it is needless to
say, minded in the least who saw them.
They had no desire to take even this last
good-bye clandestinely.

And when Rachel, to whom it had not
occurred to wonder why her carriage
was not in attendance, saw it thundering
alone the street towards her, it

or) '

was with as much relief as surprise
that she recognised her husband in it,

looking out of the window for
her.

We have said nothing," said Mr.
Dalrymple, who perceived the approach
of his old rival and enemy ; " and we
had so much to say."

Perhaps it is better not to say
much," said Rachel.

Perhaps so. But one thing you
must not mind my asking you — and I
know you will tell me truly — are you
getting along pretty well ? Do you
think you will be able to make anything
of a happy life out of it ?
That is my great anxiety."

Do not be anxious about me," she
replied. " I shall get along. I know
that you forgive me — that will help me
more than anything."

Don't talk about forgiveness, child —

it implies a wider separation than I
think has ever been between us.
There can be no forgiveness in the
case of people who never knowingly
do one another wrong."

The carriage, with its high stepping,
showy horses, began to slacken speed,
and they descended the long flight of
steps quietly, side by side.

"Is he good to you ?" inquired
Rodenn, quickly.

Very," she replied; " very, indeed."

And then they reached the pavement,
and the person referred to got out of
the carriage and came to meet
them.

It must be recorded, to Mr. Kingston's
credit, that he behaved like a
gentleman on this occasion. He was
a little acid and supercilious, and not

as composed as he assumed to be; but
otherwise he conducted himself with
propriety. " I took the carriage for
half an hour," said he loudly. " I hope
I haven't kept you waiting, my dear.
Ah, Mr. Dalrymple, how do you do ?
I did not know you were in town.
I hope you are quite well. Making a
long stay?"

'' A day or two only," said Eoden,
who stiffened in spite of himself, but
spoke with studied courtesy. " I shall
be starting back to Queensland to-night.
I am glad to have had the opportunity
of meeting Mrs. Kingston, and to see
her looking well"

Oh, yes, she is very well, I hope.
Travelling did her good— it does everybody
good. I felt quite set up by it
myself. Dear me, was that a drop of

rain ? I think you had better be getting
home, Rachel. There is a heavy storm
coming directly. Good day, Mr. Dalrymple,
good day. We can't set you
down anywhere, I suppose ?'^

Mr. Dalrymple declined a seat in the
carriage with thanks, and he held out
his hand to Rachel.

Good-bye," he said quietly.

Good-bye," she replied, with an ash-white
face. They looked at one another
for a second; and then, lifting his hat
gravely, Mr. Dairy male turned and
walked away down the street, and
Mr. Kingston gave his arm to his
wife, and led her to her carriage. Poor
Rachel! she did not ask herself what
would happen next — she did not wonder
nor care whether she was to be
scolded or not. For a few bitter, lonely

moments, she had no recognisable
future.

Then she turned to her husband, who
was fanning the fuel of his wrath in
silence, laid her hand on his arm, and
said softly, "Graham?"

Well — what ?" he inquired, roughly.

*' Do not be angry. I am never going
to see him again."

"It's to be hoped not," he snarled,
if you have any regard for your reputation.
Standing up there with him, in
that public way, for all Melbourne to
see !"

"You would not have wished me to
meet Mr. Dalrymple in any way that
was not public," she said, drawing herself
up. " And I should be very sorry
to do anything that all Melbourne might
not see."

The rain began to sweep down heavily,
and he turned to put up the window
nearest him with an energy that threatened
destruction to the glass.

And he said no more about Mr. Dairy
male.

Disturbed as he was, he was greatly
relieved that the meeting he had always
dreaded was over, and had taken place
so quietly ; and poor as was his estimation
of the abstract woman, he had
the most implicit faith in his wife's
sincerity.

When she told him that she had bidden
her old lover a final farewell, he believed
her ; and, though the sight and thought
of the man made him ferocious, he was
quite aware that difficulties were adjusting
themselves more satisfactorily than
he could have expected.

He did not feel that he had any
excuse for upbraiding Rachel now, and
he did not do it. But he had to put
great restraint upon himself not to doit.


He got out of the carriage at his club,
shutting the door with a bang behind
him, and while his wife drove home by
herself in a state of semi-consciousness,
he went in to quarrel with some of his
old friends who chanced to require his
opinion upon the political situation.
Politics, he promptly gave them to understand,
were beneath his notice,
likewise the people who concerned themselves
therein. He wouldn't touch one
of them with a pair of tongs. It
wasn't for gentlemen and clubmen to
mix themselves up with a lot of rogues
and vagabonds. Let them alone and be

hanged to them. That was what
respectable people did in America. If
Americans didn't care what riff-raff
represented them, why should they?

As for the colony, if it liked to be
dragged in the dirt— if it preferred, of
its own free will, to go to the devil —
let it, for all to him.

And so he worked off his savage temper
harmlessly, and appeared in his own
drawing-room at seven o'clock, irreproachably
spruce, and with a flower in his
button-hole, looking jaunty and amiable,
as if nothing had happened.

Rachel, when he arrived, was sitting
alone in the midst of her wealth and
splendour, waiting for him.

She rose as he entered and went to
meet him, looking lovely in her favourite
black velvet, with red geraniums in her

hair; and she laid her hand on his
sleeve, and lifted a sad but peaceful
face. 'kiss me, Graham," she said
gently.

He put his arms round her at once.

Dear little woman !" he responded.
I understand. I am not angry with
you. It's all right. We won't say anymore
about it."

And he led her to the dining-room
and placed her " at the head of the
table," which was her social throne ;
and he plied her with dainty viands
and rare wines with a fussy solicitude
that was highly edifying to the
servants who waited upon them, byway
of showing her that he forgave
her.

He was much impressed by his own
large magnanimity; and what was more

to the purpose, so in lier unselfish heart,
was she. They spent the evening together,
f.ete-a-tete by the fireside (for it was cold
when the storm was over), in the most
domestic manner, planning new schemes
for the garden and for the arrangement
of a pet cabinet of blue china ; and
when Rachel went to bed, lighting her
way about the great corridors and staircases
with a candle that her husband
had lit for her, she felt that he was
helping her to make a fair start upon
the weary road which stretched, plain
and straight — but, oh, so flat and bare ! —
before her.

And she was very grateful to him.

Mr. Dairy male, meanwhile left town by
an evening train, and travelled night and
day until he reached his home in the
queensland wilderness, where, being

VOL. III. 48

liumaii — and very much so, too — lie unloosed
this heart from the restraints that
he had put upon it, and railed at ease over
the injustices of fate in the very strongest
language.

Why should I have done it?" he demanded
of his ancient friend and comrade
as they lounged in restful attitudes under
'the ffrass-thatched verandah of their
humble little house, smoking the pipe of
peace in the cool of the summer day.
Why should I have given her up to him ?
What right has he to keep her, while I am
lonely for the rest of my days ? He has not
the shadow of a right. She doesn't belong
to him, and she never will. There is no
binding force in any other contract that is
entered into by fraud and false pretences ;
why should there be in this which she
.has been dragged into, and which deprives

her as well as me, of all the flower
and sweetness of her life ? It is a
monstrous sacrifice — and as immoral as
it is monstrous.

It isn't as if we had no end of years,
no end of lives to throw away. Suppose,
ages hence, if we should survive, with
our human nature, and I, for one, don't
want to survive without it — and we Look
back upon this precious bit of certain happiness
that we might have had, and see
that we voluntarily gave up the whole of
it merely because of a wretched little
paper law — a miserable little conventional
prejudice — what shall we think of ourselves
then ? We shall say that we did not
deserve a gift that we did not know how
to value."

Rave away," said Mr. Gordon. " It

will do you good. All the same, you

-.48 2

know, as well as I do, that it would be
impossible for you to do less or more than
you have done."

Of course it was impossible. Few
people are better than they profess to be,
but he was one of those few. And if he
had had the happiness of twenty lives to
lose, he would have lost it all twice over
rather than have kept it at any cost of
peace or honour to the woman he loved.
He allowed himself the right to love her
still, which, as he justly remarked, couldn't
hurt anybody.

He thought of her as he rode about his
lonely plains, looking after black boys and
cattle, and dreamt of her as he lay out in
the starlight nights, with a saddle for his
pillow, and the red light of the camp-fire
flickering through the darkness upon his
face ; and always with a sense that,

spiritually and morally, she belonged,
before all the world to him.

But he never at heart regretted either
that he had seen her that day at the Town-hall,
or that he had elected to see her no
more. He had done the only thing that
it had been in him to do.

CONSOLATION.

F it is true, as it is said, and
as the observation of most of
us seems to testify, that the
ideal marriage is hardly ever realised,
and then only when the rare and
brief experience has been bought at
untold cost of precious years, it is,
perhaps, equally true that the majority
of marriages wrongly and recklessly
entered into, provided the contracting

parties are honestly disposed,
turn out surprisingly and unreservedly
well.

Time, which solaces our disappointments
and sanctifies our bereavements,
remedies also in a great
measure even these criminal mistakes.


As Rachel truly said, there are
whole worlds of things " besides love
i.e., " the love of man and woman
when they love their best " — to knit
husbands and wives together ; and,
independently of the ties that children
create, and which, to the mother at
least, are supremely and eternally
sacred, the innumerable soft webs of
habit and association that are woven
in days and years of intimate companionship

grow, like ivy over a fissure
in a wall, so strong as eventually not
only to hide the vacant place, but in
some degree to supply artificially that
element of stability and permanence to
the structure which in its essential
substance it lacked.

And so it was with Rachel. After
a little time, when she had " settled
down," changed and aged, and sobered
as she was, she really was not
unhappy.

She was always vastly conscious of
her loss, but she was of two wholesome
a disposition to be embittered
by it; and her simple sense of duty
and her characteristic unselfishness
prompted her from the first to wear
a cheerful face for her husband, and

never by word or deed to reproach
him, which course of conduct had
the natural result of comforting
herself quite as much as it gratified
him.

He was not a bad man, and in
his easy fashion, he loved her; and
appreciating her gentle and dutiful
behaviour, he put himself out of the
way to be kind to her, though,
with all his attentions, he never
was what one would call a domestic
husband.

Her demands upon him were not
exorbitant. Indeed, she was true to
her creed in not demanding anything ;
but for such evidences of his affection
as he voluntarily bestowed upon her
she showed herself always grateful

in a meek, pleased way that was very
charming to a man vain of his own
importance, and she did not profess
to be more so than, in her soft heart,
she really was.

She had no vocation for independence,
nor for making herself— still less for
making others — miserable ; and if she
had married Bluebeard instead of a
well-intentioned gentleman, she must
have twined herself about him with
her tender, deferential, delicately-caressing
ways — which came as naturally
to her as breathing — and have
found support and rest in doing
it.

When all signs of storm had cleared
away, the apparently ill-matched husband
and wife settled down to a life

together that, if not rapturously delightful,
was quite as placid and kindly and
peaceful as the married life of most
of us.

They did not see a great deal of
each other, to be sure ; but the hours
that they spent together, being generally
hours when Mr. Kingston was tired
or unwell, and wanted to be nursed
and cheered, and to have the papers
read to him, had a homely sweetness
and solace for Rachel not far removed
from happiness.

And then I am afraid it must be
confessed that the house, and the
wealth and luxury belonging to it, did
comfort her a little.

She was excessively unpretentious in
her habits, and pure and simple in her

tastes, but lie had an intense appreciation
of all those delicate personal
refinements which womanly women
love, and only those who have money,
and plenty of it, can enjoy — of which
years of sordid poverty had taught her
the grace and value ; and it was not
possible to her, with her healthy sense
of life, to refuse, even if she had
wished, to absorb the fragrance and
brightness of her social and material
surroundings.

She revelled in her beautiful garden
and in her spacious and artistic rooms ;
she loved her piano and her books
and pictures, and her innumerable
pretty things ; she enjoyed her drives
and her rides, and her visiting and
her parties, and her operas and concerts,
and her shopping expeditions —

upon which no limitations were placed
by her husband, who liked her
to spend his money — with Laura and
Beatrice.

And, more than all, she delighted
in the power which her position gave
her of doing all kinds of helpful,
unpretentious service to the poor and
miserable, whom she seemed, by a sort
of divining-rod, to discover in the most
unexpected places.

Her husband would not allow her
to make her large subscriptions to the
public charities anonymously, nor would
he consent to her taking invalids of
the lower orders for drives, except
upon unfrequented roads and in a
generally surreptitious manner ; and he
strongly objected to her visiting poor

people's cottages, and running risks of
catching dirt and fever.

But she might make frocks for
ragged children, and bedclothes for
unprovided mothers, and scrap-books
for the Alfred Hospital ; she might
load her carriage with wine and chicken
broth every time she went out ; she
might spend a little fortune, as she
did, in helping on benevolent enterprises
of all sorts; and he only laughed
at her for being a soft-hearted little
goose, and triumphed over her whenas
happened in five cases out often
— she was proved to have been
more or less flagrantly imposed upon
and taken in.

Like most people who have badly
known the want of money, she was

decidedly extravagant in spending it
now that she had plenty; and, unlike
most husbands and wives in such
circumstances, she and Mr. Kingston
had no pleasant episodes in their
domestic life than those which had
reference to her financial embarrassments.


It was charming to him (since his
banking account was much too solid
to be easily affected by her operations)
to see her come, with her timid and
anxious face, to confess that she had
spent all her money, and to ask him,
with the sweetest wifely meekness, if
he could spare her a little more ; and
to her he never showed to better
advantage than when he declared,
so obviously without meaning it,

that she would ruin him, and then
gave her twice as much as she had
asked for.

She always flushed and glowed with
pleasure at this delicate and generous,
and gentlemanly way of doing things,
and would put her arms round his
neck and kiss him; and, naturally, he
would thereafter set forth to his
club, feeling proud of himself and
pleased with things in general, his
young wife and he being so thoroughly
in their right places in their relation
to one another.

And then there came to Rachel that
which to every true woman is the
greatest and dearest and best — save
one — of all life's many good things,
and which to her must inevitably have

made even the most loveless marriage
lovely : —

'' On the 17tli instep at Toorak, the
wife of Graham Kingston, Esq., of a
son."

This little notice appeared in " The
Argus," of the 18th, and caused a flutter
and sensation in all well-regulated
Melbourne households.

Dear me, how nice ! and a son,
too. How pleased Mr. Kingston will
be ! An heir to all that fine property
at last ! Dear me, how nice ! We must
call and make inquiries."

And when kind inquiries resulted in
the satisfactory information that both
mother and infant were progressing
favourably, society congratulated Mr.
Kingston with effusive and impressive

VOL. III. 49

cordiality, which that gentleman, deprecating
a fuss with airs of smiling indifference,
felt to be by no means more
than the occasion demanded.

Of comes, the interesting event
made a pleasant commotion in the
great Toorak house and in the Hardy
family.

Mrs. Hardy assumed the functions of
mother-in-law to Mr. Kingston, and
introduced him to his son and heir
with a genuine maternal pride, that
could not have been more touching
or more complimentary to either of
the delighted parents, had the featureless
little atom been a lineal fifth
grandchild.

The stately matron, as is the habit
of stately matrons under such circumstances,

put off her conventional armour
and rustled softly about the hushed
rooms, clothed in all the homely womanliness
of her own baby-nursing youth;
and Rachel, watching her from her
tranquil nest of pillows, forgave her —
as she had long ago forgiven her
husband — and wondered that she had
never understood before what a truly
sweet and loveable woman dear Aunt
Elizabeth was.

And Laura came up to see the
baby, bringing a wonderful high-art
coverlet for the cradle, and all sorts
of wise advice (based upon her exceptional
experience as the mother of
twins).

And Beatrice came — poor Beatrice,
who had no babies ! — and held the tiny

49—2

creature for a long time in her arms,
looking with silent wistfulness at its
crumpled little face.

And by and bye, when E-achel was
promoted to gorgeous dressing-gowns
and a sofa in her boudoir, Lucilla
came to stay with her, full of importance
and responsibility (as the mother
of the largest family of them all),
to instruct her in the newest and
most improved principles upon which
an infant of quality should be
reared.

As if Rachel wanted showing how
to manage a baby ! Some ladies, as
the nurse sagely remarked, never had
any sense, but if Mrs. Kingston had
been a poor man's wife, which she
hoped she would excuse her taking

the liberty of speaking of such a thing,
she couldn't have took to the child
more naturally.

It speedily became apparent to others
besides that experienced woman that
maternity was Rachel's vocation, and,
when she found it, it seemed that she
had found a consolation, if not an
actual compensation, at last for the
great want and sorrow of her woman's
life.

Mrs. Hardy, watching the young
mother's passion of tender solicitude
for the baby that she could hardly bear
to have five minutes out of her sight,
told herself that, after all, the end
had justified the means ; and even Mrs.
Reade, who was most interested in this
latest experiment of a benevolent Fate,

came practically to the same conclusion.


One day she was alone with her
cousin. Rachel had been entertaining
a small and select circle at afternoon
tea in her own pretty room, and the
baby had been present, and she had
been pointing out to its father what
lovely eyes it had, and what small
ears, and what perfectly-shaped hands,
and how charming it was altogether —
much to Mr. Kingston's amusement, and
obviously to his immense satisfaction also ;
and now he had kissed her affectionately
and gone out, and the baby was taking
a siesta, and she was resting on her
sofa by the fireside, gazing at the bright
logs meditatively, with a half smile on her
face.

'' Tell me," said Beatrice, suddenly,
crossing the hearth and kneeling down
beside her ; " tell me, are you happy now,
Rachel ?"

Rachel lifted her soft eyes, shining with
a sort of vague rapture.

'' Oh, yes," she said, quickly ; " indeed
I am." And then in a moment her face
was overshadowed, and she looked in
the fire again with eyes that shone with
tears. " I am too happy," she said,
under her breath, " while he is alone and
sad."

Don't you think he will like you to
be as happy as possible ?"

"I know he will. But it lies on my
heart that he is desolate while I have
so many consolations. Beatrice, I was
reading some verses of Emily Bronze's

the other day, and they seemed to express
exactly how it is with me. Do you remember
them ?

' Sweet love of youth forgive, if I forget thee,
While the world's tide is bearing me along ;
Other desires and other hopes beset me,

Hopes that obscure, but cannot do thee wrong.'

Oh my love !" she broke out suddenly,
"I do not forget thee! And," she
added, more quietly, " I don't think
my being happy can wrong him,
Beatrice."

No, dear child, far from it," said
Mrs. Reade.

The little woman was not shocked,
nor was she dissatisfied with the
state of things that this naive revelation
disclosed to her. She was

deeply thankful to know that Rachel,
after all, was happy; but she was not
sorry to know also that she was to this
extent faithful to her true love, who had
dealt so well by her.

It was at this very hour that the
papers containing the announcement of
the baby's birth arrived at the Queensland
bungalow, and that Rodenn Dalrymple
learned what a change had
taken place, not only in the life and
welfare of his beloved, but in his own
lonely and empty lot.

The wife of Graham Kingston, of
a son." He knew as well as anybody —
better even than Rachel herself — what
that little notice meant. It meant that
the gulf already parting them had all at
once widened to an immeasurable extent.

He knew how it would be with that
tender and clinging heart — it would be
able to solace itself now, even for the
loss of him.

Yet he loved her well enough to be
pflad and thankful for the comfort that
had come to her, though the coming of
it left him doubly bereaved.

REPARATION.

^^

UT, after all, Fate willed that
this marriage should be but
the chief episode in the story,

and not the story itself, of Rachel's

life.

One day, when she was flitting about
her o-reat drawings-room, with a basket
of flowers on her arm, singing soft airs
from "Don Giovanni" under her breath
as she busied herself with the arrangement

of little groups of leaves and
flowers in sundry precious receptacles
here and there, a footman entered with a
telegram.

'' That is from your master," said
Rachel, lifting it from the salver and
tearing off the envelope.

"Wait a moment, James, until I see
if there are any orders for you to take
out."

She put down her flowers on the
piano, read the brief message tranquilly,
and then lifted her face with a
smile.

"Ask Wilkinson to have the carriage
ready at three o'clock," she said ; " not
the brougham, if it keeps as fine as it
is now, the open carriage. And tell cook
I want to speak to her in half an hour.

Your master is coming home to-day
instead of Friday."

James said " Yes'm " and retired, and
his mistress continued her occupation of
arranging the flowers with more haste
and eagerness than before.

Mr. Kingston had gone from home
a few days previously to meet some distinguished
foreign visitors at a friend's
house in the country, a thing he did
not often do, and she had stayed behind
because little Alfred seemed to have
symptoms of a bad cold coming on —
which, however, had been happily checked
at that stage.

She had not expected her lord's return
just yet, but she concluded that he had
not found the party amusing, or had
been bored in some way, and so had

excused himself from prolonging his visit ;
and she was glad of the accident, whatever
it was, that was bringing him back
so soon.

In the afternoon she went upstairs
to get reads to go to the station to
meet him. It was winter, and she
clothed herself in rich furs — sealskin
and sable, with the sealskin cap of old
days on her shining head — against which
the soft roundness of her cheek and
throat, and the blush-rose delicacy of
her complexion was particularly distinct
and striking, and also the evident fact
that, far from pining away, she had
developed in health and strength
quite as much as in beauty during
the five or six years of her married
life.

When she was dressed she went to
the nursery, where her little boy
ran to meet her, begging her to
take him with her wherever she was
going.

She caught him up in her arms and
looked irresolutely at the imposing
nurse, who was responding to his
appeal in an official and determined
manner, telling him that he must not
cry to go in the carriage to-day ; he
must go for a nice walk with his nurse,
because his dear papa did not like to
be bothered with little boys when he was
driving with his dear mamma (which was
very true).

'' Never mind, Alfy," said Rachel,
hugging him to her maternal bosom,
and covering his fair little face — which

was very like her own — with kisses ;
You shall go with mother next time,
my sweet. Don't cry, dear little man !
Suppose mother brings him home a
pretty new toy? What shall mother
bring Alfy home, nurse, eh ?"

'•'I don't want toys, I want to go with
you, mother," wailed Alfy.

Oh, well, I think he might," said
Rachel, weakly. "It is a fine afternoon,
and he would enjoy it so ! And
his father hasn't seen him for four days.
Dress him quickly, nurse, and I'll take
him. You needn't come to-day, I can
look after him quite well by myself for
once."

Alfy was accordingly dressed, his nurse
performing that operation silently, with
a mien of severe disapproval, and his

mother kneeling on the floor and helping
her.

When he was ready — looking, Rachel
thought, more nearly like an angel than
ever child looked before — he was carried
downstairs in her own caressing arms,
resting his curly head on her sable collar,
and clasping his mites of hands round
her white throat ; and she placed him in
the carriage beside her, and tucked up
his little legs in the soft bearskin, and
they set forth together to Spencer Street
in a state of beatific satisfaction and
enjoyment, slightly qualified by Rachel's
well-founded apprehension that her husband
would scold her for spoiling
the child and making a nursemaid of
herself.

When Mr. Kingston arrived at the
VOL. III. 50

station, closely muffled in overcoat and
comforters, it was evident to Rachel's
experienced eye — or ear rather, for as she
knew he would object to her waiting
unattended on the platform, she stayed
in the carriage and sent the footman
to meet him at the train and to take
his baggage, and so heard him before
she saw him — that he was in anything
but a good temper.

He rated an unfortunate porter who
drove a barrow in his way in unnecessarily
violent terms, and then he
demanded angrily of his servant why
the dickens they hadn't brought the
brougham for him on such a bitter day.

''Oh, Graham," said Rachel, stretching
out her hand, " how do you do, dear? I
am so sorry ! — but I thought you would

like the open carriage best. It was beautifully
mild when we started— it lias been
quite a warm day. And here is Alfy
come to meet you. He is quite well,
again, you see, and such a good little boy,
aren't you, Alfy ? He is taking care of
his mother to day, and sitting so quietly."

Why did you bring him out in the
cold?" responded the father snappishly.
'' And where' s the nurse ? At home ?
Upon my word, Rachel, we might as
well be spared the expense of servants
altogether, for all the use you make of
them. No, I won't kiss him — I might
2:ive him a sore throat."

Have you a sore throat, dear ?" inquired
Rachel meekly, tucking the child
into her own corner of the carriage, and
whispering to him to sit very still.

50-2

I should rather say so — not so much a
sore throat, perhaps, as a general bad cold
the most confounded bad cold I ever
had in my life. I'm regularly seedy and
done up," grumbled Mr. Kingston, climbing
into his seat beside her.

Oh, dear, I'm so sorry !"

'that is why I have come home today,"
he added. " It's the most wretched
thing to be in other people's houses when
you don't feel well."

Indeed it is," assented Rachel sympathetically
; " and I am very glad you came
back. How did you catch it, do you
think ?"

'' I think I must have got it before I
started. But that idiot Lambert sent
an open trap to meet me — you know
what a pouring wet day it turned out ?

and I had to sit and be soaked for
an hour and a half. Umbrellas were no
good in that rain, and there was a
sharp wind, too, and before we reached
the house — great, cold barrack of a
place, with stingy little coal fires — fancy
coal fires ! — shows what an idiot the
fellow is, and she's worse — before we
got there I was thoroughly wet through,
and chilled to the bone. I never was
so cold in my life. I took a hot bath
before I dressed for dinner, and I got
Lambert to send me up some brandy,
but it was no use — it seemed to have
regularly struck into me. I could get
warm — not till about the middle of the
night, and then I felt as if I'd got a
fever. I believe I have too."
Oh, Graham, I hope not."

It has settled on my chest," he went
on. *' I haven't been able to sleep for
coughing — you know I have never had
a cough in my life — and I can't draw
a breath without feeling as if I was
dragging something up by the roots.
Can't you hear how I breathe ? You
never heard me breathe like that before
did you ?"

Rachel turned her blooming face, now
grave and anxious, to listen to his respiration,
which certainly was strangely
quick and laboured, and noisy, and she
was struck by a great change in Ms
since she had seen it four days ago.
It had become all at once wrinkled,
and hollow, and haggard — the face of
an old man.

Oh, my dear," she exclaimed, in an

accent of genuine distress, '' you have
got a bad cold, indeed ! Hadn't you
better call on the doctor at once — it
won't be much out of our way — and
see what he says about it ? It may be
nothing, but I think it seems like bronchitis,
and it is best to be on the safe side."

"I think I will," said Mr. Kingston,
covering his mouth with his wraps
again. '' It seems worse than it was
when I started — the cold day, I suppose.
Hang it, I wish you had brought the
brougham — it is colder than ever !"

And he shivered under an accumulation
of great-coats and furs that one would
have thought sufficient for the temperature
of polar regions.

The carriage was stopped in Collins
Street, and remained in the doctors'

quarter until little Alfy fell asleep, and
was temporarily put to bed under the
long, soft skirt of this mother's jacket.
Then, as the dusk was falling, Mr.
Kingston came back to his place, and
tremulously commanded the coachman
to drive home as fast as he possibly could.
He says it is inflammation of the
lungs, Rachel," he whispered excitedly,
and that I must go to bed at once.
Only a touch he called it, but he didn't
look as if he thought it a touch. He
is coming up to-night to do something.
He says I ought to have come home
the first day, and not have let it run
on. Inflammation of the lungs— that
is a dreadful thing, isn't it? I have
never had it, but I have heard of it —
it's a most dangerous complaint !"

Oh, no, dear, not dangerous, except
when people are careless," said Rachel
soothingly, taking his hand under the
fur rug and clasping it between her
own. "And now you are home, with
me to nurse you, you will soon get
all right. Many people have it slightly
it is quite a common thing with a
bad cold— but when they are well
nursed and taken care of, they soon get
all right again.

*' Good little woman ! you will take
care of me, T know."

'' Indeed I will," she responded, slipping
up one hand under his arm, and
resting her cheek on his coat-sleeve. " I
wish you had come back to me before.
But, once I get you fairly into my hands,
I'll soon nurse you round."

However, though she did all that a
woman and a wife, and one born to bethe
genius of a sick room, could do,
she did not nurse him round. By the
time he reached home, where the household
was thrown into a panic of consternation,
he was very ill indeed — his
fright about himself helping very much
to develop the bad symptoms rapidly ;
and the doctor, who next day summoned
other doctors in consultation upon the
case, pronounced him — not in words,
but by unmistakable signs — to be ina
serious and critical condition. The
attack had been severe from the first;
it had been allowed to run on for
several days ; and the constitution of
the patient, enervated and shattered by
years of unwholesome indulgence, was

as little fitted to stand an illness as any
constitution could be. The pain in
breathing grew worse and worse, and
the fever hotter and drier; and then
stupor came on, and delirium, and exhaustion,
and by and bye a filmy cloud
over the sunken eyes, and a dusky
pallor over the old, old, wrinkled face;
and, in spite of all the doctors, and all
the nurses, and all that money could do
in spite of the agonised devotion of
his young wife, who never left him for
more than five minutes at a time,
taking snatches of sleep only when he
slept, sitting by the bedside, and resting
her tired head on the same pillow
that she smoothed for his — it was over
in less than a week. And a little
paragraph appeared in " The Argus" one

morning, to shock that small world of
which he had so long been a distinguished
ornament, with the incomprehensible
intelligence that he was 'gone,"
and would never be seen at a club
mess or in a festive drawing-room
again.

On the night of his death, when fever
and pain and restlessness were sinking
away with the sinking pulse, and when
Rachel, watching beside him, thought
he was past knowing anyone — even
her — he looked at her with a gleam
of loving recognition. " Good little
woman !" he muttered in a struggling
whisper. "Dear, good little woman!"

She stooped over him at once with
a yearning passion of pity and vague
remorse, and kissed him, and laid her

white arms about him, raining tears on
his dying face and his cold limp hands.

Oh, Graham, Graham, I have not
been good enough to you !^* she cried.
And you have been so good — so
kind — to me !"

He continued to look at her with dull
wistful, pathetic eyes.

Have I ?" he gasped, feebly.
Have I ?"

And then the gleam died out of his
face in the shrouding darkness that
was creeping over him. He was
quiet for several minutes, and Rachel
laid her cheek on the pillow beside
him, and listened to the faint
rattle which now and then told
that the '' step or two dubious of
twilight' ' between sleep and death

was not yet crossed, motioning the
other watchers away from the bedside,
that he and she might be alone
together.

And suddenly he roused himself, and
said — panting the * words out slowly
and huskily, but evidently with
a perfect consciousness of their meaning
'' Rachel — you can — have him — now."

Her arm was under his pillow, and
she drew it back to her gently until
his head lay next her breast.

Hush — hush — hush !" she said, with
choking sobs. But he went on
steadily, as if he had not heard her.

Only tell him — not to — not to — lead
little Alfy — into bad ways."

After a pause, he said,

Do you hear ! — tell him — "

'' He will not — he could not !" she
broke out eagerly. '' He is a good,
good man, though people think he is
not ! He will take care of little Als j,
mj darling — do not be afraid — he will
never lead him into bad ways — never
never !"

Ought she to have said it ? Had
she given him — she, who, at this moment,
would have laid down her life to
save his, if that had been possible — the
comfort .she had meant to give, or a
most cruel, cruel stab, in his last conscious
hour ? She looked at him with
agonised, imploring face, which mutely
prayed him to try and understand her;
and there came slowly into his sunken
eyes a vague intelligence and a dim,
dim smile. He did understand her —

A MERE CHANCE.

better, perhaps, than he had ever understood
her before.

'' Good little woman !" he murmured.
Good little girl— to tell the truth."

m

c

FULFILMENT.

ACHEL, who could not have
dissembled if she had tried,
appeared to be overwhelmed
by Mr. Kingston's sudden death.

She wept herself ill, sitting now in his
library chair, now in his office, now in
his dressing-room, with mementoes of
his domestic occupations and the homely
companionship of nearly half-a-dozen
wedded years around her; missing him

VOL. TII. 61

from his accustomed place with a sense
of having lost one of the best and
kindest husbands that ever ungrateful
woman had.

She allowed no one to touch his clothes
and trinkets, or his books and pipes, or
anything that he had used and cared
for, but herself ; and she cried over them,
and kissed them, and laid them away
in sacred drawers, to be treasured relics
and heirlooms for her little Alfy, who
was to be taught to reverence the
memory of the tenderest of fathers, and
to hand down to unborn generations
the name and fame of the most accomplished
and estimable of men.

She wandered about her great, silent
house, in and out of the spacious rooms,
making loving inventories of all the

ricci appointments, which lead never

lead so much grace and beauty as
now.

He built this lovely place for m^,"
she would say to herself, or perhaps say
aloud to Beatrice, who was her chief
companion at this time, '' He had this
carved dado made because I didn't like
tiles;" *'he gave me this Florentine
cabinet on my twentieth birthday ;" '' he
chose these hangings himself because he
said they suited my complexion." Every
bit of the house and its furniture was
newly sanctified by some of these reminiscences.


She gathered together all his letters
reverently — some had been waiting for
his return from Mr. Lambert's, and were
still unopened ; and though many of them

61-2

were addressed in the kind of handwriting
that was especially calculated
to arouse curiosity, she would not pry
into his correspondence, nor allow anyone
else to do so.

She would not read what he had
evidently never intended her to read ;
she burnt them all without taking
one of them out of its envelope, and
then drove to the cemetery with a wreath
of flowers for his grave.

He was the best of husbands," she
said, when to her own people she talked
of^Tiim.

And Mrs. Hardy, who was truly
afflicted by the family bereavement, was
comforted to be able to repeat this
tender formula to all the gossip of her
own circle.

He was the best of husbands. So
fond of her to the last ! Even when
he was delirious you could see plainly
his distress when she went out of the
room, and his relief when she came
back again. And she was so devoted !
Such a thoroughly suitable marriage in
every way — as if they had been made
for each other ! She is broken-hearted
for the loss of him. And how he valued
her he has plainly proved."

And here the gossips would smile
decorously, and shake their heads, and
say, 'eyes, indeed." For they all understood
what this allusion meant. It meant
that Mr. Kingston had left the half of
his great property absolutely at his young
wife's disposal, and that she was the
sole and unrestricted trustee of the rest,

which, was settled upon his son; which
certainly did prove that he had valued
her in the most conclusive manner.

But in a little while — a scandalously
little while —indications that this young
widow of twenty-five was not inconsolable
for the loss of her elderly husband,
became apparent to all but the most
superficial observers.

It was not that she wore such very
slight mourning— soft black silks and
cashmeres that were the merest apology
for weeds — for everybody knew that
Mr. Kingston had had a horror of crape,
and had been repeatedly heard to declare
that no wife of his should wear it if
he could help it.

Mrs. Hardy had explained that it was
in deference to his wishes that she had

defied custom id this respect ; and,
though there was a strong impression
that she ought to have insisted on paying
proper respect to his memory, ia spite
of him — and even that his protests
against conventional suttee were never
intended to include this particular case
(as was very probable), but only indicated
his personal distaste for harsh and unbecoming
materials in ladies' apparel —
the fact that it was growing the fashion
to be lax and independent in these
matters, saved her the verdict of the
majority.

And it was not that she drove about,
within two months of his death, with
her veil turned back over her bonnet
in the case of a veil so transparent,
it didn't make much difference whether it

were up or down — leaving her youthful,
lovely, rose-leaf face exposed to public
view as heretofore.

It was not that she was heartless or
unfeeling, or that she infringed the laws
of good breeding and good taste in any
distinctly and visible manner.

No one could quite say what it was,
and yet everyone felt that the fact
was sufficiently indicated that she
was recovering from the shock of
her sudden and terrible bereavement
with unexpected, if not unbecoming,
rapidity.

You mark my words," somebody
would say to somebody else, when Mrs.
Kingston's carriage went flashing by, and
she turned to bow to them, perhaps with
her serene, sweet, grave smile ; " you

mark my words — that woman will be
married again by this time next year.
I don't know what makes me think so,
but I am sure of it. There is a lookin
her face as if she were going to make
herself happy."

The person addressed, being a man,
would probably reply that the odd thing
would be if she did not make herself
happy (and generally he suggested that
by remaining a widow she would be
most likely to secure that object), with
youth and beauty, leisure and liberty,
and ten thousand a year to do what
she liked with ; and that he sincerely
hoped she would be.

Being a woman, she was more likely
than not to look after Rachel and her
carriage with solemn severity, and wonder

how it was that that poor, dear, foolish
man never could see that the girl cared
nothing at all about him, and had only
married him for his money.

Mrs. Hardy was becoming aware of
this state of public opinion with respect
to her niece's conduct — which had been
so extremely proper hitherto — and was
herself conscious of the subtle change
that had taken place, and was
uneasily wondering what it indicated,
when one day Rachel came to see
her.

It was eleven o'clock on a warm
summer morning, just before Christmas;
and the young widow walked over
through the gardens and the back gate,
wearing a light, black cambric dress
and a shady straw hat, looking — Mrs.

Hardy thought, glancing up at her from
her writings-table in a cool corner of
the now transformed drawing-room —
unusually well and strikingly young and
girlish.

Well, my dear, how are you ? And
Where's Alfy ? Have you not brought
him with you ?"

Rachel put her arm over her aunt's
shoulder, and kissed her affectionately.

I haven't brought him to-day, because
I wanted to have a little quiet
talk," she said. " Are you very busy,
auntie ?"

Mrs. Hardy was busy— she always was,
from breakfast until lunch time ; but
she was impressed by a certain gentle
gravity in Rachel's voice and manner,
and understood that there was something

of importance to be attended to. So lie
gathered up her papers, told her visitor
to take off her hat and sit down,
and inquired anxiously what was the
matter.

There is nothing the matter," said
Rachel, with a little hesitation. " But,
auntie dear, I am going to — do something,
and I would not do it without
telling you first."

She sat upon the edge of a chair, and
leaned her arms on a corner of the
writing-table; and she looked into the
elder woman's face with wistful, longing,
pleading eyes.

Mrs. Hardy had faint, instinctive premonitions.


"Well, my dear," she replied a little
brusquely, " I shall be glad to advise

you to the best of my power. But you
are your own mistress now, you know."
Then after a little pause, lie said
anxiously, " What is it you are going
to do ?"

Auntie," faltered Rachel, " auntie —
you know all about Mr. Dairy male ?"

Rachel — my dear — you don't mean to
say — ! And your poor husband not six
months in his grave !"

"Not yet," said Rachel, suddenly
becoming composed and collected.
'' Though I do not believe that I ought
to put it off. But presently, auntie —
as soon as you would think it right
I want to marry Mr. Dalrymple. And
in the meantime he is waiting for me
to send him a message — he has asked
me to write — we want to have

the comfort of some sort of
recognised engagement, if it is ever so
quiet "

Oh, Rachel, don't ask me to have
anything to do with such a thing !
Only think what poor Graham would
say if he could know ! And he left
little Alfy in your hands — and he
left all that money to you — Freethinking
what you would do with
it!"

He knew — he knew," said Rachel.
He has already sanctioned it. Dear,
good husband ! He left me the money
without any conditions if I married again,
and he knew I should do this. It was
understood between us when he died.
Aunt Elizabeth, I think he wished to
make reparation to Rodenn and me.

Don't you wish it, too ? Only think,
it is six years — six whole years — that
poor Rodenn has been lonely in Queensland,
without any brightness or comfort
in his life ; and, though he has loved
me just the same, he has never
attempted to do — what you would not
have wished him to do — all that time.
It is six years this very week, Aunt
Elizabeth, since he sent Mr. Grordon
down to you."

And if he had come himself," said
Mrs. Hardy, passionately, beginning to
break down and cry, *' I should not
have let him see you — I would not
have allowed you to have him. Oh,
child, child ! when you have grownup
daughters to look after and manage
for, you will understand that I tried todo

mj best for you — you will think less
hardly of me then."

Rachel jumped up from her chair,
and kneeling down flung her warm
young arms about the sobbing woman.

"My own auntie," she exclaimed
fondly, "if I could think hardly of
you I should be ashamed to live. I
know you tried to do your best for me
of course I know it ! It is always
a mistake to deceive people, but I
deceived yoii^ too, not telling you all I
had done. I know you were right to
keep me away from him knowing only
what you knew. If he had been wicked,
as you thought, and I had had it all
my own way, what would have become
of me? But now — now that you know
he is good "

'' Ah, my clear, I clout know it !
Remember that dreadful duel ! And how
can sou tell that he doesn't want
sou now for your money ? He has
none of his own, and you have a
great fortune that he could squander
as he liked. Everyone will say
that it was for the sake of your
money."

It would sooner have been that
the money would have kept him
from me," said Rachel softly. " Once
I was afraid of that. But afterwards
I was ashamed that I could
have any fears. We understand
each other better. Aunt Elizabeth,
Beatrice knows that he is good —
Beatrice believes in him — and my dear

Graham gave me leave to make him
VOL. III. 62

happy. Won't you consent to it,
too?"

•' Well, if poor Graham gave you leave
it is not for me to interfere, I suppose.
But you ivon't let anyone know
you are engaged so soon ?"

It need only be known to ourselves,
auntie."

And you'll promise me you won't get
married again under the year, at the very
earliest?"

"Yes, dear Aunt Elizabeth, I will
promise you that. If I can go and
stay at Adelonga for a little, and take
Alfy "

Is he down at the Digbys ?"

'' Yes, auntie."

'' Perhaps that will be the best
plan," said Mrs. Hardy, sighing. '' It



is a quiet place, and out of the
way, if only Lucilla doesn't gossip
about it''

52—2

CHAPTER XL

CONCLUSION.

ES. Henley was a little
scandalised like her mother, at
first, not by Rachel's desire to
marry again — for that she should do
so, as a rich young widow of twenty-five,
"left" by a husband just forty
years her senior, was generally anticipated
as a matter of course — but by
the too early announcement of those
wishes and intentions which conventional

decorum forbade a woman to dream of
until " the year " was up.

Very speedily, however, she forgot to
be shocked by anything of this kind,
and devoted herself ardently to the
furtherance of her cousin's happiness.


She had had Mr. Dalrymple at
Adelonga after his accident, and had
nursed him for about a month of his
convalescence ; and since that time both
she and John had had a strong
feeling of friendship for him, not
much less than that which they
had always had for their favourite, Mrs.
Digby.

They had condoned all the errors of

his earlier years (even the great duel,
which Mr. Gordon had assured them

was the worst episode in a reckless
but not dishonourable career, and was
in itself unstained by any mean or
vicious motives), and they had proved
the sincerity of their respect and
regard for him by allowing their son
Bruce to " chum " with him in Queensland.


And now, being put in possession of
all the facts relating to his and Rachel's
love affairs, Lucilla entered eagerly into
the arrangements which Rachel herself,
without a blush of shame, suggested for
bringing the long-parted lovers together
again.

Oh, yes my darling," she wrote hurriedly,
by return of post, " pray do
come and spend all the summer with
us. Mamma says that as it is so very,

very soon we must be careful to keep
it quite quiet, but John wishes me particularly
to tell you that, in his opinion,
you are quite right.

We both like Mr. Dalrymple very
much, and we think he has behaved
so very lull. And John says he is
not at all a spendthrift now, whatever
he ray have been once, and
he thinks really that he will take care
of your money and not squander it
away (only he says you must let him
arrange things for you on your marriage
which must take place at Adelonga — so
as to be quite on the safe side) ; for
they have had both floods and droughts
very badly at their place in Queensland,
and yet they have made it pay,
which John says he never expected.

Bruce thinks so much of the property
and the way it has been managed, that
I am sure he will want to go in with
Mr. Gordon if Mr. Dalrymple will let
us buy him out (perhaps he ivo'ibH now
the meat-freezing is going to do such
great things.) But these are details
to talk of presently. We must get you
here first.

If you can come on Tuesday,
do. John will meet you at the
train. I have written to Mr. Dalrymple
to come the next day, for you must
not be excited and upset until you
have had time for a good rest after
your journey. I am having the blue
south room got ready for you — the
one you tired to like — and the large
dressing-room next to it for dear

little Alfy. I don't think you ought

to send away your maid. Won't it

look odd after being used to one for

so long ? I have plenty of room

for her as well as for the nurse,"

&C.5 &c.

On the Tuesday, Rachel, with Alfy and

his nurse, arrived, having dismissed
some of her servants and put the rest
on board wages, having packed up her
most precious china and art treasures,
and swathed her splendid upholstery in
sheets of brown holland, prepared
to spend any length of time at
Adelonga that circumstances would
admit of.

It was a beautiful day in January,
rather too hot for travelling in comfort,
but pleasant and breezy about the

Adelonga-liills and the bosky garden
that sheltered the old house. It was
the same old house still, Rachel was
thankful to see. Mr. Thornley had been
building with brick and stone in town,
and so had been content to leave to his
country seat, the picturesque charm of
its wooden walls and its medley of
low roofs and gables ; and now it
stood embowered in cool vine leaves
and sweet-scented creepers, with great
trees of pink oleander, which loved the
sultry midsummer, nestling up against
it, and making broad splashes of sunny
colour amid the sombre richness of evergreen
shrubs— a sort of earthly paradise
in Rachel's eyes. Lucilla was standing
on the verandah, surrounded by all her
family (except her grown-up step daughter,

Isabel, who had been sent on a visit
to an aunt in Sydney to be " out of the
way)" waiting to greet her welcome
guest ; and Rachel, jumping down from
the buggy, and flinging herself into
those faithful arms, felt that she had
been a wandering prodigal in strange
countries for half a dozen years,
and was on the threshold of home
again.

But, oh," she said to herself, when
having seen little Alfy tucked up in
his cot, and having, madness, with her
own hands, laid away her clothes in
drawers and wardrobes, she began to
dress for dinner, " ivhat could have
made Lucilla imagine that waiting for
him for twenty-four hours would rest
me?"

The long hours passed, however, as
the longest hours do, and the evening
of Wednesday drew on with a flaming
crimson sunset; and Rachel listened
for the sound of buggy wheels on
distant bush tracks, and was deafened
by the noise of her own loud-beating
heart.

They are coming," whispered Lucilla,
creeping with the stealth of a conspirator
into her cool, dim drawing-room,
where the young widow stood,
bright-eyed and pale, in her black
gown, steadying herself with a hand on
the piano.

Shall I send him in to you by himself,
dear, or would he think that was
bad taste — a too open and vulgar way
of recognising the state of affairs ?"

Ob, no, lie would think not it vulgar,"
replied Rachel, smiling sightly through
her air of solemn and rapt abstraction.
You must send him by himself, Lucilla,
please — this once."

The buggy came into the garden and
passed the window. Lucilla, outside on
the verandah, welcomed her guest with
effusive inquiries after Mrs. Digby's health
and welfare, and that of all the little
Digbys' respectively ; Mr. Thornley gave
loud directions to the servants about
the portmanteau that was to be carried
to the green gable room. And then the
buggy went to the stable-yard ; there
was a few minutes' silence; and the
door of the drawing-room opened
quietly, and Rodenn Dalrymple came
in.

He had changed a little in the four
years since she had seen him last; his
ruddy moustache was a little more
grizzled, and the lines in his sustained
forehead were stronger and
deeper.

She was changed, too; there was a
matronly grace and maturity in the
roundness . of her shapely figure and in
the reposeful softness of her face, that
had been wanting in the beauty, fresh
and delicate as he remembered it, of her
earlier girlish years.

But the only change they recognised
in one another was their deeper capacity
for understanding the worth and the
meaning of such an experience as this,
when, with his back against the closed
door, and her hands about his neck, he

held lier in both arms clasped close to

bis breast, and they drank together in

one moment of speechless passion the

solace and the sweetness of all the kisses

that they should have had.

» ^ « «

In the evening Lucilla sat down to the
piano, to play some of Beethoven's
sonatas to her husband. It was a lovely
moonshine summer night, and some of
the windows stood open, letting in the
fragrance of jessamine and tobacco,
and a quantity of tiny moths and
gnats.

Mr. Thornley, having taken his coffee
and his cigarette upon the verandah,
lying all along on a bamboo easy chair,
stayed there to listen and doze in
obscurity, with his handkerchief thrown

over his bald head to keep off the
mosquitoes.

For a few minutes Mr. Dalrymple stood
behind his hostess; but, finding that she
played from memory, and therefore did
not want leaves turned over for her, he
left the piano, and crossing the room,
stooped down to Rachel as she satin
a low chair dreamily fanning
herself.

"Rachel," he whispered, "is the
lapageria in blossom now?"

"I don't know, Rodenn — I don't think
so," she replied.

Shall we go and see ?"

She rose at once, and they went
together into the curtained alcove and
through the noiseless swing door.

Where is our seat ?" he said, taking

her hand as soon as they were alone,
and leading her down the dim alleys,
over-arched with fern trees, and filled
with broken shadows of the gigantic
fronds. " I hope it is in the same
place."

It was in the same place, but the
place was stiller and darker than it used
to be — built all round and about with
gnarled masses of cork, feathered in
every crevice with maiden hair, and
roofed with drooping leaves.

There was just moonlight enough to
enable them to find it, and when they
found it they sat down side by side,
and Rachel laid her head on one of
her lover's broad shoulders and her
hand on the other; and they remained
there for several minutes without moving*

VOL. III. 53

or speaking; listening to the far-off
sound of the piano, more perfectly at
rest than either of them had ever
imagined it possible to be in this
world.

Mr. Dalrymple spoke first, drawing a
long breath.

Must we be separated any more,
Rachel ? Can't we be married now — this
week — tomorrow — and go away from
everybody quietly ? It seems like tempting
Providence to lose sight of one
another again — to lose one hour
more than we can help of what
we have been kept out of all this
time."

It does — it does," assented Rachel.
But I promised Aunt Elizabeth that I
would be a widow for a year."

You were a widow for me — low many
years r

*' I know, Rodenn, I know. I do not
do it willingly. But other people — other
things — have to be considered."

Six months more ! Child, no one has
any right to demand such an enormous
sacrifice of us. Who knows how lons^
we may live to be together as we want
to be together ? Can we afford to
throw away six months on the top of
six years for the sake of mere sham
propriety, knowing the worth of every
hour as we do ?"

*'Roden," said Rachel gently, after a
pause, "it shall be just as you like. If
you think we ought not to wait,
we will not. I can explain to Aunt
Elizabeth."

And then he recognised his responsibilities.


'' No," he said, " I think perhaps we
had better wait — though there is no
sense or justice in it. We'll pay Mrs.
Grundy the heaviest price that she has
swindled honest people of for many a
day, and then we'll take it out with
interest. But you will do something
for me in the meantime ?"

*' There is nothing I could do for you
that I should not want to do for myself,
Rodenn."

You won't go quite away, will you ?
You'll stay here till I have to leave,
and then you'll come and stay a long
while with Lily? You'll let me have
sight of you, and keep watch over you,
until the waiting time is up ?" There



was no answer required for this question.
What they could do for one another
they would, as both well knew. He
held her tightly in his arms, covering
half her face with his great moustache.
'' And when the time is up we will
not wait one hour— not one," he said,
with sudden, strong passion. '' That very
day, Rachel, I shall take you away to
Queensland, where nobody can reach
us and nothing can interfere with us.
When at last I do get you, I will
have you — for a little while at all
events — absolutely and wholly to myself."


And Rachel prayed that she might
be permitted to Hve until that "little
while " should come.

It seemed, in this moment of anticipation,

something that it would be

presumptuous for a mortal woman to

hope for, much less to expect.

^ « « «

And should Love, when all is said
and done, be the ruler and lord of
all-supreme arbiter of the destinies
of purblind creatures, not one in ten,
perhaps not one in fifty, of whom
have the faculty to see him and know
him as he is ?

Should the passion of wayward girls
defy the wisdom and wishes of parents
and guardians, who have learned in
long years of costly experience something
of the potentialities of this many-sided
life?

Should all risks of poverty and social
ignominy, with their long train of

trials and temptations, involving the
welfare of innocent relatives and unborn
children, be dared in an irrevocable
moment of enthusiasm for one's
faith in the eternal fidelity of any manor
woman ?

Like many other questions that
trouble us in this world, wherein
nothing seems quite right and nothing
altogether wrong, we are constrained
to leave it for the history of future
ages, that we shall never see, to
answer.

Knowing only what we know, we
must not say 'eyes"— we cannot say
no." We have not sufficient light for
any such generalities.

But when one finds this unique
treasure of human life, to whom it is.

with respect to his tangible earthly
possessions, what the pearl of great
price was to the merchantman of Scripture,
there seems no better thing for
him to do than to sell all that he has
to buy it, so long as he sells only what
is absolutely his own, and none of the
rights and privileges that belong to
other people.

THE END.

London : Printed by A. Shulde, 13, Poland Street. (S. & H.)

3 0112 041 774974

piiip

MM
