OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

VOL. I.

% loijel

ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY

author of
Nellie's memories," "wooed and married,"

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

f ublisbfrs in ©rtrrnavj) to her Majesty tl^c ^ufcii
isti

rights of Translation Reset 7'e(f]

CLAY AND Taylor, PRINTERS.

^ CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CO

to
en

CHAPTER I.



PAGI

m TREATS OF ARITHMETIC . . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

^ GRANITE LODGE . . . . . . 14

CHAPTER III.

(Cathy . . . . . . . 31

CHAPTER IV.

"^ THE Feast IN THE GARRET . . . . 48

J^ CHAPTER V.

V CALEB RUNCIMAN . . . . . 64

V

CHAPTER VI.

YOU ARK Emmie's uncle!" . . . . 79

CHAPTER VII.

LOCKED IN



CHAPTER VIII.

DARK 1)AY« . . . . . . ^112

CHAPTER IX.

AX ERRAND OF MERCY . . . . 128

CHAPTER X.

"the little comforter" . . . . 157

CHAPTER XL

CHURCH stile HOUSE . . . . . 169

CHAPTER XII.

MISS COSIK . . . . . . 190

CHAPTER XIII.

A VISIT TO KLDERBERRY LODGE . . . 210

CHAPTER XIV.

Page

IX THE GRANITE Quarry . . . . 233

CHAPTER XV.

QUEEN ie's counsellor . . . . 257

CHAPTER XVI.

FAITH AND CHARITY . . . . . 277

CHAPTER I.

TREATS OF ARITHMETIC.

A little Away, a very little way
(Life is so short), they dig into the rind,
And they are very sorry, so they say, —
Sorry for what they find." — Jean lucjelow.

I HAVE always thought the history of the ugly
duckling one of the truest and most pathetic of
all stories. It commences in the sad minor key, a
long prelude of oppression, of misunderstanding.
The unknown creature, sombre of plumage, makes
no way among its companions ; its folded-up
beauties remain bidden. The duck-pond represents
the world. Amidst plenty of quackery and
folly the weaker goes to the wall. By and by
I. 1

/i

the key changes ; the long neck arches above
the weeds; amid a burst of triumph the ugly
duckling sails away into fairy-land a beautiful
swan.

After all there is a wonderful moral hidden
under these quaint old stories. Beauty and goodness
always go together ; the ugly sister, dropping
toads instead of diamonds and • roses, is only the
poetical incarnation of envy and discontent ; truth
and mercy and kindness to the aged always unfold
themselves under the garb of a beautiful
young girl. And so the children glean precious
stones of wisdom, odd-shaped and many-colored,
out of the fanciful borders of fairy-land.

Queene Marriott once compared herself and her
little sister Emmie to the ugly duckling of the
fable. " There must be two of them," she said ;
*' only it was dubious whether either of them
would become swans."

No one at Granite Lodge understood them ;
certainly not Miss Titheridge, or the other
teachers, or the girls, unless it were Cathy, and
even Cathy, much as she loved them, voted them
peculiar.

Queene was only speaking metaphorically when
she made this droll simile — the grave young
teacher, Madam Dignity, as the other girls had
nicknamed her, was sufficiently alive to her own
attractions not to fear unjust comparisons.

Without being handsome, Queene was woman
enough to know that her clear brown complexion,
white teeth, and brown velvety eyes would win a
certain amount of commendation. Queene's eyes,
as she well knew, were her strong point — they
were of singular depth and expression. Some one
once remarked that they reminded him of brown
wells, for they had no bottom. Somebody was
right ; but they were not mild eyes for all that.

But we must tell how Queene Marriott became
a teacher at Miss Titheridge's, in the select establishment
for young ladies at Granite Lodge, where
her little sister Emmie was a sort of foundation
scholar, or demi-se mi-boarder, as one witty young
lady described her, with reference to the somewhat
scanty scholastic privileges eked out by Miss
Titheridge in return for unmitigated drudgery on
Queene's part, and a trifling stipend paid out
of Queene's poor little purse ; the contents of

1*

which barely sufficed to find them in decent
clothing.

Her own and part of Emmie's board were all
the wages Queene received for her endurance
and patient labor ; and half of the miserable
little pittance of forty pounds a year, left to
her by her mother, was paid quarterly into Miss
Titheridge's hand, invariably received by Miss
Titheridge in the same stony manner, and acknowledged
in the same words : — " I hope you
and Emily will always be grateful to ns, Miss
Marriott, for the handsome and gratuitous
manner in which my poor sister and myself
have befriended you" (the second Miss Titheridge
had been dead fifteen years, but it was Miss
Titheridge's way always to associate the deceased
as though she were still the partner of her
labors). '' There would have been very few in
this mercenary world who would have acted
as generously, but, as Caroline always beautifully
puts it, we do it ' not to be seen of men.' "
After which speech it was odd that the visitors to
Granite Lodge, when they were ushered into the
school-room, always gazed curiously at the young

teacher, and then at a certain closely-cropped head
in the darkest corner, and went out whispering
to themselves of Miss Titheridge's Christianity
and magnanimity of soul. In more than one
case the story turned the scale in the mind of a
dubious parent, who after such a recital could
not but trust their darlings under the care of so
ojood a creature as Miss Titheridsre.

My dear, she actually supports those two
poor orphans ; she assured me that a few pounds
are all she receives, and that is pressed upon her.
Can you conceive such generosity ? " went on one
warm-hearted visitor, the mother of seven female
hopes, at least to Miss Titheridge ; '^ a poor hardworking
school-mistress, and treats them as
though they were her own daughters."

Queene and Em and their staunch friend
Cathy could have told a different tale, less
varnished and highly colored. Miss Tither-edge's
adopted daughters fared somewhat scantily;
not indeed on the bread and water of affliction,
but on bread on which the butter was
spread sparingly, on cold tea, on the least tempting
cuts of the joint after the young ladies were

served. And they were lodged somewhat coldly,
in a large roomy attic, with a draughty window
and no fireplace, wherein little Em's hands
became at times very blue and chilled — a place
much haunted by a sportive family of mice, who
gambolled and nibbled through the small hours
of the night, with an occasional squeak from Mr.
or Mrs. Mouse that roused Queene, dozing uneasily
inter the thin blankets, and kept her
awake and shivering for hours. These were
hardships certainly, but, as Queene was given
to observe somewhat bitterly, she was used to
hardships.

Queene and her little half-sister Emily were
the daughters of a clergyman, who held a having
in the north of England, at first in Lancashire,
which afterwards he had exchanged for one in
Yorkshire.

Queene never recollected her mother, but she
did not long miss maternal care, which was
warmly lavished upon her by her young stepmother.


Queene was only seven years old when her
father married again ; he had made an excellent

choice ia his second wife, and, as was extremely
rare in such cases, had secured a real mother for
his little girl.

Mrs. Marriott was not a judicious woman in
some respects, but she was extremely warmhearted
and sensitive ; she would have thought
it the height of injustice to make any difference
between the children, even though one was her
own, and she prided herself on treating them
with equal tenderness.

Mr. Marriott was devotedly attached to his
wife and children, and yet it could not be said
that he was a happy man. He had one fault —
he was a bad arithmetician ; throughout his life
he never could be made to understand that a
pound did not consist of thirty shillings.

It sounds ludicrous, impossible. A highly
educated man, and a good Christian, nevertheless
it was the case. This mistaken notion spoiled
his life, and brought him to his death a broken-spirited
man.

Queene never recollected the time when her
father was not in debt ; the sweet domestic life of
the Vicarage was poisoned and blighted by this

upas-tree shadow of poverty. Mrs. Marriott's
pretty-girl bloom died out under it, her soft
cheek grew thin and haggard. It haunted the
study chair where Mr. Marriott spent hours of
hard brain and heart labor for his people ; it
spoke despondently in his sermons ; it weakened
the strong head and arm, and marred their usefulness.


This man was faulty, depend on it ; he had
begun life at the wrong end ; he had been bred
up in luxury, and had educated himself to the
pitch of fastidiousness ; he would preach the
gospel, and yet not endure hardness, neither
would he lay aside the purple and fine linen
that should be his by inheritance.

Fresh from the university, he had commenced
life in this wise. Long before prudence would
have dreamed of such a thing, he had taken a
wife to himself, a beautiful young creature, also a
clergyman's daughter, who brought her husband
a dowry of forty pounds a year.

After her death, which occurred when Queene
was two years old, there was a long sad interval
of confusion and mismanagement. An extravagant

master and extravagant servants made sad
havoc in an income that ought to have sufficed
for comfort and competence.

The young widower was in sore plight when
Emily Calcott married him, thereby angering
and alienating her only remaining relative, a
brother, at that time a wealthy solicitor in
Carlisle.

Heaven forbid that you should do this thing,
Emily ! " he had said to her, not unkindly, but
with the hardness habitual to him. " If you marry
Frank Marriott you will live to rue the day you
ever became his wife ; thriftless, extravagant,
and already in debt they tell me, and burthened
with a child. Pause a moment before you decide,
and remember that you must choose between him
and me."

Emily Calcott paused many moments before
she consented to shake off the dust of her brother's
house, and shut out from him the light of her
fair face, the only one his crabbed and narrowed
nature ever really loved. But Frank Marriott
was a goodly enough man to look upon, and had
dangerous gifts of persuasiveness ; and pity in her

soft heart was even stronger than love, and he
seemed so helpless, left with his little child ; and
so she married him. She had walked, poor
thing, open-eyed into a very pitfall of shifting
perplexity. From the very first she found herself
entangled in a web of every-day worry and
annoyance ; small debts grew larger and widened
pitiably ; and so the woman's honest soul grew
faint and weak, and no purpose, however strong,
and no effort, however well sustained, seemed to
extricate them.

It was just that mistake of thirty shillings in
the pound that caused the fatal mischief. Queene,
young as she was, soon grasped the truth of it
all.

We are poor because we have never learned
to do without things," she said once to her father,
whom she loved tenderly, and yet, saddest of all
things in a girl's life, whom she somehow failed to
honour. She had gone to him like a zealous young
reformer, to organize a new regime in that troubled
household. Her stepmother was dead — prematurely
faded and worn out — and things seemed
tending to some painful crisis. " It isn't honest

to do what we are doing ; we must measure our
needs by our purse. I am not ashamed of our
poverty, or of my shabby dresses," went on the
girl, in a hard, proud voice, with a little gasp
in it. " Mamma did not mind it, neither do
I. But what shames me is to know that we
have not paid people, that we never shall if we
go on like this. Papa, papa, do rouse yourself,
and look into things, and you weill see what I
mean."

Yes, yes, child, so I will," he had answered,
cowed by her earnestness and by some presentiment
of the truth ; but the effort killed him.

He had not been a willfully dishonest man, he
had merely " not learned to do without things,"
as Queene put it in her childish way. He was
a gentleman, and such things had become the
necessaries of life to him. The pound had not
yielded him thirty shillings after all.

People said the Vicarage was unhealthy, not
properly drained and ventilated, or a low fever
would not have carried off both husband and
wife. But might it not have been that, in the
old Biblical phrase, the man's spirit had died

within him, and left him an easy prey to the
fever "?

Queene thought so as she sat beside him in
those honor nio^ht watches. " What a fool I have
been about money and everything ! " she heard
him mutter once. Oh, if he had only learned todo
without things, how much happier for them
all!

It was an unhealthy home atmosphere for a
girl to breathe. Queene grew up with two very
prominent ideas : first, that money was essential
to happiness, and secondly, that honesty and self-denial
were two of the greatest virtues. Poverty
is a hard task-master to the young. Queene
became a little hard and reticent in her self-reliance
; she made bitter speeches occasionally,
and had odd little spasms of repressed passion.
But she had two weak points, Emmie and Cathy,
and she would have worked her fingers to the
bone for either.

Between her and Miss Titherido:e there was
war to the death. A few of the girls disliked her,
two or three feared her, to the rest she was purely
indifferent. She was their equal, but because of

her shabbiness and poverty they choose to regard
her as their inferior. Quiet disdain, unmitigated
reserve should be her role for the future.

Neither did she owe Miss Titheridge any
gratitude. Miss Titheridge had a conscientious
teacher cheap, that was all. She had paid her
own and Emmie's board over and over again by
hours of ceaseless drudgery and painstaking
work.

*' She gives me stones instead of bread," she
said once to her only confidante. '' What do I
owe her, Cathy ? Has she ever a kind word or
look for us ? is she ever otherwise than hard on
Emmie ? It makes me miserable to see Emmie ;
she is pining like a bird in a cage. Sometimes I
think I would rather live with Emmie in a garret,
and take in plain needle-work. We could talk to
each other then, and I could tell her stories, and
make her laugh ; she never laughs now, Cathy."

Hush, Queene ; you are so impetuous. I
have a plan in my head, a dear, delightful plan.
We shall see, we shall see."

CHAPTER II.

GRANITE LODGE.

shun, my friend, avoid that dangerous coast,
Where peace expires and fair affection 's lost ;
By wit, by grief, by anger urged, forbear
The speech contemptuous and the scornful air."

Br. John LaugJiarne,

How Queene became the under teacher at
Miss Titheridge's must be told here .shortly.

Queene was only seventeen when her father
died, but she had already formed her own plans
of independence. The repressive atmosphere of a
companion's or governess's existence was peculiarly
repugnant to her taste. Teaching was
indeed her forte. She had plenty of patience
and industry ; her love of children was deep and
inherent ; but she felt that she must seek another
channel, where she could work off superfluous
energy and attain independence. She would bea

national school-mistress. Aided by a friend, of
whom we must speak anon, Qaeenie so far carried
out her determination that she spent the next
two years at a training college at Durham, and
had just obtained a second class certificate when
new difficulties intervened.

The old nurse with whom she had placed
Emmie died ; the little stock of money which had
been collected for the orphans by sympathizing
friends was diminishing daily. Adhere could she
find a home for Emmie? It was at this juncture
that Miss Titheridge, who knew the Marriott of
old, and who was just now in sore need of an
under governess, stepped in with a magnanimous
offer. Miss Marriott should give her services in
return for Emmie's board and education.

Queene had hours of secret fretting before
she could make up her mind to relinquish her
cherished independence. Miss Titheridge was
personally odious to her. The decorous rules
and monotony of the life would oppress and
weigh upon her. Still beggars must not be
choosers, as her old friend Caleb Runciman often
said ; and it was for Emmie's sake. Oh, if Miss

Titlieridge would only be kind to Emmie, how
she would work for her, how she would show her
gratitude !

Futile hope ! Before many months were over,
Queene bitterly rued the false step she had
taken, and grew sullen with a sense of repressed
wrong. Little Emmie drooped and pined in the
unloving and uncongenial atmosphere. The poor
little sensitive plant grew mentally dwarfed ; the
young shoots ceased to expand. Queene could
have wrunof her hands with anguish when she
thought of her own weakness and impotence to
avert the mischief. Emmie's bright intelligence
grew blunted ; a constant system of fault-finding
and rigorous punishment cowed and stupefied
the child's timid spirit ; only kindness and
judicious training could avail with such a
nature.

Emmie did not grow sullen, her temper weston
sweet and mild to harbor resentful feelings ;
but she became morbid and over sensitive. Deprived
of the recreation natural to children, her
imagination became unhealthy developed ; she
peopled the old garret with fancies, and not

infrequently raised a Frankenstein of lier own
creation.

Queene sometimes found her cowering in the
window recess in the twilight in a perfect stupor
of terror, for which she could give no tangible
reason. It was dark, and she was afraid, and
she did not like to come down into the schoolroom,
as she was in disgrace with Fraulein, and
so on. Poor pitiful fragments out of a child's life,
small every-day tyrannies, little seeds of unkindness
dropped into virgin soil, to bring forth
perhaps a terrible harvest.

Queene's passionate love could not shield the
little sister ; the two' could only cling to each
other in mute sorrow, each trying to hide from
the other how much they suffered.

I am only tolerably miserable," Emmie would
say sometimes, in her droll, childish way.
*' Don't cry, Queene ; you and I and dear old
Caleb will live together some day I know, when
I am a woman perhaps, and then Tve shall forget
all our troubles," and Emmie would hide the
little blackened hand on which Eraulein's ruler
had come down so sharply that day, and say
I. 2

nothing of the pain, for fear Queene should
fret. But with all her childish troubles, Emmie
suffered less than the elder sister. Queene
would lie awake with aching head and throbbing
pulses night after night, revolving schemes for
delivering them both from the house of bondage,
as she phrased it.

And every night Emmie prayed her poor little
prayer that she might not hate Miss Titheridge,
and that she and Queene and Caleb might live
together in a little house all by themselves.

Emmie was never weary of describing this
ideal house. It must have four rooms and a
cupboard, and a little garden in front, where they
might grow sweet peas and roses.

"I should hate to be rich; should not you,
Queene ? " she would say sometimes. '' Caleb
would not be able to smoke his long pipes then."

Caleb Eunciman was the only friend they
knew outside the gates of Granite Lodge, for
Queene had long ago broken with the old
acquaintances whom she had known when her
father was alive. Some had been offended at
her independence and unwillingness to take their

advice, others had merely cooled, a few Lad forgotten
the orphans. Queene was too proud to
remind them of her existence ; but she and
Emmie clung to their old friend Caleb Eunciman.
He was the old confidential clerk of their uncle,
Andrew Calcott, who was still the principal
solicitor in Carlisle.

Andrew Calcott had never forgiven his sister
her marriage with Frank Marriott. She had
chosen between them, he said, and must abide
by ber decision. The hard, jealous nature had
received a secret blow from which it never recovered.
In a moment of bitter passion he had
uttered a terrible oath, which only poor Emily
Calcott and Caleb Runciman heard, that neither
she nor any child of hers should ever have a
penny of his money.

It is your money, Andrew, not mine," Emily
had answered very sadly and meekly, for after
her unfortunate marriage much of her old spirit
had died out ; " but you should not be so hard on
me, my dear," and as she spoke Andrew Calcott's
cheek lead turned very pale.

Depend upon it, my dear young lady, he

2 *

repented of this speech the moment it had passed
his lips," Caleb had said more than once to
Queene as he narrated this circumstance, which
he was fond of doing with a great deal of dramatic
energy. "Aye, that was a terrible oath
he took, and enough to blacken any man's soul ;
no wonder he grows harder every year ; and his
temper is enough to try a saint, let alone a poor
sinner like me, till we aren't answer him for
fear of flying in a passion."

Mr. Calcott lived in a large handsome house
in Botchergate. Queene and Emmie had often
met him when they walked out in double file to
take the air, as Miss Titheridge termed the daily
exercise, and Emmie had always shrunk nearer to
her sister at the sijrht of the tall, austere-looking
man, who sometimes eyed them so sternly.

Mr. Calcott knew the little girl in the shabby
garment, who always walked last in the procession,
holding so tightly to her companion's hand,
was his dead sister's only child ; he knew as
well that the older girl was Frank Marriott's
daughter, but he never acknowledged the relationship
save by a deeper frown.

Poor old Caleb Rancinaan could only befriend
them in secret. On their rare holidays the sisters
would slip through the streets in the twilight, and
steal into the small, two-storied house, with its
dark entry and small wainscoted parlour looking
out on the winding street.

How they loved that parlour, Emmie especially,
with its slippery horsehair sofa and wooden
rocking-chair. The very blue china tiles that
lined the fireplace, and the red and drab tablecloth
on the little round table, were objects of
beauty in her opinion. Caleb, with his watery
blue eyes, and cheeks like withered apples, and
stubbly grey hair, was the handsomest man she
had ever seen. She liked Diis brown, snuffy waistcoat
and silver chain ; his satin stock with its
coral pin was simply gorgeous. Had not dear
mamma when a little girl sat on his knee, and
hugged him as Emmie did, when he slipped the
new shilling into her hand on Christmas Eve ?
To pour tea out of the little black teapot and
partake of hot buttered cakes that his old servant
]wholly had made was Emmie's greatest treat ; her
thin cheeks would grow quite pink with excitement,

her large blue eyes, generally so dim,
would widen and brighten.

She looks almost pretty then, Cathy," Queene
would say triumphantly to her friend ; *' if only
Miss Titheridge had not cut off her curls."

Cathy used to listen to this sisterly praise in
silence. In her eyes Emmie was certainly a very
plain child. She had an old, sickly-looking face,
which the closely-cropped light hair did not set
off to advantage ; besides which, she was angular
and ungainly, and her frocks were always too
short for her.

Other coins besides the bright shilling; found
their way into the sisters' slender purses ; a shy,
hesitating hand would push the shining gold
piece into Queene's • palm. "It is for Emmie.
Bless you, my dear, that poor lamb is deprived
of thousands, absolutely thousands. There, take it ;
I have plenty, and to spare ; it will get her some
toy or other." And Queene, swallowing down
the odd lump in her throat, would thank the old
man, and go home rejoicing, thinking of the new
hat or the warm winter stockings it would buy
for Emmie.

Granite Lodge was a large grey house of imposing
aspect, but hardly giving one the idea of
a cheerful residence, the blank, desolate look
being strongly suggestive of a jail or a workhouse.
One of the girls, the wag of the school,
had once chalked up over the door those famous
words of Dante, " All ye who enter here leave
hope behind," a jest dearly rued by the whole
school, and expiated by many a bitter task, the
innocent suffering with the guilty. Heavy iron
gates clanged to and fro with metallic sound,
infusion vao^ue sentiments of alarm in the breasts
of timid pupils. The windows were high and
narrow ; everywhere there were grey neutral
tints ; the young footsteps echoed drearily on the
stone hall and staircase.

It was the weekly half-holiday ; the large class-rooms
were empty and deserted, save for one
occupant. Miss Titheridge's young ladies, escorted
by the English and French governesses,
had gone down the town to transact all sorts of
mysterious business, chiefly in the confectionery
and perfumery line. Two or three of them, and
these comprised the aristocracy of the school.

were paying visits in the close. The chancellor's
daughters, who gave themselves airs, and were
consequently much petted by Miss Titheridge,
had gone down to the cathedral, and were afterwards
to drink tea at the Dean's, in company
with a niece of one of the minor canons, thereby
inspiring the remaining three and twenty young
ladies with secret envy.

Miss Titheridge sat in her snug little parlour
with the German governess, who was just then
the reigning favorite; Miss Titheridge, like most
autocrats, having always a favorite on hand,
who were always arbitrarily deposed at the first
symptom of independence.

The bright little French governess, Mademoiselle
La Roche, had long ago fallen into disgrace,
and the heavy-featured, stolid Fraulein Heifer
had taken her place.

It was a damp, chilly day in October ; a clinging
mist pervaded the whole place ; the leaves lay
in rotting heaps on the garden paths ; the black
boughs of the almost leafless trees seemed to shiver
and creak in their bareness.

Inside the prospect was scarcely more cheering.

A small cinclery fire burned drearily in the large
class-room, scarcely driving out the damp, which
seemed to settle everywhere, on the dim windowpanes,
on the globes and bust of Pallas, making
Queene shiver as she bent over the piles of slates
and exercises at one corner of the long table.

Across the hall she could hear now and then
the pleasant spluttering of logs and clink of
tea-spoons ; a faint perfume, redolent of tea and
toast, was wafted across from the little room
where Miss Titheridge and the German governess
were sitting cosily in the twilight, with their
feet on the fender, and a plate of buttered muffins
between them. An hour hence a tempting repast
of weak tea and thick bread and butter would
be dispensed to Miss Titheridge's young ladies, to
be enjoyed as only hungry school-girls can enjoy.
But Miss Titheridge was never present on these
occasions ; her nerves required a certain amount
of quiet, and meditation towards the close of the
day was necessary to all thoughtful minds. It
was a little odd that Miss Titheridge's meditations
were always accompanied by a mysterious
sound closely resembling somnolence.

As the dusk crept on, Queene shivered and
sighed uneasily over her task ; some harassing
thought evidently impeded progress. By and by
she pushed the books impatiently from her, and
began pacing the room with quick, restless steps,
now and then pausing to rest her hot forehead
against the window-pane.

Twice this week," she muttered at last, half
aloud. " I must speak, whatever happens ; and
yet if I should do harm ? I wish Cathy were
here ; but no, we trouble her enough ; 1 must acton
my own responsibility ; I can do anything but
stand by and see it. If I were only sure of keeping
my temper ! "

Uttering these slightly incoherent sentences,
the young governess moved slowly to the door,
remaining there irresolutely a moment ; and then,
with a sudden determination, walked quickly
across the passage, and knocked at the opposite
door.

Who wants me at this unseemly hour ? Oh,
it is you of course, Miss Marriott' and Miss
Titheridge sat bolt upright, and glared stonily
at the culprit through her spectacles.

Each, she is always so inconsiderate, this
Meess," echoed the sympathizing Fraulein.

j\Iiss Titheridge was a tall, masculine-looking
woman, with a spare figure and a Roman nose.
Why do strong-minded women invariably have
Woman noses '?

She was not bad-looking, and was even reported
to have been handsome in her younger days, and
prided herself greatly on her deportment. She
wore rich silk dresses, and her spectacles had gold
rims to them, and on state occasions she jangled
an appalling array of massive gold fetters on her
lean wrists.

Miss Caroline, on the contrary, had been a soft,
helpless woman, a great sufferer, and much beloved
by those who knew her. During her lifetime
she had exercised a gentle influence on the
sterner sister. It was noticed that Miss Tither-edge
was not so hard or severe when Caroline
pleaded mercy.

*' May I ask what is your errand. Miss Marriott
? " observed Miss Titheridge, dryly, and
with difficulty repressing a yawn, the long, ivory-coloured
hand moving ominously to the lips.

"It is about Emmie, JNIiss Titheridge," answered
Queene, hurriedly, *' She did not mean
to be naughty, indeed, indeed she did not, only
the lesson was too difficult for so young a child."

*' Was this the case, Fraulein ? " demanded Miss
Titheridge, with a distrustful glance at the young
governess.

Each vein ; Meess has not told the truth ;
Meess had not given the class. I believe the
little one is dull, stupid ; does not, will not, do
preparation," and the heavy Teutonic face looked
obstinate and lowering.

Queene absolutely loathed this woman, and
dreaded her as welL Was she not the present
prime minister ? Miss Titheridge might have
relented; Fraulein never. In vain would poor
Queene protest, and beg off punishment for the
innocent little culprit.

** Indeed, indeed Emmie is not stupid ; she
was so bright, and learned so well ; every one
told me so ; but she is easily frightened. Fraulein
does not know how a word, a threat, scares
her. The lesson was hard, and her head ached ;
indeed she never meant to be inattentive."

*miss Marriott," returned Miss Titheridge,
severely, as Fraulein shrugged her shoulders with
a movement of dissent, " do you not know by
this time how useless it is to bring these sort of
complaints to me ? I never dispute Fraulein's
authority in such cases. If Emmie were naughty
and inattentive, she must suffer the penalty of
her faults. I am sorry," continued Miss Tither-edge,
still more severely, '^ that I hear Emmie is
never otherwise than inattentive ; she does no
credit to her teachers, or to my generosity."

The steady brown light in Queene's eyes
burned ominously ; it was evident that she controlled
herself with difficulty ; the small, nervous
hands worked quickly.

We only ask for justice. Is it just," with an
inflexion of passion in her voice, " to shut up a
young child in a cold, dark room, without food
for hours, because she cannot do the task set her ?
This is Emmie's only fault. Miss Titheridge."

Miss Marriott," returned Miss Titheridge, in
the freezing tone she used to refractory pupils,
you are forgetting yourself. Fraulein is witness
that you are forgetting yourself, and insulting

your benefactress. No further words, I beg of
you, except in apology for your intemperate
speech. Fraulein has sent Emmie to her room,
and there she must remain. Please to return to
the duties you are at present neglecting," and
Miss Titheridge closed her lips rigidly, as though
with the determination to speak no more.

For a moment Queene hesitated ; a passionate
impulse came in the young girl's heart, a longing
to tell the women before her what she thought of
them, to pour out some of the scorn she felt for
their cruelty and littleness, and then, shaking off
the dust from that hated place, take her little
sister by the hand and go forth into the wide
world to seek their fortunes.

Queene's better judgment triumphed over
these wild feelings ; it would only be preparing
new miseries and fresh privations for Emmie to
take such a step ; they must endure a little
longer. She did not dare trust herself to speak,
but silently left the room.

CHAPTER III.

CATHY.

She loved me for the dangers I had passed,
And I loved her that she did pity them."

Shakespeare.

Something unseen o'er all her form

Did nameless grace impart ;

A secret charm, that won the way

At once into the heart." — Rev Join Logan.

Solitary confinement was a favorite mode of
punishment at Granite Lodge ; visits of condolence
from sympathizing friends were sternly
interdicted. Nevertheless, many small culprits
had been much comforted by peppermint lozenges
or acid drops, surreptitiously conveyed to them in
small screws of whitey-brown paper lowered down
to the window. Notes hidden in the centre of
a large currant-bun had even been forwarded to
the unhappy prisoner ; indeed, to carry provisions

to the incarcerated victim was one of the chief
amusements in the schooL

Poor little Emmie was not a general favorite,
and no relief parties had as yet charged np the
garret stairs; no odd-shaped parcels had been
smuggled under black silk aprons, and passed on
by sleight of hand under Miss Titheridge's very
nose ; nevertheless, comfort was close at hand.

As Queene closed the door of the little parlour
she could hear the voices of the girls in the
lower entry. There was not a moment to be lost
if she wished to elude discovery. As she sped
up the broad stone staircase she could hear the
harsh, rebuking tones of Miss Tozer, the English
governess, with her favorite "Silence, young
ladies, if you please ; no infringement of the
rules can be permitted."

Queene knew well what she would see as
she opened the garret door — the line of stooping
shoulders against the light, the childish figure
cowering down on the high, broad window-ledge ;
but she was hardly prepared for the words that
greeted her.

"I am not a bit afraid ; I have said my prayers

twice over ; but I shan't open my eyes till you
speak."

Em, darling, what do you mean ? " exclaimed
lier sister, much startled. '' Why it is only I,
only Queene."

A gasp and long-clrawn sigh of relief answered
her, and then a pair of cold arms were thrown
delightedly round her neck, and a still colder
cheek laid against her own.

'^ Oh, you dear old thing to come to me. However
did you manage it, with the Ogre and the
Griffin at home ? " by which delightful sobriquets
Miss Titherido^e and Fraulein where often designated.


Never mind how I managed it ; I was determined
to see you for a moment. I shall not be
able to stop ; the gong will sound for tea directly.
Tell me Avhat you meant just now."

Oh, it was nonsense ; you will be angry with
me," returned Emmie, in a queer, ashamed voice,
but nevertheless creeping closer to her sister.

Am I ever angry with you, darling ? "

*' Never, never," vehemently; "only of course
you must think it silly."

I. 3

What if I do ? " with reassuring calmness.

At twelve years old one ought to be wiser,"
returned poor Emmie, in a self-convicted tone.
'' Of course I knew there was no old man wrapped
in a cloak in that corner, only it was so dark,
and Jane had forgotten to bring me a candle,
and the stairs would creak, and there was such
a funny noise, and — — "

Oh, Em, Em ! " exclaimed her sister, in such
a troubled voice that the child could only hang
about her fondly, and promise not to be so silly
any more.

It was so wrong and foolish of me," continued
Emmie, penitently, " after all the beautiful stories
you have told me about guardian angels ; but I
suppose I am wicked because I can't bear the
dark ; and when there is a great silence I always
seem to hear voices like little men underground,
talking and laughing in a muffled sort of way ;
oh, such funny little voices, only they are not
quite nice."

"Now, Emmie, do you know this is quite
absurd," returned her sister, suppressing I know
not what pangs of pity and fond terror, and

trying to speak firmly. " I wonder what mamma
would say if she knew her little girl were such
a coward, and thought such foolish things. I
don't think we ought to be afraid in the darkness
which God has made," continued Queene,
whose healthy young vitality knew none of the
mysterious terrors that afflict weaker and more
imaginative temperaments. " And then we are
never alone, dear, never in any sense of the word.
am sure our good guardian spirit would never
be allowed to leave us for a moment."

"It would be nice if one saw the angel,"
replied the child, doubtfully.

*' Anyhow we must have faith, dear. I am
afraid your head has ached terribly over those
horrid lessons."

"Yes, it has been pretty bad," in a patient
voice.

And you arc cold ; oh, so cold, Emmie."

I got the creeps, you know, and that always
makes me cold ; but I can bear that," stoically.

The meat was burnt, and so you had hardly
any dinner, and now Miss Titheridge says you

must have no tea ; you must be starved, abso-

3 *

lately starved," continued poor Queene, rocking
her in her strong young arms.

Not quite, I only feel rather sick," returned
the little prisoner, bravely.

Emmie would not have confessed for worlds
the odd gnawing and emptiness that preceded
her feelings of sickness. She was somewhat
dainty and fastidious with regard to food, and
the burnt flavor had so nauseated her that she
had literally eaten nothing of the portion sent
her. No wonder she had the creeps, as she
phrased it in her childish way, and she was
shivering with cold and superstitious terror.

*you are making me miserable," returned
Queene, in a broken voice. ^' I am punished as
well as you, Emmie. Are you sure that you
really attend in class ? Fraulein declares that
you never know your lessons."

I wish Miss Titheridge would not insist on
my learning that tiresome German," sighed
Emmie. *' She wants me to keep up with May
Trevor. May is ever so much stupider than
I," continued Em, with no special regard to
grammar ; " but Fraulein never raps her over

the knuckles with a ruler, or gives her disgrace
tickets."

Because May Trevor is a canon's daughter,"
returned her sister, bitterly. '' She is not poor,
or friendless, or an orphan — three sins for which
wee must answer. But tell me truly, do you try
your hardest to please Fraulein ? "

'' I do, I do indeed," protested the child,
earnestly. "Sometimes I know my lesson quite
perfectly, and then, when she looks at me with
those hard steel eyes, and comes out with that
sharp * Now, little Meess, now,' " — with a faint,
dreary attempt at mimicry, — " it all goes out of
my head ; and then the mark is put down, and I
go on from bad to worse. I don't think I am
really stupid, Queene, but I am afraid I shall
get so."

No, you shall not ; you must not," with a
shower of healing kisses on the little careworn
face. *' Hark ! there's the gong, Emmie ; I must

go."

Must you ? " in a dreary voice ; and then
followed a heavy sigh.

Listen to me, darling. You shall not be

honor alone. Miss Titheridore and Fraulein are
going out to spend the evening, and I shall tell
Miss Tozer that I have a headache, and must
retire early. It will be quite true, you know.
Go to bed now, and try to forget that you are
cold and hungry ; and then T will come up, and
we will have a long, beautiful talk about the
cottage, and Caleb, and all sorts of nice things.
You won't fret any more, Emmie '? ''

No 0-0," hesitatingly ; but two very large
tears rolled down the thin cheeks when the door
closed behind her comforter. " Oh dear, oh
dear," sobbed the child; ''I should not like her
to know how cold and hungry I am. I think I
could eat a great hunch of dry bread if Jane
would bring it me ; but she is such a cross old
thing, and I know she won't. I wish I had
asked Queene to hide a piece of bread and butter
for me. Cathy did one day, and spoiled her
pretty new dress, because the butter would not
come out. It is half-holiday, or else Cathy
would have come up long ago. One time she
brought me a Bath bun, and it was so good. I
wonder if Queene would think me wicked if I

asked for something nice to eat in my prayers ?
No ; I don't think it would be wicked, for I have
not had my ' daily bread ' yet."

Even the sour-tempered Miss Tozer relented
with womanly compassion when she saw Qaeenie's
pale face and heavy eyes. The girl could eat
nothing. The hot weak tea seemed to choke
her. The touch of the little cold hands and face
seemed to haunt her. *' Cruel, cruel," she muttered
once between her teeth. Her hands
clenched each other under the table-cloth.

Emmie in disgrace again ? Dear, dear, this
is very sad. I hope all you young ladies will
take example, and be more careful with your
preparation," observed Miss Tozer, sententiously.
Miss Marriott, I should recommend a little soda
and sal volatile. I always find it an excellent
remedy for a sick-headache."

'' I shall be glad if you can dispense with my
services an hour earlier to night," returned
Queene, hastily. '' I think rest will be better
even than salvolatile, thank you all the same."

'just as you please," returned Miss Tozer,
frigidly. Prescriptions were her hobby, and woe

to the offender who refused the proffered remedy.
But at Queene's imploring glance she melted
into something like good-nature. " Well, you
had better try both. I am afraid the themes
must be corrected, unless you finished them this
afternoon. I have pressing letters awaiting my
attention this evening."

'' Very well ; they shall be done," responded
Queene, wearily.

After all, it was not so much her head as her
heart that ached. She went back to her old
corner in the class-room, and worked away at the
girls' blotted themes, while they sat round her
whispering and laughing over their preparation.

It was not a cheerful scene. The two long
deal tables were somewhat dimly lighted by oil-lamps,
which at times burnt low and emitted
unpleasing odours. A governess sat at the head
of each table, busied over writing or fancy-work.
An occasional 'silence, young ladies'' in Miss
Tozer's grating voice, alternated with Mademoiselle's
chirping " Taisez vous, mes ceres demoiselles,"
followed by momentary silence, soon broken
by a titter. One of the girls, indeed, did not

join in either the whispers or the titters, but
worked on steadily, and to some purpose, for, to
the surprise of her companions, she closed her
books long before the allotted hour, and, with an
explanatory mention to Miss Tozer about tidying
her drawers, left the room unseen by Queene.

She was a tall girl, with an odd, characteristic
face, colorless complexion, and bright dark eyes.
She wore her hair in singular fashion, parted on
one side, and brushed even over her forehead in a
long wave, and simply knotted behind.

Most people called Catherine Clayton plain,
but to those who loved her this want of beauty
was redeemed by an excessive animation, and by
an expression of amiability and hoa-hommie that
irresistibly attracted.

Her figure was erect and striking. She walked,
ran, and danced equally well. Movement was a
necessity to her; in some moods repose was
impossible. In her gestures she had the freedom
and unconscious dignity of a young Indian squaw.

Catherine, or Cathy, as she was generally called
by her intimate friends, had struck up a warm
friendship with Queene on the first day they met.

Queene's strange eyes drew her like magnets ;
their troubled pathos stimulated curiosity and
invited pity. Queene's pride and independence,
her quiet reserve, only charmed the younger
girl.

Cathy made swift advances, but they were only
repelled by the sad-looking young governess.
Cathy, nothing daunted, turned her attention to
Emmie, and won her heart in a trice, and from
that moment Queene succumbed.

When Queene loved, she loved with her whole
heart ; half measures were impossible ; she must
give entire confidence, or none at all. Her
reserve, once broken through, was broken forever.
She soon made her friends acquainted with
the chequered story of her past life. She told
Cathy the absolute blank of the future was
perfectly appalling to her.

Cathy listened and pitied, and started all sorts
of vague Utopian schemes that should ameliorate
the condition of her favorites.

Her own life had no bitter background. She
was indeed a motherless orphan, but she was so
very young when her parents died that the cloud

liaci hardly shadowed her. She spoke of them
affectionately, as of some dear unknown friends.

Queene knew all about Cathy's home — the dull
old house at Hepshaw, overlooking the churchyard
and the plane-tree walk. She had even
pictured to herself the granite quarries, where
Garth Clayton spent long hard - working
days.

Cathy was never weary of talking about Garth.
She would expatiate for hours on his virtues.
Was he not the stay and prop of the little household
? Did not even Langley, the motherly
elder sister, go to him for advice and counsel ?
The handsome younger brother, long, lazy Ted,
was spoken about more seldom.

Ted is just Ted," Cathy would say sometimes,
in reply to Queene 's half quizzical interrogations.
" A dear old fellow, of course ; but he
cannot hold a candle to Garth. Why Garth is a
perfect king in Hepshaw. There is no one more
respected. The work he does among-^ the quarrymen
perfectly astonishes our new vicar. He has
classes for them, and teaches them himself, and
plays cricket with them, and gets up entertainments

and lectures in the school-room. Whj,
the men perfectly adore him."

*' How 1 should like to live at Hepshaw ! "
Queene would answer sometimes, sighing she
hardly knew why.

Cathy's descriptions somehow fascinated her
oddly. The little straggling market town, with
its long, winding street or road ; the old Deerhound
Inn ; the white workhouse, the church
and vicarage, standing hio:h, and overlooking the
town, and set prettily among plane trees ; the
dark old ' Church-stile House,' with its gloomy
entry, and back windows looking over the ancient
monuments and tomb-stones — Queene could see
them all. She could even fancy herself walking
up the steep, narrow garden of the Vicarage,
between tall bushes of roses and lavender.

The Vicarage is such an ugly, bare-looking
little house ; quite a shabby cottage ; only Mr.
Logan has made it so comfortable, and has
added a room to it, such a nice room, which he
has made out of the stable. I think you would
like Mr. Logan, Queene ; he is quite old, nearly
forty, I should think. People say he is very

plain, but I think he has a nice, funny face ; and
he is such a character, and wears such old,
patched coats, and Miss Cosie always calls him
Kit, or " Christopher, my dear."

And who might Miss Cosie be ? " Queene
asked, with an amused air; she dearly loved
Cathy's descriptions.

Oh, Miss Cosie was Charlotte Logan ; she was
his sister, and kept his house. Every one called her
Miss Cosie, even the poor people ; it was a name
she got when a child." No, she could not describe
her ; she was a little woman with two big brown
curls pinned to her face, and lie always wore a
soft grey Shetland shawl, and cooed out her words
in a soft, plaintive fashion ; she only wished
Queene could see her, and then Queene sighed
again.

These sort of conversations fascinated Queene ;
Cathy's girlish egotism never wearied her. Garth
Clayton was almost as great a hero to her as he
was in his sister's eyes ; she had never heard of
such a man. How good he must be ! She used to
try to picture him to herself. " Garth is tall
and good-looking ; every one likes his face," was

Cathy's somewhat vague description. Queene
used to long to hear more.

His handwriting was quite familiar to her ; she
often admired the firm, clear characters when
Cathy read aloud amusing passages from his
letters.

How Queene longed for such a brother ! Such
a manly, protecting tenderness breathed in every
line : in his injunctions to his dear little Catherine
not to be homesick or neglect her studies, in his
playful hints or merry descriptions of the friends
and pets she had left.

*' Your parrot is inconsolable, and shrieks disconsolately
in our ears from morning to night,
much to Langley's annoyance," he wrote once.
Ted threatens to wring its neck. I am quite
sorry for the poor thing, and I believe it understands
my sympathy, for it sidles up to me and
looks at me with yellow, lack-lustre eyes, as much
as to say, ' Where's our Cathy, old fellow ? ' and
then clambers up my coat sleeve with beak and
claw, and settles itself on my shoulder to be
petted, which I suppose I do for your sake, and
because poor Polly has no other friend."

There, is not that like him ? " Cathy cried,
with sparkling eyes. " He is always so good to
any helpless creature ; he has sympathy even with
my poor Polly. Mr. Logan always says unhappiness
or poverty is a sure passport to Garth's
heart."

'■'How sorry he would be for Emmie and methought
poor Queene, but she did not put her
thoughts into words.

CHAPTER IV.

THE FEAST IN THE GARRET.

*ewe fell to work and feasted like the gods,
Like laborers, or like eager workhouse folk
At Yule-tide dinner ; or, to say the whole
At once, like tired, hungry, healthy youth."

Jea)i Iiif/eloiv.

Queene, absorbed in the themes she was correcting,
was not aware of Cathy's absence from
the room.

As she toiled on, correcting faulty grammar
and replacing obnoxious terms, she was consumed
with terrible anxiety. Emmie's thin whiteface
came between her and the page. " What
can I do to save her from this life ? " was her one
inward ejaculation.

She rose quite exhausted with the mental
strain when her work was finished. The great
stone hall with its one lamp looked dreary enough

as she traversed it ; all manner of weird shadows
lurked in the corners of the landing-place. A
rising wind moaned in the ivy outside, and shook
the bare branches of the trees till they creaked
under it ; the moon slid wildly through the
black clouds. Queene thought of Emmie with
a little shiver of apprehension, and hurried
on.

'* Here I am. Are you tired of waiting for me ? "
she exclaimed, in a tone of enforced cheerfulness,
almost before she opened the door ; and then she
started back, and a little cry of surprise and
pleasure broke from her lips at the changed
aspect of the garret.

The scene was certainly unique.

The rickety table, covered with an old red
shawl of Queene's, was drawn close to the bed ;
two candles, one green and the other yellow,
burnt cheerily in two broken medicine bottles ;
a few late-blooming roses in a soap-dish gave an
air of elegance to the whole. A bottle of o^ino^er
wine, and various delicacies in the shape of meat
pies, tarts, and large sticky Bath buns, were tastefully
arranged at intervals, flanked by a pocket
I. 4

corkscrew, a j^en-knife, tumbler, and small tin
plate.

Emmie, propped up with pillows and huddled
np in a warm plaid belonging to Cathy, regarded
this magnificent feast With bright eyed astonishment
; she clapped her hands at the sight of her
sister.

Oh, Queene, I am so glad you have come.
Everything is ready now, only Cathy has gone
down to fetch something ; she has been planning
this delightful surprise all day. Is it not kind of
her ? "

Listeners never hear any good of themselves,
so I had better make my appearance," interposed
a laughing voice, at which Queene turned hastily
round.

Oh, Cathy, Cathy, whatever should we do
without you ! " she cried, looking gratefully at
her friend.

Cathy's eyes grew a little moist, and then she
broke into a low musical laugh delicious to hear.

*' Have I not done it well ? " rocking herself
with merriment. *' Not a creature suspects anything.
I shall go down presently and pretend

to eat supper. Are not those candles lovely,
Queene ? they make this dismal old room quite
cheerful. There, wrap yourself up in my sealskin,
while I help Emmie."

Isn't it lovely ! " sighed Eaimie, in a tone of
such heartfelt happiness, that Cathy hugged heron
the spot. The cakes, the meat pie, the ginger
wine seemed enchanted food to her ; the roses,
the colored candles, were perfectly radiant in
her eyes. "It is just like a fairy story. You are
our good fairy, Cathy," she cried ; '' I am sure I
love you next best in the world to Queene."

'' How I wish Garth could see us ! " lao-hed

o

Cathy. She had enveloped herself in an old grey
plaid, and had put one of the roses in her hair,
and with her dark hair and eyes looked not
unlike a gipsy. " Langley would be dreadfully
shocked, but Garth would laugh first and lecture
afterwards."

'' You are always talking about Garth ; I wish
I could see him," sighed Emmie. " You never
make us see him, Cathy."

Cathy pondered a moment. "It is not easy to
describe people with whom you live ; one is afraid

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF nUNOlS

of being too much prejudiced in their favor. I
don't think I am wrong in calling Garth handsome,
because every one says so."

Every one is sure to be right' put in Queene,
quietly. She did not like to betray her interest,
but she had always longed to be able to picture
Garth. " He is tall," she hazarded, rather
timidly.

Yes, tall and fine-looking. He is ,
you know : he has a nice thoughtful face,
rather pale ; and his mouth is very firm, and shuts
tightly, only the moustache hides it ; and his eyes
are blue-grey, just the colour I like for a man, and
they look kind and gentle ; and then he looks
so good, as though he could never do anything
wrong or mean."

He must be a nice man," exclaimed Emmie,
enthusiastically. "Then he is not like you,
Cathy?"

'* No," she returned, regretfully ; " Langley
and I are alike, only Langley is older and worn-looking
; she is two years older than Garth, just
thirty in fact, quite an old maid," continued the
girl of eighteen, in a tone of profound pity.

''I don't think people of thirty ought to be
considered quite middle - aged," remonstrated
Qaeenie, who had long ago achieved her twentieth
year.

"Not some people perhaps, but Langley
looks dreadfully old ; one can't tell how it was
that she was considered so handsome. Her features
are good, but she looks so thin and worn,
and she is paler than I am, and her hair is
turning grey. Langley is very nice, and good
to us all, but I sometimes think that she leads
too dull a life ; Garth often says so. I know he
will be glad that I am to go home next quarter."

"Oh, Cathy, however shall we be able to
endure this place without you ? " interposed her
friend.

Emmie had waxed drowsy with comfort, and
was dozing placidly, and the two girls had
curled themselves up for warmth on the bed.
Cathy had disappeared for a short time, and had
come back with the announcement that the Ogre
and Griffin were still out, and the other governesses
at supper.

My having a bedroom to myself makes it

easier to evade rules," explained Cathy. " I have
put the bolster and some clothes in the bed, and
drawn the counterpane well over them, and
Mademoiselle will just peep in and think I am
asleep. Oh, what fun it is ! How many suppers
have we had in this old garret ? "

We shall soon have seen the last of them,"
returned Queene, sorrowfully. '' 1 can't bear to
think of your going away."

Poor old Queen ! " responded her friend,
affectionately. " It is very sad, leaving you and
Emmie behind in this mousetrap of a place.
When I 20 home I mean to talk to Garth and
Langley about you. Langley is so good, she is
sure to invite you and Emmie for the summer
holidays."

"Oh, Cathy, do you think so ? do you really
think so ? " and Queene almost gasped with surprise
and joy. To take Emmie into the country
again, to see the little pinched face grow round
and blooming in the fine moorland air, to watch
her gathering wild-flowers, or scrambling through
woods, could it ever come true ? For the first
moment Queene forgot everything but her little

sister ; the next her cheek flushed crimson — she
would see Cathy's home and Garth.

"Do you really, really think it will come
true 'i "

'true ! of course it will. Garth and Langley
never refused me anything, and when I tell them
about you and Emmie they will be wild to know
you. What walks we will have ! I must show
you Hepshaw Abbey, and I must bribe Garth
to drive us to Karlsmere ; it is such a lovely
lake. And then we can go and see the King of
Karldale."

See whom ? " inquired Queene, in some
perplexity.

Oh, a friend of ours, who is called by that
name ; he is a gentleman farmer, and lives near
the head of the lake. His real name is Harry
Chester, but he is always called the King of
Karldale. I am very fond of Harry."

Indeed," with a slight stress.

"He is such a dear good fellow. I wish I
could like his wife half as well."

'* Oh, he is married," with a shade of disappointment
in her voice.

Married ! very much so, poor fellow, and I
don't think lie quite likes it. She does not exactly
henpeck him, but she is a fine lady, and worries
him into doing things he does not like, such as
taking her to Paris, and giving her expensive
dresses. I am afraid she spends a great deal too
much money, and that troubles Harry."

He should keep her in order then."

I think he tries ; but Gertrude has a will of
her own. She frets if he refuse to humour her,
and as she is very delicate, and the doctors look
very gravely at her sometimes, he is afraid not to
give her her way. He sometimes talks to Langley,
and she always takes Gertrude's part ; why I
don't know, for no one else likes her."

How nice to know people, and to get interested
in their lives' sighed the poor recluse.
You have made me quite long to know all
the people in your neighbourhood, especially Mr.
Loo-an and his sister."

^' Dear Miss Cosie, how she will pet you ; and
you will be great friends with Mr. Logan. Do
you know," in a puzzled voice, '' I don't seem to
get on with Mr. Logan as well as I did ; he gave

me lectures last holidays, and I became a little
shy of him."

And yet you are not one to mind any amount
of scolding."

Of course not, when I don't care about the
people who give the scolding ; but that is past it.
Mr. Logan looks at one so benevolently, and yet
his eyes seem to read you through and through ;
and then he goes on in that mild voice of his,
till Miss Catherine, as he calls her, either makes
a fool of herself or runs out of the room."

But he has no right to lecture you," indignantly.


Ah, has he not ! " sighed Cathy, and the
dark, brilliant eyes looked very serious for a moment.
" He says we girls at the present day have
such a low standard of rio^ht that we never rise
above medium goodness, and are too easily satisfied
with ourselves. He is always saying we
have no great saints now-a-days, and that there
can be no St. Augustines without Monica."

*' It is very true."

Oh, he is such a good man, he makes one
feel ashamed of oue's self. When he talks one

forgets his patched coat and plain face and bald
head. I used to hugh when he pushed his spectacles
up in that droll way, Int somehow nothing
seems odd about him now."

And he is not married ? "

''No, he is an old bachelor, and Miss Cosie
keeps his house. I don't think he has ever
been in love ; Miss Cosie said so one day ; he
has never been able to find a woman with a sufficiently
high standard, 1 suppose. Even Langley
would not suit him, though I believe he thinks
very highly of her ; they have such long, serious
talks. Queene, do you recollect remarking one
day that I never used slang now ? "

'' To be sure I do."-

Well, he cured me."

Oh, I can comprehend the purport of the
lectures now''

^' Yes, he gravely remonstrated with me one
day. ' Miss Catherine,' he once said, ' does it
never strike you to inquire if the high-born ladies
of old time ever talked slang ? ' "

Well, I hope you answered him properly."

No, I was very saucy ; I told him I had no

doubt they were often 'awfully jolly and were
fast and slow and spoony no end like other
people, and some of the men dreadful duffers and
cads."

Cathy, how could you ? "

My dear, it was the last outburst. Before
an hour was over I was fairly crushed, and took
a private vow never to utter anything but the
purest English ever afterwards. It was very hard
at first, and I had to inflict dreadful pinches
on myself, and put endless pennies in the poor's
box, before I could remember ; but I am cured

since."

Yes, and it is such an improvement ; I feel
very much obliged to Mr. Logan."

'' I took my revenge though," returned Cathy,
looking a little guilty ; "I went away without
bidding him good-bye."

That was hardly kind."

So he said. I was very remorseful, and wrote
him a penitent little note a week afterwards.
The letter I got in return made me feel very
small."

I dare say he forgave you."

*dear old Saint Christopher, I know he did;
but he was terribly hurt ; Langley told me so.
I often think we are ' old men of the mountain '
to ourselves. How one longs sometimes to throw
off one's self and one's faults ! "

^' You have less than any one I know," returned
Queene, who had a warm admiration for the
daring and generous-hearted girl.

You are wrong," returned Cathy, humbly ;
*' Mr. Logan knows me best. I do want to be
true, as true as I know how to be. I think I
hate conventional shams as much as he does ; it
is this want of truth in the world that appals
one."

^' And the lack of kindness," put in Queene,
who had seen the darker side of human nature.

No, indeed there is plenty of kindness in the
world. You have grown misanthropic with hard
usage ; you will change your mind when you
come among us."

Yes, you must make allowances for me," she
said, somewhat sadly ; "I have been too much in
contact with coarse, selfish minds to judge leniently.
^ Cathy, how can women be so censorious

to their own sex ? how can they oppress and
grieve a little child in the way Miss Titheridge
and Fraulein oppress Emmie ? "

It is too bad ; but I think Miss Titheridge is
obtuse ; she does not understand Emmie."

Do you not think she is changed?" whispered
Queene, with a glance at the sleeping child.
She has grown thinner and paler, and her eyes
are so hollow. Caleb noticed it last week."

She is growing, and needs care," was the
compassionate answer, as Cathy rose and folded
the shawl closer round the sleeper.

Care I that is just what she does not get.
Oh, Cathy, I think poor mamma would have
broken her heart if she had known what was in
store for us ; she was so fond of Emmie."

Hush, dear," for Queene had covered her
face with her hands, and was weeping bitterly
now. ^' We will not talk any more; you are weary
and over-tasked. You are very brave, my Queen,
and seldom break down, but you are too tired to
cry to-night."

'eyes, it is wrong of me, but yet it has done
me good," she whispered, after a short interval.

They were still sitting together, hand in hand.
The green candle had burnt out, but the pink one
still burnt cheerily ; one or two of the roses had
withered ; the fragments of the feast still reposed
on the old red shawl ; the moonbeams stole
through the uncurtained window, and played fitfully
on the uneven floor ; a little pale face slept
peacefully under the old wrapper.

By and bye, when Cathy had left her, Queene
lay down, and drew the warm, sleeping child to
her arms. The moon had come out from behind
the clouds now ; the stream of pale, silvery light
flooded the room ; a perfect halo shone round
Emmie's fair hair. Qaeenie shivered, and gave a
faint sob as she saw it.

She is paler and thinner," she said to herself.
Cathy noticed it, and so did Caleb. They are
killing her by inches, and yet they will not see ;
they are straining her mind and body, and neither
will bear it. Oh, mamma, mamma, she would be
better ofi" with you ; but I cannot spare her, I
cannot spare Emmie ! "

'' Are you awake, Queene ? Oh, I have had
such a beautiful dream. I was in a strange place,

and mamma came to me, looking so kind, just
like her old self, only grander ; I think she had
a crown on her head ; and she took me in her
arms and kissed me, just as she used to do, and
told me to be good and patient, and to do as
you told me, and that she loved us both."

Sleep on, little comforter, in the arms that hold
you so lovingly. The strain is lessened, the weary
oppression gone. The child's dream, so lovingly
told, has brought healing to the weary sister.
The unseen guardian watched over them both,
the message of love had come to her too, and in
this fond belief Queene fell asleep.

CHAPTER Y.

CALEB RITNCIMAN.

Wliy what a pettish, petty thing I grow,
A mere, mere woman, a mere flaccid nerve,
Kerchief left all night in the rain,
Turned soft so — over-tasked and over-strained
And over-lived in this close London life !
And yet I should be stronger." — Aurora Leigh.

One wet evening, towards the end of November,
Caleb Eunciman stood at the window of his
little parlor, straining his eyes wistfully into the
darkness.

''A wild night," he muttered to himself more
than once ; '' it is raining whole buckets-full, and
blowing hard. She will never venture out with
the child, and so careful as she is too, bless her
dear little motherly heart. I may as well tell
Molly to make the tea. Dear, dear, how contrary-wise
things will happen sometimes," with which

oracular remark the old man rubbed his hands
ruefully together, and turned to the fire.

It was a wild night certainly. A cold, gusty
rain swept the streets of Carlisle ; the flickering
lamplight shone on glittering pools and dripping
water-spouts ; the few pedestrians hurried past
Caleb's window, casting furtive glances at the
warm, inviting gleam from within.

Caleb's fire blazed cheerily ; a faggot spluttered
and hissed half up the little chimney ; the blue
china pixies on the old-fashioned tiles fairly
danced in the light, as did the Dresden shepherdesses,
and the two simpering figures in
umbrella courtship on the high wooden mantelpiece.


These tiles were Emmie's delight. She would
sit on the stool at Caleb's feet for hours, following
the innocent, baby-faced pity through a
hundred fanciful adventures. The little gentleman
in the pink china waistcoat and the lady
in the blue scarf were veritable works of art to
her. The plaster group of the Holy Family,
slightly defaced by smoke and time, excited in
her the same profound reverence that a Titian or
I. 5

a Raphael excites in an older mind. She never
could be made to understand that the black -
framed battle of Trafalgar, painted in flaming
reds and yellows, was not a master-piece ; there
was nothing incongruous to her in the spectacle
of Nelson's dying agonies portrayed amid the
stage effects of a third rate pantomime ; to her
the ludicrous was merged in the sublime. It is
not in early youth that the one trends so often
on the other.

The candlesticks on the little round table were
still unlighted, but there was plenty of light to
show signs of unwonted preparations. Caleb had
robbed the plot of ground he called his garden
ruthlessly before he filled the large, wide-mouthed
jug with violet and white china asters. The
display of preserves in all colors too, not to
mention an astounding plum-cake with frosted
edges, showed some unusual festivity.

Caleb's round rosy face elongated considerably
as he sat in his wooden rocking-chair, warming
his hands over the blaze.

*' Dear, dear, she'll cry her eyes out, poor
lamb, and no wonder ; and such a beautiful

cake too as Molly has made," he continued,
disconsolately. " I wonder if the old cat would
open the parcel if I sent it wrapt up in brown
paper, with Caleb Eunciman's kind regards to
Miss Emmie. I'll lay a wager the poor little
angel would never eat a crumb of it. Hark !
surely that was not a knock ; I dare say it is
only the paper-boy."

Caleb's cogitations soon came to an abrupt end.
There was an exclamation of surprised dismay in
Molly's loud, cheerful voice, then quick footsteps,
and the entrance of two dripping figures.

My dear Miss Queene and the precious
lamb, who ever would have thought it ! " cried
Caleb, in a voice quite trembling with joy, but
shaking his head all the time. " It will be the
death of both of you. Molly ! Where is that
woman ? Molly, it will be the death of these
dear creatures if you don't make tea quick, and
get off their wet things. Miss Queene, I am
surprised at you. Dear, dear, such a night. I
must say I am surprised," continued Caleb, trying
to speak severely, but with his blue eyes
twinkling with-animation.

5 *

'' Emmie fretted so that I was obliged to bring
her," returned Queene, apologetically. *' It was
wrong, I know ; I have been blaming myself all
the way ; but what could I do ? "

'now, Caleb, don't be cross, and on my birthday
too," interrupted Emmie, throwing her arms
round the old man's neck. " I thought of your
disappointment, and the cake, and the dear old
parlor, and I could not help crying ; and then
Queene put on her determined face, and said
I should go if she carried me. Cathy was so
angry with us both, and no wonder."

*' No, indeed ; I must say I was extremely surprised,"
reiterated Caleb, who never liked to lose
a leading idea, and was fond of repeating his
own words. " Mark my words, Miss Queene, it
will be the death of Emmie."

'' Nonsense, Caleb," interrupted the child ;
'' I won't have you scold Queene ; she carried
me nearly all the way, she did indeed ; she
said I was quite light. And she is so tired,
and she made me wear her cloak, because it
was long, and would cover me, and I am so
warm and dry ; but I know her poor feet

are wet, because lier boots are so thin and old,
terribly old."

Oh, hush, Em ; how can you ? " returned her
sister, blushing hotly ; " you will make Caleb so
unhappy."

You both of you go near to break my heart,"
replied the old man huskily, as he knelt down,
and took the old shabby boot in his hand.
j\Iiss Queene, dear, this is not right ; you will
]ay yourself up, and then what will Emmie do ?
Where is the money I gave you last time you
Averse here, when I begged and prayed you to get
a new pair ? "

'^Slie bought ever so many things for me,"
broke in Emmie again. "No, I won't hush,
Queene," as her sister vainly strove to silence
lier. ''I said I would tell Caleb, and I will I
have warm flannels, and gloves, and mittens, and
Queene has nothing ; and she is so cold that she
never gets warm all day ; and Cathy says it is a
shame."

Oh, Miss Queene, Miss Queene," was all
Caleb's answer, as the old fingers fumbled and
bungled over their work. Perhaps it was an

unusually large pinch of snuff that dimmed his
eyes for a moment, and that obliged him to have
recourse to the red spotted silk handkerchief.

Queene was used to be waited upon by her
kind old friend. She allowed her cold feet to be
encased in a pair of list slippers that Molly had
made for Caleb. A pleasant feeling of warmth
and comfort began to steal over her, a luxurious
sense of being cared for. Emmie had already
installed herself at the tea-tray, and was holding
the tea-pot carefully with both hands ; her work
was cut out for her for the evening. She had to
make tea for Caleb and Queene, and then fill
Caleb's pipe, and sit at his knee and chatter to
him of all they had been doing ; then she had
to visit Molly in her nice clean kitchen, and play
with Sukey and her kittens. How she longed
for a kitten in the old garret in Granite Lodge,
only Queene shook her head at the bare idea.

To-night Molly was ironing her masters shirts,
and Emmie's visit was paid earlier than usual,
that she might help her by washing up the tea-things,
a piece of play-work that was charming
to the little girl.

As soon as she had left them, Caleb put down
his pipe, and drew his chair closer to Queene, and
laid his wrinkled hand on hers.

Well, my dear, well ! and how has the world
been treating you lately ? " for the quiet, thoughtful
face he had been watching all the evening
seemed to him to have grown sadder since he
last saw it.

*' You must not ask me, my dear old friend,"
returned the girl, sorrowfully ; "I have been
losing heart lately."

'^ Nay, nay, that's bad hearing."

'' One must speak the truth. I have lost not
only heart, but courage. If it were not for
Emmie I could battle on; I am strong and tough
enough for anything, but she makes me weak."

Nay, surely."

*' Do not misunderstand me," — as the kind old
hand stroked hers gently, — "I could not bear you
to do that. I am weak, I do not complain, I am
young and healthy, and a little hardness will not
hurt me ; but it is for Emmie I fear. Caleb," in
an almost inaudible voice, " what they make me
suffer through her I "

I know it, T know it," rubbing up his grey
Lair restlessly.

She is getting thinner every day, and losing
appetite, and there is a nervous look in her eyes
that 1 do not like. Miss Titheridge will not see
it ; I think sometimes she dislikes Emmie ; she
and Fraulein are harder on her than ever."

^' There now, there now, poor lambs, poor
orphaned lambs," broke in the compassionate
Caleb.

*^ They are driving me to the verge of destruction,
and they know it," continued Queene, in
the same strange, suppressed voice ; '' things cannot
go on like this much longer. Caleb, I shall
frighten you, but I have made up my mind to do
something desperate, and to do it at once: I
mean to go to Mr. Calcott."

Caleb's hands dropped on his knees, and his
eyes grew round and fixed. " Miss Queene ! "
he gasped at length.

I shall go to him," repeated the young girl
quietly, " and tell him about Emmie."

But — but he will never see you, my dear
young lady ; you must be mad or dreaming. See

Mr. Calcott ! it is a preposterous idea — preposterous
— pre — . ' '

Hush ! when have you ever known me fail in
anything I have undertaken ? It is a waste of
words to try and dissuade me. All last night I
lay thinking it out, till my brain reeled. I may
do no good ; heaven knows wdiat manner of man
I have to deal with, but all the same I will speak
to him, face to face, and tell him what is in my
heart."

'' Heaven preserve the young creature, for she
is certainly daft ! " groaned Caleb ; and here he
positively wrung his hands. " The lamb in the
lion's den, that is what it will be. Miss Queene,
dear," he said, coaxingly, " I am thirty or forty
years older than you ; be guided by an old
friend, and put this thought out of your head."

Queene shook her head.

'' It will do no good to Emmie, and only anger
him against you both. He is an old man now,
and ailing ; and some say he suffers a good deal
at times, and then he gets almost beside himself.
You do not know to what you expose yourself"

'besides," finding the girl still remained silent,

"you may even turn him more against you.
Sometimes I have seen him start and bite his
lip when the school has passed our office window;
he never fails to recognise it, and he seems disturbed
and put out for minutes afterward. You
see his sin lies heavy on him — the sin of those
wicked words, Miss Queene."

Yes, yes, I know," she interrupted hastily,
'' and most likely he repents. Caleb, it is useless ;
nothing you can say will shake my resolution.
Things have come to this pass, that I would
rather beg my bread than be indebted any longer
to Miss Titheridge. If we stay there Emmie
will die, and then what good will my life be tome."


The old man shook his head reproachfully.
'miss Queene, you know what you have refused
? "

"Yes," she returned, looking at him with a
smile that made her spice absolutely beautiful,
yes, dear old friend ; but it was right. You
were too old to work for us, too old to be
burthened with two such helpless creatures ; and
then how were we to know whether Mr. Calcott's

auger might not have been turned on you. Were
we to bring trouble on our only friend ? "

I said," continued Caleb in a broken
voice, " that as long: as I had a crust of
bread and a cup of water, and a roof, however
humble, I would share them with you and
Emmie."

And my answer," continued the girl softly,
as she lifted the wrinkled hand to her lips, " my
answer was that Emtnie and 1 loved you too
well to bring sorrow and ruin on you. Caleb,
Emmie is dearer to me than anything in the
world ; but I would rather lose her than do such
a things."

o

"Ah, you were always so proud and self-willed,"
ejaculated Caleb, sorrowfully.

Then I am proud of my pride ; I rejoice in a
self-will that prevents me from harming so deeply
one whom I love. You have given us more
than crusts, you have shared with us a nobler
shelter than your roof, for you have warmed us
through and through with a kindness that has
known no stint or limit ; and Emmie and I will
bless you for it all our lives."

Don't, don't, Miss Queene ; I cannot bear
you to say such tidings."

^' But I will say them, I must say them, when
you call me proud and self-willed ; I must defend
myself, and get the last word ; I am only a
woman, you know'

'' God bless such women, I say."

'• You have the spirit of a little child, Caleb ;
so doubtless you will be heard. Blessings are
long; in coming' to us I think, and I am borrowing;
hard and discontented in consequence ; but you
and Cathy have often saved me from hopeless
infidelity."

Good heavens ! what do you mean ? "

*' Yes, from infidelity — that utter and hopeless
disbelief in one's fellow-creatures. When I find
myself growing cynical, I just say, 'There are
Caleb and Cathy, the world cannot be wholly
bad with two such good creatures in it,' and that
thought rests me."

Aye, aye, it is too old a head on young
shoulders ; people don't often think and say such
things. You are rarely clever for your age, Miss
Queene."

'' One can think without being clever' returned
the girl, with a slight smile. " Cathy and I have
strange talks sometimes ; we often bewilder and
lose ourselves. I have no one as Cathy has to
set me right. It must be very nice to have a
brother."

Aye, I had a brother once," returned Caleb,
dreamily; ''he was deformed, poor fellow, a
hunch-back ; but every one liked Joe. I was only
a little chap when he died, but I have never
forgotten him yet ; some of his sharp sayings
come into my mind when I sit here smoking my
pipe."

"A strong, wise, elder brother, — some one to
trust, — and who would care for me," continued
Queene, reflectively. " I think Cathy must be a
happy girl. Hark ! that is nine striking ; I must
go and find Emmie."

I have ironed lots of handkerchiefs, all the
beautiful blue and white spotted ones," cried
Emmie, rushing in, red and glowing, " and Molly
has been telling me such lovely stories. I think
jolly quite the handsomest woman I have ever
seen after Queene, she is so nice and rosy."

Come, Em, come," replied the elder sister,
quietly ; 'rit is raining so fast, dear, and the
wind will blow 3^011 away unless you keep close
to me. Bid Caleb good-night, and let us go."

How dark and wet it is," cried poor Emmie,
as the door of her child's paradise closed behind
her, and the grey frowning portico of Granite
Lodge loomed on her distant vision. " Oh,
Queene, why must we not go and live with
Caleb, and leave this horrid, hateful prison of
ours ? "

Hush, pet ; shall I tell you a story ? but
perhaps you cannot hear my voice in the wind.
What ! tired, darling, already ? Suppose I carry
you again just for fun ! It is dark, and no one
will see us."

Yes, just for fun," returned the child wearily;
''if you are not tired, Qaeenie. Mind you put
me down when you are tired."

Of course ; you are so dreadfully heavy ; "
but the little joke died away into something like
a sob as she lifted the thin, weak figure in her
strong young arms, and struggled bravely through
the storm.

CHAPTER VI.

'you aee Emmie's uncle ! "

So speaking, with less hang-er in my voice
Tian sorrow, I rose quickly to depart." — Cunven Leigh.

Queene Marriott was right in asserting that
she never failed to undertake anything to which
she had really made up her mind. Strong impulses
were rare with her; but now and then they
gained the mastery, and over-bore all dread of
opposing obstacles. At such times the forces
of her mind lay dormant ; argument could not
shake ; persuasion, even conviction, availed nothing.
In such moods Queene was inexorable,
and triumphed in the exercise of her self-will.

I have nothing to lose in this matter, and all
to gain'' she had said to Cathy. On. the afternoon
of the next half-holiday she had arrayed herself,
with the stoicism of a young Spartan, and, with

the help of femiiiinc art and cunning arrangement,
had even given a certain style to her
shabby garments.

''No one could take you for anything but a
lady," Cathy said, as she watched her, half
curiously and half enviously; 'when people look
at you they will not notice what you wear I
mean. I wish I knew where you learnt deportment,
my dear Madam Dignity. There," as
Queene buttoned her old gloves with a resolute
air, " I cannot even, lend you my pretty new
ones, they would be ever so much too large."

"Never mind," returned Queene with a smile;
my plumes are homely, certainly, but they are
not borrowed. Take care of Emmie for me, and
wish me good luck, for I am continually leading
the forlorn hope."

Queene had preserved a gallant demeanor in
Granite Lodge, but she slackened her footsteps
and drew her breath a little unevenly when she
came in sight of Mr. Calcott's house, a large grey
stone building with dark outside shutters, and a
high portico over the gate resembling the entrance
to a tomb. Queene thought of the thin austere-looking

man who eyed their ranks so gloomily
with a sadden failure of courage and an ominous
beatings in the regions of the heart : but the bell
was already ringing in strange hollow fashion,
and the next moment she was confronted by a
grey-haired butler.

Does Mr. Calcott live here ? could I see him
for a moment on business ? " It must be averred
that Queene's voice was somewhat faint at this
juncture ; the sombre hall, the morose face of the
man, a little daunted her.

People on business always call at the office
down the town. Mr. Calcott is not very well,
but Mr. Smiler or Mr. Runciman could see you,"
returned the man civilly enough, but with an
evident desire to close the door in her appealing
face.

"It is not exactly business, but my errand is
very pressing. If he is not very ill I must see
him," pleaded Queene with a desperation evoked
by emergency.

My master does not see visitors when he is
suffering from gout," persisted the man, with a
pointed stress on the word visitors. "I will take
I. 6

your card if you like, but I fear it will be little
use."

I have no card," faltered Queene ; " I do not
want to send my name, though lie knows it well.
Please tell him a young lady wishes to speak to
him on a matter of great importance ; tell him
how grateful I shall be if he will grant me a five
minutes' interview."

The man hesitated ; but Queene's face and
voice evidently pre-possessed him in her favour ;
for after another glance he closed the door and
ushered her into a small waiting-room leading
out of the hall, with a cold, fireless grate, and
a horse-hair sofa and chairs placed stiffly against
the wall. There was a picture of Strafford led
out to execution over the mantel-piece, which
somehow attracted Queene oddly. " Even the
anticipation must be worse than the reality," she
thought ; " one is a coward before-hand. Never
mind if I can only find words to tell him the
truth when the time comes. I am not the first
who has to suffer for trying to do the right
thing."

Queene was cheering herself up in sturdy

fashion, but lie turned a little pale, nevertheless,
when the servant re-entered and bade her follow
him. " The execution will soon be over," she
said to herself, as she rose ; " only in my case
perhaps the pain will not cease."

They had passed through the large square hall,
dimly lighted from above, and had turned down
a side - passage shut in with red baize doors ;
through one of these was an inner one, which the
servant threw open, and Queene found herself
in a small room, furnished as a library, with a
bright fire burning in a steel grate, and a cushioned
chair beside it with a foot-rest, wherein sat a tall,
thin old man, whom she at once recognized as
Mr. Calcott. There was an instant's silence as
she bowed aud threw back her veil, during which
he eyed her morosely, and pointed to his foot
swathed in bandages.

I cannot rise, you see," he said, in a harsh
voice that somewhat grated on her ear, '' neither
can I keep a lady standing ; please to be seated,
while you tell me to what I am indebted for the
pleasure of this interview ; my servant says you

declined to give him your name."

6*

*'I had reasons for doing so. I feared you
might not see me," returned Qaeenie, summoning
all her resolution now the opportunity was gained.
The hard mouth, the narrow, receding forehead,
and the cold, gray eyes of the man before her
stifled every dawning hope. Would those eyes
soften ? could those lines ever relax ? He was an
old man, older than she had thought, and there
were traces of acute physical suffering in his
face, but the hard tension of the muscles were
terrible.

*' Would you have seen me," she continued,
steadily, "if I had said my name was Marriott ? "

So you are Frank Marriott's daughter," without
the faintest token of surprise. " I must own
I suspected as much from Gunners description ;
but I am slightly at a loss to discover what business
Frank Marriott's daughter can possibly have
with me."

I have come on no business of my own,"
returned the girl, proudly. "I ask nothing from
the world but the price of my own earnings. I
would sooner starve " — with a sudden flush of
irrepressible emotion — " than ask a favor from

a stranger, even though he were the brother of
my own dear stepmother. It is for Emmie's
sake I have come to you, Mr. Calcott ; Emmie,
your own niece, your own flesh and blood, your
sister's child."

I have always expected this," muttered Mr.
Calcott, as he refreshed himself with a pinch of
highly-scented snuff; but a closer observer of
human nature than Queene would have detected
a slight trembling in the white wrinkled hand.

"When my dear stepmother, your sister, died,"
continued Queene, speaking more calmly now,
"she called me to her bed-side, and prayed
me, for love of her, to watch over Emmie. I
have kept my promise, and have done so ;
but I am only young, not much more than
twenty, and I have no one to help me, no one
but Mr. Runciman, dio is so good to us, to give
me advice and counsel ; and now I feel that I
cannot do my duty to Emmie."

'' Your conduct has been estimable, no doubt ;
but you must permit me to observe, my dear
young lady, that I have not invited this confidence
; on the contrary, it is distasteful to me.

But doubtless you are only acting on Mr.
Eunciman s advice ? "

*' No, indeed," interposed the girl eagerly ;
*lie tried to dissuade me from coming to you ;
lie seemed frightened when I proposed it ; it is
my own thought ; I am acting on my own
responsibility. I said to myself, * If he only
IvQows what Emmie suffers, how often she is cold
and hungry, and sad, he will do something to
make her poor life happier.' "

"My good young woman, no melodrama, if you
please. I have all my life confined myself strictly
to fact. Miss Titheridge's establishment for
young ladies is the most respectable in Carlisle.
I have heard much from my clients in her praise ;
no one has ever before informed me that her
pupils are cold or half-starved — fiicts, if you
please, facts,"

'^I am speaking sober truth'' returned Queene,
coloring. "I am one of Miss Titheridge's
governesses, and, as far as 1 can tell, her
pupils have no cause for complaint; it is only
Emmie."

Mr. Calcott shook his head incredulously, and

took another pinch of snuff, this time somewhat
irritably.

I work for my own and Emmie's board' she
went on, " and we pay a few pounds besides — all
that we can spare. I do not complain for myself
that the accommodation is bad and the food insufficient,
though it is so for a growing child ; but
the food is such that Emmie cannot eat it, and
often and often I have seen her cry from sheer
cold and misery."

Tut, some children will be fretful — aye, and
dainty too."

*^ Emmie is bred up in too hard a school for
daintiness ; she is wasting and pining for want
of proper nourishment and care and kindness.
They are killing her by inches," continued
Queene, losing self-restraint and clasping her
hands together. " When she cannot learn they
shut her up in a desolate garret at the top of the
house, where she gets frightened and has gloomy
fancies ; they will not listen to me when I tell
them she is weak and ill. She is getting so thin
that I can carry her, and yet they will not see
it."

"Humph ! all this is very pleasant. Young lady,
you are determined to have your say, and I have
let you say it ; now you must listen to me. You
are trying to plead the cause of Emily Calcott,
my niece, to interest me in her favor. What if I
tell you," continued Mr. Calcott, raising his voice
a little till it sounded harder and more metallic —
what if I tell you that I have no niece ? "

It would not be the truth, Mr. Calcutta''

What if I tell you that I have renounced the
relationship," reiterated the old man, frowning at
the interruption ; " what if I once had a sister
Emily, but that from the time of her marriage
she became nothing to me ! She left me," he
went on, lashing himself into white passion by
the remembrance of his wrongs, " when she
knew I was a lonely, suffering man, — suffering
mentally, suffering physically, — aye, when she
knew too that she was the only thing spared tome
out of the wreck of my life, that I cared for
nothing in the world but her."

Could you not forgive her for loving my
father ? " interposed Queene softly.

** Pshaw ! she had no love for him. She was

fooled by a soft tongue and handsome face ; she
was to choose between us, — the invalid sorely-tried
brother, who had cared for her all her life,
and Frank Marriott, — and she chose him."

She did, and became our dearest blessing."

Aye, he valued his blessing," with a sneer ;
''he did not drag her down, and wear out her
youth for her, eh ? What does it matter what he
did ? From that day she was no sister of mine ;
I did not welcome her when she came to me, or
feel grieved when she left."

Alas ! we knew that too well when she came
back to us looking so sad and weary."

She told Frank Marriott that I repulsed and
treated her cruelly, eh ? "

'' No, she never told him that ; she bore her
troubles silently, and brooded over them ; butin
a low voice, " it helped to kill her."

The veins on Mr. Calcott's forehead swelled
visibly, and his eyes became bloodshot.

'what, girl! you come into my house uninvited
and accuse me of being my sister's murderer
! Do you know I can have you up for
libel and falsehood ? "

I never told a falsehood in my life' returned
Queene simply ; and somehow the young quiet
voice seemed to soothe the old man's fury.
'^ Poor mamma was unhappy, and grew weaker
and weaker ; and so when the fever came she had
no streuQ-th to throw it off. The doctors never
expected her to die, but I did always. Once in
the middle of the night I heard her say, ' I ought
never to have left Andrew — poor Andrew ; ' but
I did not understand it then."

Aye, she repented ! I knew she would.
Listen to me, girl, and then you will know
you have come to me on a fruitless errand.
Time after time she used to come crying to me,
and asking me to lend her husband money. I
loathed the fellow, and she knew it ; and one
day, when she had angered me terribly, I took a
dreadful oath, that neither Frank Marriott or any
child of hers should ever have a penny of my
money — and Caleb heard me."

I knew all this, Mr. Calcott."

You knew this, and yet you came to me. Do
you expect me to perjure myself for the sake of
my precious niece ? "

I think such perjury would bring a blessing
on your head"'

"You think so, eh?" regarding her with
astonishment and perplexity. Strange to say,
her independent answers and fearless bearing did
not displease him ; on the contrary, they seemed
to allay his wrath. The white eyebrows twitched
involuntarily as he watched her from under them.
In spite of himself and his anger, he felt an inexplicable
yearning towards this girl, who sat therein
her shabby clothes and looked at him with
such clear, honest eyes. Somehow the young
presence seemed to lighten the desolate room, so
long untrodden by any woman's foot. " If she
where any one but Prank Marriott's daughter — "
but here the softer mood evaporated. " Tut !
what should you know of such things ? There,
you have said your lesson, and said it well. Go
home, girl ; go home."

Shall I go back to your niece, sir, and say
to her that one of her own flesh and blood has
deserted her ? "

I have no niece, I tell you ; I will not have
a hated relationship forced upon me."

"Your name is Andrew Calcott, and therefore
you are Emmie's uncle. Take care, for heaven's
sake ; you cannot get rid of your responsibility
in this way. If Emmie dies her death will lie
at your door."

I am sorry to ask a lady to withdraw, but I
will hear no more."

One moment, and I will take your hint,"
returned Queene, rising and turning very pale.
You are merciless, Mr. Calcott, but you shall
not find me troublesome after this, though we
were perishing of hunger, though Emmie were
dying in my arms. I will not crave your bounty.
You have received me coldly," she continued
with emotion, "you have given me hard, sneering
words, but I do not resent them ; you are
refusing to help me in my bitter strait ; you are
leaving me young and single-handed to fight
in this cruel, cruel world ; you have disowned
your own niece, and are sending me back
to her almost broken-hearted, but I will not
reproach you ; nay, if it would not make you
angry, I could almost say, I am sorry for
you."

** Sorry for me ! Is the girl mad ? " but again
the white eyebrows twitched uneasily.

** I am sorry for you," repeated Queene, in her
clear young voice, '' because you are old and
lonely ; because you have only hard, miserable
thoughts to keep you company ; because when you
are ill no one will comfort you, when you die no
one will shed tears over your grave. It must be
so dreadful," continued the girl, " not to want
love, to be able to do without it. Don't be angry,
Mr. Calcott, I am sorry for you ; I am indeed."

Not only the eyelids, but the rigid lines of
the mouth twitched convulsively, but his only
answer was to point to the door ; but, as though
irresistibly and painfully attracted by this spectacle
of loveless old age, Queene still lingered.

Emmie never forgets you, sir. She does not
love you ; how can she ? but she still says the
prayer mamma taught her — * God bless poor
Uncle Andrew.' Now I have seen you I shall
ask her never to forget it."

Leave me," wai all his answer ; and this
time Queene obeyed him. Had she remained
she would have been frightened by the change

that came over him. The veins of the forehead
were Swollen and purple now, the twitching
the mouth increased, a strange numbness seemed
creeping over him. That night Mr. Calcott was
alarmingly ill.

I

CHAPTER VIT.

LOCKED IX.

The path my father's foot
Had trod me out (which suddenly broke otf
And passed) alone I carried on, and set
My child-heart 'gainst the thorny underwood
To reach the grassy shelter of the trees.
Ah, babe i' the wood, without a brother babe !
My own self pity, like the red-breast bird,
Flies back to cover all that past with leaves."

Aurora Leigh.

As the door of the inhospitable mansion closed
behind Queene she was conscious of a strange
feeling of revulsion and weakness, a blank, hopeless
depression of mind and body. At the first
touch of the keen wintry air she shivered and
staggered slightly.

'' All this has been too much for me ; I wonder
if I am ill," she said to herself in a vague, wondering
way ; and then she remembered that she had

eaten nothing since the early morning. Suspense
and anxiety had deprived her of appetite, and she
had sent away her dinner untasted. '' Whatever
happens I must keep strong, for Emmie's sake''
she thought, and she went into a baker's shop
and bought two buns : but as she broke one she
remembered that Emmie's sickly appetite had
turned that day from the untempting viands
placed before her.

Emmy will eat these, she is so fond of buns,"
she thought, and she asked for a glass of water,
which the woman gave civilly enough, telling her
that she looked faint, and ought to rest for a little
while ; but Queene thanked her and shook her
head.

For a little while she walked on aimlessly;
she felt stunned and broken, and felt that she
dared not face Emmie until she had recovered
herself. She was too weak to walk far, but where
could she go ? she could not face Caleb's eager
questioning, she thought, and yet his house washer
only haven. Service at the cathedral had
long been over, the minor canon and some of the
choir boys had brushed past her in the High-street,

laughing and talking merrily ; if she could
only go and sit there for a little, until she felt
stronger. Then she remembered, in a dazed sort
of way, that she had heard that the workmen
were doing some repairs in the nave, and were
working late; it might be worth her while to
find out if they had left one of the doors open.
She felt a momentary sensation of pleasure at
discovering this was the case. One or two of the
men were still there, and the organist was practising
some Christmas anthems. Queene crept
into one of the canon's carved stalls and listened.
A light gleamed from the organ, but the altar
and choir were in deep shadow. The men were
laughing over their work ; a beautiful tenor voice
broke out with Gounod's ' Bethlehem,' the organ
pealed and reverberated through the dim aisles.

Christmastime, 'peace and good will on earth
the angels' song," sounding through all time.
Alas 1 what peace in the sore, rancorous heart of
the old man she had just left ! Ought she not to
feel pity for one whom the good angel of mercy
had forsaken 'i

The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel."

T. 7

Moliere lead lie heard those words ? In church
of course. Was Mr. Calcott wicked, or was he
simply a soured, vindictive man, who considered
himself ill-used by the world ?

Her step-mother had loved him and had left
him, and then had yearned after him with a
bitterness of yearning that had shortened her life.
Why had she accused herself, on her death-bed,
of selfishness in leaving him ? She had hinted
indeed more than once of some great trouble that
had warped his nature in early manhood ; and
yet what brother had a right to demand the
sacrifice of a sister's whole life ? Her step-mother
had no morbid views of duty, but she had chidden
herself for so leaving him.

There must be some mystery of which even
Caleb was ignorant. Caleb and his fellow-clerks
spoke shudderingly of the fits of ungovernable
rao"e to which Mr. Calcott was subject at times ;
and Queene knew that for many years he had
led the life of a recluse. People spoke of him as
an eccentric person, a misanthrope, in fact; but he
was not generally disliked, though his clerks and
servants feared him. He gave largely in charities,

and was always first in the subscription list in
the town, and spoke much at vestries. The firm
of Calcott and Calcott had always been respected
in Carlisle, but of late he had withdrawn almost
wholly from public life, and people said his
health was failing. Queene pondered over this
problem till her head ached, and the organ
changed melody and broke out into a sweet
minor key ; then a magnificent solemn prelude,
sounding the keynote of every possible pain, an
infinite march of woe tracing the footsteps of a
Divine majestic life, and wrapping wonderful
meanings and solemn hints in every chord — and
Queene knew she was listening to Handel's
unrivalled overture to the ' Messiah.'

The sadder music pleased her better and made
the tears flow, a luxury not often indulged by
the overtasked governess. After all, would she
change places with the miserable man she had
left ? Her trials were great no doubt, but she had
youth and health and energy, and Emmie and
Cathy loved her. By-and-by, when this dreadful
winter was over and spring came, they would

go down to Cathy's home, and Emmie would be

7 *-

a happy child for some weeks at least; they must
live in hopes of that. After all there must be a
meaning in the pain the)" had to bear ; and then
Queene thought of a strange picture she had
seen as a child, painted by a poor crazy artist
living in their neighbourhood, at least her father
had said he was crazy, though she and her
step-mother had thought otherwise. It was
called ^' The March of Suffering," and it was
explained to Queene that it was an allegorical
picture of life. Her father had wished and pooh-poohed
it as a dismal caricature, but her stepmother
had shed tears over it, she remembered ;
one of the figures had attracted them both — a
young girl with a sweet, resolute face, carrying a
spiked cross in her bleeding hand, an old man
before her had fallen down, and lay with his grey
hair grovelling in the dust, and, still holding the
torturing cross firmly with one hand, she had
stooped to raise him,

The face and figure lingered in Queene's
childish memory, and recurred to her mind as
the solemn notes of the ' Messiah ' reverberated
through the cathedral. '' My cross has spikes

too' lie thought ; and then the workmen went
out noisily shouldering their tools, and the young
man with the tenor voice came clanking through
the choir, and stared at poor pale Queene as
though she were a ghost, and the organ died
away with a long plaintive wail.

Queene followed them reluctantly ; the buns
were still in her pocket, but she had forgotten
her faintness. As she stepped out into the dark
narrow close she could see the windows of the
Dean's house brightly illuminated, a few stars
shone in the December sky, a cutting wind lurked
round every corner, a faint vaporous moon
shone over the cathedral.

It was too cold to linger ; even the dark,
cheerless school-room, with its cindery fire and
insufficient light, would be better than the streets
of Carlisle on such a night. Emmie would be
wondering, too, what had become of her, and be
picturing her all this time seated in Caleb's
easy parlor : at this thought she drew her
thin cloak closer round her and hurried

on.

When she reached Granite Lodge she rang for

some time without ecaininoc admittance : this surprised
her.

*' It is very cold standing out here so long,
Mary," she said quietly, as the girl opened the
door at last, and looked at her with a scared
face.

''I am so glad you have come, Miss," she
returned; "Miss Clayton is in such a way, and all
the young ladies. Fraulein has been going on
awful, and mistress and Miss Tozer are out."

Emmie ! " was Queene's only thought as she
hurried on to the school-room, but a flying footstep
on the stairs arrested her, and Cathy rushed
down to her looking pale and terrified.

Oh, Queene, where have you been ? I
expected you home hours ago ; Fraulein has been
going on in the most scandalous way, and Miss
Titheridge is out, and I am so frightened about
Emmie."

Where is she ? what do you mean ? " asked
poor Queene, her knees suddenly knocking together
with weakness, and her lips becoming dry
all at once.

Emmie had not been doing anything, only

she was stupid and could not learn her lessons,
you know her way, and Fraulein got into an
awful rage, worse than I have ever seen her, and
boxed Emmie's ears, so that the poor child was
quite giddy; and when I spoke up and called hera
cruel thing she sent Emmie up to her room, and
locked her in, and put the key in her pocket; and
though I have been going on at her like mad
she will not give it up."

Locked her up in the dark ! " almost screamed
Queene. Her own voice sounded quite awful to
her ; she was half way up the stairs by this time,
with Cathy panting behind her.

What could we do, Queene ? don't look like
that. I have been sitting on the floor outside
the door for hours, till I was almost starved with
cold, talking to her."

*' She talked then ! " pausing a moment on the
garret stairs.

'swell, she cried a good deal, and I talked, but
she has not answered lately," stammered Cathy ;
"perhaps she is asleep, she complained of feeling
giddy and confused ; " but Cathy, whose eyes
were red with crying, did not add how passionately

the child had beaten against the door and
implored to be let out. *' She was so afraid of
the darkness, and she wanted to hold some one's
hand." Neither did she add that just before
Queene's ring she had been frightened by a
stifled groan, and then a sound as though something
heavy had fallen ; but her hesitation and
evident terror were enough for Queene, and in
another moment she was kneeling outside the
door.

Emmie dear ! Emmie, my darling ! it is I — ■
Queene ; there is nothing to fear — nothing ;
speak to me just one word, darling, to say you
are not so very frightened, and then I will go
down and get the key from Fraulein. Emmie,
Emmie ! do you hear ? " shaking the door ; but
there was no answer.

'' Stay there, Cathy," whispered Queene in a
hoarse voice ; '^ I am going to Eraulein.*' Her
face was white with apprehension, but the lookin
her eyes scared Cathy.

The girls were huddled together and whispering
in knots of twos and threes as she entered the
school-room. There was evidently a mutiny, for

Fraulein, with heated face and harsh voice, was
vainly calling to order. A murmur of " shame !
we will tell Miss Titheridge," came to Queene's
ears, but she heeded nothing as she walked up to
the table with out stretched hand.

'' Give me that key, Fraulein ! "

The woman looked at her with an expression
at once stolid and immovable ; the heavy Teutonic
face was unusually lowering. Queene had
more than once suspected that Fraulein was
addicted to a somewhat free use of stimulant ;
now as she looked at the inflamed, stupid face
she was sure of it.

Meess shall not dictate to me, I am mistress
of this schoolroom to-nio^ht ; the beetle Meess
was naughty, unbearable; she must be punished."

Give me that key at once, or I will break
open the door ; give me that key, or you will
rue it all your life," continued Queene, sternly.
The woman quailed for a moment under that
bright indignant glance, and then she looked up
with an expression of triumphant cunning.

*^Do not fatigue yourself, Meess, the key is
safe in my pocket ; there it will remain until my

dear friend, Meess Titlieridge, returns ; ali neu
Meess shall not have it."

For a single instant Queene measured the
strong, powerful frame of the woman before her,
then she turned from her without a word. '^ Chalice
Williams, Agatha Sinclair, stand by me and
be witnesses that I am forced by sheer necessity
to do this thing ; " and with that she quitted the
room.

Many of the girls would have followed, but
Fraulein ordered them to their seats so savagely
that they dared not rebel. As she went up the
stairs the door-bell again sounded. Cathy rose
with a look of relief on seeing her friend. " Have
you got the key, Queene ? "

"No," returned Queene, doggedly. "Stand
back, Cathy ; I am going to break open the
door."

Either the young muscles were braced with
new strength, or else the fastening of the door
was crazy with age, but as Queene threw herself
against it with all her force the wood work
round the lock splintered, and in another moment
the door yielded.

"Now, Cathy, the light! Ah, merciful
heavens ! the savages 1 " as she threw herself
down on the floor beside the white, senseless
figure of the child and gathered it into her arms.

"She is not dead — she has only fainted,
Queene ! Oh, Queene, don't look like that ! "
cried poor Cathy, sobbing as though her heart
Avould break over the pitiful spectacle. The
elder sister's face was as white as the child's, her
eyes were burning and dilated.

"If she is dead, Fraulein is her murderer. Out
of the way, Cathy. They have gone too far ; they
shall hear me now ; don't stop me — nothing on
earth shall stop me from speaking ! "

"Queene, Queene, come back; are you mad?"
but Cathy might as well have spoken to the
wind ; she could do nothing but follow, protesting
at every step. As they crossed the hall they
could hear Miss Titheridge's voice raised somewhat
sharply in the school - room ; she had
returned, then. Queene made no comment ;
she simply walked in and laid her unconscious
burthen at the governess's feet.

Miss Marriott, good heavens ! what does this

mean ? " and Miss Titlieridge recoiled in absolute
dismay.

'' It means that Emmie is dead, and that
Fraulein is her murderer ! " returned Queene in
an awful voice. The poor thing really believed
it for a moment.

No, no," sobbed Cathy, sitting down on the
floor and drawing the heavy head on to her lap ;
she is not dead, she is living, breathing ; some
of you help me to revive her; it is cold and
fright and hunger that has made her faint. Oh,
Miss Titheridge, don't mind poor Queene, she is
almost beside herself."

*' If she is not dead she is dying," persisted
the girl in a hoarse voice. ''No, don't touch her;
don't dare to touch her ! " as Miss Titheridge,
with a sudden feeling of remorse, bent over the
unconscious child and lifted the little cold hand.
'rit is in your house this deed is done ; ask
Fraulein, who has shut her up in the dark for
hours, pinching with cold and hunger, and in
spite of all her cries to be released ; ask Cathy ;
ask Chalice ; ask any of them,"

Fraulein, is this true ? " and Miss Titheridge

looked absolutely sliockecl. She had treated the
poor orphan with hardness and severity, but she
was not a bad woman. A sudden revulsion of
feeling came over her as she looked at the
prostrate figure in Cathy's lap; "Fraulein, is it
true that you could have acted so barbarously ? "

It is true ; and it is not the first time," returned
Queene. " If she dies, Miss Titheridge,
her death will lie at your door as well as Fraulein's
; if she die, look to yourselves, for I will
have justice, if there is justice in England. All
(carlisle shall know how you have treated the
child committed to your care. As to that
woman," pointing with her finger to Fraulein,
who now looked on in stupid terror at this scene,
she will live to rue this day if Emmie dies."

Hush, hush, my dear Miss Marriott ; becalm
and reasonable, I entreat you." Miss
Titheridge had turned very pale, she was quite
cowed by the girl's fierce despair. There was a
wild, strange light in Queene's eyes as she faced
them, as she hurled words of righteous wrath at
the shrinking women. " My dear Miss Marriott,
I am more grieved than I can say. I will do

what you like. Send for a doctor ; do what you
please ; only be calm."

Calm ! " repeated Queene, in a voice of such
utter heartbreak that tears positively came to
Miss Titheridge's hard eyes.

*' Yes ; send for a doctor ; do something all of
you," implored Cathy ; but as one or two of the
girls stepped up timidly with proffers of assistance
Queene waved them fiercely away.

No ; you none of you loved her ; you shall
not touch her. Give her to me. Come with me,
Cathy;" and as Cathy obeyed her wondering,
Queene led the way to Cathy's room, and laid
her on Cathy's bed.

Shut them all out ; I will have no one but
you," she had said to her friend. When the
doctor arrived he found the two girls trying
vainly to restore animation to the child.

He shook his head very gravely when Cathy
told him all, for Queene never spoke again during
that dreadful nidit. " This is a sad case,"
he said at last, after a careful examination.
When she wakes up I fear she will not know
you ; brain fever is the least we can expect from

such a shock. Acute terror on an exhausted
system often leads to very sad results, especially
with nervous children." But though he spoke ina
low tone, Queene heard him.

CHAPTER VIII.

Dark Dare.

Cometh sunshine after rain ;
After mourning joy again ;
After heavy, bitter grief
Dawned surely sweet relief !
And my soul, who from her height
Sunk to realms of woe and night,
Winged now to heaven her flight."

Lyra Germania.

Emmie did not die, neither were her physician's
worst fears verified ; but for many a long week
the frail existence hovered between life and
death.

When the lethargy hn,d passed a long season
of delirium intervened, and every symptom of
severe brain fever manifested itself For weeks
the little sufferer failed to recognize the loving
faces that bent over her. Caleb Runciman spent
most of his leisure hours beside the bedside,

lioldino^ the hand of his little favorite, and
gazing sorrowfully at the thin flushed face tossing
so restlessly on the pillow.

Sometimes Molly, with her pleasant features
and brisk homely ways, would come and watch
through the long night, that Queene might
enjoy a few hours' repose. Caleb and his faithful
Molly were the only visitors to the sick room.
Miss Titheridge had pleaded once, almost with
tears, to be allowed to take some part in the
nursing, but Queene had sternly refused. '' Em-nie
shall see no one but those who love her,"
was the invariable reply.

Granite Lodge was deserted now ; Cathy and
the other girls had long ago gone home for the
Christmas holidays. Cathy clung to her friends,
crying bitterly, when the moment arrived for saying
good-bye ; but Queene only looked at her
with great weary eyes.

I shall go home and tell Garth and Langley
everything. They will be sure to ask you to come
to us, after my London visit in May, to stay
with us for a long, long time."

If Emmie be ever strong enough," began
I. 8

Queene ; but somehow she could not finish her
sentence. She suffered all Cathy's caresses passively,
and then went back to her old place and
laid her head on Emmie's pillow.

It seemed as though nothing could rouse her
from the strange apathy that had crept over her
after that terrible night. She heard almost without
emotion that Fraulein had been dismissed ;
only, as the luggage was brought downstairs,
and she heard Miss Titheridge's voice speaking
in a subdued key in the corridor outside, she
quietly left her place and opened the door.

Fraulein Heifer was at the head of the staircase
in her travelling dress ; she seemed petrified
at the sight of Queene. The girl walked up to
her and laid her hand on her wrist. " Come
here, Fraulein, I want you a moment," she said
quietly ; and, strange to say, the woman obeyed
her without a word, and followed her to the
threshold of the sick-room ; but Queene would
not suffer her to enter. " You can see your work
from here," she continued, in a suppressed voice.
Ah ! she is smiling at you ; she does not know
you tried to be her murderer."

^'You are cruel; you will have your revenge,
or you would not have brought me here, Meess."
The woman's coarse, brutal nature was absolutely
cowed by the spectacle of suffering innocence.

The child lay upon her pillow smiling idly, and
waving her emaciated arms to and fro upon the
coverlet ; the fair hair was closely shaven, the
eyes dilated and brilliant.

'' I have always longed for a cowslip ball ; ask
that lady to make me one, mamma ; and strings
and strings of daisy chains."

'' Why did you bring me here, Meess ? I will
not stay, I will not look ! Each cas arme Engel-ein
; each guadidge Simnel." The woman was
trembling and all but hysterical. Queene's
detaining hand dropped from her wrist; her
revenge was satisfied.

I wish you to know how we suffered. Sometime,
if Emmie gets well, I shall try to bring
myself to forgive you ; but not till then. There
go, she is calling to me ; she always calls me

mamma."

It would not be too much to say that that
sick room became Queene's world ; she knew

8 *

literally nothing of what passed outside it.
Cathy wrote long letters to her, but she seldom
answered them. One day she enclosed a note
from Langley.

My dear Miss Marriott," it began, " Cathy's
glowing description of her friend makes us long
to know you ; and my brother and I trust, that
you and your dear little sister will be able to
pay us a visit in the early summer. We know
all your troubles, and wish that it were in our
power to lighten them — " but here a restless
movement from Emmie disturbed her, and she
laid the letter aside.

Emmie's wanderings were rarely painful to the
listener. A merciful oblivion had stamped out
the memory of that terrible night ; generally
her talk was of the country. Bhe imagined
herself wandering in beautiful places with her
mother and Queene ; gathering flowers, or else
picking up shells and sea-weed on the shore.
Now and then there would be a troubled break — ■
the waves were threatening to engulph her — or a
serpent, or strange-headed beast lurked among
the flowers; at such times she would grow

restless, and it required all Queene's efforts
to tranquillize her, while the constant cry of
Mamma, mamma," was pitiful to hear from the
lips of the motherless child.

Mamma is here," Queene would answer with
loving falsehood, laying the burning face on her
breast ; and something of the intense mother-love,
seemed really to pass into the girl's heart.

She was growing haggard and hollow-eyed
under the strain of the lonsj nursing:. The doctor
shook his head and remonstrated in vain, and
Caleb's entreaties were equally unavailing. " You
will be ill. Miss Queene ; every one says so.
You are up every night unless Molly is here, and
barely snatch an hour's sleep in the twenty-four ;
you are over taxing your strength, and a break-down
will be the consequence."

*' I shall not break down as long: as Emigrants
me," returned the girl bravely, but her lip
trembled as though with weakness ; she was
becoming conscious that all this was becoming a
terrible effort, that her strength would not hold
out for ever. A sudden noise jarred upon her
now ; and once or twice, when her kind old friend

was speaking to her, lie had great trouble to
refrain from bursting into tears.

Sometimes of an evening, when Caleb was
there, she would wrap herself in a shawl, and
walk up and down the stone hall and corridors
to allay her restlessness ; sometimes the door
would open, and a red gleam shine out from Miss
Titheridge's snug parlor, where she sat in cosy
fireside circle with her friends. She looked up
oddly and half-scared as Queene's white f^ice
glimmered out of the darkness, but she never
invited her to enter ; the girl had repulsed her
too surely for that.

The upstairs corridor had a window at each
end. Queene was never weary of pacing this.
Sometimes the moonlight flooded it, and she
trod in a perfect pathway of light ; once or
twice she stood looking out on the snowy
house-tops, shining under the eerie light of
stars.

It seemed months since she had sat in the
curious carved stall in the cathedral, since she
had heard the Christmas anthems and Gounod's
Bethlehem ' ; months since she had stood beside

the old mau's clair, pleading for his own flesh
and blood.

Caleb had spoken to her once or twice of Mr.
Calcott's strange and alarming seizure. He had
kept his room ever since, and was considered ina
somewhat critical state, he believed. Queene
heard him vaguely ; but no suspicion as to the
cause of his illness entered her mind.

The only thing that really roused her was
when Emmie first feebly called her by her name.
It was the night before the girls came back to
school. Caleb had not yet paid his evening
visit, and the sisters were alone.

Is that you, Queene ? " Emmie had said. '' I
thought it was mamma," and Queene had fallen
on her knees, and murmured her thanksgiving
with floods of grateful tears.

I know Caleb too," she had said later on,
when the old man came to her bedside ; and
something of the old quaint smile flitted over
her face at the sight of her favorite. " Have I
been ill, Caleb 1 Queene has been crying dreadfully,
and yet she says she is very happy."

*eyes, my precious lamb, you have been ill;

and Miss Queene there has almost knocked herself
up with nursing you ; but now you are going
to get well and strong," laying down the little
skeleton hand that could not raise itself. '* Hush,
my pretty ; hush, Miss Emmie, my dear," as a
large tear stole down the thin face ; ^' you must
not fret now you are getting better."

"I am so sorry for my Queen, my poor
tired Queen," sobbed the child ; but she was
soon hushed and comforted by assurances that
Queene was only a little tired and would soon
get rested.

Emmie slept for hours after this ; and before
many days were over a faint but steady progress
was perceptible. Cathy indeed was shocked at
her appearance, and wondered if anything so
thin and unsubstantial could really be Emmie.
Emmie smiled at her, but was too weak to speak
more than a word or two.

One day, when she was well enough to be
raised into a sitting posture and propped up
with pillows, Caleb entered with a mysterious-looking
basket, from whence proceeded a faint
scratching sound ; and this being opened, a small

long-haired kitten, with a tiny perky face and
bushy tail, crept mewing into Emmie's arms.

The child's delight and astonishment at the
sight of the lono;-coveted treasure were almost
overpowering, and she hugged the creature to
her without speaking.

Is it mine ? is it really mine ? will they let
me keep it ? " she gasped at length.

It is my belief that they would let you keep
a whole menagerie, if Miss Queene there chose
to say she wished it," returned Caleb with a
sly glance at her ; " some folks are properly
frightened."

Yes ; Miss Titheridge will let you keep it,"
replied her sister quietly; "you need not be
afraid ; she is very kind now, Emmie."

Oh yes, I knows ; when you are down at your
lessons she often comes and sits with me ; she
brought me that funny little man full of sweetmeats
yesterday. I went to give some of them
to Cathy."

Queene knew of these surreptitious visits, but
she took no notice ; it needed time to erase the
memory of those years of neglect and cruelty.

Emmie's sweet nature knew no resentment ; but
with Queene it was different.

She saw that Miss Titheridge was afraid of
her. "She has reason' thought Queene; "she
has injured me deeply. If the time ever comes
to get rid of us both, she will do so gladly ; but
I do not mean to give her the chance ; I am
determined to find work elsewhere."

As soon as Emmie could safely be left for an
hour or two Queene resumed her work in the
school-room unasked; now and then she stole upstairs
for a peep at the invalid. She sometimes
found Emmie asleep with the kitten in her arms,
or surrounded by the pictures and flowers which
the girls lavished on her. She would look up,
and say cheerily as Queene entered, "I am not a
bit dull ; Cathy and Chalice have been up, and
just now Miss Titheridge brought me some jelly,
and kittle and I have had such games," and then
Queene would go down again with a lightened
heart to her uncongenial task.

She often worked late into the night, that she
might devote more time to Emmie. The child
flagged and grew weary towards evening, and

then Qaeenie never left her. Long after all the
inmates of Granite Lodge had fallen into a
refreshing sleep the young governess would
trim the shaded lamp, and pore patiently over
the pile of copy-books waiting for correction.
Even when her head Alas on the pillow she could
not always rest. The future lay dark before her;
she must find other work ; but where ? that was
the question.

Emmie was gaining strength day by day ; but
for months, perhaps years, she would require the
greatest care. The doctor's orders were stringent.
She must not open a book for months ; the brain
would not bear the slightest pressure ; she must
lead a child's unthinking life — eat, drink, and
play, and, above all, sleep.

Emmie took very kindly to this regime. She
spent most of her time in sleep ; during the
remainder of her waking; hours she would lie in
languid content watching the antics of her
kitten, or waiting for Queene to come and talk
to her.

Queene made up her mind at last that she
must speak to Miss Titheridge ; and one evening

lie entered the little room where the governess
sat casting up her accounts for the last month.

She looked up a little amazed at the interruption
; but her manner changed when she saw
Qaeenie,and became as usual slightly embarrassed.

Do you want me, Miss Marriott ? is there
anything wrong with Emmie 1 "

Nothing, thank you. I only wanted to speak
to you about myself. I think it right that we
should come to some sort of understanding about
the future."
~ . " About the future ? "

Yes, Miss Titheridge," — Queene was the more
self-possessed of the two, — " it seems to me that
we cannot go on like this much longer. Emmie's
illness has been a great expense and trouble; and,
as far as I see, she will not cease to be a trouble
for a long time to come, and we have no right to
burthen you."

'rit is certainly very unfortunate," began the
governess. " Dr. Prout is very kind about it ;
but still, as you say, it is a sad inconvenience ;
one of my best rooms too."

*ras long as Emmie remains she cannot go

back to her old one. Dr. Prout expressly forbids
it ; lie says any renewal of the terror might be
fatal."

Well, we must say no more about it then'
turning over her papers nervously.

"Thank you. Believe me," continued Queene
earnestly, " T do thank you for your kindness,
tardy though it be to Emmie. I am only sorry
that I cannot feel more grateful for it ; but after
what has happened there can be no question of
Cfratitucle between us."

I am sorry you are of so unforgiving a
disposition, Miss Marriott."

"I hope it is not that. I think it is that T have
suffered too much to be able to forget ; but what
I meant to say was this : Emmie's weak health
is only likely to be an inconvenience, and we
have no right to burthen a stranger. I have
therefore reluctantly acceded to my old friend
Mr. Runciman's request, to place Emmie with
him, while I look out for fresh work. He has
found me hard to persuade," continued the girl,
smiling faintly as Caleb's arguments recurred to
her; "but circumstances have somewhat changed,

and I do not fear now that this steed will injure
him."

And when do you intend to leave me ? "
enquired Miss Titheridge in an injured voice, for
Queene was too valuable a governess to replace
easily. In her heart, though, she was secretly
relieved at the course things were taldnof ; now
she would not have the onus of dismissing the
orphans from her roof.

I shall be glad to remain until Easter,"
replied Queene, quietly ; and as Miss Titheridge
only bowed her head and made no comment she
withdrew.

I have done the deed, Cathy," she said,
coming into her friend's room, looking pale and
exhausted ; " and now it is off my mind. After
Easter we shall be homeless."

'' Nonsense ! " interrupted Cathy, rapturously
embracing her ; " you will only be out of the
dragon's clutches. You are comines to us fora
long, long visit ; and you shall not leave us
until you have found another situation ; and
after that Emmie is going to that dear funny
Mr. Eunciman s."

Only for a little while ; I shall not leave
her long there. You see Mr. Calcott's illness has
made a difference ; they say he will never be welland
so he will not find out that Caleb is joiner to
have Emmie ; besides which, Caleb has promised
to take the money I gave Miss Titheridge."

*' So your pride is satisfied. I am glad of that,
my dear Madam Dignity. Now let us go and sit
with Emmie."

CHAPTER IX.

AN ERRAND OF MERCY.

Speak gently to the aged one ;
Grieve not the careworn heart :
The sands of life are nearly rnn,
Let such in peace depart."

Christian Lyrics.

Caleb Eunciman lead told Queene that Mr.
Calcott was seriously ill ; but the girl had received
the news with indifference, making no comments.
*' What was his life — his useless, loveless life — in
comparison with Emmie's ? " she thought with
bitterness.

Presently, when her trouble had lightened a
little, and Emmie was slowly advancing towards
convalescence, she remembered her hardness with
some compunction ; and her heart grew soft and
pitiful over the thought of that lonely sick-room.

I wonder if Mr. Calcott remembers my

visit ? " she said once to Caleb, but Caleb onlj^
shook his head in silence. He had not as yet
been admitted to his employer's presence. The
illness was enveloped in mystery, and all sorts of
reports were current with respect to it

Neither of them guessed the truth, or knew
the strange thoughts and memories that haunted
the sick man's pillow. The past was ever before
him ; conscience, so long dormant, had roused at
last, and had laid hold of him with fierce and
angry grip; he saw himself the victim of a hypochondria
so fell and senseless that it had warped
and scathed his better nature.

His past life was mapped out before him : a
youth of disease and suffering, soothed only by a
sister's love ; a querulous, discontented manhood,
darkened by fits of strange melancholy; then
years of loneliness and brooding.

Why had he failed with his life ? Other men
had suffered as well as he; other men had experienced
the same passionate sorrows, had reaped
disappointment where they had expected happiness,
had battled with chronic disease, and yet
had borne themselves bravely before the world !
I. 9

Why had he grown so hardened and exasperated
against his kind that his very servants trembled
in his presence ?

What words were those that rung in his ear
till the very air seemed to vibrate with them :
*' I am sorry for you, because you are old
and lonely; because you have only miserable
thoughts to keep you company; because when
you are ill no one will comfort you, when you
die no one will shed tears over your grave."

Curses on that girl ! How dared she stand and
pity him to his face ! him — Andrew Calcott — -
whom every one feared and respected — the man
so outwardly prosperous that the world never
guessed at the strange fiend that gnawed at his
vitals !

*' It must be so dreadful not to want love, to
be able to do without it ; " and again, " Emmie
never forgets you, sir. She does not love you;
how can she ? but she still says the prayer
mamma taught her — * God bless poor Uncle
Andrew.' " Ah ! merciful heavens, would those
words never leave him ?

By-and-bye the torment he suffered became

unbearable ; whole sentences of that conversation
seemed stamped and burned upon the brain. He
would say them aloud sometimes, to the terror of
those who watched him, and thought his mind
was wandering.

You are refusing to help me in my bitter
strait ; you are leaving me, young and single-handed,
to fight in this cruel, cruel world ; you
have disowned your own niece, and are sending
me back to her almost broken-hearted ; but I
will not reproach you ; " and then she had come
closer to his chair, and had stood beside him,
almost touching him with her hand.

He could see her clearly ; the whole scene
seemed photographed in his memory. Was he
dreaming, or was she there really beside his
bed?

He could recall every expression of her countenance,
every trick of her speech. What a
young creature she had looked in her shabby
dress, sitting there before him. How eloquently
she had spoken, and with what self-possession
and dignity. Once or twice her voice had faltered,
and the tears had gathered in her large brown

9*

eyes, as she pleaded for Emmie, but she had
brushed them away hastily, and had gone on
speaking.

If he had ever had a daughter he would have
liked her to have looked at him with those clear
honest glances. The girl was absolutely without
guile. Hard as he was, his heart had yearned over
her, and yet he had driven her from his presence.
Now and then a strange fancy, almost a longing,
seized him, to hear her speak again, if it were
only to tell him that she was sorry for him. He
called himself a fool, and chid himself for his
weakness; but, nevertheless, the longing was
there and he knew it.

One evening, as Qaeenie was correcting some
themes in the class-room, she was told Mr.
Runciman wished to speak to her.

Caleb's visits where rare now, but he sometimes
came to bring a few snowdrops or violets to his
favorite. To-night he was later than usual, and
Emmie was asleep.

'' I am not come to see Emmie to-night ; it is
you I want, Miss Queene. You might have
knocked me down with a feather when he gave

me the message. But I suppose he is in his
right mind ? " continued Caleb, his blue eyes
becoming very round and wide, and his rosy face
a trifle paler than usual.

*' A message from whom ? " enquired Queene,
with some degree of curiosity. She was pleased
to see her old friend ; any break in the monotony
of her day was welcome.

'ray, you'll never guess. Why, my dear
young lady, when he told me to come and fetch
you I was that flabbergasted — if you know the
meaning: of such an outlandish word — that I
could not tell whether I was standing on my
head or my heels. ' I want you to fetch me
Frank Marriott's daughter he says, in a queer
off-hand way, and he shut his eyes and laid quite
quiet."

Do you mean Mr. Calcott has sent for me ? "
gasped Queene for the moment. She looked
quite frightened.

"Ay, sure enough, though I never thought
you would have guessed it so soon," returned
Caleb admiringly ; " but women's wits beat men's
hollow. Well, I couldn't believe my ears, and

no wonder ; so I waited for him to open this eyes,
and then I ventured to ask him to be so good
as to repeat his speech, fearing I hadn't rightly
understood him."

^' ' You have understood me very well, Pacis
he said in a quiet meaning sort of way,
not quite pleased at my hesitation, you may be
sure. It is ' do this, or go there, and be sharp
about it,' with Mr. Calcott, always. * Please lose
no time over your errand, but bring Frank
Marriott's daughter back with you ; I want to
see if T can get to sleep to-night.' That's all, on
my word and honor. Miss Queene."

"It is very strange, but I suppose I must go ;
perhaps he has repented his unkindness, and
wants to tell me so. Wait a minute, Caleb, while
I tell Miss Titheridge. Emmie is asleep, and so
I shall not mind leaving for half-an-hour."

^' It is a wet night, I warn you ; it is all of a
piece with his usual selfishness sending for you
on a night like this," fretted Caleb, who was
much perplexed and exercised in his mind by
the whole proceeding ; but Queene met this
additional trial with her usual cheerfulness,

and struggled along bravely under her' old
umbrella.

This time they were not kept waiting. Gunnel
eyed them quite as morosely, but he ushered
Caleb at once into a comfortable-looking diningroom
with a blazing fire, and wine and biscuits
on the table ; while he begged Queene civilly to
follow him, which she did, naively admiring the
carved balustrades and soft rich carpets as she
did so.

"My master is up, but he cannot leave his
room," explained the servant, as he ushered
Queene into a large handsomely-furnished bedroom,
where Mr. Calcott lay on a couch beside
the fire, in his Indian dressing-gown, with an
eider-down quilt over him. A respectable looking
woman sat with needle-work at a little round
table beside him. At Queene's entrance she
curtsied and withdrew.

Queene quietly took her place.

You have sent for me," she said softly. *' I
am sorry to hear you have been so ill. It is a
wet night, but I could not help coming," she
continued, trying to speak naturally, but she

could not ; the change in the sick man appalled
her. She understood, as she looked at him, that
he was slowly but surely dying.

'they tell me I have some months still before
me ; that's bad hearing for those who wait upon
me, as I am likely to trouble them for sometime,"
with a touch of his old firmness. " Well,
girl, so you haste come through the wet and dark,
just to gratify a sick man's whim ? "

** I would do more than that to oblige yon,
sir," returned Queene, with genuine compassion
in her voice. The wan suffering face, the wasted
hand, stirred a world of pity in her soul. Lonely,
unloved, and dying — resentment faded out of
her memory at a spectacle so pathetic, so truly
pitiful.

'what! do more than be sorry for me?" —
with sardonic humor in his voice. " You would
give more than a drop of water to poor Dives in
torment ? Do you remember, girl, that you dared
to pity me before ? "

My pity w ill not harm you, sir."

Ay, why not ? "

Now you are so very ill, it may even do you

o'ood to remember that we feel no bitterness

o

towards you, that we forgive all the wrong done
to us. Why do you look towards that door ? do
you want anything ? "

That woman has forgotten my medicine' he
muttered, " and I have the strange sinking again.
Hirelings are not worth the price of the bread
they eat."

Let me give it you," returned Queene,
rising, and mixing the draught ; but he shook his
head. " You must call her; I cannot raise myself,
and the least movement gives me pain."

'' She has gone downstairs ; let me try what I
can do. You must not wait, indeed, Mr. Calcott ;
your lips are turning blue and livid. I am used
to nursing; I could lift mamma, and I have
carried Emmie about so much lately." As she
spoke Queene skilfully raised the invalid and
put the glass to his lips.

If thine enemy hunger, feed him ; and if he
thirst, give him drink." Why did these words
come into the sick man's mind as he felt the
support of the strong young arm, and drank the
reviving draught from her hand ?

*' There, you are better now," went on Queene
cheerfully, putting the pillow comfortably under
sus head. Mr. Calcott looked at her strangely,
and then he was silent for a long time.

You are poor," he began at last.

Yes, we are very poor; you remember I told
you so."

Ah, true ! I forgot all that. You are used
to nursing too. Mrs. Morton is a very capable
person, but I should like some one who would
read to me and amuse me. I — " hesitating
slightly — " I would pay you handsomely if you
would come to me."

Queene turned pale, and her eyes filled with
tears. " Come to you at once ? "

To be sure. Do you think a dying man can
talk about the future ? I would make it worth
your while," he continued, as though anticipating
some objection. " You shall ask your own sum ;
I will buy your services at your own price."

*' Hush ! please don't talk so, you are only
paining me ; it is impossible. What ? now ! come
at once I I could not leave Emmie."

What folly ! " he interrupted harshly.

*' Have you not told me that you are fighting
single-handed against the world ; that Emmie, as
you call her, is next door to starving ? Were
these falsehoods ? were you imposing on my
credulity that you refuse real tangible help when
it comes ? "

I only refuse what is impossible for me to
accept," returned Queene in a choking voice.
*' Ah, you cannot understand, you do not know,
that since that terrible night I have nearly lost
Emmie." And then she told him, as well as
emotion would allow her, of all she had been
through.

Humph ! that's why you have grown thin
and unsubstantial-lookino^. I thought there was
some change in you. You ought to get heavy
damages from those women ; but the child is
getting well, you say ? "

"Yes; but she is not strong, and requires the
greatest care. No one could watch over her as I
do ; I understand her ; I know her every look ; I
see directly she is weary or overdone. It will be
months before I can safely leave her, even with
Mr. E-unciman and Molly."

I should think the atmosphere of that
precious school could not be conducive to the
welfare of a nervous invalid," interrupted Mr.
Calcott irritably.

We shall not be there much longer," returned
Queene quietly. "At Easter we are going to
Mr. Runciman's for a little visit ; and as soon
as the warm weather comes I'm going to take
Emmie into the country to get strong."

Indeed 1 did not know you could afford such
luxuries," with biting sarcasm.

Queene colored, but she went on steadily —

"Neither can we. We are indebted to the
kindness of a school friend, who has offered to
take us home. I have barely money for our
railway journey there and back ; but we shall
manage somehow."

Mr. Calcott glanced at the girl's shabby dress
and cloak, then at the brave face, and somehow
his sarcasm vanished.

I suppose you are too proud to take a five-pound
note ? " somewhat brusquely.

Queene hesitated, and then her face grew
crimson.

Speak out ; you are too proud, eh ? "

I would not take it for myself, but for
Emmie's sake I should be thankful."

'' I know nothing about Emmie," with a
frown. " If you take it it is for yourself mind ;
the child is nothing to me ; I cannot and will
not recognize her."

''If I take it it will be to buy her comforts,"
replied Queen ie, scrupulously.

Spend it how you will, it is nothing to me,"
was the irritable answer. " I have made you
a good offer to-night. By the sacrifice of a
few months you could earn enough to maintain
both the child and yourself for more than a year
to come, and you choose to refuse the offer. I
can say no more."

"I dare not accept it. If anything were to
happen to Emmie, I should never forgive myself.
Mamma always told me that Ave must never
leave a certain duty for an uncertain one ; and
Emmie is my duty."

Pshaw ! female sophistry. The child would
do well enough ; children always do."

Queene shook her head.

It goes to my heart to refuse you. If I were
free I would come and serve you, not only for
the sake of the money, but because mamma
loved you so dearly."

There, there ; I can bear no more," returned
the invalid impatiently.

Queene took the hint and rose.

I am sorry if I have tired you. May I come
again ? "

/'Yes; come again tomorrow at the same
time. Tell Eunciman that he is to bring the
business letters here in the morning instead of
Smiler. Please rinsr the bell for Mrs. Morton,
and be careful to close the door very carefully,
as the least noise jars on me. What are you
waiting for now, child ? "

I only thought I should like to shake hands
with you, sir."

"There, good-night," was the brusque response
; but the hand was cold and shaking, as
the warm girlish one closed round it.

'' Good - night, and thank you for Emmie,"
returned Queene, brightly.

Caleb sat up and rubbed his eyes drowsily as

the girl entered. " How long you have been,
Miss Queene, dear ! What has he been saying
to you ? "

*' Hush ! I will tell you as we go along. He is
very ill — dying, Caleb, and it is very, very sad to
see him. Look what he has given me," opening
her hand and showing the crisp bank-note ; " I
think he meant it as a sort of return for brino-inor
me out in the wet, but of course I shall not keep
it ; it is all for Emmie."

Queene's visits to Mr. Calcott became almost
a daily recurrence. It soon became a rule for
Caleb to fetch her when lessons were over and
Emmie was asleep, to sit with the invalid an
hour before he retired to rest. Miss Titheridefe
had probably received some private hint from
Caleb, for she made no objection to these
frequent absences ; but, on the contrary,
encouraged them by gracious enquiries after
Mr. Calcott's health when she encountered
Queene.

The girl soon grew used to these visits. Mr.
Calcott, it is true, never varied in his manner.
He still received her brusquely, and his remarks

were as pungent and sarcastic as ever, with a
strange bitterness that often brought tears to her
eyes ; but still, in a vague, uncertain sort of way,
she felt he liked to have her there beside him.
Once or twice she fancied his eyes had brightened
at her approach, even while he scolded her querulously
for being late. He accepted her services
reluctantly, and often found fault with her for
feminine awkwardness. Her efforts never gave
him pleasure. No word of commendation crossed
his lips, no thanks for the unselfishness that
brought her out evening after evening, after a
hard day's work, to minister to a discontented
old man ; and yet Qaeenie felt rewarded if his
eyes turned wis tf ally to the door as she entered,
or a sigh of relief betrayed that his loneliness
was at an end.

Master has been that restless that Morton
can do nothing to please him," Gunnel informed
her once when she was unusually late. Queene
smiled and quickened her steps ; she knew what
she had to expect.

I suppose you have got tired of your good
work," was the only welcome she received ; but

Queene had learned how to parry such remarks
without rousing the old man's jealous temper.
She turned the subject laughingly, by telling
him of the purchases she had made out of the
money he had given her.

What ! all those things out of five pounds ! "
he grunted incredulously ; '' frock, jacket, and
hat, and I don't know what beside. I thought
I said the money was for yourself."

"Emmie is so delighted with everything," she
went on. " The pleasure brought a tinge of
color to her face ; it would have done you good
to have seen her."

Humph ! I dare say there will be much good
done to me to-night, after being kept an hour
waiting for other folk's pleasure."

'work must be done, you know," returned
Queene lightly. " The term is nearly over, and
then I shall be more at leisure."

Indeed, is the grand visit to be given up ? "
sarcastically ; but there was suppressed eagerness
in his voice.

Oh, there is a whole month before that ; we
need not talk of that yet. Now let me read to
I. 10

you ; " but though the book was an interesting
one, and Queene read in her best manner, Mr.
Calcott's thoughts seemed wandering.

When the last day of the term arrived the
sisters left Granite Lodge. Emmie, who had
been in a state of pleasurable excitement all the
morning, grew a little; tearful and silent towards
the close of the day.

Queene, who was overwhelmed with business,
and had scarcely time to bid her friend good-bye,
and add a few words as to future arrangement, at
parting, suddenly missed Emmie in her usual
corner. She had searched the house without
success, and was becoming terribly frightened,
when a maid informed her that she had seen
Emmie toiling up the garret stairs with the
kitten in her arms.

The little girl was curled up in her usual place,
gazing dreamingly out of the window, when
Queene entered. The little face looked small
and white under the cap-border ; the soft yellow
down peeping out here and there gave her an
infantile appearance.

Dear Emmie, why have you come here ? "

began her sister, reprovingly; but Emmie held up
her finger and stopped her.

Hush ! of course we ought to say good-bye
to the poor old place ; don't you know prisoners
sometimes kiss the walls of their cell, though they
are really not sorry to leave it. We have had
nice times here, Queen, though we have been so
very unhappy. As i sat here before you came
up, I felt as though there must be two Emmie's ;
I feel so different to the old one that used to hide
her face and cry when it got dark."

"Then we will not stay and make ourselves
miserable in this gloomy place," interrupted
Queene, anxiously. "Caleb will be here directly,
and we must go and say good-bye to Miss
Titheridge. Come, Em, come," and Emmie
obeyed reluctantly.

Miss Titheridge looked embarassed and nervous,
and Queene purposely shortened their leave-taking.
When Emmie's turn came she held up
her face to be kissed.

"Good-bye," she said, looking at the governess
with her large serious blue eyes. "Thank you
for being kind to me at last. I am so sorry you

10 *

could not love me ; but I dare say it was my
fault ; " and as Miss Titheridge bent over her
something; beside a kiss was left on the child's
thin cheek.

Caleb's little house seemed a perfect haven of
refuge that night. Queene felt almost too happy
as she arranged their effects in the little dark
room that Caleb had set apart for his guests. Tt
seemed wrong of her to be so light-hearted while
the future was so uncertain.

Emmie lay in the big brown bed, with ugly'
drab curtains edged with green, and watched her
as she moved about actively, singing over her
work. The room had a side window looking
over a stone-mason's yard ; the white monuments
gleamed in the red evening light ; a laburnum
shook long sprays of gold against the panes ;
Molly's linnet sung against the wall ; Caleb in
his old coat walked contentedly up and down the
narrow garden path between his currant-bushes ;
some children were playing among the slabs and
ledges of stone. Hew humble it was, and yet
how peaceful; a quiet waiting place until the new
work came ready to I er hand. One evening, as

she was sitting sewing at the open window,
Caleb beckoned her mysteriously to join him. in
his favorite walk between the currant-bushes.

Aly dear," he began, his eyes becoming round
as usual, and betraying a tendency to hesitate
slightly between his words, " I want your advice,
your assistance, indeed. I have — hem — I may
say — I have a delicate and peculiar commission
on hand, — hem, — and I — in short, a lady's advice
would be most suitable, and, I may say, satisfactory.
Molly is a good creature," he continued,
after a pause, '' an admirable creature, of course ;
but in this her advice is of such a nature that I
must own I should hesitate to adopt it. She is
fond of bright colors, you see ; and as long as
there is plenty of red and green in a pattern she
would find no fault."

'*Do you want me to choose a new dress for
Molly ? I suppose that is what you mean."

Molly ! oh dear, no ! nothing of the kind,
Miss Queene dear. The fact is, a young friend of
mine, is — hem — is, in short, going to be married,
that is, she is going to be married some day, no
doubt."

Indeed ! a friend of jours, do you say ? "
Caleb nodded still more mysteriously.

The circumstances are peculiar ; yes, I am
certainly right in saying they are peculiar,"
continued Caleb, reflecting ; " but she — that is,
lie^ias commissioned me to get her some things
suitable to a lady in such a position, as the same
peculiar circumstances prevent her from choosing
the articles herself. She is not going to be
married yet," rubbing his head with a little
vexed perplexity ; " but she is going on a visit
to his friends, and he — the young man I mean.
Ah ! that's it," with a chuckle, as though he had
discovered a way out of some difficulty — " he,
the young man, my dear, has a proper pride, and
wants her to make a favourable impression on
his relations ; do you see. Miss Queene."

Is she so very poor ? " returned Queene,
innocently, and not at all suspecting the veracity
of Caleb's garbled-up tale.

Poor ! well I may say that she is poor —
extremely so," with a burst of candor ; " but a
lady, — dear, dear, — as much a lady as yourself,
Miss Queene."

*•' I should have thought her lover could have
chosen some pretty things for her himself,"
observed Queene, a little incredulously, at this
juncture. "He must be a poor sort of lover," she
thought, '' to devolve such an interesting duty
on her old friend."

Caleb coughed, and stopped to inspect a promising
gooseberry bush ; and then he discovered
his pipe was out, and must replenish it ; it was
quite five minutes, too, before it would draw
properly, and Queene got impatient for her
question to be answered.

Why cannot he get them himself ? " she
enquired, a little scornfully ; "he need not have
troubled you."

"Well, you see, a man with a broken leg is not
particularly active, and shopping does not suit
the complaint," was the oracular answer, as Caleb
puffed volumes of smoke, bravely. "No, no,
that sort of thing is not good for the complaint,"
continued the old man, with another chuckle ;
so you see, Miss Queene dear, if you don't helps
me a bit with your advice I shall have to go to
Molly after all, and shall come back with a plaid

satin, or something that wouldn't suit the pretty
creature at all. Come, now," — coaxingly, — "what
should you think she would like best ? "

Queene wrinkled her white forehead reflectively,
— poor and pretty, and with a lover laid up
at a distance. This began to get interesting ;
she must do her best to help this unknown
girl.

*^ Well, if I were judging for myself," she
returned at last, " I should think a nice useful
black silk—"

Ah ! that is just it," interrupted Caleb,
enthusiastically. " I ought to have thought of
that ; of course, a black silk."

And," continued Queene, now thoroughly
absorbed in a mental review of this ideal wardrobe,
" a pretty spring suit, — brown, I think, if it
would suit her, — and a brown hat with a
pheasant wing. I think she would look nice in
that."

Brown, of course ; the idea of ray never
thinking of brown," repeated Caleb, clapping his
hands, "the very color of all others that would
suit her. Go on, Miss Queene dear."

Well, I suppose her lover does not wish to
be extravagant, it is not her trousseau, you see ;
some nice collars and cuffs and ties, and perhaps
handkerchiefs, and some brown gloves — and, oh !
she must have a box to put them in. If she be
so very poor, you see, it will not do for her to
dress too handsomely," observed the young girl,
sententiously.

Caleb dashed down his pipe, and very nearly
executed a pas de seal on the garden path ; his
blue eyes danced with glee.

There now, there now ; did I not say you
had a wise head. Miss Queene ! The very thing
of all other ! a box !— and Molly and I would never
have thought of it — a really good handsome box
that would make the luggage porters stare, eh ? "
enquiring.

Yell no ; a nice black leather one, like
Cathy's, I think," returned Queene, with quiet
relish. During the remainder of the evening, as
she sat over some plain sewing she was doing for
Emmie, she thought of Caleb's friend a little
enviously, and wondered how she would like the
nice things. She wished Caleb would tell her a

little more about her ; but, to her surprise, he
did not recur again to the subject.

About a fortnight after this conversation, as
she returned from her usual evening visit to Mr.
Calcott, she paused for a moment at the door of
her room, transfixed in surprise.

A large leathern trunk blocked up the room ;
two white letters, Q. M., stared her full in the
face ; a sudden revelation of the truth drove the
flush to her very brow.

Could it really be? She lifted the lid gingerly,
almost trembling with excitement ; her hand
came in contact with the folds of a black silk ;
lower down lay the brown dress and jacket ; the
little hat with its pheasant plume nestled snugly
in one division. Queene had just a hurried peep
at piles of snowy handkerchiefs, and collars, and
cuffs, at French gloves, and soft streaks of color
in the shape of silken scarfs, and then she rushed
breathlessly down into the parlor, where Emmie
was readings fairy tales to Caleb.

Emmie put down her book and clapped her
bands at the sight of Queene's face. Caleb's
eyes twinkled over his pipe, but he said nothing.

Oh, Queen, isn't it lovely ! better even than
Cinderella's pumpkin coach. Isn't it a dear, dear
secret, for Caleb and me to have kept all this
time ? "

Do you think the young man with the
broken leg will be satisfied with my taste,"
chuckled the old man. Queene put her arms
round his neck, her face was rosy with pleasure.

Oh, Caleb, is it for me ! really for me ! the
box with all those beautiful things ? Did you
buy it for me, dear, because you knew I was so
poor and shabby, and you did not like me to go
among those strange people with my old clothes ?
Oh, Caleb, how could you, how could you, and
you so poor yourself ? " caressing him gratefully.

Miss Queene, dear," confessed the old man,
with tears in his eyes, *' if I had the money I
would not begrudge you satin and diamonds;
nothing would be too good for you, my pretty ;
nothing that old Caleb would not get you ; but
it is not me, bless your dear heart, that you have
to thank for all your things."

Queene's face fell, her arms dropped to her
side.

'' Not you, Caleb ? "

Why no," he returned, slightly embarrassed ;
I would have bought them and gladly if I had
had the money, which I am free to confess is not
the case. You have another and a richer friend
at court than old Caleb."

*'Do you mean to tell me," replied Queene,
sitting down, quite pale with the surprise, " that
—that—"

''Ah, I knew you would guess it!" interrupted
Caleb, sagaciously. '''Find out what she requires
for her visit, and get it, Kunciman,' he said tome
; and, as I observed once before on a similar
occasion, you might have knocked me over with
a feather. ' Ask some woman to help you, for we
neither of us know much of a girl's farthingales
and furbelows, I fancy,' he said, grimly enough ;
and so, my dear, I made bold, and invented that
pleasing little fiction in order to get at some of
your ideas."

Mr. Calcott has given me all those things ? "
she repeated ; and then for the moment she could
say no more.

Chapter X.
'the little comforter."

Thy love
Shall client itself its own beatitudes,
After its own life wailing. A child kiss,
Set on thy sighing lips, shall make thee glad ;
A poor man, served by thee, shall make thee rich ;
A rich man, helped by thee, shall make thee strong.
Thou shalt be served thyself by every sense
Of service which thou tenderest." — E. B. BroionliKj.

On her next visit, which was to be her last before
they started for Hepshaw, Mr. Calcott received
Queene with more than his usual acrimony.

In my time punctuality used to be considered
a virtue," he said, severely, with an ominous
glance at the time-piece, which showed Queene
she was some minutes late. " Never mind ; I
dare say this is the last time you vnll have to
amuse a troublesome old man."

Queene's eyes filled with tears.

Please don't talk so, Mr. Calcott ; not tonight,
at least, when I have to bid you good-bye
for so many weeks."

"Aye, you will be very sorry for that, no
doubt," ironically.

'eyes," she returned, with the sweet candor
natural to her ; "far more sorry than I would
have expected or believed."

He laughed a low, bitter laugh, that went to
the girl's heart.

And you think I shall credit that ? "

Why not ? one must always believe the
truth," she returned, simply. " When I first
came here I pitied you dreadfully, and yet I was
half afraid of you. I do not fear you at all
now."

Indeed ! "

Your moroseness used to terrify, but now I
do not seem to mind all your hard words ; they
lurk under kind actions, and so they have lost
their sting. It was kindness that prompted you
to send me all those pretty things."

Humph, I see the reason for all this civility
now."

Queene's eyes rested tenderly on the worn,
cadaverous face.

*' You see I am longing to thank you, and yet
I hardly know how to do so without giving you
offence."

*' I hate thanks," gruffly. '^ There, girl, that
will do; let us get to our reading," and Queene,
who saw that unusual suffering lay at the bottom
of the old man's bitter humor, did not venture
to thwart him just then.

When the time came for her to go she put
the marker in the book carefully, and leant over
him. As she touched him softly with her hand,
he started and opened his eyes ; they had a
strange, almost a wild look in them for a
moment.

I could have sworn it was Emily's hand," he
muttered. " Hers was always soft and warm,
like the breast of a little bird. Pshaw ! what
rubbish I am talking; you have read me to sleep,
child ; I have been dreaming."

Let me give you your draught, and talk to
you a little ; tomorrow I am going away, you
know."

** Aye, tomorrow, and a good many tomorrows."
She still held the cold, nerveless
fingers in hers, and her voice was very gentle in
his ear.

I shall not like to think yon are missing me ;
when evening comes I shall wish I were here
beside yon, reading to you and lulling your pain.
It seems to me," continued the girl, speaking
still more softly, " as though in some strange
way, and out of strange circumstances, we have
grown to be friends."

He sighed, and turned restlessly on his pillow,
but there was no repulse.

You have been very good to me, and I shall
love to remember your goodness. J think
mamma was right when she said you had a
heart. To-morrow I am going away — as you
know — for a long, long time, and I want you todo
me a favor."

Pshaw ! I will do nothing blindfold," with a
return of his old harshness ; but, under the half-closed
eyelids, how he watched it — the bright
speaking face !

I want you to see Emmie. Hush ! do not

refuse," as he gave utterance to an expression
of impatience, almost disgust ; "do not send me
away less happy ; do not refuse such a trifling
request. If I have ever pleased you, if I have
ever wiled away an hour of bitter pain, grant me
this one favour : let the child stand here for a
moment beside you."

Can you not leave a dying man in peace ? "
he began savagely, but his wrath faded before
the girl's mild glance. A brief spasm as of pain
contracted his forehead, and his eyes closed.

Have your foolish whim," he muttered at
last, almost inaudibly. " But what have I to do
with children ? I always hated them."

You will not hate Emmie," returned Queene
as she hurriedly rose ; ^' it is a fine evening, and
she pleaded for me to bring her ; ' she wanted to
see poor Uncle Andrew,' she said."

Tell her not to call me that," he exclaimed,
angrily ; but Queene had already closed the door
behind her.

Another minute, and the child stood beside
his couch. The evening sun shone full upon her ;
she had grown tall and thin from her long illness ;
I 11

the beautiful fair hair had been shaved off, but
the soft yellow down peeped under the pretty
cap border ; the great blue eyes had a solemn,
childlike look in them ; a little wasted hand
crept into the sick man's, and then patted it
softly.

Humph ! so you are better, aye, after nearly
frightening that sister of yours to death," with
a milder growl than Queene expected.

I am much better, thank you, Uncle Andrew,"
returned Emmie, gravely ; and then, perfectly
undaunted by the grim, death-like face on the
pillow before her, she clambered up on the
bed beside it, and sat perched before him like a
large soft-eyed bird. '' Queene thought I was
going to die, and cried dreadfully every night ;
Cathy told me so. Are you going to die, Uncle
Andrew ? "

'' It seems so," with a chord of ineffable
bitterness rasping the thin voice.

Emmie leaned forward and stroked his face
pityingly, with an old-fashioned womanliness
that touched her sister greatly.

'' I am so sorry ; it seems such a pity, just as

we were going to be fond of you ; it will be so
strange, too, missing you out of my prayers every
night, not that it will do any barm to go on
saying, * God bless you,' even after you are
dead," continued Emmie, reflectively, and in a
slightly puzzled tone. " I asked Queene about
that, and she said she was not sure."

In spite of his iron nerve Mr. Calcott winced
slightly. This mere babe was playing round the
feet of the king of Terror, while he was quailing
secretly at the thought of the skeleton hand
raised ready to strike ; it would find him in his
darkness and loneliness ; his truest friend would
come to him in the guise of an enemy. He was
not a weak man, but at this moment the thought
of his solitary death-bed caused him to thrill
with premonitory pain and anguish. And then,
With an odd transition of idea, he remembered
how one night, when he was a lad, he had been
weakened from his sleep by an awful storm ; and
his little sister Emily had come crying to his
bed-side, and had clung to him in an agony of
terror. He remembered, as though it were
yesterday, the little shivering figure in white,

11*

the tangled fair hair under the cap border, the
childish voice broken with sobs, " Oh Andrew,
dear Andrew, take care of me ; 1 am so
frightened.'^

You are only a girl, Emmie ; boys and men
are never frightened ; why I don't know what
fear is," he had returned, half scoffingly, and yet
proud to shield her, and to feel himself strong in
his boy's strength.

Ah, he knew what fear meant now. He
thought, with the cold clammy sweat of superstitious
terror, of what the coffin lid would cover ;
while a child's lips blessed him — him, Andrew
Calcott, dead, unloved, and unremembered —
blessed him in her prayers.

God pardon his wasted, misused life, he
groaned, and grant him one single fragment of
opportunity more, and he should not be unremembered
; and the flicker of a strange smile
curved Andrew Calcott's lips as he silently
registered this vow.

Are you sleepy or tired, Uncle Andrew ? '*
asked Emmie, rather awe-stricken by the long
silence and closed eye-lids, and still more by the

smile. '^ When you lay like that, so still and
white," continued the child, " you reminded me
of the figure of the old Crusader — a knight I think
he watson the tomb I saw once in church. Do
you know what I was thinking about when I
watched you ? "

He shook his head.

I was wondering if you felt afraid — to die,
I mean."

Well, child ; what then ? " regarding her
strangely.

I used to be terribly afraid, you know,"
creeping closer, and whispering confidentially.
*' When I sat alone in the old garret, — ah, the
poor old garret ; I don't hate it quite so much
now, — and it got dark, and the silence had odd
voices in it, I used to think about mamma and
want to go to her ; only I could not get to her
without dying, and that troubled me."

"Hush, Emmie," interrupted her sister, softly;
but Mr. Calcott waved her aside, and bade her
let the child speak, and Queene drew back again
into the shade of the curtain.

I used to sit for ever so long, and fancy how

it would be. I fainted once ; and then I thought
it would he like that, only I was afraid I should
feel terribly cold and lonely when I woke and
found myself alone in a strange place, however
beautiful it might be ; and then Queene took
me to see that picture, and after that I did not
mind at all''

'' What picture, little one ? "

*' Of a girl, not much older than I, asleep with
her arms so," — crossing hers gravely over her
breast, — " and sliding up a great pathway of
light, just as I saw a little boat once floating in
the moonlight. Fancy floating asleep between
the stars, and right into heaven ! "

A half-groan answered the child, but she was
too absorbed to notice it,

*' I never forgot the picture ; it made me so
happy to think of it. I shall not mind dying a
bit now ; I shall just cross my arms, as the girl
did, and shut my eyes, and when I wake up
I shall see mamma smiling at the door; and
perhaps," finished the child solemnly, " He will
come to me, instead of letting me go very far in
the great dazzling place to find Him."

Him ! "

Our Lord, you know; I shall want to see Him
most. Uncle Andrew, when I say my prayers tonight
I shall tell Him that you are afraid, and
ask Him to let mamma be the first to meet you ;
and not a great splendid angel with wings, but
just mamma, looking, oh, so beautiful ! and
smiling as she used to smile."

God bless you, child ; there, leave me ; take
her away, or I will not answer for myself. I
have the pain again ; those drops, quick ! Oh,
merciful heavens ! only the boon of another day,
one more day."

"Hush! you are only agitating yourself; you
are not really worse," returned Queene, tenderly,
wiping the moisture from his forehead. " If you
calm yourself the attack will pass off. Emmie,
darling, you must leave him now ; he is too tired
to talk any more ; " and the child gently obeyed,
after kissing him timidly on the cheek.

You must go too, I suppose," laying a
delaying hand on her dress nevertheless.

Yes ; but it is only good-bye for a little
while," returned Queene, trying to speak cheerfully,

but her eyes filling with tears. " When I
come back we must have some more nice talks,
and quiet cosy times together. You will miss
me ; I am sorry and grieved to think how you
will miss me," finished the girl, faltering sadly
over her words ; ^' but Emmie and I will think of
you and talk of you all the time we are away."

Aye, do ; but it is good-bye for all that," he
returned, with a strange look at her. " You have
meant well by me, I believe ; thank you for all
you have done for me."

No, no; it has been so little, and it has made
me happy to do it," exclaimed Queene, and now
the tears fairly brimmed over. As he held her
hand in the weak, nerveless grasp of old age she
stooped over him, with an infinite yearning of
pity and sorrow, and kissed him softly on the
forehead, as a daughter might have done.

In the years to come Queene never regretted
that kiss.

CHAPTER XL

CHURCH-STILE HOUSE.

** If we were to form an image of dignity in a man, we should
give him wisdom and valor, as being essential to the character
of manhood. In the like manner, if you describe a right
woman in a laudable sense, she should have gentle softness,
tender fear, and all those parts of life which distinguish her
from the other sex ; with some subordination to it, but such
an infirmity that makes her still more lovely." — Sir Richard
Steele.

It was with somewhat mixed feelings that
Queene bade farewell to her old friend Caleb
Runciman the next day ; and even Emmie looked
back regretfully at the little dark house.

'' I shall never love any other quite so well :
shall you, Queen ? I cannot bear big houses
and large halls. We shall miss Caleb and Molly
dreadfully ; but then we shall only be a month
away."

*' Hush ! a month is a long time ; a great deal

may happen in it," returned her sister thoughtfully,
a little awe mingled with her pleasure.
They were going to a strange place, amidst unknown
faces ; they would make new friends, feel
fresh interests, think new thoughts.

They, too, were standing hand in hand on the
threshold of a new world — a world full of all
manner of delightful possibilities ; they had
broken with the dreary past, and now the future
lay before them. Queene took off her pretty
brown hat and bared her forehead to the breeze
with a little gasp. " How nice it is to feel young
and strong and free. You and I are free, Emmie ;
yes, free as this delicious wind," finished the
young girl with a little quiver of ecstasy in her
voice.

A thousand vaofue imaginations flitted across
her mind as she sat watching the flying milestones,
while Emmie, wearied out with excitement,
slept with her head upon Queene's shoulder.
^' I feel afraid of nothing to-day ; I am sure I
shall find work ; I do not mind how humble or
hard it is. I think I feel young for the first time.
After all, there are only two things to fear in life

debt and unkindness. A few loving words will
sweeten even a crust of bread and a cup of water.
Emmie and I will not mind a little hardship if
we can only be together ; but how nearly I lost
my treasure' with an involuntary shudder that
roused Emmie. She sat up and rubbed her
eyes.

'' I think this must be Hepshaw, we are going
more slowly ; what a little journey, Queen! Oh,
yes ; there is Cathy on the platform, looking into
all the carriages. She does not see us ; what
fun ! "

'indeed she does, Emmie; she is laughing
and nodding at us. Let me help you out, dear ; "
but almost before she descended from the carriage
she felt herself seized by a pair of arms, and
Cathy's bright face confronted her.

Oh, you dear things ! to think you have
really arrived ! I have been here at least an
hour and a half, till the station-master thought I
must have taken leave of my senses. I would
have it the train was due at three. Give me a
kiss, Emmie. Bless me ! how that child grows.
My dear Queen," eyeing her with intense curiosity

and satisfaction, " if you are not ashamed of
walking with me in my old hat I think we will
move on, as they say in London."

'^ Certainly, if you will lead the way," returned
Queene politely; but her friend remained still
in the same attitude of delighted astonishment.

My dear, when I have recovered a little ; but
whatever will Langley say ? I feel I am bringing
you to the house under false pretences ; the victim
of misfortune appears suddenly in the garb
of an elegant female, with a golden pheasant's
plume in her hat. You lovely old Queen ! you
look so nice that I quite long to hug you. Ted
will be fairly overpowered when he sees us."

Cathy, really you must not talk such nonsense,"
returned Queene, blushing ; " the man is
waiting for our tickets, and Emmie is tired."

"Ah ! now I recognize Madam Dignity, of
Granite Lodge. Come along, then, through this
little gate. We have to wait at the Deer-hound
inn for a few minutes till Ted and the waggonette
come up from Warstdale ; that is where
Garth's granite quarry is. Garth is so sorry that
he could not meet you himself."

Queene did not answer ; she felt a little shy
and silent all of a sudden. She followed Cathy-down
the steep little road bordered with plane
trees, and cumbered with piles of neatly-hewn
planks, to the grey old inn. AY hat a quiet country
corner it looked, she thought. The village, or
market town as it really was, lay beyond ; a long
road went stretching away into the distance ;
across the road were granaries, and a sunny little
garden ; a hen with a family of yellow ducklings
were scratching in the dust ; dark clumps of
plane trees were everywhere. The grey old landlord
stood regarding them from the porch ; the
comely hostess came bustling out to meet them.

*' Come in, Miss Clayton ; the waggonette isn't
here yet, and it is a bit hot in the sun. Mr.
Logan passed just now on his way to the quarry
and he would have it his big umbrella did not
shelter him at all."

*' It is sure to be full of holes," returned Cathy
carelessly, as she led the way into the inn.
Queene had a glimpse as she passed of a long,
low-ceiled room with cross-beams and a deep
window, and then of the great stone kitchen with

its long settle and wide open fireplace. As they
followed the landlady np the broad staircase
Emmie clapped her hands delightfully.

'' What a beautiful room ! I never saw a glass
cupboard of china before like that ; and there are
two tables and rocking-chairs ; and oh, dear !
what a hard, slippery sofa, and what a funny,
cracked piano ; and, I do declare, there are at
least four or five large silver tea-pots, and a great
stand of wax flowers."

** This is where they have the agricultural
dinners and do all the speechifying. Sit down,
Queene, do ; how I wish that long laddie of ours
would drive up ; but it is just like Ted, to be late
for everything."

I do not mind waiting," returned her friend
quietly. She was quite as much excited as Cathy
and Emmie, though she did not show it as they
did. She stood looking out of the small-pane
window, through the screen of red geraniums, at
the sunny little garden across the road.

Two buxom lasses were carrying piles of white,
freshly-dried linen to the inn ; the patient hen
was still clucking devotedly at the heels of her

foster-family; some long-necked geese waddled
aimlessly across the road ; a sweet odor of fresh
hay came from the granary, in front ; the trampling
of hoofs and the loud cool swishes of water,
mingled with the hissing of a red-headed ostler,
sounded from the stable-yard. Queen ie looked
out dreamily, until the noise of advancing wheels
broke on her ear.

Cathy started up.

There is Ted ! look at him brandishing his
whip and making up for lost time by driving
furiously. What a shame to treat poor old
Minnie so ! she is quite covered with foam. Ted,
you tiresome fellow, what do you mean by keeping
my friends waiting ? "

I beg your friends' pardon ; am I late ? Nonsense,
Cath, you are such a one to exaggerate ;
come, jump in. Where's the luggage ? Give a
hand, you fellows there, and stow in the traps ;
the mare's fidgety, and won't stand."

No wonder, when you have fretted her to a
fever; you would catch it from Garth if he saw her.
Now then, Ted, where are your manners ? this is
Miss Marriott and her little sister Emmie."

The young man took off his straw hat rather
gravely, and then descended leisurely from the
vehicle, and commenced stroking the mare's
neck, casting furtive glances at the new-comers
as he did so.

He was a mere boy, as Cathy had described
him, barely twenty ; his sister's name of the
"long laddie" suited him perfectly, for he was
certainly the tallest specimen of youthful manhood
that Queene had ever seen ; his slenderness
added to his height, he towered above them like
a boy giant.

Queene liked his face ; it was good-looking,
though somewhat freckled, with a pair of mild
brown eyes; at the present it manifested nothing
but an expression of obstinate good-humor.

Now, then, Cathy, jump in ; the mare won't
stand, I tell you."

*' I don't see why we are to hurry ourselves,"
replied his sister, provokingly. 'did you meet
Mr. Loo-an on the Warstdale road, Ted ? "

Ted laughed.

Poor old Christopher ? yes ; there he was,
trudging away, with his blue spotted handkerchief

tucked under his felt hat, and the sun scorching
him through the rents in his umbrella, and his
boots white with dust, such a figure of fun.

You ought to have insisted on bringing him
back ; he will have a sunstroke. Think of Miss
Cosie's feeling," and Cathy looked a little grave.
*' You are such a child, Ted ; you never think of
anything. Now drive slowly through the town,
that I may point out the various landmarks to
Miss Marriott."

"Ted followed his instructions au pied de la
lettre, by proceeding at a funeral pace, while
Minnie snorted indignantly at her driver's tight
hand, and whisked her tail angrily at the flies.

'' Oh ! do go on a little faster, Ted ; every one
will be staring at us if we go at this ridiculous
pace," pleaded his sister, trying hard to be dignified
and not to laugh. These passages in arms
between her and her younger brother were not
new in the household. Queene was amused to
see that he merely pushed his hand through his
rough light hair and jogged on at the same pace.

Queene had plenty of time to note the surroundings,
though she persisted then, and long
I. 12

afterwards, in regarding Hepshaw as a village,
in spite of its dignity as a market-town. She
admired the game-keeper's white house, set so
prettily among the sycamores, or plane trees,
and the picturesque police-station, with its cottage
porch and bright-bordered flower-garden.

The long broad road, with its stone cottages
and small substantial houses, set so snugly in
patches of garden ground, pleased her greatly;
everything looked so fresh and still. By-and-bye
they came to the market-place, with its few bright-looking
shops, and the boys' school-house; just
opposite was a curious little building with small
half-moon windows, that Queene took for the
market, but which proved to be the girls' school.
I think it was used for the market once
upon a time," explained Cathy ; " is it not a
queer little place ? those high crescent-shaped
windows are so absurd. Look behind you. Queen ;
that is the prettiest peep of all," as she pointed
to some green meadows, behind which were the
church, vicarage, and another house, standing
high above the town, and perfectly embosomed
with trees.

The road branched into two now ; further on
were some still more picturesque cottages, and
even a villa or two, but the mare was jogging up
a steep country road now, and in another moment
they were driving across a tiny moat and into a
court-yard, bordered with a row of dark sycamores,
with a side glimpse of a steep little house
adjoining the church-yard.

Welcome to Church-Stile House. Isn't it a
gloomy old place ? and yet Langley and I love it.
Oh ! there is Langley," as a black clad figure,
taller and more erect even than Cathy's, came
swiftly down the garden path towards them.

How late you all are ; I have been expecting
you for an hour at least. I am so glad you have
come. Miss Marriott ; Cathy is never weary of
talking about her friends. So this is really
Emmie?" kissing the child and holding, out a
cordial hand to Queene.

The voice was sweet and pleasant, the accent
singularly refined ; nevertheless, the first sight of
Langley Clayton gave Queene a curious shock.
The likeness between the sisters was striking,
but it was a likeness that pained rather than

12*

pleased ; it was Cathy's face grown prematurely
old, and deprived of color and animation, a face
that had sharpened and grown weary under the
pressure of some carling care ; the eyes were
gentle, but restful ; the long wave of hair worn
over the forehead in Cathy's style was mixed
with grey. The touch of the thin hot hand
lingered long on Queene's palm.

I am so glad, so very glad, you have come,"
repeated Langley, with a soft flickering smile.
This flickering smile was peculiar to Langley ; it
was all that ever broke up the subdued gravity
of manner habitual to her. Queene soon discovered
that she never laughed ; when pleased
or excited this odd uncertain smile would play
tremulously round the mouth for a moment and
then fade away.

"It is so good of you to have us," returned
Queene, feeling strangely subdued all of a
sudden, as she followed Langley's tall figure into
the square little hall, and then into a sitting-room,
pleasantly littered with books and work,
and with a certain old-fashioned cosiness in its
arrangements. The deep basket-work chairs,

lined with chintz cushions, looked deliciously
inviting, and so did the low couch and reading-table.
One high narrow window commanded a
view of the steep little lawn, running down to
the lane ; the other, to Queene's surprise, opened
full on the church-yard. AVitbin a few feet were
tall palings, and a granite obelisk ; then some
sparsely-scattered tombstones, and a long terrace
bordered by sycamores, and known by the name
of the plane-tree walk.

"I am afraid it strikes you as very dismal,"
said Langley, softly, as they stood together at
the windows; ^^ most 'people consider the obelisk
a great eyesore. A few years ago there was
not a single tombstone ; it is only now that they
have begun to use the church-yard. It was just
the church, and the green, and the plane-tree
walk ; it was our garden then."

T suppose one would get used to it in time,"
replied Queene, somewhat evasively. Her healthy
young vitality shivered a little at the incongruity
between the warm cosiness of the life inside and
the gleaming tombstones without, within a few
feet of the fireside round which the family circle

gathered. '* That terrace walk is very pretty, and
the old church must be nice ; but — "

** But you think we ought always to be reading
Hervey's 'Meditations and considering our
latter end," broke in Cathy gaily. " Nothing of
the kind, I assure you ; Garth grumbles, and
declares he will build a new house for himself
higher up the hill, and Ted agrees with him ;
but I don't mind it in the least, and Langley
likes it."

Do you ? " asked Queene, fixing her large
brown eyes curiously on Langley 's pale face.

I love it," was the quiet answer.

Well, what do you think of Langley ? " asked
Cathy, when they had been duly installed in
their large comfortable room. Miss Clayton had
left them, taking Emmie with her, after having
ministered to the child with her own hands. Her
thoughtfulness for their comfort, and her gentle
manipulation of Emmie touched Queene's heart ;
they had gone off together hand in hand, Emmie
chattering confidentially to her new friend, and
Cathy and she had ensconced themselves cosily
on the low window-seat commanding a view of

the old church and church-yard. Queene liked
it better now ; after all it was strangely peaceful,
God's Acre, as she loved to hear it called.

\Ye\\, what do you think of this sister of
mine ? " repeated her friend inquiringly.

"It is too soon to ask my opinion; I have
not made up my mind. Indeed I like her," as
Cathy looked a little crestfallen ; ''I should not
wonder if I like her better the more I know her ;
her voice is delicious, so low and musical, with
a little trill in it, and her eyes looked so kindly
at one."

You are a model of reserve and prudence, my
dear Madam Dignity. I always make up my
mind the first minute whether I like a person or
not, and never swerve an inch from my like or
dislike afterwards ; that is feminine instinct, as
I tell Garth. He is as tiresome as you are ; one
can never get at his opinion of a person till he
has thoroughly sifted and weighed them in a sort
of moral balance of his own."

I must say I think that he is wise."

He has strong prejudices though ; small sins
are sometimes heinous in his eyes. Garth's pride

IS this chief fault; he is quite absurd on some
points. I have heard l]im say, more than once,
that he would never marry a rich woman, however
much he cared for her ; that a man should
never be beholden to his wife for anything but
love. Isn't that absurd ? "

It is a fault on the right side."

Nonsense ; I am tired of arguing the point
with him. What has money to do in the case ?
My husband might be as rich as Croesus, or as
poor as a church-mouse, but if I liked him I would
stick to him all the same. It is wrong pride in a
man to let anything stand in the way if he likes
a woman ; and Langley agrees with me."

"Does she?"

'' Yes ; she talks on these sort of subjects so
nicely ; she is not a bit hard, as Garth is sometimes.
He hates flirting and nonsense, and
scolds me dreadfully if I make myself too amiable
to any masculine individual ; but Langley
always takes my part, and says I am only a
child ; oh, she is a darling, or a saint, as Mr.
Logan says."

I am sure she is nice," returned Queene,

throwing a little enthusiasm into her voice.
Cathy's frankness was embarrassing. That first
evening she would have found it impossible to
form any true opinion of Miss Clayton ; she was
attracted and yet repelled by her, fascinated
oddly by her voice and manner, and yet pained
by a weariness and suppression for which there
seemed no words. Was she unhappy or only
tired ? was her life simply too monotonous for
her ? had she wider yearnings that stretched
out further, and were still unsatisfied ? had
responsibility and over-much thought for others
traced those worn lines, and wrinkled the
smooth forehead ? Queene found herself indulging
in all manner of conjectures before
the evening was over. That she was a woman
infinitely loved and respected was plainly evident.
Langley's opinion, Langley's sympathy,
were always claimed, and never in vain ; the
same patient attention, the same ready help,
were given to all. She talked largely and
well, and with a certain originality that made
her an interesting companion ; and there was
a breadth and large-mindedness about her

views that appealed strongly to Queene's
admiration.

I do like her ; I am sure I shall like her,"
she repeated for the third time, when Cathy had
finished a long and animated harangue on her
sister's merits. Cathy never stinted her praise ;
she spread it richly for those she loved, with a
warmth of girlish hyperbole, and a generous
glazing-over of manifest defects, that was rather
refreshing in this censorious age.

What was I saying 1 Hush ! there is Garth ;
we must go down now," as a sudden melodious
whistle sounded from below, at once deftly and
sweetly answered by Cathy. ^^ That means tea is
ready, and his highness is hungry; come, we
must not keep th' maister waiting."

The long low-ceiled dining-room looked snug
and home-like as they entered. A tempting meal
was spread for the travellers ; a basket of roses
and ferns garnished the table ; some canaries
sang in the window. Ted Clayton's long figure
lounged in a rocking-chair ; Emmie was standing
beside him, looking like a little Puritan girl
in her grey frock and close-bordered cap, making

friends with a white Maltese terrier ; a tall
young man in a rough tweecl coat leant over the
back of his chair.

'miss Marriott, this is my brother Garth,"
said Cathy, with an accent of pride in her voice,
and Garth came forward with a pleasant smile.

What a good, thoughtful face it was ; certainly
Cathy had not exaggerated. He was a handsome,
a very handsome, man ; the chin was strongly
moulded, and the mouth closed firmly, perhaps a
trifle too firmly, under the dark moustache, but
the blue-grey eyes had an honest kindly gleam
in them ; the strong brown hand grasped
Queene's with open-hearted friendliness.

Then and afterwards Queene marvelled to herself,
that Garth Clayton's face came to her as a
sudden revelation — with the instinctive recognition
— of God's noblest handiwork, — a really
good man, good, that is, as poor human nature
reads the word.

By-and-bye, when she knew him better, and all
his faults were mapped out legibly before her,
and she read him with the unerring; lio^ht of a
woman's truest instinct, she ever gave him honor

as one who strove to walk nobly amongst his
fellows, who stood as a Saul among men, a head
and shoulders taller than they, by reason of the
integrity and strength of purpose that lay within
him.

Keep innocency, and take heed to the thing
that is right, and that shall bring a man peace
at the last," were the words of the wise old King,
to which Garth Clayton had ever given heed,
keeping his hands clean with a whiteness that
scorned to sully itself; standing aloof from small
petty subterfuge and conventional untruths.

And yet there were strange blemishes in Garth
Clayton's nature apparent to those who loved
him. There was the narrowness of a pride that
chose superiority rather than equality ; that
would stand aloof willingly from his equals, to
rule, and rule wisely, over his inferiors ; a born
autocrat ; despotic, yet not unkindly ; somewhat
tyrannical, unable to brook contradiction, childishly
eager for praise, sensitive to a fault, jealous
of dignity, and, by one of those strange subtilties
that baffle metaphysicians, ever through life
painfully conscious of hidden disadvantages.

For the clear intellect failed in depth and
breadth, the calm common sense read itself truly ;
and, too proud to stoop to others for knowledge,
or to own ignorance, which it would have been
truly great to confess, Garth Clayton would
at times wrap himself round in a silent reserve
that often mystified and perplexed others.

But there was always one who understood him,
and that was Langley ; and by-and-bye there
came another !

CHAPTER XII.

MISS COSIE.

Well, to be sure, there never was a little woman so full of hope
and tenderness, and love and anxiety, as this little woman
was." — Dickens.

The next hour passed pleasantly enough ; the
Claytonss devoted themselves to their guests'
entertainment with an open-heartiness and
simple hospitality that seemed natural to them.

In spite of the seclusion in which they lived,
and the loneliness of their surroundings, they
showed a perfection of breeding and a freedom
of idea that surprised and delighted Queene.

Her shyness and brief reserve soon vanished
under the influence of their kindness. After the
first few minutes she ceased to feel as though
she were a stranger amongst them, and found
herself entering into their plans and wishes as
though she had known them for years.

You ?ee Cathy has talked to me about you
all, and that is why I feel that I know you," she
said, a little apologetically, lifting those strange
eyes of hers to Garth. The young man flushed
a little, but answered her kindly. Cathy's friend
was rather formidable to him ; he had at least
never met any one in the least like Queene
Marriott ; he felt far more at home with Emmie.

Nevertheless, he hid his embarrassment in his
usual manner, as though half ashamed of it, by
holding his head higher than usual, and laying
down the law to his sisters in his dictatorial,
good-humored way. Before tea was over Cathy
was coaxing him to give them a picnic in the
granite quarries, and he had hummed and hesitated
a good deal over her request, ^'just to
make himself of importance," whispered the
wicked little sister to Queene.

This led to some conversation about the quarry
and quarry-men ; and here Garth found himself
on his own ground, and talked much and
well. He told Queene, as they all strolled down
the lane in the twilight, after Emmie had gone
to bed, about his plans for the men's welfare

and improvement, " his boys," as he termed
them.

There seemed no limits to the good he did
amongst them. Queene felt her respect for
him increase as she listened. He had given up
one of his fields for cricket, and was himself their
captain. He had instituted a reading-room; and
Mr. Logan and he had formed a useful library.
Here in the winter there were lectures given to
the men by the Vicar, and Captain Fawcett, a
neighbor of theirs, living in one of the villas
lower down ; or he himself read to them amusing
passages from Dickens and Charles Lever.
Garth's reading was none of the finest, as
Queene discovered for herself afterwards, and
his singing was even worse in quality ; but he
would carry it through in a certain sturdy
fashion of his own, that was somewhat amusing
to the home critics.

Then he had schools for the children ; and on
alternate Sunday afternoons Mr. Logan held
service in the school-room for those unable to
come over to Hepshaw Church. More than this
was not possible at present ; but, as he modestly

informed his auditor, that his sister and he had
done their best to organize a Sunday school, and
to hold weekly Bible-class for such as choose to
attend.

Langley is great among the women," he
observed with a bright smile ; '' she half lives
at the cottages. I wish I were half as successful
with my boys."

Queene had yet to learn the value that Garth
Clayton set on his boys, and how the best and
highest part of his life was lived among them.

It was too dark to go down the village, as
Qaeenie found they all called it ; so Langley
proposed they should go in by-and-bye and have
some music. All the Claytonss were musical
except Garth, though Garth would have been
the last to own his deficiency in this respect, and
always held his own manfully in the family
concerts, in spite of Cathy's sometimes insisting
on stopping her ears with cotton wool, and Ted's
muttered observation, that he never knew that
rooks cawed so loudly at night.

But Garth, generally so sensitive to criticism,
cared nothing for these home witticisms. He
I. 13

loved to air this lungs freely. He would burst into
Simon the Cellarer,' or ' the Vicar of Bray or,
better still, the often-abused ' Village Blacksmith,'
with an honest disregard of all soft inflexion or
minor chords that was painfully ludicrous. Ted
and Cathy would throw themselves back in their
chair and laugh noiselessly while the performance
went on, and even Langley would bite her
lip as her thin flexible fingers moved over the
keys, the sounds she evoked almost swallowed
up in that mighty bass.

I think, after all, though they laughed they
loved to hear it, and would better have spared
many a sweeter and choicer thing out of their
home daily life. Garth never used half-measures.
As Cathy once drily said, " He does everything
thoroughly, even to making a noise, or singing,
my dear, — I believe he calls it by that name."

His laugh, too, was quite a surprise to
Queene when she heard it first ; true, it was
rather boyishly loud, but its delicious abandon
of mirth was thoroughly infectious; none but
Langley could ever hear it without joining in it.
He would throw his head back, tossing back the

wave of dark Lair as lie did so, and the strong
even, white teeth would shine under the moustache
; while the pealing ha-ha would provoke
corresponding mirth.

It does one good to hear Garth Clayton
laugh," Mr. Logan said once. ^' Only a man with
a good conscience could laugh like that."

Queene sat in her low basket-work chair,
watching the ins and outs of this happy home-circle,
too thoroughly interested and amused to
dream of fatigue, though they had excused her
singing that night on that score.

'' I play very little; but I am supposed to sing
tolerably well, that is, most people like my voice,"
she had said, quite frankly, in answer to their
polite inquiries.

She sings like an angel," was Cathy's verdict
on this ; " her voice is as fresh and clear and
true as a lark's, but her fingers move over the
keys a little like drum sticks. I have often told
you so. Queen ; you put all your expression in
your voice."

I shall ask Miss Clayton to play my accompaniments,"
was Queene's graceful answer. She

13*

was not a bit annoyed at her friend's plain speaking
; she liked to be told of her faults, and always
set herself earnestly to mend them.

She practised sedulously after this evening,
and gleaned all manner of hints from Langley.

'' You must teach your fingers to speak ; they
make acquaintance too stiffly with the keys,"
Langley said once to her. ^' You play so correctly,
too ; it is such a pity you do not make us feel
your music."

My life lias been all drudgery, you see,"
Queene answered, humbly ; " there has been so
little music in it, all the harmony got jarred out
of it somehow. It has been only grinding at
hard tasks, rubbing out sums for little girls, and
putting them in again ; one couldn't learn to play
tunes happily after that."

'but you sing, and so sweetly too."

''Ah, one learns that at church ; singing is part
of one's religion," went on the girl reverently.
Nothing, however sordid and hard, can keep
religion out of one's life ; it is just there always.
Slaves sing, you know, and blind chaffinches, and
poor miners under-ground over their work. It

keeps off bad thoughts. Oh, every one must
sung," she finished with a smile, feeling that now
for the first time in her young toil-worn life she
was really resting on her oars.

Only resting for a brief space though ; by-and-bye
she must take them up again, and row
on bravely, against the stream perhaps, through
marshes of sedgy weeds, fighting against a
sullen current, perhaps drifted into deeper
waters, but always with the broad blue sky
above her, with tints of silver-lined clouds and
possible sunshine, with hopes of safe harborage
by-and-bye.

I help myself, and therefore God will help
me'' Queene had often said to herself in her
sorely-tried youth. " I am afraid of nothing but
doings wronor and seeing Emmie suffer ; the rest
I can bear ; " and this belief in herself saved
them both.

I am going to take you to see all our celebrities,"
announced Cathy solemnly at the breakfast
table the next morning. " It is Langley's
district day, and she will have nothing to say to
any of us until lunch time, I propose that we

leave Emmie with Deborah to shell peas, while
we do Hepshaw thoroughly."

*you must take me into the church first,"
observed Queene, quite prepared for a long
morning of delicious idleness, and in the true
holiday spirit, alert and ready for any chance
enjoyment. *' I think there is something delightful
in making acquaintance with a fresh
place ; even seeing fresh faces and hearing
different voices gives me an odd indescribable
sort of pleasure."

"You poor prisoner, yes," returned her friend
sympathizing, as they walked down the little
garden path at the side of the house, and passed
through the gate that opened on the churchyard,
Avitli its long terrace planted picturesquely with
sycamores. 'you are like a nun ; you have only
peeped at the world through a sort of invisible
grating in Miss Titheridge's front parlor. You
must make up for lost time, and live every
moment thoroughly, as Garth and I do."

That is just it ; we don't half live our lives,
we girls," replied Queene dreamily ; " half of us
seem asleep ; our faculties lie dormant, and get

rusted just for want of use. Miss Titlieridge
bung round my neck like a mill-stone ; lie
literally crushed *and pulverized all the best parts
of me. It is being born again ; it is a sort of
moral regeneration, this feelings of freedom, this
oh, how can I make you understand it all,
Cathy ! "

Seeing is believing," was the brusque answer.
You are a different creature, my dear Madam
Dignity ; you were like the frond of my
favorite prickly shield fern that I was watching
yesterday. You were all there, you know, the
greenness and the freshness ; but one could not
get at you, you were so tightly swathed and
coiled up."

Yes," returned Queene joyously ; " and now
I have found myself, my own individuality. I
do think, seriously, that I have a larger capacity
for living than other people. I have good health,
that is one thing ; my constitution is perfect ;
then I love work, I really and literally do, Cathy.
Work braces one, it brings all one's faculties
into play ; work is rest ; inaction, idleness ;
pleasure for the sake of pleasure, is simply

paralysis of one's livelier life, it is premature old
age."

I wish I felt as you do," was the half-envious
answer; '^ there is nothing little about you,
Queene, Garth said so last night."

Did he 1 you should not have told me that,
Cath."

Why not pray. I just asked him how he
liked you; I wanted to get at his opinion, you
see, and he answered, just as gravely as though
he were mentor, that he thought I had chosen
my friend wisely, that you seemed a thoroughly
healthy-minded girl."

'' I think we will go into the church now," interrupted
Queene, somewhat irrelevantly. There
was a little flush of pleasure in her cheek. She
was glad he had said that ; it was just the sort
of praise she most coveted. She wanted Cathy's
people to think well of her ; if the truth must be
known, she hungered for their appreciation as a
half-starved child might have done. Crumbs
would not satisfy her ; condescension or kindness
would not feed her thoroughly; she must have
their full commendation, their equal friendship.

isle had known them so long, she had seen
them all so perfectly with her inner vision,
that she could not feel as a strand-er amongst
them.

I am so at home with them already," she
had said to her friend the previous night. " There
are no hard beginnings ; wee are friends to start
with ; there is no thawing, because there is no ice,"
she had said, with a certain vague enthusiasm,
which, nevertheless, had been perfectly understood
by Cathy. ^' One has so much hard up-hill work
with most people," she had continued, talking out
her thoughts half to herself. " Don't you know
exactly how common-place people make acquaintance,
how laboriously they try to find out one's
tastes ! They do it about as gracefully as though
they were breaking stones on the highway, or
hammering flints as boys do to elicit sparks, and
all the time looking as though they knew you
had nothing in you worth coming to light. Oh,
it is terribly fatiguing. I once heard a very
clever man liken modern society to the mummy-room
of the British Museum. He said, ' Human
beings were so swathed and bound up in conventionality

that there was no getting at the real
thing at all'"

*' I like Langley's way of knowing people,"
Cathy had answered ; '' she just knows them at
once, takes it for granted, I mean, that all that
interests her interests them. We had such an
argument about it one day, when I would have
it that she had bored some one about the soup-kitchen.
' I was so full of it myself that I knew
that I should not talk so well on any other
subject,' was her sole apology. And then she
told me I was quite wrong, ' that people, after all,
liked to be treated as reasonable beings, and not
like children pleased with sugar-plums. *' Give,
and it shall be given you," was just as true in
social intercourse as it was in the sense first
intended. If you sow tares you will reap tares,
child ; always remember that,' she had finished.
I prefer scattering precious grain. You have no
idea how often one reaps a rich harvest. It is
the real thing, you see, and people like that."

Queene and Cathy were largely given to conversations
such as these. It was just talking out
their thoughts, as they called it. They aired all

manner of quaint subjects in this way, these two
honest-hearted girls. Both were a little vague at
times ; most women are. Cathy always amused
her friend mightily. She had a habit at certain
times, in her "goody moods," as she termed
them, of taking herself to pieces to examine
her moral mechanism, just as though she were
examining the works of a new watch, as Queene
would tell her, clogging the wheels and stopping
progress all the time. " If you are always taking
yourself up by the roots to see how you grow
you won't grow at all," she assured her in her
droll way. " You ought not always to be looking
at your defects and blemishes in the glass.
People freckle from the sun sometimes ; but I
don't believe over-much sunshine hurts any one.
Keep tight hold of the reins, never let go, and
then try and forget everything but the road you
are travelling. Forget nothing but yourself;
mamma always said that."

There was something very fresh and sweet in
this girlish intercourse, devoid as it was of
vanity and selfishness ; they were tolerably equal
in capacity ; neither could teach the other much,

but they could learn together. It was as though
they were two young gleaners following the
reapers : now one gathered a stray sheaf and
tossed it into the lap of the other ; everything — ■
an idea, a thought — was just a golden ear to be
winnowed into grain. At times their content
would have filled a granary.

Happy season of youth ! when everything is
delightful because everything is new ; when harvests
are more bountiful ; when the mildew and
the blight and the canker-worm are unknown ;
dien the sky and earth meet and touch softly ;
when beautiful thoughts steal like strange birds
in the twilight ; dien the glimmer of a star will
provoke a reverie ; when a hand-clasp will wake
a world of dreams ; when the whole universe is
not too big a setting for one small beating heart ;
when one believes in one's guardian angel, and
heaven is so near — so near.

It is not always so. Alas ! alas 1 for the anointed
eyes purged from their youthful blindness,
made wise with the serpent-knowledge of evil and
good. Tread softly here, ye worldlings, with lifted
sandals and bated breath ; for here, as in all real

lovely things fresh from the Maker's hand, is
indeed holy ground.

Queene was moderate in her praises of Hep-shaw
church ; nevertheless, it pleased her with a
certain sense of fitness. There was no beauty of
architecture, no tastefulness of detail ; it was justa
village church, adapted to the needs of a rustic
population.

But there was something grateful in its simplicity.
Through the open door the fresh sweet
winds blew straight from heaven ; the shadows
of the sycamores swept without the porch ; some
leaves rustled on the threshold. Queene walked
down the narrow aisle, turning over the well-worn
books on the desks. A smile crossed her
face when she saw the font ; the mean little stone
stoup struck her as incongruous. '' It seems a
pity to see that," she said very simply, '' 1 can
almost cover it with the palm of my hand ; it
ought to be so wide and massive, filled to the
brim with purifying and regenerating water,
lavishly given and lavishly bestowed, not doled
in drops."

*' Hush ! here comes Mr. Miles," answered

Cathy ; "he is the boys' schoolmaster. We have
no schoolmistress, you know ; the old one is
married and is going away with her husband.
He has come to practise on the organ ; he is
organist, chorister, and I don't know what
besides."

Is he nice ? " whispered Queene. She just
caught sight of the pale, serious-looking young
man, dressed in shabby black like a Methodist
parson of the old school, who came limping up
the aisle on one crutch.

Hum ! truth lies sometimes at the bottom of
a deep well," was Cathy's ambiguous reply.
Yes, Garth says he is nice ; he pities him.
Somehow I can't make him out ; I don't know
why, but I always think of Eugene Aram, or the
school-master in the ^ Mutual Friend,' when I see
him. I am sure he has got a history. I don't
like a young man with a history ; from a child I
never could bear riddles. Ted is quite fond of
him, though. I believe half my dislike comes
from his persisting in dressing like a broken-down
undertaker ; he only wants a white tie to make
him complete." They were happily in the lane

by this time, and Queene could enjoy her Laugh
without scruple of conscience.

Is this the vicarage, Cathy ? but of course it
is ; I knew it from your description. You are a
perfect word-painter ; all your portraits are true
to life."

That means caricature."

Well, I suppose so ; but, all the same, your
likenesses are thoroughly spirited."

Only I never miss out the moles and the
freckles. This is not the ideal vicarage, is it, ma
cohere ? though I could show you one not many
miles from here. Crossgill Vicarage is lovely ; I
must take you to see it some day, as nurse used
to say ; it is the dearest, most picturesque place.
A little river flows through the village just in the
middle of the road ; and the church is beautiful ;
and the vicarage a quaint old house with gable
ends embosomed in creepers, with the loveliest
garden always blazing with flowers."

'* That sounds nice."

When we drive over there we have tea in
the hall ; it is wainscoted with oak, and there is
a lattice window, and an old oak staircase and

gallery, all tiny, but so quaint, and the old nurse,
nearly eighty, waits upon us ; I do love the
place so."

This is bare prose after that," returned
Queene, as they walked up the steep narrow
garden, between rows of cabbages and bushes of
pale pink and white roses. All sorts of homely
old-fashioned flowers bloomed amongst the beans
and peas and other vegetables, red and orange
nasturtiums, tall spikes of lavender, blue larkspur,
and masses of sweet mignonette. " No,
not all bare prose," correcting herself and pointing
to a bed of pansies, looking in the sunshine
like a cluster of gold and violet butterflies poised
on motionless velvet wings ; ^' there is a bit of
floral painting for you ; there is a whole allegory
in that."

'' An allegory ! why, Queene, you are actually
becoming poetical. If Mr. Logan were here he
would tell us that that is a species of violet — ■
Viola tricolo9'—csilhd also pansy."

Believe me, there is a higher meaning in
that still, butterfly life. Look at this one with
glorious violet wings and just one golden eye ;

does it not look as though it ought to fly instead
of remaining so humbly on its green stalk ? "

Well, my ' Queen of Sheba " half impatiently
and half amused, '* what do you make of that ?
I am not a Solomon, to answer all your hard
questions."

I think," returned Queene, hesitating, " that
it means to teach us that the true heart's ease
remains content in its own place ; it has wings,
but they are not ready for flight, they just carry
the dew and the sunshine, that is all. Brave
little golden hearts, always radiant and smiling,"
she continued, lightly brushing the bloom with
her finger tip.

Mr. Logan ! " ejaculated Cathy, elevating her
eyebrows in a sort of comic despair, '^ will you
suggest some appropriate answer in return for
this poetical dissertation," and Queene, blushing
dropped the flowers and turned round.

"My dear young lady, I am afraid I startled
you," said Mr. Logan benevolently; "but I did
not like to play the eavesdropper any longer,
though Miss Catherine was mischievous enough
to try and keep me in the background. As it is,
I. 14

I have stolen a very pretty fancy, which I know
will delight Charlotte."

*' Miss Marriott, Mr. Logan," returned Cathy,
with much solemnity. " I know what a stickler
you are for conventionalities and etiquette, Mr.
Logan, and I could not suffer you to utter
another sentence without due introduction."

Is not that a slight deviation from the truth,
my dear Miss Catherine, when you know, at least
every one must know, my little failings in that
respect 1 still I was not aware of your friend's
name, and I dare say she was equally ignorant of
mine."

"No, indeed," returned Queene, trying to
maintain her gravity. Cathy's eyes were dancing
with fun, like a mischievous kitten ; the wicked
little creature knew how difficult it was for her
friend not to laugh outright.

Mr. Logan certainly presented a curious appearance
to a. stranger's eyes. The good man was
clad in a brown dressing-gown, patched neatly at
the elbows with parti-coloured cloth, and his
spectacles were pushed up his forehead, showing
a pair of near-sighted blue eyes.

He was a tall spare man, with the plainest
face, Queene thought, she had ever seen, the
features were so rugged and irregular ; the
spectacles and grey hair gave him an elderly
appearance. Qaeenie heard afterwards that he
was only in his fortieth year, and that Miss Cosie
was quite ten years older.

The eyes were the only redeeming features.
Either seen with or without the spectacles they
were mild and yet keen ; they could beam softly,
as they did now at the two girls, with hearty
benevolence, or dart searching glances that
seemed to quiver like an arrow-point in the
recesses of one's conscience. " They look through
and through you," Cathy said once ; '' it is just
like throwing a torch into a dark place, it brings
all sorts of hidden things to liorht, — cobwebs and
little foolishness, and odds and ends of rubbish."

*' I like eyes that talk," was Queenie^s answer
to this. She liked Mr. Logan's face, in spite of
its plainness ; his voice too was so pleasant. She
conceived a warm respect for the Vicar of
Hepshaw on this first visit. In spite of his somewhat
worn and homely appearance, the innate

14 *

dignity of the man made itself felt as he walked
beside them in his old threadbare garment.

^' Charlotte ; where are you, Charlotte ? " he
exclaimed, raising his voice as they stood in
what was termed the best sitting-room, a somewhat
humble apartment with one small window.

** Here, Christopher, my dear," responded a
small chirping voice from the inner recesses
of the house, and a tiny woman tripped softly
after it.

Miss Cosie ! who could help giving her the
name, she was so small and so compact, with
such a comfortable pincushion-like compactness ;
a little grey mouse of a woman, with her grey
dress, and grey Shetland shawl crossed over her
shoulders, and the two large glossy curls pinned
up on either side of the small head, which she
was always patting with her little fat hands.

Why her very voice had a cosy sound in it.
My dear " seemed to drop perpetually out of it ;
it was a caressing, petting sort of voice, with a
continual hush in it. " Hush ! there, there, my
dear," was her panacea for every one, from a
crying child to a widowed virago. 'there, there,

my dear, we can't have him back, but I dare say
he is better off," or " there, there, my good mango
home to your poor wife," to a six-foot piece of
drunken ruffianism she met staggering through
the village and vociferating oaths in the darkness.
" There, there, poor thing, he has lost himself,
and is just daft ; hush ! we won't listen ; the
devil is schoolmaster to-night, and is teaching
him a little bit of his own language."

Cosie ! why the name was an inspiration ; it
fitted her to a nicety. Charlotte was simply a
badinage, something for which her godmother
was to blame, not she ; no one but her brother
would ever call her by such a term ; it was almost
crushing — but Miss Cosie !

Queene called her by it at once, after the
little woman had tripped up to her and lightly
kissed her on the cheek, and then patted her
with her Avhite dimpled hand.

There, there, my dear, I knew we should befriends
; take off your bonnet and stay, and you
shall taste my ginger wine."

This was always Miss Cosie's first speech to
strangers. It was true no one ever wore bonnets

in Hepsliaw ; but it was one of her ways to
lament their disuse among the younger generation,
as a falling-off of the good old times.

*' Such fly-away, foolish things, my dear; now,"
as she would say, *' a bonnet is so much more
comfortable and becoming, and a pretty face
looks so well in it. Shady ! nonsense, my love,
you can always wear an ugly if you are afraid of
your complexion ; but bonnets were bonnets in
those days, one did not carry a nosegay tied up
in straw then."

Miss Cosie's one idea in life, next to petting
people, was her brother. No one, in her opinion,
could come up to him ; he was simply perfect.

Such a mind, such a genius, and yet as
simple as a child," she would exclaim. Her love
and pride in him fairly bubbled over at times.
Christopher, or Kit, as she sometimes called him,
was the object of her sisterly idolatry. It was odd
and yet touching to see her protecting tenderness
; perhaps her ten years' seniority had given
the motherly element to her affections. "You see,
Kit is still a boy to me," she would say sometimes
; " when he was a little fellow I used to

put him to bed and sing him to sleep. I never
can forget that somehow; and, dear me, my dear,
he is still so helpless, — these clever men are, you
know, — he never can remember even to put on a
warm flannel or take a clean handkerchief out
of his drawer; I just have to go in and put
everything ready to his hand."

"Why, when the bishop came once," continued
Miss Cosie, lifting her hands and eyes, '' he was
actually going to the station in that brown
dressing-gown of his, if I had not run down the
lane after him. Think what his lordship would
have said at seeing one of his clergy dressed out
in that ragged-robin fashion ! "

I have found out what flower Miss Cosie
most resembles," said Queene, when, after an
hour's chat, they had left the vicarage. " Guess,
Cathy."

Little eyebright, I should say, or the ox-eyed
daisy."

No ; the pansy of course. Cathy, how can
you be so dense ! why she looks and talks and
breathes of nothing but heart's-ease."

CHAPTER XIII.

A VISIT TO ELDERBEKRY LODGE.

Children, ay, forsooth.
They bring their own love with them when they come.
But if they some not there is peace and rest ;
The pretty lambs ! and yet she cries for more :
Why, the world's full of them, and so is heaven —
They are not rare." — Jean Ingelotv.

The girls had. lingered so long at the vicarage
that Cathy postponed their intended walk until
after luncheon ; but as soon as it was over they
sallied forth again, this time with Emmie.

They went through the length and breadth of
the village, peeped into the schools, visited one
or two of the cottages, crossing Langley more
than once on their path ; and Queene was again
struck with the bright cheerfulness and cleanliness
of the whole place. She took an especial
fancy to the post-office — a pretty rustic-looking

cottage, with a long garden full of sweet old-fashioned
flowers.

Cathy, I have fallen in love with this place,"
she said at last. "I think life would go on
jDeacefuUy and well here ; look, Emmie, at this
empty cottage ; is not this just the one you
always wanted to live in with Caleb ? "

They had just passed the turning that led to
Church-Stile House ; beyond were a cluster of
new-built villas. Emmie clapped her hands and
ran breathlessly across the road.

It has a board up ' to let.' Oh, Queen, do
let us go over it, just for fun ; it is such a dear,
sweet little house ; and what a long garden I
—look."

We can go in if you like," returned Cathy,
smiling at the child's eagerness. " I know the
woman who takes care of it ; it is rather a pretty
place, though ill-kept and desolate. I heard
Garth say it would let for a mere song."

Queene did not answer ; a strange thought had
been agitating her all the morning, a possibility
and a probability that had taken tremendous
hold of her mind. An odd feeling came over her

as lie followed Cathy through the little gate —
one of those weird over-shade wings or pre visions
that baffle metaphysicians. The place somehow
seemed familiar to her ; had she seen it in a
dream ? A dim sense that it belonged to her,
that she had trodden that path before, and
peeped through the lattice windows, oppressed
her with a giddy unreality. Had she conjured
it up among the shadows of the old garret ? or
had she seen a place so nearly approximate that
its similarity deceived her ? She gave Emmie's
hand an involuntary squeeze as they stood in
the little porch.

It was certainly a pretty place, in spite of the
air of neglect and disuse that pervaded everything.
A long narrow lawn in front ran down
to the road ; opposite was the smart grocer's
shop, and the lane that led to the church and
vicarage.

Some laburnums and lilacs grew near the
house ; there was a little border for flowers
under the windows ; only a ragged - looking
Sweet-William and some weeds grew there now.
Behind, an ill-kept lawn sloped down to the

bouse, running on to the back door, giving it a
waste, barren look, and imparting an air of
dampness to the whole place.

The inside was a little less dreary : the low
lattice window, odd-shaped and diamond-paned,
gave a picturesque finish to the rooms ; the
little square hall was pleasant. There where two
sitting-rooms, one much smaller than the other,
with a front view that was sufficiently cheerful ;
and a large bare-looking apartment, with two
windows looking out on the steep green waste
behind. Nettles and docks and festoons of
coarse-looking ivy climbed about the window
ledges. The kitchen was small and dull. Upstairs,
three rooms in different stages of dampness
opened out on the dark landing. Some of the
paper was torn off, and hung in moist curling
lengths. A scurry and patter of tiny feet sounded
beside them ; they were evidently tenanted by
families of mice.

It is a miserable place after all," observed
Cathy. '' Take care, one of those boards are
rotten, Emmie ; my foot nearly went through
just now."

I don't know," returned Queene, hesitatingly,
'' I think I have taken a fancy to it ; it might
be made very pretty with fresh papers and a
little paint. To whom does it belong ? "

''To Captain Fawcett. We are going there
directly ; Langley has given me a message for
Mrs. Fawcett. Oh ! do come to the window a
moment, Queen ; there is Mrs. Morris stopping
at the corner to speak to the three Miss Palmers.
Look at the dear old creatures, dressed just alike.
There you have all the aristocracy of Hepshaw,
with the exception of Church-Stile House and
the vicarage people."

Do you mean that constitutes your society ? "
inquired Queene, pressing closer to the dirty
panes, and trying to inspect critically the flock
of womanhood gathered round Reason's smart
window.

What would you ask more ? " returned her
companion drily ; " we don't have balls and concerts
in Hepshaw. To dine with the Facets
and drink tea with Mrs. Morris and the Miss
Palmers are our sole dissipation. Ted finds so
much tea a little intoxicating, and prefers sometimes

staying at home ; but Langley and Garth
always do their duty manfully."

I like the look of Mrs. Morris, she is tall and
graceful-looking ; but I cannot see her face under
that brown mushroom. Is she nice, Cath ? "

"Hum ! there are widows and widows. She is
not the ' widow indeed ' St. Paul talks about ;
but I won't tell tales. She has a pretty home,
and seven little hopes, more or less red-haired,
like the deceased and ever - lamented Major
Morris — the dear Edmund to whose loss she owes
her present blighted and remarkably healthy
existence."

Cathy, how can you take off people so ! I
tell you I like the look of her."

So do I. She has white teeth and bright
eyes, which she knows how to use. Do you seethe
direction they are taking now ? ' why tarry the
wheels of his chariot ! ' Isn't that our waofg-on-
este coming up from Warstdale ? Never mind my
nonsense, Queene ; wee must talk gossip sometimes
in this dreary place. Mrs. Morris is very good-natured
and very clever, and the seven little hopes
are clean, wholesome children."

Look ! your brother is stopping to speak to
them."

Of course ; as though he would pass the
Palmers ! You have do idea how fond the dear old
ladies are of him. They pet him, and knit endless
mittens and comforters for him ; he has a
drawer full, I believe. Look at them now, wagging
their old heads and fluttering round him like
a flock of grey pigeons; that is Miss Faith, his
favorite, near him now."

Faith ; what a curious name ! "

Oh, they are all a cardinal virtue ; they must
have had devout parents. The eldest is Hope,
then comes Prudence and Charity, and lastly,
Faith. Faith is much the nicest and the prettiest
; she is comparatively young too."

I should like to go and see them."

'' Then you shall, but not this afternoon ; we
shall only have time for the Facets. Their
house is full of curious odds and ends, and though
they dress alike they have separate rooms, which
they have furnished after their own taste. I must
coax them to let you see them ; it will give you
an insight into their characters."

*• And they have none of them married,"
exclaimed Queene, with a girl's involuntary pity
for the monotonous existence of single blessedness.


"How could they!" returned Cathy, with a
puzzled elevation of her eyebrows. " They have
lived in Hepshaw all their lives ; they could not
have possibly seen any gentleman except the
Vicar, and I dare say he was married. You
would not have a clergyman's daughter commit
the unpardonable crime of entering into a alliance
with the inn-keeper or the chemist ! "
continued Cathy, drawing down her lips at the
corner, and speaking in a " prunes-and-prism "
voice. " That is Miss Hope ; and so the poor
cardinal virtues have wasted all their sweetness
on the desert air."

How very sad," began Queene ; but Cathy
suddenly cut her short.

'' Not at all," was the somewhat stormy
rejoinder; 'people are just as well without
marrying. For my part, I think men are a
mistake. I am sick to death of school-girl rubbish
; half the girls at Miss Titheridge's pretended

to be in love, and with such creatures too ! any
masculine face approaching to the ideal of a
barber's block was pronounced handsome, fascinating.
You know how you hated it all, Queene."

'ras I hate all sham."

Faugh ! the thought of all the three-volume
trash I swallowed gives me moral dyspepsia even
now. I recollect it was the fashion one term to
have a c(2ur serve ; every one had an experience ora
disappointment. I know half the school was in
love with Garth. Well, we have flattened our
faces long enough against this bottle-green glass ;
now we must go on to Elderberry Lodge."

Is that Captain Fawcett's ? "

'eyes; Mrs. Morris's, next door, is the Sycamores,
and the Miss Palmers' is the Evergreens.
Now I have talked myself hoarse for your benefit ;
it is your ladyship's turn now. There is the
Captain himself working in his front garden ; is
he not a fine-looking man, Queene ? "

Queene acquiesced, as the tall soldierly figure
walked down to the gate to greet them. She
liked the brown weather-beaten face, with its
grizzled moustache and closely-cropped head,

looking as though it were covered with grey
bristles.

Good afternoon, ladies. I saw Miss Clayton
just now, and she told me you were coming. Fine
weather for the crops ; I was just pottering
among my geraniums. Sit down, both of you,
while I go into the house and find my little
woman ; she's palavering With the maids somewhere."


Please don't hurry her, Captain Fawcett ; we
shall be very comfortable out here under this
awning. Isn't this a delicious little garden ? look
at those roses and bee-hives. Bless you, the
Captain's garden is his hobby ; he spends the
greater part of his time working here, and in his
kitchen-garden. He has the greatest show of
flowers for miles round."

'* Have they no children ? "

They had one, a girl, but she died. I almost
wish we had not brought Emmie ; I think Alice
W' as just twelve when she caught the fever. It is
eight or nine years ago, but they have never got
over it. Ah, there comes the Captain with his
little woman.' "

I. 15

Queene stifled an exclamation as she rose
from lier seat. Mrs. Fawcett was as tall as
lier husband, — a thin, long-necked woman, fully
six feet high, and gaunt almost to strangeness.

She had a worn, anxious-looking face ; it was
difficult to imagine it had ever been young or
good-looking. The prominent teeth, high cheekbones,
and scanty grey hair, told no tale of past
beauty. It was a plain face, grown plainer
with age. She looked like a caricature of her
husband's taste beside his handsome old face
and grand figure.

Her hand-shake was almost masculine in its
grasp, and her voice was harsh, but not ungentle ;
but both face and voice softened strangely at the
first sight of Emmie. The husband and wife
exchanged looks.

Do you see. Captain? "

Aye, aye, missus, I see."

"Is this your little sister. Miss Marriott?
Come to me, darling ; how old are you ? "

"Twelve," repeated Emmie, looking up in
her face with solemn blue eyes. Emmie rarely
smiled with strangers.

Twelve ; do you hear that, Joshua ? "
Aye, aye, I hear it, little woman."
Just her age," repeated the wife hurriedly,
laying her hand on his arm, while her eyes filled
with tears.

Twelve years and three months," he repeated
involuntarily.

'' And she has Alice's blue eyes too, — your
own color, Captain."

The girls had listened with silent sympathy to
this brief interchange of sorrowful questioning ;
but now Emmie interrupted them. She drew
closer to Mrs. Fawcett, and laid a hand confidingly
on her lap.

'' Was Alice the name of your little girl ?
Cathy said you had one."

Hush, Emmie ; come here to me, love ; " but
Emmie hung back from her friend's extended
hand.

'* Yes ; her name was Alice ; she is still my
little girl," returned the poor mother, speaking
with her pure maternal faith, and unconsciously
verifying the eternity of love ; " the treasure once
given never really lost, only lent to safe keeping."

15 *

*' Of course she is your little girl' was Emmie's
answer. *' You mean to see lier again some day,
only she is not keeping house with you now ;
perhaps she would have got tired. God would
know all about that ; He does not like children to
be tired ; He was very nearly taking me away for
the same reason, only I got rested somehow."

•' Captain, do you hear that ? "

Aye, poor bairn ; too big a mind for so small
a body."

Am I like her ? " persisted Emmie curiously,
looking up into the plain face, now softened
into motherly comeliness, the beautifier, love,
smoothing out irregularities and roughnesses
even on Mrs. Fawcett's unloving visage.

Queene heard afterwards that she had never
been handsome even in her youth, but that she
had been loved, as some plain women are by
men, with a constancy and devotion which
many a spoiled beauty fails to win. " He must
have seen the real goodness shining behind her
plainness," Cathy said afterwards, when Queene
and she talked the matter over.

*rare you like her, darling?" answered Mrs,

Fawcett, mournfully. " You have her large blue
eyes ; but, until she fell ill, she had rosy cheeks
and long dark curls. She was the very image of
her hither, the dear angel."

My hair has been cut off," returned Emmie,
pointing to the soft little rings just peeping
under her cap ; "it means to curl too some day.
I have always longed for curls ; so the angels
always have them in pictures."

*' Come with me, my little maid, and look at
my roses," interrupted the Captain, reading his
wife's troubled countenance aright. The tears
streamed over the thin face as Emmie trotted
happily away with him.

That is just the way they walked hand in
hand every morning to look at the roses," sobbed
the poor mother. " ' Father's roses ' were the last
words Alice ever said ; ' I should like one of
father's roses ' ; and when he went out to pick her
one she put her head down on my shoulder and
then she was gone."

Queene's long eye-lashes glittered with sympathizing
tears. She could enter into all ; she had
so nearly lost Emmie. She thought of the father

going down to his garden to pick red and white
roses for the little dead hand that could not open
to receive them. '* My beloved is gone down
into his garden to the beds of spices, to feed in
the gardens, and to gather lilies " : those beautiful
words of the Canticles came into her mind. What
if in Paradise, while parents wept below for them
that are not, the children they had lost went in
bright bands after One who died for them, " when
He went down into His garden to gather lilies 1 '*

The girls were rather subdued when they bade
good-bye to the good Captain and his wife, and
turned into the little lane. Cathy pushed her
hat restlessly from her forehead ; some thought or
discontent wrinkled it.

'' What lots of good people there are in the
world after all," she half grumbled.

There are two there," returned her friend, with
a gesture of her hands towards Elderberry Lodge.
'' My visit there has made me sad, and yet it has
done me good. I am so glad we went, Cathy."

"Good people seem to agree with you; they
never make you discontented, as they do me."

No ; I like standing on tiptoe till my neck

aches. I love size, bigness, grand moral structure ;
it does one good to breathe the same air with some
people ; it is like resting on a hill-top and enjoying
a wide beautiful view. I don't mind at all
being a pigmy among giants. If I had been
Tulliver I should have had small sympathy with
the Lilliputians. Littleness of mind is abhorrent
to me."

There you go," grumbled Cathy ; " you
sensible people are enough to drive one crazy.
Over-much goodness makes me vixenish ; I feel
inclined to fly in the face of it."

^'You foolish child."

*' Mr. Logan is often too much for me, and so is
Miss Cosie ; I run away from them both sometimes.
I'll own, if you like, the disease is infectious
to those predisposed to it. If you stay
long enough in their vicinity you might catch it,
you know. Prevention is better than cure ; so,
for fear I get too good, I just run away," finished
Cathy in her droll manner.

In the front court they came upon Garth digging
up a little flower-border under the hall window.
He threw down his spade when he saw them.

Well, I've settled about the picnic in the
granite quarry. We go tomorrow."

Garth, you are a brick ; I mean a dear old
fellow. Oh," folding her hands pathetically,
'' don't tell of me, the word only slipped out just
by accident. Have you really arranged it ? "

Yes ; I have had a talk with Langley. She
says we must not lose the fine weather. It is not
to be a grand affair, mind. Only the Loans,
and Facets, and Miss Faith ; yes, and Harry
Chester."

King Karl ! Oh, I am so glad. Why, when
did you see him ? "

'' He and Nanette are in there," pointing to
the drawing-room. "Don't let me keep you if
you want to introduce him to Miss Marriott," as
Cathy looked eager and irresolute. " He is a very
old friend of ours, and a great favorite with the
whole family," he continued, speaking to Queene ;
in fact, Harry is a favorite with every one."

Let her judge for herself," returned his sister,
impatiently. " Come, Queene, let us go in ; I
have set my heart on being the first to introduce
you to the King of Karldale."

CHAPTER XIV.

IN THE GRANITE QUARRY.

But still she found, or rather thought she found.
Her own worth wanting, others to abound ;
Ascribed above their due to every one,
Unjust and scanty to herself alone." — Dresden.

'' Queen, this is our old friend Mr. Chester,
commonly known in the district as the King of
Karldale ; he plays Damon to Garth's Pythias,
and is a sort of useful Family Friend to us all."

Cathy's entrance as usual effected a sort of
whirlwind ; her swift movements and flowing
draperies swept breezelike through the quiet
room. Langley's low-toned '' hush " was no
check on her volubility. A look of amusement
crossed Mr. Chester's face as he stood up and
greeted the new-comers.

Irrepressible as usual, Cathy," was his only
comment, as he reseated himself beside Langley,

and took up his Utile daughter, a solemn-faced
child of four, on his knee.

Queene regarded the pair critically. On the.
whole the survey contented her.

The King of Karldale was a tall, powerfully-built
man, with a florid handsome face, half
hidden by a light curly beard, a countenance
marked more by good nature than intellect, but
bearing the stamp of plain honest common-sense.

Queene wondered if it were her fancy, that a
vague uneasiness pervaded the man's gait at
times. In spite of his cheerfulness and hearty
laugh there were hints of past or present
troubles in the worn lines round the kindly eyes ;
even in the midst of their pleasant talk a
shadow now and then crossed his face, as though
some unwelcome remembrance obtruded itself.

Strange to say, there was little or no resemblance
between the child and him.

Nan was evidently a character.

She sat perched on her father's knee in her
little white pelisse and sun-bonnet, with a large
woolly lamb in her arms, staring at Queene
with great dark eyes.

Queene noticed that now and then one small
hand would furtively touch her fathers coat-sleeve,
and she would spoke the rough grey tweed
with a look of infinite contentment, but showed
no impatience or weariness during the long discussion
that followed the girls' entrance.

Is my little mouse tired ? is not Nan very
tired ? " said Mr. Chester, at last stooping to peep
under the sun-bonnet.

Queene caught the look, and then she said to
herself, " That little bright-eyed child is his idol."

Nan is not so very tired, father," pronounced
the little creature with a slight lisp, and a stress
on the word, very ; "a little, only a very little."

'then we will go, my pet; say good-bye to
Langley," and Nan obediently slid down from her
father's knee, and trotted with sturdy compactness
across the room.

Queene stood with the sisters in the porch
and watched them cross the tiny moat under
the dark sycamores. Nan wrapt up in a grey
rug, and seated comfortably in her little chair-saddle
on the back of an old white pony, her
white lamb still hugged in her arms, her

father holding the reins, and mounted on a
handsome brown mare. " Nan. has found her
voice now ; do you hear how she is chattering to
him, Langley ? " observed Cathy in an amused
voice. " How those two dote on each other ! No
wonder Gertrude is jealous, the child cares nothing
for her mother ; but then Gertrude is too
selfish to make a fuss over any one but herself."

*' Hush, my dear ; what a terribly sweeping
assertion ! Gertrude is an undemonstrative
woman, one cannot tell how deeply she feels."

And Harry is a demonstrative man, and
ought to have a wife who understands and
makes much of him, instead of one who frets
and teases him from morning to night. It is no
good talking to me," continued Cathy, with a
burst of vindictiveness rather surprising from its
suddenness, " I detest that woman, with her
slim figure and dark eyes, and little would-be
elegancies. She to be Harry's wife and the
mother of Nan ! Why I would not trust a pet
dog to her tender mercies and small tempers."

'' Cathy, all this is highly unnecessary," remonstrated
her sister in a pained tone. Her

fixce looked a little paler and sadder as she went
lack into the house after uttering her little
protest. A child's white woollen glove lay on the
carpet beside a stray sunbeam. Queene, following
her, saw as she stooped to pick it up that
she touched it lightly with her Hjds before laying
it aside in her work-basket.

The next day was warm and bright, "regular
Queen's weather," as Cathy chose to call it ;
and at the time appointed a merry little party
assembled at the door of the Deer-haunch, and
filled the two little waggonettes.

Garth had gone over to the Quarry, and left
his brother as his deputy, and a playful dispute
ensued between him and Captain Fawcett concerning
the selection of the occupants of each
waggonette. " The difficulty of suiting folk was
truly awful," as Ted expressed it feelingly.

Captain Fawcett had secured Langley and
Miss Faith Palmer, and his wife and Miss
Cosie had tucked in Emmie between them, just
as Ted had slyly beckoned to the girls to
favor him.

Mr. Logan and Mr. Chester had followed,

and Nan was carefully lifted in and placed beside
her father.

Do you mean to say that mite of a child is
going with us to the Quarry ? " interposed Mrs.
Tawcett, in genuine dismay. " What can her
mother be thinking about 1 ''

Hush ! her father takes her everywhere with
him," replied Langley softly; "she is out with
him all day on the farm ; she is never tired. I
know he has often carried her for miles, or walked
beside her pony."

Dear, dear ! what a mistake," ejaculated Miss
Cosie, straightening her brown " ugly," in the
depths of which the gentle little mouse face was
almost buried from view, and trying to pat the
biog curls. '' A child of that tender a^e ouo^ht to
be with her mother. It reminds one of the child
in Kings — or was it in Samuel ? — who got sunstroke,
or something of the kind, and cried, ' My
head, my head,' and they carried him to his
mother. Think if something of that kind happened
to that dear child ! her father would never
forgive himself; but there, there, he does it for
the best, poor dear."

'' The child frets after him, and is never happy
away from him," replied Langley in a low voice,
for Mrs. Fawcett's eyes had filled with tears,
and she had taken Emmie's hand in hers.
Mrs. Chester is a nervous invalid ; and one
cannot judge in these cases," finished Langley ina
deprecating voice.

True, my dear, true ; but I am such an advocate
of mother's right, as I often tell Kit ; there
is something so especially sacred in the claims of
maternity. Bless you, I know all about their
feelings as much as if I had a dozen children,"
continued the little woman, brightly. " Didn't I
have a dear old mother myself, and Kit her very,
image, poor soul ; and didn't she often say,
Charlotte, my dear, you will know one day,
please God, what a mother's feelings are ' '? And
so I do, my dear ; and so does every woman,
married and single," finished Miss Cosie with a
little burst, " as long as there are young things
in the world needing our care."

You are right," returned Langley in a stifled
voice ; and just then the other waggonette passed,
Ted cracking his whip and gesticulating boyishly.

Nan was on her father's knee as usual, the little
white sun-bonnet rested on his shoulder, the
quiet dark eyes and rosy face full of a child's
contentment.

Garth received his guests at the entrance to
the works, and did the honors of the place with
great dignity. '' Is not the dear old fellow just in
his element," whispered Ted to Cathy, as they
stood behind the others. Queene caught the
whisper and smiled to herself.

He looks just what he is, a ruler among
men ; one who ought to be a leader, who expects
obedience as a right," she thought, as she
watched the tall athletic figure moving through
the sheds crowded with workmen. " The old
grey coat and felt hat just suited him," she
thought. Though he carried his head so high
he had a pleasant word or look for the men.

'' My fellows are such splendid workmen," he
said once, with a little conscious pride in his
manner. The words, "My men," ''my boys,"
were perpetually on his lips. Here, on his own
domain, among his subjects, he felt and moved
as a sort of king. " Rival monarchs, my dear,"

observed Cathy mischievously — " King Ear] and
the King of Warstdale."

To Queene the whole scene was strangely
picturesque — the blue sky ; the open sheds full
of noisy workers ; the whirr of machinery ; the
great blocks of rough-hewn granite, grey, fresh
from the quarries ; then the smooth polished
slabs, shining with soft-mingled tints. The process,
the amount of hard, patient labour,
astonished the girl. She could have stood for a
long time watching the masons chiselling and
fine-boring the hard stone. Piles of grey and
pink granite lay in the centre, carved and shaped
into headstones.

Mr. Logan inspected them thoughtfully.

'^ White marble is more beautiful, especially
for the graves of women and children," she heard
him say to Captain Fawcett ; " but then granite
is more impervious to weather. In cemeteries,
for instance, where there are trees the constant
dropping and damp stains and defaces the beauty
of the marble ; but nothing spoils the granite."

"Nothing, to my mind, beats Warstdale
granite," replied the Captain meditatively.
I. ' 16

Marble is too white and chilly for our English
cemeteries ; we want Italian sun to light it up.
Look at these warm tints ; here is coloring,
durability, everything we want. Can anything
be finer than this polish ? "

Queene was listening to them with interest
when Garth came up and claimed her attention.

'* "While they are getting the quarry engine
ready I want to show you the workmen's cottages,
and the room where Langley and I have
our classes," said the young man a little condescendingly.
He looked grey-eyed, eager, rather
flushed with playing the part of host and cicerone
to so many ladies. His white teeth gleamed
with a bright happy smile under his dark moustache
: but for all that his tone had a slight
accent of condescension that made Queene smile
as she followed him.

"You are master here — Garth Clayton of
Warstdale — and I am a poor little school-teacher,
a nobody," thought the girl, with just a faint
touch of rebellion, growing hot all at once.

Stay, this is rough walking ; let me give
you some help," and he turned back and held out

his hand. For a moment Queene hesitated ; it
was her nature to be independent, and walk
alone. She never willingly owned to any small
feminine weakness. '' If she fell she could pick
herself up," she always said ; but a glance at the
kind bright face changed her resolution. She
took the offered hand without any demur, and
let herself be guided through the intricacies of
the path as meekly as Nan, who followed them,
holding tightly to her father's sleeve. She stood
quietly beside him, an appreciative and most
sympathizing listener, as he explained, with not
unpardonable egotism, all his little schemes and
plans for the comfort of his workmen. " My boys
deserve all that I can do for them, they are such
good fellows, and clever, too, some of them.
*' Why, there is Daniel Armstrong ; " and here
followed a string of anecdotes bearing on the
cleverness of this man, the gratitude and good
feeling of another, the sad troubles of a third,
until Ted came down on them in a whirlwind of
indignation, to know what Garth meant by
keeping them all waiting ?

All right, Ted ; go on with Miss Marriott,"

16*

returned his brother good-humoredly, breaking
in upon the lad's wrath. " I am going to carry
Nan ; " and, as the little lady looked dubious,
and clung close to her father, he caught her up
and seated her lightly on his shoulder and
marched off with her, a smile breaking over
Nan's face as her father clapped his hands after
her.

The little engine was already waiting for them ;
and the trucks were furnished with boxes and
hampers, which formed seats for the ladies. Em-nie
crept up to her sister to whisper her ecstasies.
'' She had never been so happy in her life ; everyone
was so good to her, that kind Mrs. Pawcett
especially ; and Miss Cosie and Miss Faith
Palmer ; she was sure she would love Miss Faith
dearly ; and did not Queene think she was very
pretty ? "

She certainly had been," Queene thought,
though no longer young." It was a very sweet,
loveable face still, though with a certain sadness
of repression on it — the shadowing of an over-quiet
life. Coloring would still have lent it
beauty ; but, as it was, the pallid neutral tints

harmonized with the grey Quaker-like costume
and little close bonnet. The voice was very
sweet, but lacked enthusiasm ; it touched one like
some plaintive minor chord ; it was the face and
voice that one meets behind the gratings of
nunneries, or in the hushed wards of a hospital,
where youth finds no place, and the bustle of life
is shut out.

She placed herself by Queene as the engine
steamed off, somewhat slowly, and the work-sheds
receded from their Anew.

You must come and see my sisters. One of
them. Charity, is an invalid, and the sight of a
fresh face is such a treat to her. Her world is
bounded by four walls, and she lives in her
books. She knows far more about it than I do,
dio Alas never a reader," said the quiet woman
with a little sigh.

Queene fell in love with Miss Faith on the
spot, as she told Cathy afterwards. Young as
she was, she knew far more of the world than
this woman of thirty-five. The unsophisticated
freshness of the simple woman, her tender voice,
her old-fashioned ways, and little quaint pedant-cries,

charmed the young governess, grown bitter
with the hard edge of life. Before the day was
out she learnt a good deal about " the Sisterhood,"
as Garth and Cathy always called the
Evergreens, where the Palmers lived. The
eldest sister, Hope, was cosmopolitan in her
charities, — knitted woollen jugs and socks for the
missionary boxes of half the neighbourhood, was
a strong advocate of the temperance movement,
and was a little shaky in her church principles,
having, as her sisters well knew, a decided leaning
to the society of the Plymouth Sisters.

The second sister. Prudence, managed the
household, and divided her time between her
store-room and her district. '^ I am not as clever
as the others ; but I wait on Charity," said Miss
Paith, with an unconscious pathos in her voice.

' Paith waiting on Charity.' Poor cardinal
virtues," thought the girl, with a little smile
of amusement over the odd play of words. I
suppose Faith has plenty of waiting and looking
up in this world. To judge by some women's
lives, some must wait for ever," soliloquized the
young philosopher with a sigh.

She speculated for a short time on this
Charity, who had been handsomer than any of
them, and had met with an accident in her
youth, whose view was bounded by four walls,
and who lived in her books.

My dear Miss ]marriott, Cara is so clever.
You should hear her talk. She and Mr. Logan
have such interesting conversation ; it is quite
wonderful to hear them. What a blessing it is
to have a well-stored mind ; no empty space for
discontent to creep in, as Cara says. I often
wish I were clever," continued the simple woman,
'rand then one would not need to perplex oneself
so about the meanings of things. Life never
seems such a puzzle to Cara as it does to me."

But here Cathy, who had overheard the last
sentences, interrupted her scornfully.

"Do you call it life ?" curling her lip scornfully.
"Are such meagre existences really life ?
Life pre-supposes movement, animation, sensation,
coloring, plenty of work, but above all,
movement ; not sitting in a close room, putting
in patches and listening to chapters of Physical
Geography. Every one knows you are a saint,

Miss Faith' continued Cathy, enthusiastically.
I know Garth thinks so. But, all the same, life
means a little more than patches and dissertations
on the Gulf Stream."

You young things are so impetuous," returned
poor Miss Faith with a tremulous smile ; " perhaps
at your age one may have felt the same.
There is a sort of fever in young blood, I think. I
remember how we used to feel in the spring-time ;
it made one's pulses beat faster only to hear the
birds sinning in their little new nests."

You thought of something else besides patching
then," persisted Cathy, rebelliously.

*' My dear, I love sewing ; and then what else
can one do when one is not clever. I used to
wish I could find work in some children's hospital ;
nursing is my forte, you know. I think I could
have been quite happy if I had some young creatures
round me. I tried for a little while, you
remember ; and then Cara wanted me, and I came
home."

And I have never forgiven Cara to this day,"
was the angry response. ^' You looked like a
different woman when you came home from

Carlisle, Miss Faith, — years younger and brighter,
and—"

Hush, my dear, hush ! I am not very clever,
but I have learned one things, — never to leave a
certain duty for an uncertain one. It is a safe
rule ; you will find it so, Cathy. I often think of
my children, and long to be back with them ; but
nothing would induce me to leave Cara while she
wants me."

There was a slight lull in the conversation, and
Miss Faith's voice dropped to a whisper. A fresh
wind blew over the wide moor. Some black-faced
mountain sheep browsed among the heather ; one
of them had strayed on to the line, and the little
engine slackened speed. The wild, somewhat
barren scenery, the novel mode of traffic, the sweet
moorland air, charmed and exhilarated Queene ;
she squeezed Emmie's hand as she whispered to
her, 'don't you love Miss Faith?" "Faith
waiting on Charity," she said to herself with a
little sigh.

The quarry was in sight by this time. Trucks
of the blasted stones were being shunted hither
and thither; then came the work-sheds and

ponderous machinery. Queene followed the
others, as Garth led them from one point to
another. She listened as breathlessly as Emmet
his description of the blasting ; she tried to
imagine the vast report echoing over those lonely
moors, the terrified sheep huddled far away in
heaps, the masses of fallen rocks, and then started
a little as she found Garth looking down at her
with earnest eyes.

All this is new to you, a fresh experience.
You have not hewn lessons out of rocks all your
life long, as I have," observed the young man
sententiously.

No," she answered a little timidly ; " but
then 1 am only a governess."

That means a bookworm. Are you very
learned. Miss Marriott ? I wonder you have not
frightened Langley. Rocks and men have been
my books," continued Garth, waving his hand at
the rough cliff half torn down, but wearing graceful
fronds of ferns in its crevices. " There are
hard durable lessons to be learnt here : how to
overcome difficulties, how to war with opposition.
I would rather be here among my quarrymen

than on the benches of the House of
Commons."

Queene gave a swift upward glance, but did
not answer. ^' A king among men," she was
saying to herself softly.

^' You cannot think how I pity business
men in cities," Garth went on, as he walked
beside her. *' Boys fresh from school chained
for the best part of their lives to the desk ;
cramped up in a close atmosphere, bringing all
their best energies, their choicest talents, down
to the level of dull routine, — money-getting,
money-loving, — narrowed to a perfect machinery
of existence."

'' I think you are a little unjust and prejudiced
there," replied Queene, with some spirit ; " you
may love your life best, and I dare say you are
right. You have freedom and rule, two very
good thousand

plenty of fresh air," put in Garth,
baring his head as lie spoke to the sweet moorland
wind that met them.

Yes. and that too. But these men are to be
honored, because they make the best of their

life. Many of them do not like it ; a few rebel ;
others get cramped and narrowed, as you say.
But to do one's work in the world, and to do it
worthily, — how distasteful and full of drudgery
and routine as it may be, — is to be a man in the
truest sense of the word," finished Queene, with
a sudden sparkle in her brown eyes.

Very properly put. Do you think I do not
agree with you ? I am only comparing my lot
with others, a little to their disparagement.
There is Ted, there, that brother of mine, — would
you believe it, Miss Marriott ! — I think you must
take him in hand, and preach contentment, — he
vows this iplacQ is a howling desert ; no society ;
not a thing to do. It must be owned," continued
Garth, candidly, 'That for a fellow without
resources Hepshaw may be a trifle dull, especially
in the winter."

Do you never find it so, Mr. Clayton ? "
asked Queene, with a little natural surprise. It
still seemed strange to her that this man, so
young and distinguished-looking, should own
himself contented with a position where he had
few equals and no superiors.

Dull ! do you mean to compare me to Ted,
who is lazy, and has no resources ? " returned the
young man, slightly discomfited. " What is there
that my life lacks ? I have a good home, sisters,
a plague of a brother. It is my own fault, I
suppose, if I have no closer ties," continued
Garth, with a little laugh, and coloring slightly ;
"but there is plenty of time for that. I have
more work than I know how to do ; and then
til ere is cricket and foot-ball ; and lectures and
the chess-club for winter's evening. I sometimes
wish my days were double their length. That
does not look like dulness," finished Garth, in a
chafed tone, as though something in her words
had offended him.

Queene held her ground a little obstinately ;
she was on the brink of a discovery. What was
the one jarring element in this honest sweet
nature ? Was it pride ? or —

You may have all this, and yet you may
miss a great deal of what your despised city men
call life," she went on, with an old-fashioned
sagacity that surprised the young man, who was
simple enough in his way. " You miss contact

with other minds. Here you can have no
opportunity of gleaning new ideas. There must
be a certain amount of stagnation here. Cathy
knows what I mean ; she and I have often talked
of it." She finished with slight abruptness,
somewhat provoked by the incredulous smile
that rose to his lips.

Stagnation here ! ^' How Queene wished he
would not repeat her words. *' You are hard on
sus and Hepshaw. Of course we are simple
country folk ; we do not aspire to be anything
else ; but a peaceful and independent existence
does not necessarily mean stagnation."

"Mr. Clayton, why will you persist in misunderstanding
me ?" returned Queene, in a vexed
voice. They were standing at the extreme edge
of a jutting piece of rock ; the others had turned
back, and were watching some machinery at
work ; below them lay the wide moor. Some
permits were flitting hither and thither ; a bank
of white clouds sailed slowly away westward.
*' I am not hard on Hepshaw ; I feel already that I
love it dearly. I only thought that you, being a man,
must sometimes long for a little more society."

Because I am like Ted, and have no resources,
I suppose '? " but this time there was a
mollified gleam in his eyes. " I think I am one
of the quiet sort ; a few friends content me.
Mr. Logan is a host in himself, with sufficient
information to stock half-a-dozen ordinary men,
not to mention Captain Fawcett, who has
travelled and seen the world ; and then we have
Harry Chester at K arid ale, and Mr. Eay, the
Vicar of Karlsmere, and the Sowerbys of Glendale
Grange, — very sensible good people, — and
the Cunningham, Dora and her whither at Cross-gill
Vicarage. My sisters must take you over
there, Miss Marriott. One can have friends
enough for the asking," continued Garth, loftily.
*' I always disliked crowds of acquaintances ; I
am not like Ted."

Queene gave him an understanding glance,
but her closed lips offered no response. The
shrewd little observer of human nature was
saying to herself, " I have found you out, Mr.
Clayton ; you are good, but you are not perfect.
Cathy is right. It is better, so you think, to bethe
leading man in Hepshaw, and king in Waists

than to be simply Mr. Clayton in London
or Carlisle ; to lord it over inferior minds than
to mix with superior intelligences ; " and, as she
recognized this trait, something like a pang of
disappointment crossed her mind.

Was he not a sort of hero to her ? and ought
not heroes to be perfect ?

It strikes me that I have been very egotistical,
and that you must be very tired," he said at
last, rousing her from her reverie, and turning
his bright face full on her with such a kindly
look that her brief disdain died from that
moment. " Let us come and see how Ted has
managed the luncheon ; he always acts as my
steward on these occasions."

*' I wonder who Dora is," thought Qaeenie, as
they walked leisurely back behind some laden
trucks. '' I wonder if Cathy has ever mentioned
her. Dora Cunningham and her father at
Crossgill Vicarage ! "

CHAPTER XV.
queene's counsellor.

''Tliou cam'st not to thy place by accident, —
It is the very place God meant for thee ;
And should'st thou there small scope for action see
Do not for this give room to discontent." — Trench.

Ted had proved himself an able steward,
and a sufficiently luxurious luncheon had been
conjured up for their refreshment.

Queene had never in her life been present at
a stranger picnic, — a table had been set at the
base of a jutting cliff, and boxes and emptied
hampers formed rude seats for the party. The
brothers presided, and Ted's boyish face beamed
with innocent satisfaction at the result of his
successful management. " Isn't this first-rate,"
he whispered to Queene who sat beside him.
Not a drop of rain to soil enjoyment, and only
enough wind to blow the table-cloth off once.
I. ' 17

We broke one bottle of cream, but that's nothing ;
you must have some champagne. Garth always
does things handsomely for the ladies. Miss
Copies' persuasively, "you will have just half a
glass to drink Garth's health ? "

My dear, not a drop ; what an idea, and I a
total abstainer ! " and Miss Cosie's big curls quite
shook with excitement. " I wish you and your,
dear brother would think with me on this
subject. If only more of his men would sign the
pledge ; fancy Hepshaw without a single public-house
! why it would be paradise over again,"
continued the little woman, patting his coat-sleeve
in her energy ; " but there, there, my dear,
we can't expect old heads on young shoulders."

After luncheon the party broke up into twos
and threes. Garth had half an-hour's business to
transact ; Ted volunteered to help Miss Faith
and Cathy in their search for ferns ; Langley
and Miss Cosie superintended the repacking of
hampers ; while Captain Fawcett strolled with
Mr. Chester across the moor, leaving his wife in
delighted guard over the two children. Queene
lad declined to join in the fern scramble, and

she and Mr. Logan seated themselves on some
granite boulders ; there Garth found them on
his return. More than an hour had elapsed, the
rest of the party had disappeared. Nan and
Emmie were playing at fortifications among the
rocks. A merry voice from the cliff above called
to Mr. Logan; he pushed his spectacles off his
forehead in a perplexed way as he rose slowly in
obedience to the summons.

"You and I will talk about this again, my
dear young lady, we have plenty of time ;
nothing need be settled in a hurry. I confess
you have taken me somewhat by surprise, but I
will promise you that I will think well over it,
and let you know."

*' What are you and the Vicar prosing about ? "
asked Garth with good-humored curiosity, as he
threw himself down on an old shepherd's plaid
beside her, and stretched himself luxuriously.
Has the dear old pedant been treating you to
the results of some of his antiquarian researches ?
You look tired and grave. Miss Marriott."

Because I am discussing a grave subject,"
she returned, rather nervously, pulling at some

17 *

grasses that grew between the stones, and splitting
the thin stalks of the weeds as she spoke. " I
was asking Mr. Logan's advice about something ;
most likely he will speak to you ; at least he
said he recommended me to speak myself,"
faltered Queene, growing pale all at once with
the difficulty of imparting her plans to a
stranger.

You are in some uncertainty ; you want
advice, assistance, and you do not like to trust
such new acquaintances," he replied quietly, with
such thorough comprehension of her unusual
diffidence, and with such evident intention of
breaking through it, that Queene's uncomfortable
timidity yielded a little.

I am only a stranger among you, and I have
no right to trouble you with my affairs ; only
Mr. Logan said — " but he interrupted her with
good-humored peremptoriness.

"You shall tell me by-and-bye what Mr.
Logan said. Let us settle this little piece of
business first. I like to be troubled with other
people's affairs, it is a hobby of mine, and makes
me feel of more consequence ; " and then, a little

gravely, ''I do not look upon my sister's intimate
friends as strangers."

You are very kind," hesitating.

We mean to be, if yon will allow us such a
privilege, Miss Marriott. I hope you mean to
tell us how we can be of service to you and your
little sister. You want advice, you say ? I am
not as clever as Mr. Logan ; but then, every one
knows business men are more practical than the
clergy. Supposing you tell me all about it, your
plan and everything," finished. Garth, in a comfortable,
matter-of-fact tone, as he stretched
himself again on the shepherd's plaid, but at the
same time he shot a keen anxious glance at the
young face above him ; and, indeed, the sadness
in Queene's brown eyes might have touched a
harder heart than Garth's.

There is little to say," she replied, with a
quick flush. It was one thing telling her troubles
to Mr. Logan, who was kind and fatherly, and
who looked about fifty, whatever his age might
be ; but to tell them to this young man, who
spoke to her with such pleasant peremptoriness,
who was at once gentle and yet masterful, who

never let her forget for a moment that he was
Garth Clayton of Warstclale, well, it was different.
And yet he might be able to help her and
Emmie.

Oh, it is so painful to have to trouble you
with such things," she said with a little impatience
and quiver of suppressed annoyance in
her voice ; " that is the worst of being a woman,
that one must be helpless, and trouble people."

'' I rather enjoy this sort of trouble," he replied
coolly ; " I like to be of use, and to give advice.
We are only wasting time, and the others will be
back. Supposing you tell me all about it,"
continued Garth, with a bright persuasive smile,
quite comprehending her difficulty, but making
light of it in his masculine way. '' I am years
younger than the Vicar, but you will find that
we business men are just as much to be trusted."

Yes ; I know. I think men have the best
of it in everything," continued poor Queene,
ashamed of her irritation, and yet conscious of
feeling it all the time. " They are independent,
they can carve out their own lot in life ; it is
women only who are so helpless. After all, there

is little to tell. I am not ashamed of being poor ;
I never was in my life. I want to work for myself
and Emmie, and I think I have found
something that will suit me in Hepshaw."

In Hepshaw ! " Garth raised himself on his
elbow, and gazed at her in unfeigned astonishment.


Yes ; it is humble, but I know it will suit
me ; and then Emmie will have country air, and
we shall not be separated. You look surprised,
Mr. Clayton ; surely you guess what I mean !
Cathy tells me that you are going to lose your
girls' school-mistress, and I want Mr. Logan to
elect me in her stead."

And what did he say ? " asked Garth in a
tone of such utter bewilderment that Queene
nearly laughed.

He seemed almost as astonished as you are,
and tried by every means in his power to
dissuade me. He said it was absurd to throw
away myself and my talents on a village school,
that — "

He was right, of course," returned Garth,
interrupting her ; " we must do better for you

than this, Miss Marriott ; the scheme cannot be
entertained for a moment. Why our schoolmistress
has only forty pounds a-year ! We
might make it fifty, perhaps ; but for a lady —
He is right ; it is too absurd."

*' Hush ! please do not make up your mind
that it is impossible. I have set my heart upon
this, ever since I came ; and Cathy told me the
school-mistress was gone. I want it for Emmie's
sake, because she must have country air, and we
cannot be separated. We would rather starve
on a crust together than be separated'' continued
Queene, speaking with feverish energy, and the
tears springing to her eyes.

But, Miss Marriott—"

But, Mr. Clayton, you must listen to me,
please. I have no such grand prospects before
me ; a junior teacher in a school cannot command
a high salary. If I went back to Carlisle
it would only be drudgery over again, with no
Emmie. No ; you must hear me," silencing him
as he attempted to speak : *' this is a wiser plan
than you think. I have forty pounds a-year of
my own, it is nothing very great, but it all

helps ; and then I might give French lessons to
Mrs. Morris's children in the evening. Cathy
says Mrs. Morris is so anxious for them to have
lessons ; she and I were awake half the night
planning it, and Cathy said — "

Well, what did she say 1 " as Queene paused.

That I must speak to you and Mr. Logan,
and that join would be sure to help me. There is
that little cottage of Captain Fawcett's to be let ;
we were looking at it yesterday. Do you think it
would be very dear ? " asked Queene anxiously.
It would do so nicely for Emmie and me, if the
rent were not too high."

Do you mean that ramshackle wilderness of
a cottage just fronting the lane ? "

Yes ; it would be very pretty if it were only
freshened up a little, and the garden put in order."

Well, it might not be so bad," returned
Garth reluctantly. " Rents are not very high
here ; I dare say Fawcett would let you have it
for about fifteen pounds a-year, and do it up
properly besides. Let me see, there was some
furniture belonging to it, that will go for a
mere song."

'' I forgot about the furniture," owned Queene
candidly. " We must be content with very little
at first, just a table and a few chairs or so.
I have only a few pounds to spare, but Caleb
would advance me the rest. Fifteen pounds a-
year ! do you really think that Captain Fawcett
Avill let the cottage to us for that ? "

I can answer for it, certainly he will.
You can leave that part to me ; you need not
distress yourself about that little matter of detail ;
as far as that goes I can promise to secure your
election tomorrow. All I want to know is, if
you be serious in this matter ? "

Mr. Clayton, how can you ask me such a
question ? "

'' 1 call it a monstrous notion."

Then we will not argue about it at all."

Impracticable and absurd to the last degree.
Good heavens, Miss Marriott ! " flinging back
his head with a gesture of mingled excitement
and wrath, •' have you no friend or relative to
stand by you, and prevent you from throwing
yourself away on this miserable pittance ? "

'' I have one very good friend, but he is poor,"

returned the girl, and then she sighed. something
in Garth's manner — his assumed roughness,
his suppressed wrath, the sudden break and
softening of his voice as he uttered his short
remonstrance — touched and yet pained her. What
would it be to have a brother to work for her
when she needed support, a strong arm that
could protect her in times of emergency !

Poor self-reliant Queene felt her bravery
oozing out. Suddenly a pang of self-pity crossed
her as she pictured the future. Would it always
be work and drudgery for herself and Emmie ?
must she for ever go through life with this weak
burthen round her neck, toiling, toiling, with the
child's feeble hand in hers ?

Friends will not be wanting to us ; heaven
helps those who help themselves," she cried with
a clasp of her hands and another involuntary
sigh. " I am not afraid — not often, I mean. I
prayed for work ; and now work has come, and I
do not mean to shrink from it. I hope you and
your sisters will not be ashamed of knowing
me when I am only a village school mistress.
Are you sure you will not mind — for your

sisters, I mean ? " turning on him a little
anxiously.

Do you think such a question deserves an
answer ? " somewhat reproachfully. " You do not
know us yet, Miss Marriott. We shall honor
you more in your poverty and independence
than if you came amongst us rolling in riches.
Rich people are my abhorrence, women especially.
Agar's prayer — ' Give me neither poverty nor
wealth ' — always pleased me. I am an odd
fellow, and have my hobbies and facts like other
men — this is one of them."

"It is a very comfortable one, as far as I am
concerned. Then you will promise to help me
with your influence with Mr. Logan and Captain
Fawcett ? "

I suppose I must, if you will let me have
my grumble out first. Recollect, I enter my
remonstrance ; I do not approve of your scheme
in the least."

'' You have made me understand that most
fully."

I denounce it as moral suicide."

I call that exaggeration."

You are burying yourself alive under a
mistaken notion of self-sacrifice ; and mark my
words, I am no true prophet if you do not live
to repent it."

On the contrary, I intend to be very hapjDy.
Cathy is going to help me with my garden, and
we mean to read German together."

I hope you will allow your friends to subscribe
for your funeral if the crust should prove
not quite so sufficing as you imagine ?"

^' You need not fear anything so tragic ; Emmie
and J mean to flourish on our crusts as much
as Daniel and the three children did on their
pulse and water," returned Queene gaily, whose
spirits had risen now her formidable task was
achieved. "I shall speak to them both tomorrow,
and get it off my mind," she had said
to Cathy the previous night, when they had
discussed the grand question in all its bearings,
under cover of the summer darkness, and with
the scent of Langley's roses steeping the air.
There is no time to be lost ; Mi Logan is
writing to Carlisle for a mistress, and I must
speak to him at once."

Queene's buoyancy had returned, but Garth
remained silent. He had done his duty, and
uttered his protest against this monstrous scheme,
which, nevertheless, he was bound to further by
all means in his power.

Quixotic, absurd, girlish to the last degree,"
he muttered to himself, and yet he felt he
respected and liked the girl all the better for her
modest independence. Two days ago they had
been strangers, and now they had entered on a
mutual league of friendship and support. " I
have promised to see sou through this, so you
may leave all business details to me," he said
with a little condescension, which, in spite of
everything, amused Queene. " Half-measures
are not in my line ; if you want help from me
you will be sure to get it," finished Garth ; and
Queene felt amused and grateful in a breath.

Garth was a little silent after this ; the young
man felt an odd thrill, half painful and half
pleasant, at the recognition of this new responsibility.
This young stranger had unconsciously
thrown herself upon his protection. In asking his
advice she had appealed strongly to his generosity.

To be sure, Queene would not have read
matters in this light, indeed, would have rebelled
at such a statement ; but Garth judged otherwise.
Tenderness to all weakness was inherent
in his nature ; women, children, and animals
always trusted themselves involuntarily to him ;
his shoulders were broad enough to incur a mass
of responsibility that would have crushed most
people. " It was Garth's chief happiness to help
people," his sisters always said. True, he must
help them in his own way, and they must submit
to his good-natured dictates, flavored a little arbitrarily
perhaps ; but his sympathy and ready
help would always be forthcoming. No one ever
appealed to Garth Clayton's generosity in vain.

He was silent for a long time after this, revolving
all sorts of schemes for the sisters' benefit.
Once or twice, as she sat beside him, he glanced
at her with kindly scrutiny. " She was not much
like a village schoolmistress," he thought, ashe
noted the quiet, refined face, the pretty
figure, the brown dress enlivened with the knot
of white rose-buds, the hat with the pheasant's
plume. ^* Where has she picked up that air of

finish and elegance ? it struck me from the first.
I suppose some fellows would give anything to
be in my place," thought the young philosopher,
a little elated, and yet puzzled at his own
position. " She is very unlike Dora, quite a
contrast ; they are neither of them pretty, at least
not strictly so. Dora is the more attractive, but
Miss Marriott's eyes are wonderful ; I never saw
any in the least like them, not that I concern
myself about such matters," finished the patriarch
of eight-and-twenty, pulling his moustache with
an amused air.

But for all that he roused himself rather
reluctantly as Cathy and Mr. Logan came
towards them, dragging a large basket of ferns
between them. Cathy looked hot and flushed,
and just a trifle perturbed. She left her hold of
the basket a little impatiently, and flung herself
down by Queene.

'' How provokingly cool you two look. Here
have Ted and I been working like galley-slaves,
until Mr. Loo-an chose to come and break in on
our work."

She was overturning herself, so I took away

the trowel," returned Mr. Logan, with an expression
of quiet humor. " Moderation in everything,
Miss Catherine, even in fern-hunting. St. Paul's
rule is the best."

I like to be my own taskmaster," grumbled
Cathy, who seemed to be in one of her impracticable
moods. " Queen, for pity's sake come with
me for a run across the moor. I have been
so long with Miss Faith and Mr. Logan that
I shall have a ' break out ' directly, as the
prison matron calls it, unless I associate fora
little with less desperately good people.
Moderation even in this is the best rule," continued
Cathy aggravating, drawing up her
graceful figure, and darting a defiant look at
Mr. Logan. " After all, St. Paul was right ; so
come along, Queene."

Kitty, whatever has put you into such a
bad temper ? " asked her friend affectionately,
linking her arm in the girl's as they crossed the
tramway.

I don't know ; he treats me like a child, and I
will not bear it. He puts me in one of my tantrums,
and then pities and drives me wild with
1. 18

that gentle way of his. I hate to feel so ashamed
of myself, and he knows it."

But what is it all about ? " asked Queene, a
little bewildered at this sudden storm.

'' Oh, I don't know, I never do know, that is
just the aggravating part. I say something in
my usual way, and then he puts me down and
argues with me, and proves that he is right and
I am wrong ; and then when I get cross, and
human nature won't bear such an amount of contradiction,
— at least mine won't, — he just says I
am tired, and takes away my trowel. I know all
the time he is laughing at me in his quiet way,
and saying to himself, ^ that, poor foolish child.' "

"But, Cathy, there is no harm in that."

There is harm when I am no child, when I do
not feel like one, when — but I won't talk about
it any more. Let us have a race. Queen — one —
two — three — away," and Cathy flew down the
moor with a swift, bird-like movement, her small
head erect, but not before Queene had caught
the gleam of something like a tear on one long
eyelash.

Just then a whistle from Garth summoned the

scattered party together. The afternoon was far
advanced ; some evening clouds skirted the edge
of the moor ; the children were weary. The little
engine steamed up slowly towards them, and all
hands were busy in packing the hampers and
baskets on the truck.

Cathy stood aside a little sulkily while the rest
clambered into their places. Queene, who was
watching them, saw that Mr. Logan wanted to
assist her, but Cathy would have none of his
help ; she was therefore a little surprised when he
followed her, and seated himself persistently by
their side.

^' So you have not forgiven an old friend for
having the best of an argument," he said at last,
after vainly trying to draw her in the conversation.
Queene had flung herself gallantly into
the breach, but Cathy remained obstinately
silent.

She is tired, Christopher, my dear," suddenly
interrupted Miss Cosie's little chirping voice ;
nothing is more wearying than talking when one
wants their tea, and I am sure I want mine.
Mrs. Tawcett has been saying the same thing just

18 *

now ; there, there, we shall get it presently, I
dare say, and Langley always makes such beautiful
tea, as I tell her."

'* Are you tired. Miss Catherine ? then I will
not talk to you any more," was the gentle reply,
and Mr. Logan quietly turned his attention to
Queene.

The waggonettes were waiting for them at
the entrance of the Warstdale works, and a short
drive deposited them at the dark porch of Church -
Stile House.

Mr. Logan was standing apart for a moment
under the sycamore trees, when Cathy suddenly
walked up to him. The girl's cheek was crimson,
her eyes were still a little defiant. " Miss Cosie
Alas wrong, I was not tired. I let you believe
what was not true. I was only vexed and put
out with myself, as I often am," wrinkling her
smooth brow and speaking quickly.

'' I am always sure to hear the truth at last
from yoUj Miss Catherine," he replied, with a kind
look and smile, as he held out his hand to her ;
and then Cathy sprang away into the house.

CHAPTER Xii.,

FAITH AND CHARITY.

*' That thou may'st pray for them thy foes are given ;
That thou may'st look to God I bring thee pain.
I bring thee cares that thou may'st look to heaven ;
I bring thee fretful friends that thou may'st train
Thy soul to patience. What thou deepest gain
When closest wreathing chains around thy soul
I rend from thine own bleeding heart in twain,
That He who bought may have thy spirit whole,
Spurs that may give thee pain, but urge thee to the goal."

Keble.

The evening festivities had been closed as
usual by the family concert, during which
Garth had distinguished himself with more than
ordinary brilliancy.

Queene had been a little thoughtful and absent,
but she had no idea that her pre-occupation
had been observed until she bade Garth
good night, and he followed her into the little
hall, and lighted her candle.

*' What is the use of worrying yourself over a
lot of unnecessary details ? " he said, looking
down at her with an elder-brotherly air. " Things
can't be settled in a minute. Leave everything
to me ; I will see you through your difficulties.
The best thing will be to put it all out of your
head for a little while, until I give you leave to
think of it."

I will try ; but it will not be very easy,
when so much depends upon it," she returned,
submissively.

They were standing alone together in the little
square hall ; a lamp burned dimly in a recess ;
the candle flared between them in the summer
draught ; a grey moth brushed round them.
Outside was the shadow of the dark sycamores.
A little runlet of water trickled audibly in the
silence. Garth's broad shoulders seemed to block
up the tiny hall ; he towered above Queene's
slim, girlish figure, looking down upon her with
condescending dignity, but with the gleam of real
kindness in his eyes. As he held out his hand
his firm, warm pressure seemed reassuring.

"That is all the more reason to leave it tome.

We business men are used to deal with
difficulties. Nothing hurts me : I am strong
enough to bear any amount of responsibility."
And Queene went up stairs comforted.

Garth's assurance was not unnecessary. For
some days nothing further passed between them
on the subject of her project. Garth never
alluded to it ; and but for those few words
Queene might have felt uneasy. As it was she
had some difficulty in keeping her restlessness
down. It cost her an effort at times to appear
unrestrained, and to join in the ordinary topics
of conversation.

'' I try to do as he tells me, and put it out of
my mind ; but it is so hard when so much depends
upon it," she would say to Cathy when
they retired for the night. " I hope it is not
wrong ; but I have set my heart on carrying out
this scheme. I get fonder of this place everyday,
and so does Emmie. I never was so happy
in my life ! " finished Queene, with a little sob
of excitement.

*' You dear old Queen ! as though we ever
meant to part with you ! Have you really only

been here a week ? How I enjoy having you ;
and Langley says the same. Never mind Garth's
silence, his few words mean more than a whole
hour of talk from any other man. If he says he
will do a thing you may safely trust him."

*' Yes ; I know ; but all the same, Mr. Logan
may not think me suitable for such a post' persisted
Queene, disconsolately, " and then I shall
be obliged to go back to Carlisle, and to part
with Emmie. Oh, Cathy ! it does seem so hard,
when we should be content with so little ; " and
though Cathy helped her friend, and was very
kind and sympathizing, there was no denying
that the cause for suspense was a grave one.

Queene had only stated the truth when she
had owned she had never been happier in her
life. For the first time she had tasted the real
comfort of a happy, well-regulated home. Queene's
own youth had never known freedom from the
carling fret of a narrow income and incessant
burden of debt. The remembrance of the petty
meanness, the shiftlessness, the continuous fight
with untoward circumstance, made retrospect
bitter to her. She had grown up strong and

sturdy, like some blooming Alpine plant which
lead taken root in a handful of earth on the edge
of a crevasse ; the sunshine might be all about
her, but it had not gilded her one point of rock.

Here there was plenty without profusion,
comfort without pretension ; a happy family
circle, rich in individuality, characteristic, strong
in will, with a fount of pure native humor evidently
engrained in the blood ; and yet there
were fewer jars and less dissensions than ordinarily
occur in domestic life.

Ted was evidently the malcontent of the household;
but even his grumbling, incessant as it
was, had no root of bitterness in it. He was only
a lazy, sweet-tempered fellow, who had not yet
fitted himself to his niche in life, and who was
young enough to quarrel with the monotony of
his existence. '' Look here ! I can't stand this
much longer ; I shall have to cut it, after all, and
take to office work in Carlisle," he would say, when
he had secured the two girls as listeners, and had
extended himself after his usual fashion on the
long, narrow couch, with his arms under his
head, and his light hair standing on end. *' Do

you think a fellow of any spirit can endure life
in a hole like this 1 "

*' Oh, Ted, do be quiet ; we are so tired of this
sort of talk," remonstrated his sister.

I am not talking to you ; I am talking to
Miss Marriott. She is a girl of sense, and knows
what a fellow means when he says he is hipped,
and all that. Do you think a place like II pshaw
is meant for anything but a refuge for old
maids ? "

'' Oh, Eddie, you rude boy I "

Don't interfere, Catherine ; I am speaking
to your betters."

Your brother seems perfectly content with
his surroundings ; I should advise you to follow
his example," returned Queene demurely, trying
hard not to laugh, and not unmindful of the
boyish kicks that were being administered to the
end of the sofa.

*' Garth ! Oh, he is different ; he is a confirmed
old bachelor, a sort of philosopher on a
small scale. I don't believe Garth would trouble
himself if he never saw a fresh face from one
year's end to another. A man with a hobby is

always to be envied," sighed the poor victim of
circumstance.

** Get a hobby, then," snapped Cathy.

Oh, it is all very easy to talk."

I know it is, or you would not lie railing-there,
like the melancholy Jacques, against fate.
I met a fool,' quoth he, ' a motley fool.' "

^ Call me not fool till heaven has sent me
fortune'" growled Ted, with the spirit of reviving
fun in his eyes.

*' There, he is better now ; when he begins to
quote we may safely leave him, Queene. I
want you to come with me and call on the
Cardinal Virtues ; it is such a wet afternoon that
they will be in strong force. Never mind Ted's
grumbling, he cannot expect you to stay at
home and talk to him; besides, he has 'David
Copperfield ' to amuse him."

I'll pay you out for this," returned her
brother, viciously. " Just as Miss Marriott and
I had found out we were kindred spirits, and all
that sort of thing.

Oh, woman ! in your hour of ease
A wretched bore, or else a tease ;

When pain and sickness wring the brow
A downright duffer then art thou.'

Wasn't the old Caledonian one when he praised
up the weaker portion of the community in that
ridiculous fashion '? " but as Cathy did not condescend
to reply, the passage of arms stopped.

The sisterhood were all gathered in the
pleasant parlor at the Evergreens. A bright-eyed,
faded little woman lay on the couch in the
bay window knitting some bright coloured strips
for an antimacassar. She looked up and nodded
pleasantly as the friends entered.

You always come to us on a wet afternoon,
Catherine, when visitors are most welcome.
Faith was reading to us ; I dare say she will be
glad of a rest by this time. We are in the fourth
volume of D'Aubign^'s ' Reformation.' Put a
marker in the place, Faith, and then we shall
lose no time when we open the book again. Do
you know Daubing, Miss Marriott ? it is most
improving reading for young people."

Could this active-looking, talkative little
woman be the hopeless invalid of whom she had
heard so much ? " Queene asked herself, with

some bewilderment, as she sat down in the comfortable
chair that Miss Faith brought to her.
Though it was summer a little fire burned in the
grate ; the window had been closed to exclude
the dampness. Miss Faith's cheeks looked
unusually pale ; ner eyes were full of a soft
weariness.

Charity is so fond of D'Aubigne ; I think he
tires me a little. It is very good reading, of
course ; but in this summer weather, and with
the drip, drip of the rain on the leaves — "

There were giants in those days," broke in
Miss Hope, vigorously. "Luther was a grand
man, and so was Single." Miss Hope spoke ina
loud but not unpleasing voice. She was a
stout, fresh - colored woman, not without a
certain degree of comeliness. In her young
days she had been too high-coloured for beauty,
but now the grey hair toned and softened her
down.

Miss Prudence was less pleasing : she was tall
and angular, wore spectacles, and had that
slight appendage on the upper lip which is nota
strictly feminine adjunct. Her voice was thin

in quality and somewhat harsh. Queene felt
that Ted's soubriquet of "the dragon" was not
badly bestowed. It was she who held the purse-strings
of the little household, and who guarded
the proprieties. Miss Hope, in spite of her
strong leaning to the Plymouth Brothers, and
her somewhat injudicious tyrannies in the matter
of temperance and total abstinence, was far less
rigid than her strong-minded sister.

No wonder Miss Faith drooped in such an
atmosphere ! and then Miss Charity's voice !
Queene, who was sensitive on such matters,
found fault with the ceaseless flow of words that
proceeded from the bay-window. "She is
egotistical, selfish ; she works that poor sister of
hers to death, I know 'she does," thought the girl
to herself, with a certain youthful antagonism
against oppression. " Miss Faith is a saint ; but
I wonder how she can bear it."

Queene was a little hard in her judgment, as
young people often are in their estimate of things
and people. There was selfishness, and possibly
oppression, in the continual sisterly sacrifice
demanded as a right; in the unpitying claims

made on the health and time so ungrudgingly
bestowed upon her.

In life, real life, we see these sort of sacrifices
perpetually exacted before our eyes somehow
Human flesh and blood revolts against the sight.
The strong, sometimes the young, compelled to
put away their own life, and spend some of their
best years chained to the couch of helplessness ;
condemned to share the burthen of an invalid
existence ; exposed to petty tyrannies and
tempers, and bearing them out of pity for the
suffering that provokes them.

Sometimes, indeed, it may be a labor of
love, a life within a life, of many-folded sweetness
blossoming out of the pain, as in the case
of an afflicted parent or husband. Nay, one
often see admirable lives of sisterly or brotherly
devotion. Yet are there sadder cases, when
duty and not love is the main-spring of action ;
when the self-sacrifice is bitter though voluntary
; when the watcher would willingly change
places with the watched, that the bounding pulse
of health mio-ht be subdued: that the keen
suffering of repression and yearning, and God

only knows what bitter measure of woman's
pain, might be dulled and quieted by mere
bodily weakness.

To be free, only to be free, and live their
own lives — that is what some women vainly
crave ; and then a stone is given them for bread.
Instead of work comes waiting — the hardest and
most trying form of work ; instead of freedom
a mesh of finely-woven duties, light as gossamer
threads, yet binding the conscience like cart-ropes.


Queene sat and mused with inward rebellion
while Charity talked about her books, and showed
her manuscript volumes of finely copied extracts.
T always write out passages that please me ; it
is such a resource to read them afterwards. I
want Faith to do the same, but she likes
mending and watering her flowers. I prefer
thoughts to flowers, Miss Marriott."

Every one has a right to their taste. I think
I share Miss Faith's," returned the girl, a little
ungraciously. She felt no pity for the bright-eyed,
faded little woman, who made so much of
her life, and hid away her sufferings bravely,

much as the silk, patched coverlet hid the
useless shrunken limbs.

She would not even allow to Cathy that sh(3
could have ever been pretty, as they walked
home together through the summer rain.

Her face does not attract me in the least,
there is nothing in it ; and then her cheek-bones
are so high, and her curls are so thin and limp.
Now, if she only braided them nicely under a
little close cap — and then her tongue ; oh, Cathy !
I think she would drive me distracted in a
Aveek."

But Cathy stood up stoutly for Miss Charity.

'' I must say that I think you a little prejudiced,"
she returned, with honest indignation,
and that natural love of opposition that incites
young people to do battle for the accused. She
did not love Miss Charity in the least; but,
nevertheless, her sense of justice prompted her to
take up her defence. '' She is nice-looking now,
every one says so ; and when she was young she
was more than pretty, positively beautiful,
before she met with her accident."

Was it an accident that caused her illness ? "
I. 19

*' Yes ; she was a strong healthy girl, just like
us, fresh-colored and blooming ; and her hair
used to be so pretty, — it was just that paler tinge
of gold that one sees with fair complexions, and
now the color seems all worked out of it. She
used to be called the pretty Miss Palmer ; and
then lie was the only one of the four sisters who
were ever engaged."

Oh, Cathy, I thought you told me that there
was no one for them to marry ! "

I forgot Miss Charity's affair ; she was
engaged to a young farmer in Wythiedale. I
fancy he was a rough-and-ready sort of person ;
but I believe she was fond of him, poor thing,
and then her accident happened."

*' What sort of accident ? "

"Oh, she fell down the granary steps when
she was spending the day at his father's. It was
a dreadful affair ; partial paralysis set in, and
there was a complication, and a great deal of
suffering ; and then the doctor said it was hopeless,
and she was obliged to give him up."

*' Oh, poor Miss Charity ! " ejaculated Queene,
with tears in her eyes. She could have gone

back and asked her pardon on the spot for all
the hard things she had thought, " I never
dreamt of trouble like this ; I can hardly bear to
hear of it. What became of the poor fellow ? "

That is the worst part of all," replied Cathy,
rather reluctantly ; " his end was very miserable.
He broke his neck when he was out hunting. His
horse fell, in trying to jump a five-barred gate,
and rolled over on him. Some people said he
was not quite sober when it happened. Whether
he grew reckless from the loss of her, or whether,
as it is strongly suspected, he was addicted to
intemperance from the first, I cannot possibly
tell ; but I rather think that she must have been
deceived in him. Of course no one was cruel
enough to hint at such a thing to her ; and so
she treasures the memory of her poor George, as
she calls him."

But, Cathy, what a terrible tragedy ! "
*' Yes ; she was very ill for a time ; and then
Miss Faith gave up her hospital, and came home
to nurse her. Of course it sounds very bad, and
the poor thing has suffered a good deal one way
and another ; but how do you know that it was

19*

not all for the best ? " finished Cathy, solemnly.
*' Think if that accident had never happened, and
she had married him, and then found that he
was not worthy. To be tied for life to a man, and
then to see him sink lower and lower, to despise
one's own husband ! Could you imagine any
greater torment than that ? If it were I, I know
I should get to hate him. Nothing should make
me live with such a man ; I would beg my
bread first," cried the girl, with sparkling eyes,
and setting her small white teeth together. ^' To
despise one's husband ! oh, Queene, think how
dreadful ! "

I don't suppose such a thing could happen
to either of us. Poor Miss Charity ! perhaps it
was a blessing in disguise after all ; but to think
of caring for D'Aubignes ' Reformation', and copying
out all those publishing extracts, after living
through such a tragedy as that ! it seems so
incomprehensible."

Do you think the sun and the moon ought
to have stood still in her little firmament ? don't
you know hearts are broken every day, and the
world goes on just as usual ? " returned Cathy,

sententiously. She and Queene seemed to
have changed characters that afternoon ; it was
Cathy who was calm and philosophical. At
another time her old-fashioned wisdom would
have provoked a smile, but Queene was too
much in earnest.

I should have thought her story would have
been more plainly written in her face. If it had
been Miss Faith now — Cathy, you look queer ;
has Miss Faith ever had a story too ? "

Well, not exactly. I don't know, no one
does ; but I always fancied there was some
attraction beside the sick children in that
hospital. Langley's suspicions were aroused
when she went over to Carlisle once ; but she
would not like me to repeat such nonsense."

'but why should I not know? Oh, Cath !
there could never be any harm in telling me."

Well, as it was ten years ago, perhaps not.
I don't know what made Langley say such a
thing, but she spoke to me once of a dark young
surgeon, who came up to them in the ward, and
talked to them for a long time. Langley said
nothing crossed her mind until she saw him look

at Miss Faith, and then, somehow, the thought
got into her mind."

Nothing but a look ? "

My dear, there is a great deal to be read in
looks," returned Cathy, demurely. '* It was just
the beginning, I dare say, of a possible romance.
When Miss Charity's trouble happened, and poor
Miss Faith came home to nurse her, every one
said it was grief at her sister's state that made
her so grave and unlike herself; but Langley
always believes that that dark young surgeon
had something to do with it, and so do I. I
dare say this was one of the ' might-have-beens '
that have spoiled many women's lives."

'' But Miss Faith is not so old, — only five-and-thirty,
— and she is still so sweet-looking."

My dear, we are speaking of mere looks, and
ten years ago ; most likely he has married and
has half-a-dozen children by this time ; and
remember, they have never even met since. Perhaps
he has grown stout and bald, those dark
young men do get stout sometimes. I am a
little cynical, but I cannot believe in such
faithfulness as that. Men are such fickle creatures,

my dear, ^ out of sight is out of mind ' with
most of them."

^•' Pray where did you learn those abominable
sentiments ? " asked her brother curtly, as he
came up behind the girls, starting them into a
muttered exclamation of dismay. How much
had he overheard ? how was it that his footsteps
had gained upon them unperceived ? Quick
blushes burnt in the girls faces. Garth shook
off the raindrops and laughed mischievously ; he
was master of the situation, his love of teasing
was paramount.

Girls are all alike. Fancy men talking to
each other about their love affairs, and choosing
a public thoroughfare for the tender confidence."

Garth, you are a monster, and I hate you,"
burst out Cathy, stamping her little foot at him.

"Mr. Clayton is utterly mistaken," observed
Queene hotly ; "we were only discussing other
people's affairs. We are not often in such a
gossiping mood, but Cathy was communicative,
and I suppose I got interested."

Is it also your opinion that men are such
fickle creatures ? I thought that was Cathy's

observation. She has known so many men, and
has such a wide acquaintance with life. I should
have thought Miss Titheridge and the dragon-guarded
portals of Granite Lodge would have
excluded the stronger and ruder sex, but perhaps
I am mistaken."

Garth, when you are in this mood I detest
you."

I cannot have you infecting Miss Marriott's
mind with such heterodox notions ; fickleness is
all on the other side, take my word for it. I am
sorry that I only overheard the last words, as
Cathy's communications would doubtless have
proved both novel and instructive ; a 's
opinion on such points must be delicious.
Cathy, my dear, if you can spare Miss Marriott
one moment I have a word or two to say to her.
Step into my den there, please, while I hang up
my wet coat. I will be with you in a moment."

Queene obeyed him wonderingly. She had
been in Garth's den before, Cathy had taken her,
but she looked round it with fresh interest.

There were the book-shelves he had made and
stained himself, loaded with his favorite authors

Dickens, Thackeray, and Macaulay, " fine fellows
all of them," he would say ; and his writing-table
with all its old bachelor s appurtenances, — the pipe-rack
and red earthen tobacco-jar ; and the worn
easy-chair, the shabbiest and the most comfortable
in the house. Opposite was the picture of
his mother, a large faded oil-painting of a woman,
not young, but with a sweet gentle face and
Garth's blue-grey eyes.

Queene looked at it for some time, and then
she went to the window. A little bird was
singing through the rain, the drops splashed
endlessly from the white-rose bush under the
window; the steep lawn planted sparsely with
trees ran down to the lane. Langley's jessamine
and clove-pink steeped the wet air with fragrance ;
a half drowned bee clung to a spray of woodbine.
*' Most people would call this dull ; and how they
would hate that little gate leading to the churchyard,
and the thought of that granite monument
shining in the moonlight, but to me it is the
dearest place," thought Queene, leaning against
the window frame in sweet abstraction.

*rare you there, Miss Marriott? I am so sorry

to have kept you waiting," observed Garth apologetically,
coming to her side in his quick way.
*' Langley detained me with some questions of
domestic detail that could not be postponed."

** It does not matter, I was in no hurry. Look
at that bee, Mr. Clayton ; I was just going out to
rescue him ; he is shipwrecked, and wants to save
his cargo of honey."

You shall go to him by-and-bye. I only
want to say a word to you. I have talked to
Mr. Logan, and everything is arranged. In a
month from this time you are to enter on your
new duties as mistress of the Hepshaw girls'
school."

END OP VOL. I.

bcngay: clay and taylor, printers.

'l

L I B R Ari

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

VOL. II.

% lobcl

ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY

AUTHOR OF

Nellie's memories," " WOOED AND Married

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

|Jnblis^ers in (©rirhtarg to Mn Majesty the ^ucjii


[Rights of Trnusiatitvi /vt's/'ir'fd]

CLAY AND Savior, PHINTKKS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. TI

CHAPTER I.

Page

THE NEW SCHOOL-MISTRESS . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

DORA . . . . . . . 25

CHAPTER 111.



CHAPTER IV.

The KIXU OF KARI,DALE . . . . 70

CHAPTER V.

A GOLDEN HARVEST . . . . 93

CHAPTER VI.
queen's whim . . . . . 113

CHAPTER VII.

WEAVING IN THE SUNSET . . . . 13(5

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MlWrUESS OF BRIERWOOD COTTAGE . . 157

CHAPTER IX.

FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM

CHAPTER X.

THE NEW DOCTOR

CHAPTER XII.



20]

CHAPTER XI.

NEXT DOOR TO THE EVERGREENS . . . 230

LITTLE NAN



CHAPTER XIII.

PACK

1 KNEW YOU WOULD I3K SORRY FOR US " . . 279

CHATTER XI Y.

IT MUST BE YEA, YEA, (R Nay, NaY, WITH Fie'" . 298

CHAPTER I.

THE NEW SCHOOL-MISTRESS.

The trivial round, the common task.
Would furnish all we ought to ask —
Room to deny ourselves, a road
To bring us daily nearer God." — Keble.

'' In a month from this time you ^Yill enter on
your new duties as mistress of the Hepshaw girls'
school."

Queene gave a little start and cry of suppressed
pleasure, and then the color rushed over
her face. With sudden impulse, as involuntary
as it was graceful, she held out her hand to
Garth.

Oh, Mr. Clayton ! how kind you are to me !

Once or twice I was half afraid you had forgotten
; and all the time you were quietly
arranging it."

Garth was quite equal to the occasion. He
looked down at the girl's radiant face, so expressive
of joy and gratitude, with warm kindliness
shining in his eyes. When the slim hand
was stretched out to him he held it for a moment
as though it had been Cathy's. " Oh, if he
were only my brother ! " sighed the girl to herself,
with a little outburst of natural yearning as
she felt the strong clasp.

Garth's handsome face looked almost as bright
as hers. His position contented him ; it was
novel as well as interesting. It pleased him to
throw the shield of his protection and tenderness
round these young strangers, who had, in a way,
appealed to his generosity. If Queene had been
old and plain he would have been just as gentle
and chivalrous in his manner to her. No woman
would ever have had a rough word from Garth ;
but a little of the zest and flavor would have
been wanting.

To read gratitude in a pair of wonderful brown

e.jes, that seem to have no bottom to their
depth, and to feel a soft, girlish hand touch his
own timidly, were new revelations to the young
man, who was a philosopher, but no stoic. He
remembered their expression long afterwards, and
the peculiar feel of the fluttering fingers, with an
odd sensation that tingled through him. " What
a contrast she is to Dora ! " he thought again.

You are very, very good to me," continued
Queene ; but he interrupted her.

I don't deserve half these thanks ; I have
done very little, after all. So you thought I had
forgotten you ? When you know me better,"
went on Garth with good-humored reproach,
you will find out that I am a man of my word.
When I say I will do a thing you may be sure
that if it be in my power it will be done."

I was not so unjust as to doubt you," returned
Queene, humbly, *' only as the days
went on I lost hope. I thought you had failed
in persuading Mr. Logan, and did not like to
tell me."

I hope I never shrink from any duty, however
unpleasant ; procrastination is only for



cowards. I should certainly have told you at once,
Miss Marriott. But now for these miserable details,"
continued Garth, changing his grave tone
into a lighter one. "So you will persist in thinking
it a matter of congratulation that you are to
be our future school mistress ?"

Certainly."

*' It is not a very desirable post ; indeed, it
is quite beneath your acceptance. You cannot
think how strongly Mr. Logan and I feel on that
point. As the Vicar's churchwarden I had a
right to take my own ground in the matter, and
we have arranged that your future stipend shall
be fifty pounds a-year. More than this is out of
our power," continued Garth, stammering a little,
and for the first time becoming slightly embarrassed.
" There is not even a dwelling-house or
lodging attached to the salary ; but the Vicar
wishes, that is — " corrected Garth, feeling himself
on the edge of a very decided fib, and
slightly daunted by the look in Queene's eyes.

*' You are not going to ofl!*er me more than my
fair salary ? " returned the girl, drawing up her
head with a sudden gesture of pride he had never

seen in her before, and her voice sounded clear
and decided. " You told Mr. Logan, of course,
that this was impossible ? I will work ; but I
will not be beholden to him or any other man
for a penny more than I have honestly earned.
Forty, not fifty, pounds was the sum you named
to me in the quarry."

Don't be contumacious. Miss Marriott," returned
Garth, with an amused look ; but on the
whole he rather liked the girl's independence
than otherwise ; it accorded with his own notions.
He had held these sentiments all his life,
and it was his chief pride that he had never
been beholden to his fellows for anything that he
could not justly claim. " Pride, independence,
were necessary adjuncts to manhood," so Garth
thought ; ^' but in a woman, perhaps, they might
be made to yield under the pressure of emergency."


I will only take what belongs to me," she
continued obstinately.

Then that will be fifty pounds a-year. Listen
to me, please," as she again attempted to speak.
I am the Vicar's warden, and have a right to

use my authority in this affair. I have always
considered that our mistresses are underpaid ; I
intend to f^x the salary from this time at the
sum I named. Mr. Logan and Captain Fawcett,
our remaining trustee, agree to this ; so," finished
Garth, with a persuasive smile, "it is signed,
sealed, and delivered, and only wants your
consent."

Queene bowed her head gravely, and with a
little dignity. She was sharp-witted enough to
see that Garth had not said all he intended, that
something perilous to her pride lay folded on the
edge of that fib ; something that, with the kindest
intentions in the world, would have wounded
her susceptibility and hurt her,

Then there is nothing more to say ? " rather
stiffly.

Do these details weary you '? They are very
necessary," he returned, with a frank kindness
that disarmed her at once. " If you fill this
position it is better to understand everything
thoroughly. You still think that, with the little
you have, and the chance of giving lessons in
the evening, you will be able to live upon

the proceeds of so small a salary ? There is your
little sister remember, Miss Marriott."

We have learned to do without things, and
to be content with very little ; it will be enough,
thank you," returned the girl, quietly.

Then in that case I can only wish you success
on your undertaking. Your duties will not
be so very arduous. The hours are from nine to
twelve in the morning, and from two to four in
the afternoon. The school-house is a miserable
sort of place, a compromise between a barn and
a small dissenting chapel. You are not so fortunate
as Mr. Miles ; the boys' school-house is a
much handsomer and more commodious building."

I have seen him, have I not "? " asked
Queene, somewhat curiously.

Perhaps, but it is holiday time, and he always
goes down to his brother in Wales. He is a very
pleasant sort of fellow, though rather an oddity ;
is slightly lame, plays on the violin, and is an
inveterate smoker. He is a man of good education,
and has been usher in two or three first-class
schools. He had fair hopes of rising in the
world until he met with his accident. For the

misanthrope lie professes to be he is one of the
cheeriest sort possible. He lodges over the postoffice
; Mrs. Dawes thinks a great deal of him."

'' Have you no doctor here ? " inquired Queene,
with a sudden remembrance of Miss Charity.

Garth shook his head gravely. *' Ah ! poor
Dr. Morgan is dead ; he died the week before
you came. He is a loss to us all, poor old
fellow ! He lived in the corner house, next Mrs.
Morris ; and," with a smile breaking round the
corners of his mouth, " remained a bachelor all
his life in spite of her. But a truce to this sort
of gossip ; that would just suit Cathy. I have
spoken to Captain Fawcett about letting Briar-wood
Cottage to you, and he is perfectly willing
to do so. The rent is fifteen pounds a-year ;
but, as he justly says, it is quite unfit for human
habitation at the present — the floors want mending,
and there is some papering and whitewashing
to be done."

The cottage is really to be mine ? " she exclaimed
breathlessly.

"It is yours from this present moment if you
like, though you will not enter into legal possession

for six weeks. You must put up with our
society for that time. I shall take the liberty of
sending Nathan over to trim the grass and weeds,
unless you are particularly partial to docks, Miss
Marriott."

Thank you, you are very good ; but," hesitating,
and looking up in his face in some perplexity,
" I shall have to go over to Carlisle.
I must speak to Mr. Runciman, about the furniture,
you know ; we shall want very little,
Emmie and I, at least, only a few chairs and a
table. Do you think ten pounds will go far ? one
must buy a few things, but I am so ignorant of
prices," cried poor Queene, feeling all at once
very helpless and womanish, and hoping that he
would not laugh at her ignorance.

Garth could not help feeling amused at the
girl's naivete, but he was quite ready for the
emergency, having already settled it all with
Langley. " If she be very independent we can
manage it best in this way," he had said to his
sister.

One must have chairs and tables ; well, and a
few other things. There must be blankets for

winter, and cooking utensils," continued Garth,
with charming frankness. " Langley knows better
than I about such matters, and by-and-bye we
will get her to draw up a list. Langley has a
splendid head for details. There is a secondhand
lot of things going off in a few days'
time ; you can leave Langley and me to manage
it."

Yes; but the money; there will only be about
ten or twelve pounds that Miss Titheridge sent
me back at the last. She said she owed it to us,
but it was only her conscience that pricked her,
I know."

You must keep that for present expenses, as
you cannot draw your salary beforehand," he
returned promptly. " I will tell you what we
will do : Langley shall invest in these few
articles for you, — we shall pick them up cheaply,
you know, — and you shall repay her by instalments,
just a small sum quarterly as you can
spare it. Langley shall have a regular debtor
and creditor account. Nothing need offend your
independence, Miss Marriott."

No ; but it is too kind, much, much too

kind," she returned, hesitating. " And how do I
know when I may be able to repay it ? "

In two years' time at the farthest," he
returned cheerfully. " I only look upon it as a
safe investment for Langley's money."

"Owe no man anything, but to love one
another," suddenly came into Queene's mind.
Was she fastening a load of debt round her neck ?
would she ever be able to pay it back ? was not
this another kindly ruse to afford her help ?

She looked up quickly, almost suspiciously,
but the grey eyes that watched her were honest
and straightforward. He would not press benefits
on her that he felt would be repugnant.
No ; she was sure of that.

Garth answered her unspoken thought, flushing
slightly, as though her mute appeal touched
him.

I am sure you will be able to repay us ; we
will do all in our power to help you to do so."
Then, after a moment's hesitation : ''I feel just
as you do about these sort of things. I like
to help myself, and not to be dependent on
other people. Believe me. Miss Marriott, I

think far too liiglily of your independence, and
respect you too much to offer you any help
that you could not accept."

*' Then 1 will trust you," returned Queene ina
low tone. She spoke upon impulse. It cost hera
momentary pang, as though she felt some cold
weight suddenly settling down on her ; and after
all, what could she do ? Caleb could not help
them, at least not much. Emmie and she
could not dwell between four bare walls. What
was there for her but to accept the kindly
advance so gracefully hidden under Langley's
name — Langley and Cathy, who had not a sixpence
of their own, as Cathy once somewhat
triumphantly informed her ? " It is Garth who
buys everything for us, dear old fellow, and pays
all our bills, after grumbling over them," she said
once.

*' I assure you, you will never repent the trust,"
he answered, so gravely that Queene feared he
was hurt by her reluctance, until the old bright
smile came back to re-assure her. *then this
grand matter is settled, and we will go and talk
to Langley."

Emmie was almost wild with joy when she
heard the news. The sensitive little creature burst
into a perfect passion of tears, as she clung to her
sister's neck, trembling with such excitement
that Queene was frightened.

Oh, Queene, is it really, really true that weare
going to live in that little cottage, you and
I together, like the sisters in story books ? " she
exclaimed over and over again.

*' Yes, yes ; once upon a time there were two
sisters — one of them was handsome and the other
ugly," interrupted Cathy briskly.

The handsome one was my Queen then, she
drops diamonds and roses every time she speaks ;
I am the little ugly duckling they called me at
Miss Titheridge's."

Nonsense," returned Cathy abruptly, kissing
the little pale face, as she spoke somewhat hurriedly.
There was still a weird, childlike look
about Emmie — the blue eyes were still too bright
and large, the cheeks too thin and hollow, but the
little rings of yellow hair were beginning to curl
prettily over the temples. " Remember the ugly
duckling turned into the beautiful swan at last."

Oh, I don't want beauty ; Queene is welcome
to it all. I shall have it some day in heaven,
there is no ugliness there you know," moralized
the child in her strange old-fashioned way. A
sudden mist rose to her sister's eyes as she spoke,
the graceful fancies of the old fairy tale dissolved,
and in its place came an overwhelming vision of
a white-robed multitude, beatific with youth,
and endowed with angelic beauty.

There is no ugliness there ; no, little Emmie,
no ugliness because no sin, no weariness of a
diseased and worn-out body, no gloom of an
over-tempted and troubled mind ; for in the new
heavens and the new earth God will see that
everything there also is good.

They were sitting together on the low window-seat
of the room that the sisters occupied ; and
Cathy had come in, with her long black hair
floating over her shoulders, to chat over her
friend's new prospect. It was one of those quiet,
calm summer nights, when a " peace be still "
seems whispered to God's universe ; a white
crescent moon hung in the dark blue sky, bright
facets of gold glimmered here and there, the

dark sycamores hardly stirred in the faint breeze,
the tombstones shone in the pure white light ;
below them the church stood in dark shadow.

I like this better than our old garret,"
whispered Emmie. *' I am so fond of that
churchyard, Cathy ; I like it better than Mrs.
Fawcett's garden. I like to lie in bed and think
of the real people who are buried there, and
wonder what they were like when they walked
and talked as we are doing. The world seems
so full of dead and living people somehow."

Talking of churchyards always makes me
shiver," returned Cathy, exchanging a meaning
glance with her friend. Emmie was not always
quite canny, she thought. " I would rather
talk about Queene's new cottage, and all the
fun we mean to have there. I shall come to
tea nearly every night, and in the winter you
and I will toast muffins, Emmie, and roast chestnuts.
I think I must give you one of my
Persian kittens, since you have left yours at
Carlisle ; no cottage is complete without a cat on
the hearth."

'but, Cathy," remonstrated her friend, '' I am

afraid there will be little time for fun of any
sort. There will be French lessons to give on two
or three evenings in the week ; and by-and-bye
there will be Emmie to teach, and our clothes to
mend, and then, as we can only afford a girl to
clean up and do the rough work, 1 shall have
to teach myself cooking. And, oh dear, the day
will never be long enough for all I shall have todo,"
sighed poor Queene, all at once oppressed
by a sense of her future work.

1)0 you suppose that I shall sit down with
folded hands and see you slave yourself to death
in that fashion ? " returned Cathy in an aggrieved
voice, " is that your notion of friendship, you
disagreeable old Queen ? You will have teaching
enough with the village children and Mrs.
Morris's seven little hopes ; you may make up
your mind just to leave Emmie to me."

"But that is nonsense. What would Langley
say to such a proposal ? "

Langley is charmed at the notion ; we settled
it between us this morning. Emmie is to come
and do her lessons with me every morning, and
her music v>7ith Langley. I shall make a first-rate

governess, my dear Madam Dignity ; and,"
mimicking Langley's soft serious voice, ' ' think
what a grand thing it will be not to let my
acquirements rust, but to turn them to solid
account ] " Then with a burst of her old vivacity,
think what a blessing you and Emmie will be
to me ! you will give me occupation, and prevent
my dying of ennui in this mill-pond of existence,
as Ted calls it."

Queene's eyes looked unutterable things, but
she only said, *' Oh Cathy, Cathy, how can I ever
repay all your goodness ? "

Goodness to myself, you mean. I will tell
you what we will do, Queen : we will coax
Langley to let us go into the kitchen and take
regular lessons from Susan ; it will be rather hot
work this weather, but we will go through the
furnace of affliction together. You are beginning
house-keeping on rather a small scale, my poor
dear ; but to live we must eat, and to eat I fear
we require a certain amount of ingredients, concerning
the price and the cooking of which I fear
we are profoundly ignorant."

Yes, indeed," returned her friend ruefully.
II. 21

"This must be rectified at once. What a
blessing you are to me. I was sighing for
new worlds to conquer, and now frying-pans
and mending open a new scope for
my feminine talents. How I used to envy
those Israelitish women when I was at
school."

You used to be very cross on darning afternoons'
put in Emmie.

I am afraid I was. Think of one's clothes
never wearing out for forty years ! it was enough
to reconcile them to the wilderness. I should
not be surprised if I rather liked it now. Suppose
we take lessons in patching from Miss
Faith?"

I must help too," broke in the child eagerly.
I can mend quite neatly now, Cathy ; and I
will weed the garden, and grow radishes, and
mustard, and cress, and sweep up the hearth,
and put on the kettle for Queene when she
comes home tired. Oh I wish Caleb and Molly
would come and live with us, and that we could
all be happy together."

*' Caleb would not like to leave Carlisle, or

Molly either ; you must be content with me,
and only me."

My dears," interrupted Langley's quiet voice
from the door, "it is past eleven, and these
night dews are not wholesome for the child ; let
me beg you to close the window, and leave off
talking ; " and thus admonished, the little party
broke up somewhat hurriedly.

Queene had interviews with Mr. Logan and
Captain Fawcett the next day.

Well, Miss Marriott, so you are to be my
tenant for Briarwood cottage," he said, stopping
to speak to her, as they encountered each other
in the lane. " My wife was so glad to get the
little lassie for a neighbor, that you might
almost have made your own terms with us."

"You are very kind not to put difficulties in
my way. The rent is so small that I thought we
could afford it. It will be quieter than lodgings,
and more to ourselves ; but it sounds rather
ambitious, a home of our own," returned the
girl, with a little thrill of excitement. Poor as
it was it would be home.

Suppose we go and have a look at it," 

*

posed Captain Fawcett in his curt, business-like
way. "It is in miserable need of repairs, I
know ; that last tenant of mine let it go to rack
and ruin. I will go over to Hargrave's and get
the key. Oh, there's the Vicar crossing over to
speak to you ; I can safely leave him with you a
minute."

'' I must shake hands with my new schoolmistress''
said Mr. Logan, beaming on her
through his spectacles. " So you have talked us
all over, and got your own way ; well, well, everything
is for the best, of course ; but to have a
young lady, a clergyman's daughter too, teaching
in that crazy little building yonder is a strange
sight to me."

*' I shall not be above my work ; you will have
no reason to repent your decision," returned the
girl firmly, but "modestly.

Well said, my dear young lady, ' who sweeps
a room.' You know what our excellent Herbert
says, *It is the motive that ennobles the work.'
I am glad to see you remember that."

I mean my work to ennoble me," replied
Queene, her face glowing with the thought. " It

does not matter that the building is poor, and
the children some of them rough and uncultivated
; it is a grand work to teach young minds,
and to watch their progress, and get interested
in their lives. It may tire one a little at times,"
she continued candidly, '' but it is not mere
drudgery and nothing else. Oh, Mr. Logan, say
you are pleased to have me ; it will give me
heart and courage to hear you say so."

Pleased ! I am more glad than I can say,"
returned the Vicar, with a look that Queen ie did
not quite read, but which touched her greatly, it
was at once so keen and gentle. " God bless
both the work and worker. Oh, here comes the
Captain ; perhaps when you have looked over
your new abode you may like to see the inside
of the school-house ? "

We will all walk down together," interposed
the Captain. " Come along, Miss Marriott ; don't
keep the Vicar waiting."

Queene followed the two gentlemen silently.
A strange sensation woke in her as she crossed
the threshold. She had closed the first chapter of
her existence. Here was a new life waiting for

her to take up ; it would be lived out underneath
this humble roof. The past lay shrouded away,
hidden like a dead hand out of sight. What
would the future hold for her and Emmie ?

She followed them silently from room to room,
as Captain Fawcett made his brief, business-like
comments. The damp oozed from the corners,
long lengths of soiled paper trailed from the
walls, the boards creaked under their foot-fall,
the scurry of tiny feet and the squeak of mice
sounded behind the wainscot, docks and nettles
peeped in at the begrimed windows. Qaeenie
shivered slightly.

We will alter all this," exclaimed Captain
Fawcett, turning briskly round on her, and pulling
at his grey moustache. " This damp moodiness
is enough to make any one shiver ; a little
paint and a few coats of white-wash, and a fresh
paper or two, will make a different thing of it."

'* I was not thinking of the damp," returned
Queene in a low voice ; and then she went and
stood by herself at the window, looking up the
ridge of ragged grass that lay like a steep little
wilderness behind the house. It was the newness

and the strangeness of her surroundings that
oppressed her. "To have a house of one's
own, that is the strangest part of all," she
thought.

She was still silent as she walked down the
village street. One or two of the women at the
cottage doors stood and looked after them
curiously ; but at the sight of the quaint edifice,
with its half-moon windows, Queene's youthful
energy revived.

She walked in, head erect, as the gentlemen
made way for her, and stood before the old
wooden desks, and looked at the half-dozen
forms before her. It was a small square room,
well, but not cheerfully, lighted ; the windows
set so high in the walls that no signs of the
outer world could distract the attention of the
little students.

'^ This small inner room is for the infants,"
explained Mr. Logan, coming round to her side ;
*' it is a very humble affair, you see."

Yes ; but it is my work," returned Queene,
facing round on them with a quiver of excitement.
'' My work, and my life, and no other's.

and I mean to do the best with both of them that
I can."

Some one stooping his high head at the
door cried softly " Amen " to himself.

It was Garth Clayton.

CHAPTER II.

DORA.

"Woman-kind,
Whom all men ought, both young and old, defend with all their

might ;
Considering what they do deserve of every living wight."

More.

The next week or two passed pleasantly and
quickly. The girls adhered rigidly to their
course of self improvement, despite the temptation
afforded by summer days. During the
fresh morning hours they remained closely shut
up in kitchen or pantry, busied in all sorts of
mysteries connected with the culinary art,
appearing at the early dinner with flushed tired
faces and slightly dishevelled hair. All sorts of
telegraphic communications passed between them
and Langley. Garth, who was not in the secret,
and who was a somewhat fastidious as well

as abstemious man, was a little perplexed by
Susan's votaries, as he termed them.

"What has come to the woman, Langley?" he
would say. 'she has always been the best bread-maker
in Hepshaw, but this last batch is almost
uneatable, it is so heavy and sad. Her pies last
night were disgraceful, and now this joint is
under done."

''1 will speak to her," Langley would answer,
quietly, while the girls interchanged looks of
confusion and dismay. Queene's discomfiture
and disappointment were too obvious one day
to escape notice. Garth, who was really annoyed,
and had been complaining in no very measured
terms, caught sight of the girl's crimsoned face,
and at once held his peace. But the next day
he marched into the kitchen, and found Susan
and her coadjutors at work.

It was really a picturesque sight. The girls
had rolled up their sleeves in imitation of Susan,
and the round dimpled arms were very white
and pretty; the coarse bib-aprons could not
disguise the slim figures. Cathy had tied a
handkerchief over her dark hair ; she looked like

a young Niagara as she walked across the
kitchen, flourishing her basting-halle ; she was
stirring some savory mess in a great iron pot.
Far over hill and dale freely we roam," sang
Cathy. "Queen, I am sure this will be a success,
it smells so good."

Hush ! here comes your brother," ejaculated
Queene. The smooth rolling-pin slipped out of
her hand ; the sunshine streamed through the
window on the red brick floor, and the white
table heaped up with ripe fruit, with great golden
plums and clusters of red cherries. One level
beam had touched the girl's brown hair with gold ;
her coarse apron enveloped her. She looked like
Cinderella before her pumpkin chariot arrived.

So I have two new cooks, have I ? " laughed
Garth, as he lounged against the doorway. What
a pretty picture it was — the low dark kitchen
never looked so inviting before. He made Cathy
bring him some cider, and then helped himself
to some of Queene's fruit. Queene picked him
out the juiciest plums with her long white
fingers ; they had quite a little feast together,
the girls waiting on him. Before he went away

Queene had finished rolling out her dough ; the
tarts were all in the oven before Susan's testy
hints were taken, and she had her kitchen to
herself.

In the afternoons they sat over their work
with Langley in some shady corner of the
garden. Sometimes, but not often. Miss Faith
joined them.

Cara does not want me, and so 1 have come
up for an hour," she would say. Her quiet eyes
would brighten, and a tinge of color would come
into her face, at the sight of the little party
gathered on the lawn. Sometimes Garth would
be there, stretched on the crisp short grass at
Langley's feet, with his paper or his book beside
him. He always started up, well-pleased, at the
sitJ^ht of his favorite.

Miss Charity cannot always have you ; other
people want you too," he would say, as he
brought out another low basket-work chair, and
gathered her a rose or two, for Miss Faith had a
passion for flowers. Garth dealt in these chivalrous
little attentions ; it pleased him to tender
these sort of offerings to the women he delighted

to honor. *' You are my patron saint," lie would
say to her, as he laid the flowers beside her.
Faith is very necessary to us all, but you
never seem to remember that," with almost an
affectionate intonation in his voice.

I am only necessary to Cara," she would
answer sadly. She took Garth's little speeches,
his flowers, his kind looks, as simply as they
where offered. To the quiet woman of thirty-five,
who had no life of her own to live, and who had
laid her owen shadowy hopes, her unspoken
desires, on the shrine of stern duty, there was
nothing suspicious or incongruous in Garth's
devotion ; he liked her, and she was fond of
him. Any other thought would have been
impossible to either of them.

Cathy once hinted at this.

*' Garth cares for Miss Faith more than for
any other woman ; he always has," she said once
to Queene. '' I used to wonder, long ago,
whether anything else would ever come of it.
Men do care for women who are older than
themselves sometimes, and though she was
never pretty she has such a dear face ; but I

see now that such a thought would never occur
to either of them."

Of course not," interrupted her friend, indignantly.
" Miss Faith is very nice, but she is old
for her age. You see, youth has been crushed
out of her. She would make a nice Sister of
Charity ; the dress would just suit her. I like
her pale creamy complexion ; but she is far, far
too old for your brother," finished Queene, to
whom the idea was somehow repugnant. Miss
Faith, with her soft plaintive voice and little close
bonnet, beside the strong vigorous man, still in
the glory of his youth ! Queene's ideas were
very vague on the subject, but she thought the
woman that Garth Clayton honored with his
preference ought to be very nice indeed.

*rare you nearly through D'Aubign^'s 'Reformation,'
Miss Faith ? " Cathy would ask her, a
little wickedly, on these occasions. Miss Faith
would answer her quite seriously; she did not
perfectly comprehend a joke. Poor woman, the
little pleasantries of life, the fun and drollery of
young wits, were almost unknown to her.

We are still in the third volume," she would

sigh; "it is hard reading for summer days, but it
suits Cara. Hope quite enjoys it too, but it is a
treat to sit out here and listen to the birds, and
do nothing but work and talk. I think I almost
dislike books, though I should not like Cara to
hear me ; but then I never was clever."

I think you would like the interesting sort,"
returned Langley simply. " Do you remember
how much you cared for the volume of Jean
Ingelow's poems that I lent you ? you told me
you cried over the ' Song of Seven.' "

Oh yes, I love poetry," brightening visibly ;
but I could not make Cara interested in it in
the least; she calls it moonshine and milk and
water."

"That comes of having a strong-minded
woman for a sister," interrupted Cathy, who
never liked to be long silent.

'* My dear, Cara is very strong-minded ; she is
always talking about my having no mental backbone.
She says if we do not exercise our mind,
drill it thoroughly, and put it through a course
of mental calisthenics, that we shall never keep
it in a healthy condition. She thinks it a waste

of time to read novels, unless they are Sir Walter
Scott's or Miss Austin's. I know it is very-bad
taste, but I never could admire Miss
Austin."

'' But you enjoyed * Dombey and Son,' " interposed
Garth, who abhorred strong-minded women,
and could not tolerate Miss Charity; hearing
her opinions quoted even upset his equanimity.
'never mind what Cara likes; we are each
bound to have our own individual taste. If
Langley likes pickles better than strawberry
jam she has no right to prevent Cathy from
feasting on the latter dainty. I hate rules
and regulations for grown-up people ; it is just
as though we want to bring back the swaddling
clothes of infancy."

I am afraid I am not fond of rates, and T
do like poetry and novels," returned Miss Faith
timidly. Here amongst these young people she
felt a different creature; their ideas were as fresh
and sweet to her as Garth's roses that she had
fastened in her belt. '' I must go now ; but you
have done me so much good, you always do," she
said presently as she rose. Garth pleaded hard

that she would stay, but she only shook her
head at him wistfully.

No, don t tempt me ; Cara would be disappointed
when she woke up from her afternoon
nap if she found I had not returned; it is not
nice to disappoint people, and then her pain
mio^ht come on ao;ain."

*' At least you might promise to drive over
with us to Crossgill tomorrow ; we are going to
introduce Miss Marriott to the Cunningham.
Langley cannot go, and there will be a spare
place in the waggonette." But Miss Faith would
not promise. Two afternoons of pleasure would
be unheard-of dissipation; she would never hear
the last of it ; and what would Cara do without
her reading ?

As though we cared about that," muttered
Garth, soffo voce ; and then, as he returned from
unlatching the little side gate, he paused a
moment by Queene. *^ There goes one of life's
unsolved enigmas — a good woman thrown away
on a selfish one. I know you agree with me.
Miss Marriott ; I can read it in your face."

Queene gave him a bright, understanding
II. ' 22

smile. She had just finished a most artistic-looking
patch in an old frock of Emmie's, and held it
up in critical approval. " When people are so
good they can hardly fail to be happy," she said
with slightly qualified assent. Somehow she did
not pity Miss Faith quite so much this afternoon ;
it was a little contrary of her perhaps, but then,
had she not gone away with Garth's roses in her
belt ? and had he not called her his patron saint,
and hinted that she was necessary to him, to
them all ? Queene felt that even Miss Faith's
life was not quite devoid of all sweetness when
such speeches as these were made to her. Garth
had not sufficient vanity to guess at these
thoughts, but he seemed quite disposed to linger
by Queene's side and argue out the matter. He
had been quite absorbed by Miss Faith's conversation
while she remained; and now it would
be refreshing to turn to Queene. It did not
occur to him to pick roses for her, but he stood
beside her, and watched her deft fingers move
swiftly over her work, with a lazy sort of
pleasure.

** No one could doubt her goodness," he went

on, taking np the thread of his argument ; '^ the
question is, is she quite right to give up her
own will so entirely to her sister ? One may be
good and self-sacrificing, and yet preserve one's
individuality."

I think she is not quite sufficiently strong-minded."


Don't ; if you knew how I hate that word !
it is Miss Charity's war-cry. Women do not
need to be strong-minded, they ought to be
pliant, yielding, ready to take impressions ; a
woman with an inflexible will is a man in
disguise. If Miss Charity had married — poor
thing, she might have done so once, and have
rued taking the step to her dying day — she would
have ruled her husband with a rod of iron, much
as she rules Miss Faith."

I suppose she is fond of her," doubtfully.

Oh yes ; tyranny does not exclude affection,
at least among women," was the grim answer.
Miss Charity is only forming her sister's education,
moulding her taste, in fact ; she little knows
how all the maxims slide off her like the rain offa
duck's back. Away from her sister she is a

22*

different creature — dares to hold her own opinions,
and to own to her own modest tastes. I call
Miss Faith, exquisitely feminine don't you think
that is the word for her, Miss Marriott ? "

Yes," replied Queene hesitating. It was very
pleasant to have Garth there beside her, talking
on any subject ; but she almost wished that ho
would praise Miss Faith a little less. How did
she know, Cathy might be wrong after all ;
Miss Faith was only seven years his senior,
and there were so few people in Hepshaw.
Queene was still too young to know how silent
a man generally is on the merits of a woman he
actually loves.

I mean her to go over to Crossgill with
us tomorrow," lie said presently, returning to
the charge. ^' If I have to beard the lion in his
den, and Miss Charity on her couch, I intend
to have my way. I know what I will do,
Langley shall go over there after tea, she has
great influence with the dominant cardinal
virtue. Willing or unwilling. Miss Faith goes
with us to-morrow'' And Garth, as usual, had
his way.

It would be hard to tell whether Queene or
Miss Faith enjoyed the drive and the lovely
scenery most. Cathy was on the box beside her
brother, and had the reins more than once in
her hands, and only Emmie remained with
them.

Miss Faith was a quiet companion, and at
first Queene missed her friend's lively tongue ;
but by-and-bye they fell into a pleasant channel
of talk, which proved so interesting that they
were both surprised when Garth told them that
they were within sight of Crossgill, and that in
another five minutes they would be at the
Vicarage.

They were descending a steep winding road ashe
spoke, and in another moment they entered the
village. Queene always spoke of it afterwards
as one of the prettiest villages she had ever seen.
A little stream flowed clown the middle of the
road, the cottages looked picturesque and in
good condition ; a fine old church seemed to
tower in symbolic majesty over the whole place.
Emmie and she uttered a simultaneous cry of
admiration when they first caught sight of

Crossbill Vicarage. It was the ideal Vicarage ;
the neatly-kept gravelled paths, the exquisitely
trimmed lawn, the flower-beds masses of variegated
colors, the rare shrubs and plants, all
spoke of the owner's cultivated taste ; the house
itself, with its quaint casements and low bay-windows,
was almost embosomed in creepers
and climbing roses; the porch was full of
flowers. As the door opened they found themselves
in a little square hall, wainscoted in oak,
with an oak staircase and low gallery running
across it.

An old servant with a wrinkled face, evidently
about eighty years old, welcomed Cathy and
Garth with beaming smiles. Garth shook hands
With her.

'' Well, Nurse, I have brought visitors to see
your young lady. Oh, there is Miss Dora," as a
slight girlish figure crossed the gallery, and came
rapidly down the broad low staircase towards
them.

What a picturesque little figure it was. Picturesque
— that was just the word for her. No one
in their senses could have called Dora Cunningham

pretty, but taken altogether she was simply
charming.

She was dressed so quaintly too ; the shady
coarse straw hat, with the wreath of wild convolvulus,
just suited the pale piquante face ; and over
her dark blue cambric she wore a honos narrow
holland apron, laced across the bodice in old-century
fashion, and bordered with antique
silken flowers. A kitten's soft head and innocent
blue eyes peeped out of one of the pockets.
"You have come at last," she said with just a
slight accent of reproach, and a little satirical
elevation of the eyebrows. '' I have been looking
for you for weeks past. Where is Langley ?
and why has not Ted been to see me lately ? "

I have brought Miss Faith and our e^uest.
Miss Marriott, instead," returned Garth " This
is her little sister Emmie. Are you going to
give us some tea. Miss Dora ? Where is your
father ? Shall I go and look for him while you
show these ladies your pretty drawing-room and
conservatory ? "

"Nurse, will you send papa to us, please. No,
Mr. Clayton, I am not going to let you escape

like that ; you owe me some apology first for
your long absence. What have you been doing?
What have you all been doing ? Come in here ;
I mean to catechise you."

Miss Cunningham spoke in a brisk, pleasant
voice, though it had a sharp, decided note or two
in it. She marshalled her guests with perfect
ease and self - possession into the long bay-widowed
drawing-room. A white-haired, 
man in an old gardening coat
came out of the conservatory with a watering-pot
in his hand.

'' Papa, you must come and talk to Miss
Marriott and Miss Palmer, please. Let me take
that watering-pot away, it is trickling all over
the carpet, and your coat is covered with lime.
Do you like a low chair, Miss Marriott ? If you
sit there you can see the flowers in the conservatory,
and just a pretty peep of the garden. I
hope you will talk to papa, he is so fond of
talking to strangers. Miss Palmer, you know
papa, of course ? "

"Miss Faith and I are old friends, my dear,"
interposed Mr. Cunningham.

Yes, I know ; it is Miss Marriott wLo is the
only stranger," returned Dora calmly, untying
her hat. She had white dimpled hands, rather
like a baby's. " Now, Mr. Clayton, please tell
me what you have been doing with yourself all
this time ? "

Mr. Cunningham proved himself a most genial
host. He took Miss Faith and Queene into the
conservatory, and gathered some of his choicest
flowers for them. A little summer shower had
just commenced ; the light patter of drops on the
glass roof blended unceasingly with the voices.
Dora's canaries were singing loudly ; a small blue-black
Skye terrier scampered over the wet lawn.
Miss Faith seemed rapt in quiet happiness ;
Queene was just a trifle absent and distracted.

Through the conservatory door she could catch
sight of a pretty group. Dora sat in her little
low chair, and Cathy had ensconced herself on
the rug at her feet. Garth stood with his broad
shoulders propped against the wooden mantelpiece,
looking at them both. His face wore an
amused expression ; evidently he was well
entertained.

Do you think her pretty ? " whispered
Emmie, coming round to her sister's side. " She
is like a picture, somehow ; but I like your face
best, Queene, there is more in it." Queene
could not understand why the child's remark
jarred on her. She colored hastily and turned
away.

But she told herself afterwards that Emmie
was right on one point. Dora Cunningham was
certainly not pretty : her teeth were a little too
prominent, her nose was somewhat blunt and
unformed, and her eyes were blue and still, and
had no special depth in them. Her fair hair
was her chief beauty ; it was very abundant, and
she wore it gracefully, just simply turned off
from her face and knotted carelessly behind.

At this early stage of their acquaintance
Queene hardly knew whether she was attracted
or repulsed by the young mistress of Crossgill
Vicarage. Her perfect self - possession, her
absence of all consciousness, her cool, businesslike
comments on things in general, her faith in
her own management and powers of observation,
astonished Queene not a little.

From the first she had taken possession of
Garth, quite frankly and openly.

''I always leave the ladies to papa," she said
to Queene, as she led the way by-and-bye into
the hall, where tea had been prepared for them.
Papa is such a lady's man. I always get on
best with gentlemen, at least if they are like
Mr. Clayton. Girls are all very well in their
way, but men are so much more amusing. I
dare say you think the same ? "

'' I have never thought about it ; I have seen
so few gentlemen in my life," answered Queene,
a little confused by the question. The music
and drawing - masters at Granite Lodge and
Caleb Runciman vere about the only specimens
of manhood with whom she had been acquainted,
until her arrival at Church Stile House. She
was afraid, too, that Garth had overheard Miss
Cunningham's frank speech ; if he had, he took
no notice. He placed himself at the little oval
table beside his young hostess, and looked at the
plump childish hands, busy amongst the old
china cups and saucers.

The old nurse stood behind her mistress's chair.

and joined in the conversation. She and Garth
seemed great friends.

*' Well, Nurse, how are Miss Beatrix and Miss
Florence ? "

Well, very well, bless their dear hearts.
Miss Beatrix is taller than Miss Dora even,
and is growing prettier than ever. We want
them back, Mr. Clayton, sir."

Now, Nurse, that's nonsense," interposed
Dora, briskly. " Remember they are gone for
their good, not ours. Beatrix must finish her
education before she comes home ; you know
papa and I have settled that."

'* I don't think the poor young ladies like
foreign parts so well as home," sighed the old
woman, plaintively. " Miss Flo writes beautiful
letters, to be sure ; but she says she is home-sick
sometimes."

"Have you sisters ? " enquired Queene, with a
little surprise. She thought Dora was the only
inhabitant of the vicarage.

Dora nodded. " Yes ; there are the girls.
Nurse is talking about them now ; she is always
talking about them. They are at school in

Brussels. They are very well, of course, for
girls, only I have never forgiven them for not
being boys. I have always so longed for a
brother — a great big brother — to take me about
Ashen papa is lazy or tired," appealing to Garth
with candid blue eyes, not unlike the kitten's.

What a pity we can't make you a present of
Ted," returned Garth coolly ; but Nurse interposed
again with the garrulity of age.

'^ Miss Dora, dear, I can't bear to hear you
talk so ; it doesn't seem right, does it, sir ? with
those sweet young ladies for sisters, adoring her
and spoiling her as they do. Why one of these
days, my darling, you will have a husband to
take you about ; that will be better than a
brother, won't it, Mr. Clayton, sir ? "

'' I suppose I shall have a husband some day,
but there is no need for you to drag him in
before-hand. Nurse ; " returned Dora with perfect
composure, as she tied on her broad-brimmed
hat again. The allusion in Garth's presence did
not disturb her equanimity in the least; she
took it quite as a matter of course. " It is only
Nurse's nonsense," she said, turning calmly to

Queene ; " if she talked so to the girls it would
be different, but nothing matters to me," with a
little curl of her lip and a shrug.

I think you must miss your sisters, living
here alone 1 " observed Queene, by way of
changing the subject.

*' Oh, as to that, papa and 1 miss them, of
course. They are well enough for girls, only they
are just at \h^ gauche age, you know ; when they
are older I shall know better what to do with
them."

Then are you never dull ? " asked Garth. *' I
should have thought Flo especially would have
left a void in the house, she was so bright and
full of fun."

I should have called Flo noisy," exclaimed
Dora quietly. " Busy people are never dull ;
I should have thought you would have found
that out by this time."

I know you emulate the busy bee, and improve
each shining hour. Miss Dora ; but still — "

I suppose you mean to be satirical," with a
little scorn. " You men think there is no work
done but by yourselves."

Oh, no ; I am sure your list of duties must
be very long," evidently teasing her, to her
father's great delight.

Quite long enough for a woman' she returned,
pointedly. " I have my house-keeping,
and my schools, and the mothers' meeting, and
the penny club, and the coal and blanket fund,
and the library, besides odds and ends of business,
and all my visiting. Papa and 1 work
together, and in the evening I read to him''

Dora is my right hand," interposed Mr.
Cunningham, looking at his girl fondly.

"After all men must have some one to help
them," returned Dora loftily. She delivered herself
of her little speech Parthian-wise, as she rose
from the tea-table, turning her shoulder somewhat
upon Garth as she did so.

Are we such helpless creatures then ? " he
asked in a low voice, folio winof her.

Most of you are," she replied calmly. '*' Miss
Marriott, the rain is over, shall we take a turn
in the garden ? "

CHAPTER III.

TANGLED.

Women do not like a man the worse for having many favorites,
if he desert them all for her. She fancies that she herself
has the power of fixing the wanderer ; that other women
conquer like the Parthian, but that she herself, like the
Romans, can not only make conquests, but retain them."

Cotton.

The conversation had now become more general ;
but towards the close of the visit Queene found
herself alone with Miss Cunningham. They were
standing in the porch together. Garth had gone
round to the stables to see after the waggonette,
and the others were in the Vicar's study, turning
over a portfolio of. old engravings. Queene had
been more than half disposed to follow them, but
Miss Cunningham had detained her.

** You will find this pleasant than papa's
dark little study ; besides, he does not want us

now he has Miss Faith Palmer. Why do men
like talking to her so much ? " she continued in a
perplexed voice. " She is not a bit clever, or
what one would call attractive, and yet Mr.
Clayton and papa are always lauding her to the
skies."

'' She is very good," returned Queene. After
what had passed between herself and Garth she
was disposed to hold her peace on the subject of
Miss Faith's merits. Some hours had passed
since her arrival at Crossgill Vicarage, but, strange
to say, she was less than ever inclined to be communicative
to Miss Cunningham.

So are you and I good, at least I hope so,"
answered Dora promptly, "though we do not dress
in grey, and wear a close bonnet like a Quaker. I
am a foe to that sort of goodness that must cloak
itself in a peculiar garb. By-the-bye, how do you
get on with Langley Clayton ? she is one of the
good sort too."

I think she is one of the best women I ever
met," was the enthusiastic reply ; '^ she is almost
perfection, so unselfish and so unobtrusive in
everything she does."

II. 23

** Yes ; Langley is Langley ; but she is a trifle
too melancholy for my taste. I don't like
people to go through life in a sort of ' patience
on a monument ' attitude. One suspects all
manner of strange back-grounds, and then it is
so provoking. Langley is Langley, of course, but
I like Cathy best."

Have you known them long, Miss Cunningham
?''

Ever since I was so high'' putting her hand
about three feet from the ground. " I used to
call Mr. Clayton Garth once, till he got so big
and grand that he used to frighten me ; not that
I am at all frightened of him or any other man
now," she continued, with a curl of her lip, " one
sees their weaknesses too plainly for that. How
long are you going to stay at Church-stile House,
Miss Marriott ? "

About three weeks, I believe, that is, until the
cottage is ready for us. You know, I suppose,
that we remain in Hepshaw. I am the new
school-mistress. Mr. Clayton and Mr. Logan
have elected me," explained Queene simply ;
but, nevertheless, making the statement with some

reluctance. She had a notion that Miss Cunningham
would think it strange.

Dora absolutely started, and then bit her lip.

*' You ! Why you must be joking ! "

*'No indeed, Miss Cunningham."

Why did they not tell me ? It is Cathy's
doing, I suppose, to keep you near her, you are
great friends I hear ; but I am surprised Mr. Clayton
allowed it for a moment. You, — excuse me,
Miss Marriott, but I cannot get over my surprise,
you look so unlike a school-mistress. Did you
ever see your predecessor. Miss Drake ? "

Queene shook her head. She felt a little discomposed
; the cool scrutiny of the blue eyes did
not please her. Dora's searching glance took in
every detail — the well-gloved hands, the dainty
French tie, the little brown hat with its pheasant's
wine:, all the finish and detail that marks the
gentlewoman's taste.

No, you are not much like Miss Drake," she
replied coldly ; and a little cloud of dissatisfaction
and perplexity knitted her brow.

They both seemed relieved when Garth made
his appearance with the waggonette. Dora at





LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

once went in search of the rest of the party.
Miss Faith and Emmie joined them instantly,
but Cathy still lingered.

** Come, Catherine, come, it is getting late''
exclaimed her brother impatiently ; " you and
Miss Dora have gossiped enough by this time."
Cathy gave him a laughing look as she jumped
into the waggonette, and ensconced herself cosily
by Queene.

Don't be cross. Garth. No one calls me
Catherine but Mr. Logan and Miss Cosie. I
have only been mystifying Dora on the subject of
our young friend here. She seems ' struck all of
a heap ' — to use an elegant but most expressive
phrase — at the notion of her turning schoolmistress.
What business of hers is it, I should
like to know ? Let her mind her own
parish."

Hush, Cathy, be quiet ; she will hear you,"
interposed Garth sharply, as he turned round to
wave an adieu to the little figure in the porch.
Dora stood with her hand shading her eyes,
watching them until they were out of sight. She
looked still more like a picture framed in roses,

her straw hat hanging on her arm, and the sunset
shining on her fair hair.

Garth turned round more than once, and then
he resumed the subject somewhat irritably.

What has Dora got in her head, I should
like to know ? she looks as if something does not
please her. What nonsense have you been
talking, Cathy ? ''

Place your honor, no nonsense at all, at all,"
began Cathy mischievously, but a glance at her
brother's side face, which looked unusually grave,
Sobered her in time. '' Garth, don't be such a
griffin, or I will never take you out to tea again.
Dora chose to cross-examine me as to Miss
Marriott's motives in taking so singular a step as
becoming our school-mistress, and I thought her
curiosity somewhat impertinent, and so took a
delight in baffling it."

I think it was you who were impertinent,
Cathy," returned Garth, still displeased. " Surely
such an old friend as Dora has a right to interest
herself in our affairs if she likes."

Not at all," returned his sister haughtily ;
besides, this is not our affair at all, it is

Queene's. What right has any one to poke and
pry into her motives ? Of course you always take
Dora's part, you and Langley are alike in that ;
but she got nothing out of me."

My dear Cathy, Miss Cunningham is perfectly
welcome to know everything, as far as I am
concerned," interrupted Queene, somewhat distressed
at this argument. These slight diversities
of opinion were not unusual between Cathy and
her brother ; but Queene had never before heard
him express himself so strongly.

*' I am glad you take such a sensible view of
it," returned Garth, mollified in an instant.
Cathy is thoughtless with her tongue sometimes,
and hurts people. Miss Cunningham
always takes a lively interest in all that concerns
Hepshaw ; you see, their own parish is managed
so admirably, Crossgill is quite a model village
in every way, that she feels she has some
authority in speaking."

"All meddlers have authority, self-imposed,
of course," observed Cathy, sotto voce. Nevertheless,
the remark reached Garth's ears.

What makes you so hard on Dora this

evening ? " he asked, good-humoredly. '^ She
deserves a good scolding, does she not, Miss
Faith ? You are generally such good friends ;
something has gone wrong to-night, eh, little
one ? "

He spoke coaxingly, but Cathy would not be
induced to answer. "She was sick of Dora; she
would have Dora on the brain if they did not
change the subject," was her pettish reply, and,
seeing her in this humor. Garth, like a wise man,
dropped the subject. But the conversation made
a painful impression on Queene ; in her heart
she sided with Cathy. She thought Miss
Cunningham's curiosity unjustifiable in the last
degree. " What is it to her how long I remain
in Church-Stile House and in Hepshaw?" she said
proudly to herself.

This feeling was not mollified when, two days
afterwards, Cathy informed her that Miss
Cunningham had driven over in her little basket-carriage,
and was at that moment talking to
Langley in the drawing-room.

Queene changed color a little as she put down
her book.

'' So soon ! " she ejaculated.

Yes ; she has come to return our call, and to
see Langley," with a meaning look, that made
Queene feel still more uncomfortable. " No ; we
need not go to her just yet ; Langley will bring
her out to us by-and-bye. I think I shall tell
Susan to let us have some tea, it is so delightfully
cool and shady under these trees."

^' Wait a moment, Cathy," catching hold of
her dress, as she brushed past her, on hospitable
thoughts intent. " Tell me why you do not like
Miss Cunningham."

But I do like her," returned Cathy, opening
her eyes widely. "Who has said anything to the
contrary ? I think she is a dear little thing, and
as good as gold. Why her father and sisters
dote on her ; only they have spoiled her between
them."

Then what put you out so the other night ? "
persisted Queene.

My dear, that is a complaint to which I am
often subject Many things put me out, you do
sometimes, and so does Garth, dear, stupid,
blundering old fellow that he is."

Yes ; but, Cathy, do be serious ; you were as
cross as possible that evening with Miss Cunningham,
and would not say anything in her favor."

'' Well, I believe I was cross," candidly. " If
there be one thing 1 hate it is to be managed,
and Dora will try to manage people. It is all
very well in Crossgill, where every one worships
the ground she treads on, — and of course she is
very clever, and does no end of good, — but it is
different when she tries to manage us here. It
will be time enough for that when, — that is, if,
but I think I will leave that part of my
sentence unfinished," continued Cathy, provokingly,
and she ran away into the house, leaving
Queene still more mystified and uncomfortable.

Tea had long been set out on the low table
under the plane-tree before Langley made her
appearance with their visitor. The blue cambric
and the broad-brimmed hat, wreathed with wild
convolvulus, seemed quite familiar to Queene.
Dora held out her hand to her with perfect good
humor ; perhaps her manner was a trifle condescending.


Well, I have come over to talk to you, and

hear all about it," she said, taking possession of
Garth's favorite basket-work chair, and unfastening
her hat in her old fashion. '^ Papa says that
I am too fond of interfering in every one's
business, and that the world would go on just
as well without me ; but I can never believe
that," with a low laugh, as though the idea
amused her. '' Fancy Crossgill and papa without
me ! " folding her dimpled hands complacently.

'' I dare say they would do very well," interrupted
Cathy, who was hovering near her with
some rosebuds in her hands. Dora calmly helped
herself to some, and went on talking.

*they will have to do without me some day,
of course. It is a woman's duty to marry, and I
suppose I must submit to my destiny. The girls
will be sad managers ; but no one could expect
me to remain an old maid on their account. I
have brought them up, and when I have introduced
them into society 1 shall consider that I
have done my duty'

Hear, hear," interposed Garth from the
back-ground, so suddenly that even Langley
started. Queene thought that now, at least,

Miss Cunningham must look conscious and confused
; but she did nothing of the kind ; she
only faced round coolly on the interloper, and
asked what he meant by eaves-dropping in that
fashion ?

Garth laughed and made himself comfortable
on his old grey plaid at her feet ; but he looked
a little mischievous.

*' So there are limits to your sisterly self-sacrifice
after all ? " Dora gave a slight
shrug.

Self - sacrifice, without limits and without
common-sense, remind one of the Suttee and the
car of Juggernaut. When one is speaking generally
it is a pity to particularize. At present T
have too much on my hands to trouble about my
future. There are the girls, and Flo is always in
scrapes, and wanting me," finished Dora, in a
quiet, matter-of-fact way.

'* But Plo is nearly sixteen I "

Yes, and Beatrix is seventeen. I mean
Beatrix to remain at Brussels another year, in
spite of papa and nurse ; she is young for her
age, and is far too shy and unformed to bring out

at present ; Flo has much more in her. But I
did not come over here to talk about the girls
and myself," continued Dora frankly ; '^ they are
good girls of course, but they are much more
trouble than if they had been boys. I wanted a
chat with Miss Marriott, and to hear all about
this school business. I have had to do with
schools ail my life, you know," turning to
Queene ; " and we have a charming place for
our mistress at Crossgill. I have all sorts of
ideas in my head, and shall be able to help you,"
ran on Dora, in a brisk, business-like way that
almost took away Queene's breath.

You are very kind," she began, hesitatingly,
and then she stopped. What business was it of
Miss Cunningham's ? why need she brook patronage
from a girl so little older than herself, and a
perfect stranger ? But Dora misconstrued her
momentary hesitation.

'' Oh, you need not mind troubling me, I take
interest in all sorts of people and things. Papa
calls it interference, but I know better. Most
people content themselves with their own little
sphere of duty, and don't trouble themselves

beyond it, but every one is welcome to my advice
or assistance."

An inexplicable smile crossed Garth's face, but
he made no remark. A close observer might have
said that he was watching the two faces before
him, with a view to comparison. Dora made a
pretty picture as she leant back in her low basket-chair,
with her sunny hair, and the roses fastened
in her blue cambric. Queene looked a little
sombre and shadowy beside her in her brown
dress. Her eyes were down-cast ; she looked
disturbed and ill-appease ; she had lost something
of the brightness and independence that
were her chief charms.

I don't like talking about myself and my
own affairs," she said, with natural reserve ; but
somehow it sounded ungracious in her own ears.
Miss Cunningham was an old friend of the family ;
perhaps she was wrong in treating her like a
stranger ; but Dora was not repulsed by her
coldness.

I dare say you feel a little proud about it ; I
should in your position," with a patronizing kindness
that made Queene's cheeks burn. "Miss

Drake was such a very different person, quite
common-place and ordinary. I think she was a
small tradesman's daughter. It must be difficult
to fit yourself to such a position, to come down
to it with dignity." But Queene would hear no
more.

You talk as though I were somebody, and
not a poor governess, Miss Cunningham. I
hope it is not beneath a clergyman's daughter to
teach the children of honest people. It is not
the work, it is the motive that ennobles the
worker," cried the girl, turning on her young
adviser with burning cheeks, and her eyes suddenly
shining. ^' If I teach the children of the
poor, I remember that I am poor myself. I shall
not be ashamed of my position, or forget that my
mother was a lady. I cannot forget what is due
to myself or her, or to Emmie's mother, who
brought me up, and made me what I am."

Dora raised her pretty eyebrows in some surprise
; this little burst of sentiment perplexed
her.

*' I did not know you were such an impulsive
character, Miss Marriott. You remind me of Plo

a little, it is just her way of breaking out when
she is lectured ; not that I am presuming to
lecture you," with an amused look ; "I am only
offering you advice and assistance. Miss Drake
and I used to have long talks, did we not,
Langley ? and settle all sorts of things. She was
a very ordinary person, and a little commonplace,
I must confess, but she was always ready
to take advice."

I fear you will not find me quite so submissive
as Miss Drake. I am only humble to those
whom I know and love, and who love me ! "
replied Queene, with a soft unsteady smile.
*' You are very good. Miss Cunningham ; but I do
not see how you can help me in this. I have
Langley and Cathy, and they trust me a little,"
finished the girl, with a touching inflexion in her
voice ; " and for the rest, it is hard uphill work,
and I must fight my way alone ; " and then, as
though to put a stop to the argument, she rose
and placed herself by Langley's side.

'' I don't understand. I hope she does not
think me interfering. Perhaps she does not know
that Hepshaw is a sort of second home to me ! "

returned Dora, in unfeigned perplexity, turning
to Garth. Rebuffs were unknown to her ; she was
far too used to worship to take them kindly ;
her face changed and clouded a little. '' I call
it such a pity to show this sort of feeling in such
a position. You have all of you made a mistake,
Mr. Clayton ; she is far above her work."

*' There you are wrong," replied Garth warmly.
Dora had risen, and he had followed her, and
they were standing by the little gate looking
down the plane - tree walk. Some children
were planting flowers on a newly-made grave ;
some one was practising on the organ ; through
the open door they could hear snatches of
Bach's Passion music. *' Believe me, you are
wrong ; Miss Marriott's a fine creature. She
thinks nothing beneath her, and would work
herself to death for that little sister of hers.
You are both good creatures ; I wonder why
you persist in misunderstanding each other ? " he
continued in an aggrieved voice and with a
man's usual blindness in such cases. " I am
disappointed that you do not care more for
Langley's protegee, Miss Dora."

Oh, as to that, I like her well enough," she
returned, a little coolly ; " she is in good style
and lady-like, only far too impulsive for my taste.
She reminds me of Flo, and you know I always
find Flo rather troublesome."

I know your conduct to your sisters is perfectly
admirable," was the answer. '' You have
been a mother to them in every sense of the
word. Why Flo perfectly adores you, Dora."

I am used to being adored," she returned
quietly. It had not escaped her notice that he
had gone back to his old habit, and called her
Dora ; she rather liked it than otherwise. It
was very pleasant lingering by the little gate in
the sunset. She was quite aware how pretty
a picture she made, with her uncovered hair,
and the roses in the blue cambric. Garth, tall
and dark, and in his grey working suit, made a
splendid foil to her.

Shall we take a turn on the terrace ? " he
asked in a low voice, unlatching the little gate ashe
spoke ; but Dora shook her head. It v7ould
be very pleasant wandering there in the sunset
with Garth Clayton ; but then there were the

II. 24:

girls, and Flo not sixteen yet. Things were progressing
certainly, but perhaps, under the circumstances,
it would not be wise to expedite
matters. Her sisters must be introduced into
society, and Beatrix must be trained to take her
position at Crossgill Vicarage before she could
turn her attentions to such things. There must
be no loitering in the sunset just now ; men were
impressionable, and well, perhaps Garth's manner
was a little different to-day ; he certainly looked
a little disconsolate over her refusal.

I shall gather you some roses before you go ;
you won't refuse them I hope, Dora," he returned,
somewhat discontentedly.

Yes, you may gather me some ; but you
must not call me Dora, please. It is a great
pity, but we are not children now, and people
will talk."

'' Let them talk," returned Garth, now really
provoked. He was very proud, and this repulse
did not suit him. The sunset was inviting, and
the shining little head beside him seemed to draw
him with golden meshes. He was half serious and
half jesting, but the mood and the hour had a

certain sweetness not to be lightly lost ; but if
she chose to repulse him, well, it had not gone
very far, and on the whole he preferred his
freedom ; but here Dora was looking at him
pathetically with her blue eyes.

Are you cross with me ? one cannot always
please one's self. Papa will want me ; and one has
so many duties," sighed the young diplomatist,
and cannot choose one's pleasures," looking at
him slyly, but with a certain softness.

** No ; you are very good. I suppose I am
like other men, and want my own way. Do you
think if you had more to do with me that you
could cure me, Dora ? "

'' Hush, here comes Miss Marriott," she returned,
laying her hand warningly on his arm.
It was a very pretty hand, and showed well on
the grey coat-sleeve. He had called her Dora
again, but she did not again rebuke him ; somehow
his tenacity did not displease her. " He will
be troublesome by-and-bye, but I think I shall
be able to manage him," she thought, as she
turned with a somewhat heightened color to the

newcomer

24*

Queene came between them as they fell apart ;
she was not thinking of them just now, but of
something that she had schooled herself to say.

I told Langley that I must come after you,
and she said that I was right. I wanted to say,
Miss Cunningham, that J was wrong just now.
I ought to have thanked you more for your
interest and what you said to me ; you meant it
kindly, very kindly, I am sure." Queene spoke
in rather a measured voice, as though she were
repeating a lesson ; but Dora received the apology
very graciously.

*' I thought you would think better of it, only
you were so impulsive, and missed my meaning.
People always take my advice in the end, they
find it answers. They know that I take interest
and want to help them."

Yes ; and I ought not to reject any well-meant
kindness," returned Queene, with still
more effort, as she noticed Garth's keen survey of
them both.

"1 am glad that you have decided that we are
to be friends and not enemies," replied Dora
calmly, but half amused by what she termed an

exaggeration of feeling. " I know I shall get on
with you better than with Miss Drake. She was
such a very ordinary person, and dressed so very
oddly."

There is no comparison between Miss
Marriott and Miss Drake," interposed Garth, a
little sharply. " Let every one stand on their
own merits."

"You are perfectly right," was the composed
answer. " I am only glad that we all understand
each other so well. I shall come and see you in
your cottage, Miss Marriott, and then I am sure
we shall become friends."

Queene did not answer, but a rebellious flush
rose to her cheek. She had come between them,
act was still standing there on the little path.
The children had planted their flowers and had
gone home. The music had ceased, and the
organist had closed the church. " Let us go
back to the house and to Langley," observed
Miss Cunningham a little impatiently, when the
silence had lasted a moment. But as the girls
walked back to the Louse side by side Garth did
not accompany them. He was gathering roses.

CHAPTER TV.

THE Etna OF KARLDALE.

I ask thee for a thoughtful love,
Through constant watching wise,
To meet the glad with joyful smiles.

And wipe the weeping eyes ;
And a heart at leisure from itself,

To soothe and sympathize." L. Tearing.

A FEW days after Miss Cunningham's visit
Langley came into the room where the girls
were sitting as usual, chatting merrily over their
work.

Cathy, do you think you could spare Queene
to us for a few hours ? "

That depends upon circumstances, my dear,
was the cool response.

Because Garth and I want her. I have just
had a letter from Gertrude, and she and Harry
wish us to go over there tomorrow ; she is very

unwell, I fear, and Garth thinks it would be
such a good opportunity to show Queene the
beauties of Karlsmere."

Why should we not all go ? Do go and coax
him, Langley."

Indeed I cannot," replied Langley earnestly.
Gertrude is such an invalid that we cannot
fatigue her with numbers. No, it is no use
teasing him," as Cathy made an impetuous movement
to the door ; *' he has quite decided that he
will only take Queene and me. T thought it
was very nice of him proposing it," with a
deprecating glance at her sister's disappointed
face ; "it will be a treat for Queene ; and you
know in another week or so she will have to
begin work in earnest."

You and Garth never care for me to go over
to Karldale," began Cathy a little crossly, but
Langley stopped her rather hurriedly. She was
a trifle moved from her ordinary composure ;
her face looked more worn and anxious than
usual ; a nervous flush glowed in her thin
cheeks.

My dear, you never will believe in Gertrude's

ill-health. I am sadly troubled about her, and sois
Garth."

I have small sympathy for people who are
always calling ' wolf " replied Cathy, taking up
her work again. " I believe Gertrude's temper
is most in fault."

Then we will not argue about it," returned
her sister, with a little sigh. She was very
patient, but Cathy's mood evidently jarred on
her. Cathy threw down her work again with
such impatience that her needle broke as her
sister left the room.

Why will she give in to that woman's whims
as she does ! I can't understand it. Gertrude
makes a perfect slave of her when she goes there,
and actually Laiigley seems to like it. She is
always going over there now ; and she comes
back tired out and fit for nothing."

"Do you know, I think it vexes Langley
dreadfully when you depreciate Mrs. Chester ; I
have noticed it more than once," observed
Queene, in her shrewd way.

I know it does, and my wretched temper
makes me do it all the more; but Langley is

such a patient old dear that I hate to see her
domineered over and victimized by a womanlike
Gertrude. When I see her with that worried
look in her face I am always ten times more
bitter ; and then I am so fond of Harry, and
Karlsmere would be so delicious this weather,
and I own I was cross," continued Cathy, with
the frankness that made her so lovable ; " but
of course you must go to please them, and
Emmie and I will spend the day with Miss
Cosie."

Queene was thankful that the matter was so
amicably settled ; but since her friend was not
to join in her pleasure she would not dwell on
her own anticipations, delightful as they were ;
but in her heart she thought how good it was of
Mr. Clayton to include her in their little trip.
Since that day in the granite quarry his manner
had insensibly changed to her ; always kind and
gentle, it was now tinged with stronger interest.
A pleasant cordiality marked their intercourse ;
he was always thoughtful for her comfort and
pleasure. Unconsciously, Queene was beginning
to depend for much of her present happiness

upon this friendship with Garth Clayton. *' It is

almost as good as having a brother of my own,"

she said once to Cathy. Queene's hard-working

life, with its stern, morbid realities, had left her

scant leisure for the ordinary dreams of girlhood.

She had never mapped out any bright future foi*

herself; possible lovers had not stolen across the

sad margin of her thoughts. " Those things were

not for her," she had said to herself. "Other

women had a strong arm to lean upon, other

women had fathers and brothers or husbands to

work for them, and shield them in the battle of

life ; she had to work for herself and her helpless

little sister, that was all. And so she took up

her burthen bravely, neither repining that such

things were, nor wasting her best energies with

fruitless regrets for impossibilities. No vague

sentimentalities preyed on her healthy young

nature ; no bitterness for her joyless youth marred

her sweet serenity. "Everything will be made

up to us there, I am sure of it," she would say

to herself, with tender, old-fashioned wisdom.

One day T shall get old, and not care so much

about these things ; perhaps Emmie will marry,

and I shall be aunt Queene, and take care of
her and her children."

And so, with the courage of perfect innocence,
and with a simplicity that was perfectly free from
self-consciousness, Queene gave herself up to the
delight of this new friendship. There was no one
to warn her of danger ; no one to bid the brave
young heart shield itself with greater reserve and
prudence, to question her of the meaning of this
strange happiness that seemed to flood her whole
being[ with brightness.

Every one is so good to me, and I am so
happy," she said almost daily. When alone her
thoughts were a perpetual thanksgiving. An
insensible change had passed over her thoughts
with respect to Garth, she was less critical ; the
defects and flaws of character she had at first
noticed in him became less apparent ; his slight
arbitrariness, his condescension, his masterful assumption
of power, even his lack of deep intellect
were all unnoticed. If he spoke, Queene was
as ready to obey his behests as ever Langley or
Cathy were. If his want of ambition, his perfect
content with himself and his surroundings, sometimes

surprised lier, she began to credit him
with greatness of mind; or if she were too shrewd
for that, to own to herself that even his very
faults were more lovable than other people's
virtues.

He is a sort of Bayard ; he is as courteous tome
as though I were the greatest lady in the
land, instead of a village school-mistress," said
the girl once with tears in her eyes, 'rand
see how good he is to those old ladies at The
Sycamores : he let Miss Hope talk to him fora
whole hour about her Temperance Society,
though I could see he was dreadfully bored by
her. He never hurts people's feelings by letting
them see that they trouble him."

My dear, Garth is perfection, and I am
glad you have found it out," was Cathy's
reply.

Queene found vent for her feelings in a grateful
little speech when she next saw Garth. He
came in at the drawing-room door, throwing his
head back in his usual fashion, and shook himself
like a rough terrier.

What a dirty fellow I look, to be sure ; the

roads have quite powdered me. I hope we shall
have rain before tomorrow."

*' Oh, Mr. Clayton, I have been wanting to
thank you ever since I heard it. It will be so
delightful — tomorrow I mean."

That remains to be proved ; we shall enjoy it
all the more for having you with us' was the
pleasant answer. " " I have been waiting for an
opportunity to drive you over to Karlsmere ever
since you came. The lake is charming, and you
will get quantities of parsley fern for your cottage
garden. By-the-bye, I have been in there this
morning, and the workmen are getting on
famously; all the holes are stopped, and there's
another coat of paint on. I hardly knew the
place. We shall be losing you in another fortnight,
I am afraid ; " for Queene had obstinately
refused to burthen her friends with their presence
a day longer than was necessary.

She tried to look pleased at this announcement
; but a pang crossed her in spite of herself
at the thought of leaving Church-Stile House.
The cottage seemed dull by comparison. True,
she should often see them, and Cathy would be in

and out perpetually ; but she would no longer be
his guest, sharing in tie pleasant every day life
of the family, making one in their plans, a party
to their little jokes and pleasantries. ^' It is time
for me to go, I am getting spoiled amongst you
all. I feel I have been idle long enough," she
said to her friend afterwards ; but somehow she
sighed as she said it.

The day at Karlsmere proved as delightful in
reality as it was in anticipation. Garth was in
one of his boyish, frolicsome moods. He and
Queene hunted for ferns, and gathered wildflowers,
while Langley walked thoughtfully beside
the margin of the beautiful lake. It was a golden
day in Queene's memory. How often she recalled
that walk afterwards. The blue shimmering
lake, so still and silent in the sunlight ; the
winding roads ; the steep woody height on the
farther bank ; the pretty vicarage with its trim
garden and the tiny church, reminding her of a
small ill-furnished room. The tall athletic figure
in the grey suit, vaulting lightly over the crisp
bracken high above them ; the handful of wildflowers
tossed laughingly at her feet ; Langley

standing on a smooth white boulder, looking
with grave unsmiling eyes at the baby waves
lapping to her feet. How well she recalled it
alL

There's Harry coming to meet us," shouted
Garth ; but Langley did not hear him. She
stood in that strange, self-absorbed attitude,
motionless tint oblivious, till Nan ran up to her
and pulled her dress ; and then the color rushed
over her pale face with surprise, and she stooped
and pressed the child closely to her.

** Little Nan, my dear little Nan," she
whispered.

I am father's Nan," lisped the child. "I am
nobody's Nan but father's. Father's up there,"
pointing with her fore-finger to the rocks above
them. " He and Jeb are both there. I carried
Jeb, but he was heavy, and my arms did ache."

"Yes, you are father's Nan," repeated Langley
dreamily ; " father's little comforter ; " and as
she kissed the little face a sudden mist rose
before her eyes.

'' Why are your eyes wet when you kiss me ? "
questioned Nan curiously, *rand why do you

always kiss me so close, so close ? Mammie never
does ; but only father, only father and you."

Hush, Nan ; I love you. Do you hear me,
Nan ? T love you dearly, dearly." Langley
spoke in a strange, stifled voice, but the child
only gazed at her in surprise.

You need not cry about it. You know father
loves me too, but he never cries over me.
Mammie does ; but then she pushes me away''

'^ Ah, poor mother is ill, you know."

Nan reflected a moment gravely. *eyes; her
head did ache. She said ' Go away, Nan, you
tire me ; go to father and Jeb;' and I did go.
Mammie does not love Nan much."

Oh, hush, my darling, hush ! poor mother ! "

She did often say ' Go away, Nan ; Nan is
naughty But Nan is good, always good; father
says so'

What are you talking to Langley about, you
little chatter-box ? Here is Jeb whining his heart
out for you," called out Mr. Chester from the
bank above them. " Stay where you are, pet,
and father will come and carry you'

Father's coming," echoed Nan placidly. She

stood quite quiet and patiently while he talked
to Langley ; but when he lifted her in this arms
she seemed to nestle into them with a little coo
of content. Once or twice during their walk her
father stooped over her and peered into the
white sun-bonnet rather anxiously.

She is not quite as strong as she was, and
seems to tire sooner' he said to Langley.
Gertrude tells me I am wrong to let the child
go about so much in the heat. But what am I
to do ? When I leave her at home she makes
herself ill with fretting. Naughty Nan," in a
tone of infinite tenderness.

"Nan always good," was the somewhat drowsy
answer.

God bless her, so she is, my little white
angel. Look at her, Langley ; this is just what
she does : she always falls asleep in my arms like
this. Sometimes she is so heavy that I am
obliged to put her down. I wonder how I
should feel if I were a poor man on the tramp,
with my child in my arms, and the world before
me. I wonder, too, what mammie would do
without us," as Nan opened her dark eyes, roused
II. 2o

by the suppressed vehemence of her father's
voice.

"Mammy did say * Go away, Nan; Nan makes
mammy's head to ache.' "

I am afraid mammy says that far too often,"
was the somewhat bitter reply. " It seems hard
for a mother never to be able to bear her child's
presence."

Hush ! Miss Marriott will hear you, Harry!"
interposed Langley, gently. Mr. Chester looked
round and shook his head.

'* No ; they are too far behind, and seem
engrossed with each other's conversation. Look
here, Langley, we are old friends, and you know
all our troubles, and I tell you truly, things are
getting worse every day."

Langley 's pale face turned paler, but she made
no answer.

Sometimes I think if I could only see
Gertrude happy and contented I should not
mind what became of me ; I wear out my heart
to please her. I do not think she has ever heard
a harsh word from me since I married her ; can
any husband do more ? "

"No, indeed; you are good, very good, to her,"
was the almost inaudible reply.

'* And yet it has come to this, that I have no
wife and no home, for without sympathy how
can one be said to possess either. If she would
only greet me with a smile sometimes ; if she
had a kind word for me or this child ; but you
heard what she said just now. She is a sensitive
little creature, and I fully believe her mother's
indifference pains her."

Harry, indeed, indeed, you must not be hard
upon Gertrude ; if you only knew how she
suffers."

'^ Do I not know it ? She will not be long
with us, my poor Gertie, I am sure of that ; she
is wasting every day, Langley ; Dr. Marshall says
so. That is what makes it so bitter to think
there can be no peace now. If I could only
make her happy ; if 1 could be sure that she has
not repented of marrying me ; but sometimes I
think that if I had left her amongst her own
people she would not be pining herself to death
as she is now."

A look of intense pain crossed Langley 's face.





You must not think that."

*' But how am I to help it, when I see her
drooping and wasting before my eyes, my own
wife, whom I have sworn to cherish? Sometimes
I dread that she will tell me so ; and then, how
am I to bear it ? "

Gertrude will never tell you so ; " but Mr.
Chester shook his head. " She will never tell you
so," repeated Langley in a steadier voice. " In
spite of her unhappy nature Gertrude is a good
woman. Harry, you always listen to me as if —
as if I were your sister ; do try and believe what
I say this once."

What am I to believe ? "

That it is not your fault. Gertrude says you
are goodness itself to her and the child ; sometimes
she speaks of you both so tenderly. Why
will you not go on bearing things as you have
done, so patiently, so nobly, and trust that Providence
will bring good out of all this evil ? "

Then you think that there is nothing that I
can do for her. I half hoped that you would find
out something that she wanted, some wish that
she might express."

Then I will let you know," replied Langley,
with assumed cheerfulness. In reality her heart
was as heavy as lead, the talk had oppressed her.
Ever ready with her sympathy she had yet found
it hard to comfort him. What comfort could
there be in such a home — a hasty, ill-assorted
marriage, defective sympathy, inequalities of temper,
physical sufferings impatiently borne, the
daily burthen of sickness without ameliorating
circumstances, and all this patiently, nay, heroically
endured. What was she to say but that he
was blameless ? AVhose fault was it that all this
had come upon him ? that he was walking by
her side, groaning aloud for once in the very
heaviness of his spirit ? What could her words
be to him but meaningless truisms, that must
fall flatly on his ear ? Had she an}^ comfort at
all to offer him ? was not such comfort placed
beyond his reach and hers for ever ?

Unconsciously she slackened her pace as such
thoughts came to her, and in a few minutes the
others joined them, and the conversation became
general.

Queene was delighted with the look of the

Grange, as Mr. Chester's house was called. It
was a rambling grey stone house, standing just
at the head of the lake ; a picturesque old archway
embosomed with ivy admitted them into a
place half garden, half orchard, with a low fence
dividing it from the crofts ; the large square hall
was used as a summer sitting-room. From the
inner room a tall dark - eyed woman advanced
languidly to meet them, wrapped up, in spite of
the summer day, in a costly Indian shawl.

Well, Gertie, I have brought your friends,"
exclaimed her husband, cheerfully ; "I met
them half way down the lake. I hope you have
not been expecting us before."

You must have dawdled on your way then,"
returned Mrs. Chester fretfully, '' for I have been
waiting for at least an hour, until I thought I
should have been too nervous to receive them ;
but that is the way when you get with Langley,
Harry, you never remember poor me."

I am sure we walked here straight enough,"
replied Mr. Chester hastily ; but Langley, with a
sweet look, stopped him.

*' We have ventured to bring our friend, Miss

Marriott, Gertrude ; Garth wanted to show her
Karlsmere. She knows what an invalid you are,
and will not make any demands on your strength.
Now you must go and establish yourself comfortably
on your couch, while Queene and I get
rid of some of our dust, and Harry puts dear little
Nan in her crib."

*' I tell Harry that he is killing that child, by
dragging her about in the sun," rejoined Mrs.
Chester, with a shrug of her shoulders. ''He will
not listen to me. One would think he had a
dozen children, and could afford to lose one or
two ; but there, it is no use my talking to
him."

Why, Gertie, I thought you said that your
head was bad, and that Nan was worrying you,"
observed her husband in a deprecating voice.

Well, but she might be playing up-stairs with
her Noah's Ark. Of course I am only a mother,
and don't understand children ; but look how
flushed her face is, Langley."

She is only rosy with sleep," interrupted
Garth, stooping to kiss her. " What a pretty little
face it is ! She is more like you than Harry,"

continued the artful young diplomatist ; " she has
got your eyes and eyelashes, Mrs. Chester."

'' Yes ; she is very like you, Gertie," replied her
husband eagerly. '' Garth is right ; I never saw
it so plainly before."

'' Other people have always seen it," was the
somewhat pointed answer.

Oh, Langley, I don't like her at all," exclaimed
Queene, when she found herself alone
with Langley in the large pleasant room overlooking
the crofts. " 1 always thought Cathy
was prejudiced; but I think her so — so disagreeable."


She has been waiting for us, you see, and that
always makes her nervous ; one must make
allowance for an invalid's humor."

Some invalids are quite pleasant," returned
Queene stoutly. " There is a fretful chord in her
voice that jars somehow. She is very slim and
elegant, and I suppose some people would call her
handsome ; but I don't like her gloomy dark
eyes, and her mouth goes down at the corners.
I always distrust people's tempers when I see
that."

'' I did not know that you were such an
observer, my dear."

I know when people's faces please me, and
when I shall get to love them," was the oracular
rejoinder. '' T could never love Mrs. Chester,
Langley, though I might get to pity her intime,"
and Langley attempted no further
defence.

Queene found her first impressions only
deepened as the day went on. There was a carping
fretfulness in Mrs. Chester's manner to her
husband that must have provoked a less sweet
temper, but at times he scarcely seemed to notice
it. When the child was in the room she seemed
to engross all his attention ; when she was
absent he appeared restless and ill-appease. ^' She
can be pleasant to every one but to him," Queene
thought to herself. " Cathy was right when she
said that she detested that woman."

But even Queene and Cathy might have found
some pity in their youthful intolerance if they
had overheard the brief fragments of a conversation
that passed between Mrs. Chester and
Langley.

'' Oh, Gertrude, I know it is hard ; but if you
would only try, for his and the child's sake, to
control yourself a little ; you do not know how
unhappy you are making him."

Does he complain of me to you ? " she demanded
fiercely ; " that would be manly and
generous on his part."

"Do you want me to leave off talking to
you ? " replied Langley in a tone of genuine grief.
^' Oh, Gertrude, Gertrude, what will you say
next ? Do you wish to know what he did really
say ? He asked me if there was nothing he could
do for you. He begged me to find out if there
was any wish that he could gratify ; he — but I
cannot repeat it. If you had only heard what
he said ! "

Mrs. Chester rose feverishly from her couch
and caught hold of Langley's dress.

There it is. No, don't turn from me, don't
look so shocked ; you know it is his very goodness
that makes me worse. Why is he so good
to me when I try him so 1 Sometimes I think
that I am possessed with some sort of evil spirit ;
I can't help tormenting him. Oh, Langley, why

did he insist on my marrying him ? why did he
not leave me in my old home when he knew,
when I told him, that I could not ever care
for him as I could for that other ? when — "
but Langley stopped her with a face of
horror.

'* Hush ! don't mention his name ! Harry's
wife can have no remembrance of that sort.
You are a good woman, Gertrude ; I have always
said so."

'' No, no," she returned, bursting into tears ;
'' don't judge me out of your merciful heart,
Langley. I have never been a good wife to
Harry, and I never shall. I try to forget, but the
effort is killing me. Oh, why did he not leave
me in my old home, and not have doomed us
both to this misery ? "

Hush ! you are not yourself to-day ! I cannot
hear you talk any more in this way ; " and
Langley rose, pale and resolute. " Put yourself
and your unhappiness aside, it is too late to talk
of such things now ; think only of the duty you
owe to Harry and your little child."

Yes, my little child, who will so soon be

without a mother," she returned, weeping passionately;
but Langley only stooped over her with
sad dry eyes, and, kissing her, bade God bless
her, and turned away.

CHAPTER V.

A GOLDEN HARVEST.

Yes ; keep me calm, tliougli loud and rude

The solids my ears that greet ;
Calm in the closet's solitude,

Calm in the bustling street ;
Calm in the hour of buoyant health,

Calm in my hour of pain ;
Calm in my poverty or wealth.

Calm in my loss or gain." — Boar.

It had been arranged that Queene should return
to Carlisle for a day or two before entering
on her new duties, leaving Emmie behind her at
Church-Stile House. She must bid good-bye to
her old friend, Caleb Euneiman, and redeem her
promise of seeing Mr. Calcott again. A brisk
correspondence had been kept up between her
and Caleb. The old man had expressed himself
well satisfied with her plans, though many and

sore were his regrets at losing her and his little
favorite. " I told Mr. Calcott your intention, as
you wished me, my dear," wrote Caleb, in his
cramped neat hand. " He received the news in
silence, but after a while he muttered, * Well,
well, it will do for a time ; but it seems strange.
Frank Marriott's daughter a village schoolmistress
! ' and then he asked, querulously, if the
girl were coming back ? I think he misses you,
my dear, though not more than I do ; and what
we shall do without you and the precious lamb
is more than Molly and 1 can tell ; but she has
got your old room ready, and has baked a first-rate
cake ; and there's a warm welcome waiting
for you. Miss Queene, my dear ; so no more
at present, from your attached friend, Caleb
Eunciman."

The day after their return from Karlsmere, as
they were sitting at breakfast. Garth looked up
rather suddenly from the paper he was reading.
"Miss Marriott, I am afraid you have lost a
friend," he said, rather abruptly. " Andrew
Calcott of Carlisle is dead ! "

Uncle Andrew ! Oh, poor Uncle Andrew ! "

exclaimed Emmie, mournfully; but Queene only
started and turned pale.

*'By some mistake the announcement has been
postponed; he died three days ago. Ah, there
is the postman coming up the walk. I should
not be surprised if you have another letter from
your old friend, Mr. Runciman."

Garth was right; but Queene rose from the
table and carried off the letter to read in the
privacy of her own room. Cathy found her
quietly crying over it when she went up sometime
afterwards.

'* I did not think I should have minded it so
much," she said, drying her eyes as Cathy
entered ; '^ but it seems so dreadful, his dying
alone in the night, with no one near him.
Perhaps Caleb was right, and he may have
passed away in his sleep."

Is that all they know about it ? "

Yes ; they just went up in the morning, and
found him lying there quite cold, with a smile
on his face. He never would let any one stay
in his room ; that was one of his peculiarities.
Caleb knew this would happen one night, but he

seems dreadfully down about it. I am to go
over next Thursday, you know, and he says this
need not make any difference."

"You will be sorry that you have not seen
him again."

*eyes; it is that that troubles me. I cannot
bear to think that I have been enjoying myself
all this time, and that he has been missing me.
T remember now, that he seemed to think that it
was good-bye*'

Queene's bright spirits were quenched for the
remainder of the day. Her tender heart was
grieved by the thought of the lonely death-bed.
Garth found her looking still pale and depressed
when he came back from the works. To distract
her thoughts he took her and Cathy for a long
country walk, from which they did not return
until late in the evening. He had never been
more gentle to her. Queen ie remembered afterwards.
He and Cathy had restrained their high
spirits, and had only talked to her of what roused
and interested hereof the school, the cottage,
and plans for her new life. Walking back in the
moonlight, their conversation flowed in graver

channels. He and Cathy talked of their mother ;
and Queene for the first time had a clue to the
passionate devotion with which Garth regarded
her memory.

She bade good-bye to her friends rather sadly
when the day arrived for her to go back to
Carlisle. She was only to be absent three days,
and yet the separation caused her an effort.
Why had the place grown so suddenly dear to
her that it cost her a pang only to turn her back
upon it ?

Garth and Cathy accompanied her to the
station.

I do not know what I shall do without you,
Queen," exclaimed her friend, disconsolately.

*ewe shall all miss you, Miss Marriott," echoed
Garth, brightly. '' Take care of yourself, and
come back to us as soon as you can." And the
pleasant words lingered long in her memory.

But, in spite of herself, her journey was a dull
one. Mr. Calcott's sudden death still oppressed
her. The day was sultry and sunless ; heavy
thunder - clouds brooded on the edge of the
horizon ; the air was surcharged with electricity ;
II. 26

a storm seemed impending. It broke upon her
long before she arrived at her destination.
Queene sat quietly in her place and watched the
fierce play of the elements, half fascinated and
half bewildered ; a vague excitement seemed
roused in her, a strange disturbance and sense of
change oppressed her.

'' I am just the same, and yet I feel different,"
she said to herself; "I suppose this storm
excites me. I wonder if he meant it when he
said he would miss me, or if it was only his way ;
he must always say something pleasant. I
wonder if he would be very sorry if I were never
to come back. Would it make any difference to
him, really ? They are all going to the Abbey
this evening ; how I wish I could be with them ;
but this is unkind to my poor Caleb. I am
ashamed to think how selfish I am getting. I
will try not to think of Hepshaw or ChurchStile
House until Monday ; " but, in spite
of her good resolutions, her thoughts had
travelled there again before another half-hour
had elapsed.

The storm had ceased, but the rain was still

pouring steadily down as Queene plodded
through the streets of Carlisle. She had to pass
Granite Lodge on her way to Caleb's ; but the
sight of the grim portico made her shiver and
avert her eyes. She gave quite a sigh of relief
when she found herself in the dark entry of
Caleb's house, with Molly's bright face smiling
at her.

"Ay, the master's in there. Master, master,
here's our young lady come an hour before her
time," vociferated the good woman, dropping
curtseys profusely in her excitement.

'why, Molly, my dear creature, you need not
to be so ceremonious," exclaimed Queene, pressing
the hard hand between both her own ; 'rit is
only Miss Queene; surely you have not forgotten
me in this little time."

No ; but I must not forget my manners to
my betters," returned Molly, coloring and dropping
another hurried curtsey. " But go in there,
my dear young lady. I think he is a bit dazed
with bis sleep, or something, or he would have
come out to meet you."

Caleb rose from his chair rather feebly as she

26*

entered ; Lis blue eyes had certainly a dazed lookin
them.

Miss Queene, my dear," he said, rather
tremulously, " I am not so young as I was,
and things sadly upset me. Molly is a good
creature, but her intelligence is limited. I have
wanted you badly the last few days, you and the
precious lamb."

Dear Caleb, if I had known that I would
certainly have brought Emmie."

No, no need ; it is only an old man's whim ;
she is better off where she is. I have been trying
to write to you the last day or two. Miss Queene,
my dear ; but I got so flurried and made such
poor beginnings that I was obliged to give it up,
not being so young as I was, my dear, and soon
upset by what's over and gone."

'' I am afraid it has been a sad shock to you,"
observed Queene, gravely. Caleb's wrinkled
hand was quite cold and shaking, and Queene
rubbed it in a soft, caressing way as she spoke.

You might have knocked me over with a
feather," returned Caleb, reverting to his favorite
expression. *' It was not so much the shock of

his death, though I have worked for him, boy
and man, just fifty-five years last Michaelmas,
nor the manner of it, for he slept away as peaceful
as an infant ; it is what came after, the
mysterious dealings of Providence ; but I must
have my pipe, saving your presence, Miss Queene
dear. And you must have something to eat and
drink to keep up your strength ; and then you
and me will have a deal of comfortable talk
together, when we are both more composed ; "
and Queene, seeing how agitated the old man
really was, yielded with her usual sweet unselfishness,
and went up to the little room, with the
big brown bed, where she and Emmie had slept,
with the window overlooking the stone-mason's
yard, with the great slabs and blocks of stone.

The rain was dripping on the sheds and the
white, unfinished monuments. Queene stood fora
long time listening to the soft patter on the
leaves, until she found she was in the Warstdale
granite quarry, sitting amongst the grey stones,
with Garth stretched on his plaid beside her,
and roused herself with difficulty.

She went down after that, and poured out tea

for herself from the little black teapot, and did
justice to Molly's cake ; and looked at the grate,
wreathed with sprays of silvery honesty, and
wondered if the rain had cleared up at Hepshaw,
and whether they would go after all to the
abbey; and then scolded herself for being so
stupid and abstracted.

Caleb was rather quiet also, and sat regarding
her solemnly through his puffs of smoke ; now
and then he seemed about to speak, but checked
himself. He cleared his throat rather nervously
when Queene had ended her little repast and
took a seat beside him.

Now, dear old friend, I am refreshed, and we
can have our talk," she said cheerfully. "Fill
your pipe again ; you never talk so well without
it, you know. I want to tell you about Emmie,
and the cottage, and the school, and the dear
people at Church-stile House ; if I do not begin
now I shall never get through it all in three
days."

Ay, ay ; but there is something we must
talk about before that ; the cottage and the
school were all very well once, but now things

are different. As I said before, I am not so
young as I was, Miss Queene, dear; and you
will not flurry me and make me nervous if I tell
you a few of my thoughts ? "

Now, Caleb, you are not going to speak
against my little scheme," cried the girl reproachfully.
'rit is all settled ; nothing in the world
could shake my purpose. I would rather be the
school-mistress at Hepshaw, and earn my daily
bread, than be the richest lady in Carlisle."

The old man adjusted his pipe with trembling
fingers.

Do you hear me, Caleb ? "
I hear you, Miss Queene, my dear."
"Do you believe what I say ? When I lie
down at night I am so happy that I cannot
sleep ; I can hardly say my prayers sometimes, I
want to sing them instead. Think of Emmie
and I having our wish, and living in our own
cottage ! Will you come and see us there, dear,
you and Molly ? "

No, Miss Queene ; I hope not. Listen to me,
my dearie. There, my pipe is out, but never
mind ; somehow 1 can't smoke it to-night.

Supposing you were rich, very rich, Miss
Queene, how about the cottage then ? "

Suppose that you were talking nonsense,"
she returned, laughing. " Do you know, I have
learnt to make bread, and to cook, and to mend,
and to iron, and to do all sorts of useful things.
I mean my cottage to be the cleanest and the
prettiest in Hepshaw. There is quite a large
garden, only it was grown over with rank grass ;
but Captain Fawcett and Mr. Clayton have had
it dug up. We mean to plant beans and peas,
and all kinds of vegetables ; but I shall have
roses and mignonette under the windows."

My dear, you must listen to me ; never mind
about the cottage just now. What did I say to
you, dearie, about the mysterious dealings of
Providence ? Things happen sometimes that
we never expected. What were you saying, my
dearie, about being the richest woman in
Carlisle?"

The old man's manner was so singular that
the girl gazed at him in astonishment.

Supposing something strange had happened.
Miss Queene," he continued nervously, " and

you were to wake up one morning — this morning,
say — and find yourself a rich lady, what should
you say to that, my dearie ? "

I — I should be sorry, I think. Oh, Caleb !
what do you mean '? " she implored, roused at last
by his agitation.

"No, no; don't say that. Miss Queene, dear;
it is tempting the good Providence that has
turned his hard heart, and made him restore to
you and that precious lamb fourfold of what
was due to you. * I was sick and ye visited
me.' There it is, my dearie ; and the blessing
has come back to you again when you least
expected it.^^

'* Caleb, I cannot bear this," exclaimed the
girl, turning suddenly very pale. " Do you see
how you are trying me ? Is there something I
ought to know, and that you are trying to
prepare me to hear, something about Mr. Calcott
and Emmie ? "

Nay, nay ; not about Emmie."

About myself, then ? "

Ay," patting her hand tremulously, '' about
yourself, Miss Queene, dear. You have woke up

this morning a rich woman. Mr. Calcott has left
you all his money."

'' Oh, Caleb ! no'' — Queene's voice rose almost
to a cry — " not to me, surely, surely ! You must
mean Emmie ! Emmie is his niece, not I ; I am
nothings to him."

Ah ! but you ministered to him like a
daughter ; you were not turned from him by
his hard words."

"But I was cruel, and left him alone in his
sufferings ; I never came back even to wish him
good-bye. I have been thinking of myself, not
him, all this time. Caleb, I can never take his
money, it belongs to Emmie ; I can never defraud
Emmie," and Queene leaned her head on her
old friend's shoulder and burst into a perfect
passion of tears.

Caleb stroked her hair gently. '' Hush, my
pretty ; there is something like five thousand a
year, all in safe investments. But the lawyer
will be round here presently, and tell you all
about that. He has left me an annuity of three
hundred a-year in return for fifty-five years of
faithful services. Think of that, Miss Queene !

You might have knocked me down with a feather
when I heard that."

'eyes; but Emmie," she sobbed. ''I cannot
defraud Emmie."

Bless you, Miss Queene, dear, you are not
defrauding the poor innocent. If the money had
not come to you it would have gone to some
hospital. Have you forgotten his vow, that his
sister and her child should never inherit a
farthing of his money? No doubt he repents
these rash words of his, and he means you to take
care of Emmie, and give her the benefit of his
wealth."

Are you sure, quite sure, that he meant
that ? "

Positive and certain, my pretty."

And you do not think I shall be wrong to
accept his bounty for her sake ? "

Surely not. It would be quarrelling with the
dispensations of Providence."

'' I feel so oppressed," cried the girl, laying her
hand on her bosom ; '' there is a weight here as
though I where sorry and not glad. If he had
given me a little I could have taken it and have

been thankful, but so much crushes me somehow."


How about the cottage now ? " interposed
Caleb jocosely, trying to rally her, but she stopped
him with quivering lips.

Hush ! I can bear no more, not to-night. Did
you say the lawyer was coming ? Let me go away
for a little, I feel sick and giddy, and I want to
understand it all."

Then run away, my dearie, and I will send
for you when he comes ; there's a bit of a letter
or a paper that he wants to give you."

She is as cold and white as a bit of marble ;
I wonder what's come to the pretty creature," he
muttered when he was left alone. " She is not
heart glad, I can see that. She has a scared lookin
her face, as though she has lost her foothold
somehow."

Queene had regained her calmness by the time
the lawyer made his appearance. She listened
to his explanations and instructions silently but
with composure, only her compressed lips and
closely-locked hands showed the intense strain of
feeling under the quietude of her manner.

'* Five thousand a-year ; you are sure that is
the sum mentioned," she said, when he paused
once.

Yes ; house property, and investments in the
funds, consols, and various securities will yield
about that sum, I should think. The furniture is
to be sold, but the plate and valuables are yours.
There are various legacies to old servants, and a
pension or two ; but tomorrow we can go over
particularly into details."

** And it is all for my own use and benefit ? "

*' Exactly so ; the terms of the will are binding.
There is to be no partition or deed of gift to
any other person during your lifetime. There is
a small sealed paper addressed to you, which Mr.
Calcott gave into my hand, and which you had
better read at once, it may throw some light on
his conduct."

Queene took the paper. It was written in a
feeble, almost illegible, hand, and was not easy to
decipher ; the beginning was strangely abrupt.

I have told you that I have no niece ; I
must wash my hands of the child. AVhen a man
has taken an oath upon his lips it is too late then

to talk of repentance. But I can trust her to
Frank Marriott's daughter. Mind, girl ; I say that
I can trust you, and a dead man s trust is sacred.

'' My money is my own to do with it as I will.
I have no relation in the world, for the child is
nothing to me. Do you remember telling me
that you were sorry for me, that no one would
shed tears over my grave ? I can recal your
words now. ' It must be so dreadful not to
want love, to be able to do without it.' Child,
child, what possessed you to say such words tome
?

'' Well, you are wrong ; Caleb will be sorry forme,
the poor fellow has a faithful heart ; and, if I
mistake not, you will shed a tear or two when
you hear that I have gone. Do you recollect
how you reproached me the first time I saw you ?
Though you were dying of hunger,' you said, * you
would not crave my bounty.' You told me that
I had given you hard, sneering words ; that I was
refusing to help you in your bitter strait ; that I
was leaving you, young and single-handed, to fight
in this cruel world. Girl, those were hard words
to haunt a dying man's pillow. Well, well, I am

dying, and I know you have forgiven me, though
I have a wish to hear you say it once ; but I
know you forgave me when you ,gave me that
kiss. Ah, I have not forgotten that. I am
leaving you all my money, think of that ! to
Frank Marriott's daughter ! It has been a curse
to me, mind you turn it into a blessing. Remember,
I trust the child to you. Perhaps in the
many mansions, — but there, Emily was a saint,
and I am a poor miserable sinner. The child is
like her mother, so take care of her. If Emily and
I meet — but there's no knowing — I should like
to tell her the child has suffered no wrong, — the
many mansions — there may be room for Andrew
Calcott ; who knows ? There, God bless you ; God
bless you both. I am getting drowsy and must
sleep ; " but here the letter broke off abruptly.

"I found him exhausted with the effect of
writing," observed Mr. Duncan, turning his head
away that he might not see Queene's agitated
face ; "he made me seal it up in his presence,
and then before us all to leave him. In the
morning the nurse found him lying as you have
heard, with his face to the light ; he had been

dead some hours. I was quite struck with the
change in him when I went up ; he looked years
younger. There was a smile on his face, and all
the lines seemed smoothed away. He had been a
great sufferer all his life, and that made him
something of a misanthrope."

Yes, yes ; no one understood him, and even
I was hard upon him," returned Queene, bursting
into tears again. Ah, why had she forgotten
him ? Did she know that the dead hand would
have been stretched out to her with a blessing

in it for her and the child ?

CHAPTER VI.
queene's whim.

She knew not what was lacking.

Knew not until it came ;
She gave it the name of friendship,

But that was not its name.
And the truth could not be hidden

From her own clear-seeing eyes,
When the name her own heart whispered,

And whispered too, ' Be wise.' " — Pisa Craig-Knox,

The storm had wholly ceased, but a few snatches
of summer lightning still played on the ragged
edge of the clouds when Queene at last bade
her old friend good night, and went up to her
little room, to think over the bewildering events
of the day. The air was still oppressed and
sultry. The white slabs of stone in the mason's
yard shone dimly in the darkness ; the wet ivy
scattered a shower of drops on the girl's uncovered
head as she leaned out, as though gasping for
II. 27

air. A faint perfume of saturated roses and
drowned lavender pervaded everything. A blue-grey
moth trailed his draggled wings feebly
across the sill. The dark-scented air seemed full
of mystery and silence.

Queene leant her head upon her hands and
tried to think, but in reality she was too numb
and bewildered. "What has happened tome?
why am I more sorry than glad about it all ?
how have I deserved it ? and what am I to do
with all this wealth that has come to me 1 '' she
kept saying to herself over and over again.

A few hundreds would have sent her back
rejoicing and triumphant. A modest competency,
an assured income, would have lightened the
whole burthen of her responsibility, and made
her young heart happy ; but all this wealth ! It
would not be too much to say that for the time
she was simply crushed by it.

*give me neither poverty nor riches ; feed me
with food convenient to me." , Queene, as well
as Garth Clayton, had ever loved that prayer of
the wise Agar. If she could have chosen her lot
in life it would have been in some such words

as these. To have sufficient, but not too much,
was the very sum and substance of her wishes.

Now a strange sense of trouble and loss
oppressed her. Her plans for the future were
strangely disturbed ; a moral earthquake had
shattered her airy castles, and she was looking
mournfully at their wrecks. Her cottage and
her work, must she relinquish both ? Was
Emmie's childish notion of happiness to be
frustrated also ? "I would rather be the schoolmistress
at Hepshaw than the richest lady in
Carlisle." How passionately she had said those
words, and yet she had meant them from her
very heart.

And then, with a sudden sharp pang, she
remembered that it was one of Garth Clayton's
peculiarities to dislike riches for women. A
certain conversation that had passed between
him and his brother occurred to her with painful
vividness.

One of Garth's school friends had just married
a wealthy widow.

What a lucky fellow young Margrave is,"
Ted had grumbled. " He was never a fellow for

27*

work, and now he need not do another stroke of
business for the remainder of his life. See if I
don't pick up a rich wife for myself one of these
days."

What ! you would consent to live on your
wife's money ! " returned his brother, with a face
of disgust. 'you would help yourself out of
her pocket, in order that you might eat the bread
of idleness ! a nice manly notion that."

Why should a man be bound to work for
both if he does not choose ? " replied Ted, sulkily.
*'I thought this was an enlightened age, and that
the rights of women would entitle them to the
honor of helping to be bread-winner. Don't
pull such a long face, Garth ; I wouldn't marry
any girl if she were weighted in gold unless I
liked her, only I inean to invest my affections
prudently."

I don't think I could ever fall in love with a
rich woman," was Garth's emphatic answer. " I
believe I am peculiar on this point. If I ever
marry, my wife must be dependent on me, not I
on her. Why one of the chief pleasures of
matrimony must be to bully your wife sometimes,

just to see how nicely she takes it ; but
if she has all the pounds, shillings, and pence on
her side, she might turn round and bully me."

Garth, how can you be so absurd," broke in
Cathy.

You see, a husband ought to have all the
power," he continued, in his droll, half-serious
way. " The threat of withholding a new dress
would reduce any woman to a state of abject
submission. I should like my wife, provided I
ever have one, which is not likely if you are
going to be so extravagant, Cathy, I should
like her to coax and wheedle me out of all her
ribbons and fineries ; but if she could demand a
cheque for a new silk dress whenever she liked —
I should thank you to remember, Mr. Clayton,
who it is who brought you all that money' —
why what a fool I should feel."

Langley, do hear him ; when he pays all our
bills without looking at a single item."

Ah, but you are not my wife, my dear, that
makes all the difference. The immaculate creature
whom I^ honor with my regard must be
made aware that she is marrying a man with a

hobby. Why," finished Garth, with a sudden
glow of strong feeling on his face, *rit must
destroy the very nature and meaning of things
not to feel that your wife is dependent upon you
for everything."

How well Queene recalled this conversation.
How truly it spoke of the nature of the man — his
sturdy independence, his pride and love of
authority, and also of the tenderness that loved
to shield and protect.

Garth always cared most for what was dependent
on him ; feminine self-reliance seldom pleased
him. Queene's independence was simply owing
to circumstances ; she was strong-minded and
yet not self-asserting; her force of will seldom
came to the surface. In every day life, amongst
those who loved her, she was singularly submissive
and yielding, , and from the first she had
placed implicit trust in Garth Clayton, in a way
that had touched him to the heart.

A bitter reflection crossed her mind now —
Garth was good to her ; he had in a way taken
her under his protection, and was showing her
much brotherly kindness ; would he not lose

interest in her now she was rich ? Queene
remembered how coldly he had talked of a certain
school friend of Langley's, a young heiress, who
had lately settled some miles from Hepshaw.
Langley had once or twice proposed driving over
to see her, but Garth had always negatived the
notion.

Caroline is such a good creature," Langley
would say ; '* she is not pretty, but thoroughly
nice, and so bright."

Then go over, by all means, and see her, my
dear ; but I must ask you to excuse me from
accompanying you." And when Cathy had pressed
him, he had seemed put out, and had muttered,
that he had something better to do than to run
after girls all day, especially when they were
heiresses."

Queene thought of all this with a certain
dismay and sinking of heart. She was an heiress
herself, and he disliked heiresses. Perhaps, when
he knew that, his manner would change ; it
would become cooler and more distant. How
could she ever bring herself to bear that ?

The thought of the cottage became every

moment dearer. He was furnishing it for her
now. He and Langley had been up to the sale,
but the whole business had been kept a secret
from her.

*' You know you are to leave all these details
to me," he had remarked casually on his return.
Queene was quite aware how often Cathy and
Langley were closeted with him in his study.
Cathy would come out from these interviews
very round eyed and mysterious, and with an air
of importance that amused Queene. She had a
notion once or twice that the pile of new towels
and dusters in Langley 's basket were not for the
use of the inhabitants of Church-Stile House ;
but she dared not inquire the truth.

Was this pleasant surprise they were planning
to be in vain ? And then again, was she not
bound by her work'? The Vicar and churchwardens
had elected her as mistress of the Hep-shaw
girls' school, was she not bound to fulfil
her duties until the vacancy could be filled ?

Queene's young head and heart were in a
whirl ; regret, pride, pleasure, and yet pain, each
in turn predominated. " What shall I do ? what

ought I to do ? " she kept repeating ; and then
all at once a look of amusement, almost of glee,
crossed her face. " I have it ! but will it do ?
will it be right ? Oh ! what will Caleb say ?
And then if he, if Mr. Clayton, found out
would he not think it childish and whimsical
to the last degree ; but I can't help it, I must
have breathing time and a little happiness first."

When Queene had reached this conclusion
she laid her head on the pillow, but it was not
easy to still her throbbing pulses ; for almost the
first time in her healthy young life sleep entirely
forsook her. The morning sun was flooding the
little chamber, the birds were twittering and
pluming themselves amongst the ivy, before a
brief forgetfulness sealed her senses ; a confused
dream followed. She thought she was standing
on a lonely sand-bank, when suddenly it changed
to shifting gold beneath her feet ; she felt herself
sinking, and cried out to some one to save her ;
and woke to find Molly's homely face bending
over her, with a great bunch of roses in her
hand.

I have been out to the market, and I bought

these of a poor decent-looking body. The
master's been down nigh upon an hour, but he
would not let me disturb you before this," cried
Molly, dropping one of her old-fashioned curtseys.

Queene laid her hot cheek against the cool
crimson hearts of the roses. "Oh, Molly! you
dear, kind creature, how delicious ; and how
thankful I am that you woke me. Do you know,
you have saved me from a horrible death. I was
drowning in gold, sinking in it ; it was all hard
and glittering, and seemed to strangle me. How
sweet the roses and the sunshine are after it.
Oh ! " with a little whimsical shudder, " I wish
I had not woke up such a very rich woman,
Molly."

Queene was in a curious mood all breakfast-time
; she would not talk sensibly, and she
would persist in turning a deaf ear to all Caleb's
scraps of advice and wisdom. When their frugal
meal was finished she dragged Caleb's great
elbow-chair to the open window, and placed
herself on the low window-seat beside it. " Now,
Caleb, I want to talk to you," she said coaxingly.

'' But, Miss Queene dear, it is getting late,

and you have over-slept yourself, you know ;
and there is the office, and Mr. Duncan ; he will
be expecting us''

What is the good of being an heiress if one
cannot do as one likes, and keep lawyers and
those sort of people waiting ? " returned Queene,
coolly. '' I am a different person to what I was
yesterday ; so different that I have to pinch
myself now and then to be sure that I am really
Queene Marriott, and not some one else. I feel
like that man in the * Arabian Nights' Entertainment,'
only I forget his name."

But, my dear young lady," pleaded Caleb,
helplessly.

Now, Caleb, you are to be good, and listen
to me. I am quite serious, quite in earnest ; and
if you give me any trouble I shall just take the
next train back to Hepshaw, and leave you and
Mr. Duncan to do as you like with all this
dreadful money."

Caleb held up his hands in amazement.
Dreadful money ! " he gasped.

It is very rude to repeat people's words,"
replied the girl, with a little stamp of her foot.

*' It is dreadful to me ; it has been suffocating and
strangling me all night. I can't be rich all at
once like this, it takes my breath away. Do you
hear me, Caleb ? I don't mean to be rich for
another twelvemonth."

Aye, what ? I am not as young as I was, and
maybe I am a little hard of hearing, my dearie ; "
and Caleb looked at her rather vacantly.

"Listen to me, dear," she repeated, more
gently, laying her hand on his sleeve to enforce
attention. " I have been awake all night ; the
thought of all this money coming to me unearned
and undeserved oppressed and made me quite
unhappy. I do not want it," hesitating, and
reddening slightly over her words ; "it has
interfered with my plans, and turned everything
in my life topsy-turvy. It is not that I am
ungrateful, or that I may not want it some day,
but I must be free, free to do my own work,
free to live my own humble life, free as a gipsy
or Bohemian, for one twelvemonth longer."

Miss Queene, dear, I call this tempting
Providence," began the old man, solemnly.
These riches are yours, and you must use them.

Why bless your dear heart, they are earned and
deserved over and over again, and every one who
knows you will say so."

These riches are mine, and I suppose I ought
to say thank God for them, and I think I do
in my heart, for Emmie's sake," she replied,
solemnly ; " but, Caleb, I am determined for
another year I will not use them. I will take a
little, perhaps ; you and Mr. Duncan shall give
me enough for present use ; but for a year I will bethe
school-mistress at Hepshaw, and nothing else."

*' The school-mistress at Hepshaw ! — five thousand
a-year ! Heaven bless us and save us ! I
am getting dazed. Miss Qaeenie. The schoolmistress
at Hepshaw!"

Yes ; I am bound to my work, and I do not
mean to shrink from it. I mean to hide up my
riches, to keep them a grand secret even from
Emmie ; to live in my little cottage among my
kind friends, and work and be free and happy
for a whole year. Only one year, Caleb," caressing
him, for tears of disappointment stood in his
eyes ; " only one little year out of my whole
life."

And what then, Miss Queene ? "

*' Then T must be brave, and buckle on my
golden harness. Don't be afraid, dear old friend,
I do not mean to shrink from my responsibilities ;
I would not if they were really and truly to
crush me," with a smile, followed by a sigh. " I
only want to have time to get used to the
thought. I must teach and fit myself to be a
rich woman before I am one. Now you must
promise to keep my secret, you and Molly, and
Mr. Duncan. No one knows me ; no one need
concern themselves about my business. I was
Miss Titheridge's under teacher, and now I am
the school-mistress at Hepshaw."

But, Miss Queene — "

Caleb, you must promise me. Hush," kneeling
down before him, and bringing her bright
face on a level with his ; "I will not hear
another word. It is a whim, dear; just Queene's
whim, and that is all."

I saw it was a bit of girl's nonsense, but I
couldn't gainsay her coaxing ways," as Caleb said
to Mr. Duncan afterwards. " She always had a
will of her own, had Miss Queene ; but in the

main she is right and sensible, and has an old
head on young shoulders. It is just a sort of
play-acting. She has set her heart on this school
and cottage of hers, and nothing will do for her
but to go back to it."

'marie Antoinette at Trianon ! I have a
notion that there is more in this than meets the
eye," argued the lawyer shrewdly, with a shrug
of his shoulders. " Well, well, Mr. Runciman,
it is none of our business; the girl is absolute
mistress of her own fortune. Morton and I are
only joint executors, and bound to see things arc
right and fair; she might spend it all on that
charity school of hers, and we should have no
right to interfere."

"But, all the same, it is a bit of pure nonsense,"
returned Caleb, distrustful for the first
time of his favorite's good sense.

Don't trouble your head about it, Eunciman,"
was the good-humored reply ; " the best of
women have their crazy fits sometimes. Mark
my words, before six months are over she will
have changed her tune. Either the truth will
have leaked out, or she will be impatient to try

her heiress-ship ; there's no knowing what will
happen. She has asked me for fifty pounds ; in
another month it will be a hundred. Bless you,
when her fingers have got used to the feel of
bank-notes they will slip through them pretty
readily."

Queene had got her way, but she found it
somewhat difficult to pacify her old friend. She
had just been out to buy some simple inexpensive
mourning for herself and Emmie, and was standing
by the table fingering the stuff's as he
entered.

Silk and crape, that is what you ought to
have worn, Miss Queene," grumbled Caleb, with a
dissatisfied face ; but the girl only shook her head.

'' Crape is such dusty, inconvenient wear in
the country, and Emmie is such a child," she
returned ; *' these simple stuff's will be far more
suitable. Fancy my wearing silk dresses in that
little old barn of a school-room, or in our tiny
cottage ! "

"This is all of a piece with your fantastical
scheme. Cambric ! why Molly could wear that,"
continued Caleb, with the same rueful visage.

*' Dear, dear, what a tempting of Providence,
hoarding and hiding in this miserly way, Miss
Queene. Why, as I said to Molly, our young
lady can take one of those big new houses they
are building near us, and have her carriage and
her riding-horse ; and no doubt she will visit at
the Deanery, and at Rose Castle, and be an out-and-out
fine lady ; but I never thought it would
come to this," dropping his hands on his knees
in a low-spirited way.

Queene laughed, but she could not help an
involuntary shudder at Caleb's picture of her
future greatness. A house at Carlisle, a carriage,
even prospective visits at the Deanery would be
poor compensation if she must resign her friends
at Hepshaw. Would not her fortune be productive
of greater happiness, of more enduring
pleasures than those Caleb offered her ? " If I
must be rich I will be rich in my own way,"
thought the girl, a little rebelliously ; and all
through that day and the next a thousand
schemes and fancies flitted before her, as unsubstantial
and impracticable as such airy castles
generally prove themselves.

IT 28

A new and perfectly strange feeling of timidity
came over her as the time drew near for her
return to Pshaw. Some complicated business
arrangements had compelled her to lengthen her
three days' visit into a week. Cathy had written
to scold her for her delay ; and Queene had
to ransack her brain to discover plausible
excuses.

Garth has just come in from the works, and
he bids me tell you that you must positively
return on Saturday evening, as the school is to
re-open on Monday," wrote Cathy. "They are
getting on so nicely at the cottage that it will
be quite ready for occupation in another ten
days ; and Langley has discovered a little jewel
of a maid, who will just exactly suit you. Do
you remember her — Patience Atkinson, the rosy-faced
girl who lived next door to the wheelwright's
? "

Cathy's letter, with its girlish overflow of
spirits and affectionate nonsense, caused Queene
a few moments' uneasiness. " I shall seem to be
what I am not. I wonder if I am doing wrongs
to deceive them," she thought, with a sudden

throb of startled honesty. "No; after all, it is
my own business. I may spend, or hoard, or
fling it all to the winds, and no one would have
a right to complain of me."

But, nevertheless, there was a guilty consciousness
that made her for the first time shrink from
meeting Garth Clayton's eye.

It was evening when she arrived at ChurchStile
House. Ted had met her at the station ;
Cathy and Emmie had come flying down the
lane to meet them, and had greeted her rapturously.
As she came across the moat, with the
girls hanging on either arm, she saw Garth at
the hall-door watching them.

"Why, what a truant you have been," he said,
in his pleasant way. *' We thought our new
school-mistress had given us the slip. Cathy had
got all sorts of notions in her head. One was
that Mr. Calcott had left you a legacy. She
narrated wonderful dreams to us one morning,
of how you had a great fortune, and were going
to marry a marquis."

Cathy is an inveterate dreamer," returned
Queene, avoiding Mr. Clayton's eyes as she

28*

spoke. How constrained her voice was ; she
was hot and cold in a moment. How. strange
that he should address her in this manner. Was
it a presentiment or something ?

You are pale and tired ; your visit to Carlisle
has not agreed with you," he returned, following
her into the drawing-room, where Langley was
waiting: for them. " It has brought back unpleasant
memories, eh ? " with an abruptness,
not unkindly, but which made Queene still more
nervous.

*eyes; and T believe I am tired," she stammered.
Mr. Runcinaan was very good to me, but he
found it hard to let me go ; that worried me
rather ; that and other things," — the truth
reluctantly drawn from her by those clear grey
eyes.

I saw that at once," was the prompt reply,
and then he left her to his sister's care. But
later on in the evening, when she was rested
and refreshed, he returned again to the
charge.

I suppose Mr. Calcott has left a great deal of
money ? I did not read in the paper at what

amount his property was valued, but I suppose
it was pretty considerable."

Yes ; I believe so," returned Queene faintly.
They were sitting round the open window ; the
lamp on the centre table cast only a dim light
on their faces. Langley had been playing to
them, and just now the music had ceased.

Have you any idea how he has disposed of
it ? Every one thought there would be a new
wing added to the hospital. He had not a
relative in the world belonging to him, except
your little sister Emmie."

No ; and he has left nothing to Emmie," she
returned, thankful that in this she could speak
the whole truth. "Nearly all of it has gone to
a stranger, a mere connection. Caleb has an
annuity ; and J — he has not forgotten me,"
shielding her face still more in the darkness.
Emmie and I will have enough to live on now.
I shall not need to give French lessons, or to add
in any way to my salary," blurting out the lesson
she had prepared herself to say.

Will you have enough without the school ? "
persisted Garth curiously. His keen ear had

detected a certain trembling in Queene's voice.
Her agitation had not escaped him, and he was
trying in his straightforward way to find out
why she was not like herself to-night. "Do you
mean that your salary is no longer of importance
to you ? "

It is not all that we shall have to live on,
that is what I meant to say'' she returned
hurriedly. " I shall not have to stint, or be
afraid of how we shall make ends meet ; there
Avill be enough. Emmie will have little comforts;
that is all I care for."

I am very glad," returned Garth, gravely ;
but he questioned her no more. Possibly he
expected her further confidence, and was a little
disappointed when she withheld it. Neither on
that evening nor on any further occasion did he
revert to the subject ; and Queene, who began
to feel her position an embarrassing one, was glad
that the whole matter should be consigned to
oblivion.

Cathy's curiosity was much more easily
satisfied.

There, my dream has come true," she said,

embracing her ecstatically when they had retired
to their own rooms. " Why did you not write
and tell me about it ? Will you have much,
Queen — a whole hundred a-year ? "

"Yes; I shall have a hundred a-year," returned
Queene, trying not to laugh. When she was
away from those keen grey eyes she felt something
like a renewal of courage. Her spirits
returned ; the vdiole thing appeared to her in the
light of a good joke. " When it comes out, and
he asks me the reason of this mystery, I know
what I shall tell him," she thought, when Cathy
had withdrawn, well pleased, and she was left
alone for the night. " I shall tell him that I
wanted to remain poor a little longer, and to be
liked for myself ; that I feared losing the school
and the cottage ; that it was an innocent whim
that could do no one harm, and that would give
nie a great deal of pleasure," and when she had
settled this point comfortably with herself she
composed herself to sleep.

CHAPTER VII.

Weaving IN THE SUNSET.

Where whitest thou,
Lady T am to love ? Thou coast not ;
Thou knowest of my sad and lonely lot ;

I look'd for thee ere now !

It is the May !
And each sweet sister soul hath found its brother;
Only we two seek fondly each the other,

And, seeking, still delay." — Arnold.

Queene entered upon her new duties with an
ardor that would have surprised any one acquainted
with the real state of the case. If a
feelings of amusement sometimes crossed her
mind at the incongruity between her present
position and the heiress-ship she had refused to
take up, it only added zest and flavor to her
work.

Queene Marriott was one of those women

whose zeal was according to knowledge. She
loved her work for its own sake. In her eyes it
was invested with a meaning and dignity that redeemed
it from its so-called drudgery, and placed
it high in the ranks of honorable labor.

Her youthful enthusiasm anointed everything
with a sort of moral chrism. The little warlike
structure, with its half-moon windows, and rough
forms and desks, was a species of temple wherein
she enshrined all manner of precious things.
When she looked round on the children's faces
they seemed to appeal to her with all sorts of
involved meanings, demanding patience and sympathy,
and all such goodly things at her hand?.

Queene knew the royal road to learning lay
through her pupils' hearts. She must love them,
and teach them to love her ; obedience would
follow as a matter of course. All children were
dear to her, for Emmie's sake. Now and then,
through the buzz of voices droning through the
repetition lessons, there would come before her a
certain vivid memory, stabbing her with sudden,
sharp pain — a dark garret haunted with shadows ;
a pale-faced child crouched on the window-seat,

wrapped in an old red shawl, with great blue
eyes dim with fear ; of a little figure stricken
down, and lying amongst them as one that was
dead ; of a sick-room where a child-martyr went
down into the very valley of the shadow of
death, where a fight so long and terrible was
carried on that the weary watcher only covered
her face with her trembling hands, and prayed
for merciful death to come as a deliverer.

And so for the sake of that childish sufferer,
and that great miracle of healing — Queene clave
with very love to all children. There was one
child. Prissy Atkinson, the sister of the very
Patience whom Langley had selected as her little
maid, to whom she showed especial kindness.

Isle was the plainest and most uninteresting
girl in the school, slightly lame, and with an odd
drawl and lisp in her voice, ungainly in manner,
and with no particular cleverness to recommend
her ; yet, by some undefinable feeling, Queene
singled out this child as an object of her interest.

The little rough head often felt a tender hand
laid upon it. The gentlest voice Prissy had ever
heard would accost her now and then ; difficult

tasks were smoothed by magic ; pleasant smiles
would reward her diligence. When her head once
ached, a resting-place was found for it on teacher's
own shoulder. " Oh, teacher ! I love you ! I do
love you so ! " cried Prissy, out of the fulness of
her heart, throwing her thin arms round Queene's
neck. Was the warm kiss that answered her
given in reality to Prissy or to Emmie ?

Emmie would come sometimes and look in at
the open door, with round blue eyes, very wide
open with pleasure and astonishment. The little
gills would look up from their tasks and nod at
her ; the sisters would interchange fond, satisfied
looks. Sometimes a tall figure would pause fora
moment behind Emmie ; then a strong arm
would draw the child from the threshold.

'' Naughty Emmie ! infringing the rules in
school-hours. Do you know I shall have you
put on a form as an example for disobedient
children ? Why has Langley allowed you to
play truant in this way ? "

I ran away from Cathy, down the lane,"
Emmie answered, clinging to his hand, and looking
up coaxingly into his face. " I do love to

see Queene amongst them all. Did she not look
nice, Mr. Clayton ? "

Very nice," returned Garth absently. In
reality he was pondering over the little scene he
had just witnessed. *' It would make a picture,"
he thought ; " the slim, girlish figure in the black
dress, the bent brown head, the children's eager
faces, the bowl of white narcissus on the desk,
the sunshine streaming in at the open door."
She had looked up at him and smiled as he stood
there, such a bright smile ; somehow it haunted
him. " AVhat a brave, true heart it is," he
thought, as he went down the village with Emmie
still clinging closely to him. " She looked as
proud of herself and her work as ever Princess
Ida amongst her golden-haired girl graduates.
That is what I like about her ; she is superior to
the nonsense and conventionality of the present
day. Most women would have felt themselves
humiliated in her position ; but she seems to
have grasped the real meaning of her work and
purpose. If it were not selfish I could find it in
my heart to be half sorry about that legacy. I
wanted to see if the bare crust she talked about

would have set lier teeth on edo^e in the eating
had a notion that it would have been pleasant
to see her w orkiog up her way alone ; and then
one would have a faint change of helping her.
She is beyond this now ; Cathy says he has
left her a hundred a-year. Why, with her salary
and what she has they will have close upon two
hundred. They will do capitally on that ; and,
after all, one would not like to see them pinch.
AVell, it is none of my business," finished Garth,
rousing himself from his cogitations. " I wish
Dora could have seen her just now, giving that
object lesson ; 1 fancy she would have changed
her opinion altogether. How strange it was that
they did not seem to take to each other ; but
then women are strange creatures, and difficult
to understand."

It was an odd coincidence that made Garth
think of Dora ; for at that moment her little
pony-carriage turned the corner of the lane. She
waved her whip and her little gloved hand as
she saw him ; and Garth crossed the road with
a slight flush on his face.

I wanted to see Miss Marriott. I promised

to call upon her ; but I find the cottage is still
unoccupied," said Miss Cunningham, leaning a
little towards him, and fixing her calm blue eyes
on his face. Not a look or gesture escaped her
scrutiny. His slight confusion at her unexpected
appearance was perfectly transparent to her.
Things are going on as they ought to go on,"
she said to herself; ^' but there is no need to
hurry it ; " and though her pulses quickened a
little at his obvious pleasure at seeing her she
would have scorned to betray her interest.

"They do not go in until Tuesday; we shall
keep them until then," returned Garth, stroking
the pony's neck absently. Dora was looking
prettier than ever this morning, he thought. She
wore a hat with a long, white curling feather ;
the golden hair shone under it ; she patted it
nonchalantly with her little gloved hand as she
talked. Emmie interrupted them presently.

School is over ! there are the cfirls coming*
out. Prissy is last, of course. Ah ! there is
Queene ! " and she darted across the road, and
almost threw herself on her sister. Queene did
not quicken her steps when she saw them. She

came up a little reluctantly when she recognized
the occupant of the pony-carriage.

Dora greeted her with Ler usual o^ood-humor.

^'Ah, there you are, Miss Marriott! how cool
you look in that nice, broad-brimmed hat. But
I am sorry to see you in black. You have lost a
friend, Mr. Clayton tells me. Well, I told you
that I should call and have a chat about the
school and all manner of things. Will you jump
ill and let me drive you up the lane. Langley
has promised me some luncheon."

Emmie and I will be at the house as soon as
you," returned Queene, taking the child's hand
and walking on swiftly. Miss Cunningham
meant to be kind, she was sure of that ; why
was it that her manner always irritated her ?
There was a flavor of patronage in it that galled
her sensitiveness. " Perhaps if she knew I had
five thousand a-year she might change her tone,"
thought Queene, a little wrathfully. '' I never
find it difficult to get on with people ; and
yet in my heart I cannot like her. Why
will she make it her business to poach on other
people's manor? The Hepshaw school is my

affair, and lias nothings to do with Crossbill
Vicarage."

Miss Cunningham seemed to think otherwise.
She cross-examined Queenieall through luncheon
on a hundred petty details. Queene, to her surprise,
found she was acquainted with many of
the girls' names and histories. She put the new
mistress right on one or two points with much
shrewdness and cleverness. She could talk, and
talk well, on most subjects. By-and-bye, when
the school was exhausted, she turned to Garth,
and argued quite a knotty point of politics with
him, elucidating her view with a clear-headdress
and force of words that surprised her
feminine hearers.

Garth had much ado to hold his own against
her, but the consciousness of being in the right
gave him the advantage.

Now, Miss Dora, I think you must yield this
once," he said, looking at her triumphantly.
Dora measured him with her glance before she
answered.

I never yield to papa, but I suppose I must
to you," she said in the quietest manner possible,

and there was a slight stress on the last word
that made Garth redden as though he had
received an unexpected concession.

He placed himself at her side when they went
into the garden after luncheon, and appeared determined
to monopolize her attention ; but this
did not seem to suit Miss Cunningham, for she
called Cathy to her, and the two commenced a
conversation in which he soon found himself excluded.
Once or twice, when he turned restive
under this treatment, and seemed to incline to
seek conversation in a little talk with Queene,
a soft glance from Dora's blue eyes recalled and
kept him stationary.

'* All this is so uninteresting to you gentlemen,
you like politics better," she said presently in a
low voice, as though appealing for pardon ; "if
you will gather me a few flowers, Mr. Clayton, I
shall soon have finished my talk with Cathy, and
then we will take a turn down the plane-tree
walk ; it looks so cool and shady." But when the
flowers where tastefully arranged, and Garth, with
a little look of triumph, threw open the gate for
her to pass through, Dora still held Cathy's arm.
II. 29

It was not quite as enjoyable as Garth had
fancied it would be. Dora was all amiability and
sweetness ; she had the roses in her hands, and
touched them tenderly from time to time. She
tripped beside him, holding up her long white
dress with one hand, the other rested lightly on
Cathy's arm. Her blue eyes looked yearningly
at him and the sunset together.

How calm and still everything looks. I think
I love this old walk better than any place in the
world. It reminds me of old days, Mr. Clayton,
when you and I and Cathy used to walk here."

When we were children we used to say that
two were company and three none," responded
Garth sulkily. The hint was so obvious that
Cathy would, at once have made her escape, but
Dora tightened her grasp on her arm with a
slightly heightened color.

That depends on one's company. One could
never find Cathy in the way," she said, with a
little infusion of tenderness in her voice.

Never ! can you imagine no possible circumstances
in which a duet would be preferable ? "
questioned Garth, turning on her so abruptly that

Dora, for all her coolness, was non-passed for the
moment. What was he going to say ? With all
her prudence she felt alarmed and fluttered, but
the thought of her girls calmed her into soberness
again.

'*I never was good at guessing riddles," she
returned, not perusing the gravel at her feet as
some girls would have done in her place, but
looking full at him with unflinching eyes. " Just
now a trio suits me best, that is all I meant."

Pshaw," he muttered, turning angrily away.
Was she fooling him after all ? He was not a man
who would ever understand coquetry or caprice ;
such things would have simply disgusted him ;
but then he knew Dora was no coquette. " She
is trying to manage me for some purpose of her
own ; she wants me to come to a certain point
and no further ; she is showing me very plainly
what she means," he said to himself, repulsed
and yet attracted in spite of himself by this
strange conduct. After all the plane-tree walk
and the sunset, now he had them, were failures.
He had not once this evening called her Dora.
How could he, with Cathy walking there beside

29*

them, and noting his discomfiture with her keen
girlish eyes. True, he had not known what he
would have said to her if they had been alone ;
sentiment was only just waking up in Garth's
nature. A week or two ago he would have pronounced
himself heart-whole, would have laughed
at the notion of his being in love. Why had a
sudden fancy come to him for golden hair and
sunsets, and quiet evening strolls ? Was he feeling
dimly after something ? was this restlessness,
this undefinable longing after some visionary
ideal, a part of the disease ?

Garth could not have answered these questions
if his life depended on it. He had ceased to be
satisfied with his sister's company. A craving
after some new excitement made itself very
plainly felt at this time. His pulses were throbbing
with fresh life ; the world was before him,
the young man's world ; he had only to look
round him and choose. Strong, keen-eyed,
vigorous, with dominant will and sober judgment,
what obstacle need he dread ? what impediments
could he not overcome ?

Hitherto freedom, and the mystery obscuring

his future fate, had had a strange charm in Garth's
eyes. It had pleased him to know that such
things were for him when he should stoop and
open his hand to receive the best gift of heaven.
I suppose I shall fall in love some day, everyone
does ; but there is plenty of time for that sort
of thing," he often said to his sisters, and there
had been an amused look upon his face, as though
the notion pleased him.

But, in spite of his young man's conceit, Garth
had an old-fashioned reverence in speaking on
such subjects. It would not be too much to say
that he stood, as it were, bare-headed on holy
ground. One evening, shortly after Queene's
return from Carlisle, Cathy had been repeating
to them scraps of poetry as they sat round the
open window in the twilight, and by-and-bye
she commenced in a lo\v voice reciting some
quaint old lines of Arnold, in which this craving
for an unknown love is most touchingly
depicted.

Thou art as I—
Thy soul doth wait for mine, as mine for thee ;
We cannot live apart ; must meeting be
Never before we die ?

Dear soul, not so !
That time doth keep for us some happy years,
That God hath portion'd out our smiles and tears,
Thou knowest, and I know.

Yes, we shall meet !
And therefore let our searching be the stronger :
Dark days of life shall not divide us longer,
Nor doubt, nor danger, sweet !

Therefore I bear
This winter-tide as bravely as I may,
Patiently waiting for the bright spring-day
That cometh with thee, dear."

How beautiful ! " sighed Langley. " I have
always been so fond of those lines. Your new song,
My Queen embodies the same meaning, Cathy."
But Garth said nothing ; he only sat for a longtime
shading his eyes with his hand, and there
was a certain moved look on his face when he
uncovered it as though he had been strongly
affected.

But ever since that evening the restlessness
had grown upon him, and there had been a certain
carping fastidiousness in his manner to his
sisters ; and once or twice he had used Dora's
name as a sort of reproach. '' If you were only

as good a manager as Miss Cunningham, Langley ;"
or " I wish you would read more, and choose your
books as sensibly as Miss Dora does, Cathy."

Langley took her rebuke meekly and in silence ;
but Cathy treated her brother to a contemptuous
shrug and a disdainful look.

Dora ; I am sick of Dora. Every one sees how
that will end," she said in a vexed voice, when
they had come in from the garden, and she had
followed her friend up-stairs. " When that happens
I suppose we shall all be managed into our
graves."

Oh don't ! " exclaimed Queene, with a
sudden accent of pain, and becoming somewhat
pale over her words. " She is not good enough
for him — for your brother."

She is too good, you mean. I hate such
faultless people. Dora is never in the wrong ;
she is a pattern daughter, a pattern sister, a
model housekeeper, and unexceptionable in all
parochial and social duties ; the work she gets
through would astonish your weak mind."

And then she is so clever."

Clever ! she is a perfect paragon of learning.

She educated lier sisters until they went to
Brussels. Then she is no mean musician ; she
works beautifully too, and copies out all her
father s sermons. I am not sure she does not
write them as well."

Ah ! now I can see you are joking."

"My dear, Dora is no joking matter, I can
assure you ; she and her goodness together are
very ponderous affairs. Do you think Garth
does not know all this ? Why he and Dora have
been friends ever since they were children."

I can see that he respects her most
thoroughly."

'' Not more than she respects him ; she is
always telling how excellent he is, and what a
model to other young men. When I am in a
very good humor with Garth, I sometimes
repeat these little speeches, only I have come
lately to doubt the wisdom of adding fuel to
the fire."

Surely such perfection must satisfy you as
well as him, or you must be difficult to please,"
returned Queene a little sarcastically. A numb,
undefinable sort of pain seemed taking possession

of her. Would Hepshaw be quite so
desirable a place of residence when Dora was
mistress of Church Stile House ? this was the
question she asked herself. And for the first
time the thought of her fortune gave her a
positive feeling of pleasure.

''Oh, as to that, I am very fond of Dora,"
replied Cathy carelessly; 'she amuses me, and
she is very good-natured; and then one must
like one's future sister-in-law for the sake of dear
old Garth. I only hope she will have the good
sense not to try and manage him, for he will
never stand it."

This conversation depressed Queene somehow,
and kept her wakeful and restless ; it did not add
to her tranquillity to hear Garth's footsteps under
her window, crunching the gravel \\'alk, for
long after they had retired. It was contrary to
his usual habit ; it argued disturbance or preoccupation
of mind.

Garth's soliloquy would have perplexed both
her and Cathy if they had heard it.

I wonder if I am in love with Dora after
all ^ " he was asking himself, as he lighted himself

a fresh cigar, and then stood leaning against
the little gate, looking down the plane-tree walk.
It was moonlight now, and the monuments
glimmered in the white light ; there were faint,
eerie shadows under the dark trees ; now and
then a night-bird called, or a dog barked from
the village, and then stillness gathered over
every thing again.

I wonder if I am really in love, or if I am
only arguing myself into it. Now I come to
think of it, when I imagined my future wife I
always thought of Dora ; we have grown up
together, and it seems natural somehow ; and
then I had always a boyish fancy for golden hair.
What a pretty little head it is, as well as a wise
one. I wish she were not quite so independent,
and would lean on a fellow more. I suppose it
is the fault of circumstances. Every one depends
on her — her father and her sisters. She never
had the chance of being helpless like other women.
I always think of that and make allowance for
her faults.

"Sometimes," soliloquized the young philosopher
as his cigar went out, and he calmly

relio-lited it, " sometimes I'm afraid that if weever
came together I might find her a little
masterful and opinionated ; that is the danger
with capable women, they have their own
notions and stick to them. I confess I should
like my wife to follow my ideas, and not to be
lady paramount in everything ; not that even
Dora would find it easy to manage me," continued
Garth, with an amused curl of the lip.

'' What a nice, sensible little companion she
would be for a man," he resumed presently, after
the firm even footsteps had crunched the gravel
awhile. "That is the best of her, she never
bores or wearies one; she is always fresh and
good-humored, and ready to take interest in
everything, even in the schools, and Miss
Marriott, only Miss Marriott repulses her
somehow. Her manner vexed me this afternoon ;
there was a stand-selfishness and a reserve in it,
as though Dora interest offended her. She
never appears at her best advantage when Dora
is with us. Why am I always comparing those
two ? somehow I can't help it. Dora interests me
most, of course ; and yet men who are in love

seldom study the pros and cons of character as I
have been doing for the last half hour. Certainly
some of the symptoms are still lacking, or else I
am too matter-of-fact a fellow to have there.
And yet I don't know. What were those lines
Cathy repeated the other night ? How well the
little puss recited them ; with such feeling too.

Thy soul doth wait for mine, as mine for thee ;

We cannot live apart.' i

Humph ! I am not in love so much as all that,
and I don't think Dora is either. I have a
doubt whether the ' open sesame ' has been said
to either of us yet ; if so, ' where whitest thou,
lady I am to love ? ' Yell, it is a rare old poem,
and touches a fellow up in an extraordinary
sort of way. I have got it by heart now, and
it haunts me to a droll extent. There, my cigar
is out, confound it, so I may as well get rid of
all this moonshine and go in. How runs the
last verse —

'Tis the May-light
That crimsons all the quiet college gloom.
May it shine softly in thy sleeping room ;
And so, dear wife, good night.' "

CHAPTER Viii.

THE MISTRESS OF BRIERWOOD COTTAGE.

By night we lingered on the lawn,
For underfoot the herb was dry ;
And genial warmth ; and o'er the sky
The silvery haze of summer dawn ;

And calm that let the tapers burn
Unwavering : not a cricket charred :
The brook alone far off was heard,
And on the board the fluttering urn."

Tennyson.

A PENNY for your thoughts, little Emmie,"
cried Garth gaily, a few evenings afterwards,
dien his abrupt entrance had broken up a somewhat
silent group. The child, who was sitting at
Langley's feet as usual, with her head in her lap,
held up her hand warningly.

Hush ! I was counting them ; now I have
lost one."

Counting what, you small elf? "

The angels, of course ; we have had ever so
many passing through the room this evening.
Just now Langley sighed and disturbed one.
They never come when we talk and laugh, you
know," continued Emmie, with a child's beautiful
unreasoning faith in what Avould seem to older
minds a piece of fond superstition. " I do love
a real long silence, when people are all thinking
together ; the angels have such a good time of it
then."

What a queer little thinking machine that
is," muttered Ted, drowsily ; but Garth only
patted her head kindly.

It was never his way to laugh at a child's
fancies. " The real germ is hidden in the bud ;
a mere infant will sometimes turn our wisdom
into foolishness," he had observed more than
once in his graver moments. " Well, my white
May-flower," he continued, using his pet name
for her ; " so the angels were having it all to
themselves this evening, eh ? "

^' I did not know we were assisting at a seance J'
growled Ted, stretching himself ; " we have got a
precious small medium, it strikes me. What sort

of spirits were they, Emmie, black, white, or
grey ? I fancied my own familiar, in the shape
of an elongated cat, with yellow sparks for eyes,
grinned at me with feline and whiskered face
from behind the sofa corner. ' Avaunt thee,
witch,' I cried, and with diabolic stare and hiss
it vanished."

"A truce with your nonsense, Ted ; you will
scare the child."

"I think we have all been very stupid and
silent this evening," interposed Langley. "I fancy
that we are all sorry to lose Queene and Emmie
from our circle tomorrow."

The sofa-cushion is drenched with my tears,"
continued Ted, the incorrigible. " The drip, drip
of them was mistaken by Langley for rain. * A
wet evening,' quoth she ; but my sobs prevented
me from undeceiving her."

Isn't Mr. Ted wicked to tell so many stories
in play ? " interrupted Emmie, in a shocked
tone.

Play ! " reiterated that remorseless youth,
is that how you stigmatize an honest grief, and
mistaken though blighted devotion ? is it nothing

to this lacerated heart to know that the
beloved heads of the Marriott sisters will rest for
the last time to-night beneath our roof ? ' Quoth
the raven, nevermore, rests sweet Marriott at thy
door.' "

Oh, shut up, you young idiot," exclaimed his
brother in a tone of deep disgust.

He has been so tiresome all day," observed
Cathy ; " he has not left Queene and me a
moment in peace."

'' Only a lock of hair, and that was refused ;
even a hair-pin would have been prized, or the
frayed end of a ribbon ; all, all denied.

Oh stay, the Clayton said ; and yield
A withered rose, or weed of field.
Indignant glared her bright brown eye,
And with a frown she made reply,
You bothered.' "

Ted, in another moment — "

You have the heart of a barbarian, Garth ;
the softer passion is unknown to you — the ' pills
and paradise ' of a man's existence. Look at me,
like Etna half consumed, a mighty ruin — all thy
work, oh woman ! Ah, as the soothing bard,

the glorious Will of immortal memory, once
wrote —

He never told his love ; no, never ;
No more did she, but did you ever ' —

She gave him one long glance, and then " — but
Ted never finished his ridiculous effusion, for in
another moment Garth had pinned him in his
powerful grasp, and stretched him prone and
struggling on the floor. " And there shall you
lie until you have promised not to spout anymore
nonsense," was the inexorable mandate of
his tyrant.

Floored hj fate, and crushed by the gigantic
hoof of destiny, I submit. * More kicks than halfpence,'
quoth he, under the healing (heeling)
process ; but what boots such trifles to the
stalwart heart of a young Briton. Alas, thy
sole is open and clear to me, my brother, and
the footprint of ignoble passion is stamped
upon it."

Pax, pax," groaned Garth.

Oh, leave him alone, you are only making
him worse," laughed Queene ; " if he sees nobody
heeds his nonsense he weill soon leave off."
II. 30

I feel like the gladiator, butchered to make
a Clayton holiday ; my breast-bone is staved in
by the barbarian. 'Dying, we salute thee,
Caesar Well, it is of ' no consequence,' as Toots
remarks."

There, get up and behave yourself," interrupted
Garth, with a final kick; "and now, to
get rid of this foolish fellow, I vote that some of
us take a turn in the plane-tree walk. Come,
Miss Marriott, you and Cathy put on your
hats." But Cathy, who was in a curious mood
to-night, and had done nothing but sigh and
interlace her fingers restlessly in the twilight,
muttered something about Miss Cosie and the
Vicarage, and vanished from the room ; and soit
came to pass that Queene found herself
gravely pacing up and down the plane-tree walk
by Garth's side.

Naturally as it had come about — for no one
else had volunteered to accompany them — the
novelty of the circumstance caused them both a
little embarrassment ; and, by some curious
physiological coincidence, each fell to thinking
of Dora Cunningham. Garth smoked his ciofar

meditatively, and cast curious side-long glances
at the slender black fissure beside him. Visions
of a white dress and golden hair still haunted
him. Why was he shy and silent all at once ?
had he anything in common with this grave,
brown-eyed girl ? He was wondering, if she were
Dora would he have found anything to say to
her ? He was sorry to think that this was Miss
Marriott's last night. Sorry ! yes ; it made him
feel all at once as though the old house had
grown suddenly dull and empty ; and yet if it
had been Dora — "

Miss Marriott, how is it that you and Miss
Cunningham don't hit it off better ? " he said,
so abruptly that Queen ie started and changed
color. She was feeling very heavy-hearted, poor
little soul, to think it was her last night at
Church Stile House ; and how she would miss
the slow, even tramp of Garth's footsteps under
her windows, and the red end of his cigar
emerging from the trees every ten minutes.
She had often sat and watched it with unconscious
interest even to herself ; she was
loath to part with that, and his cheery good

30 *

morning: when she looked out to smell the
roses.

She was just wondering how much he would
miss her, and whether her absence would leave
any perceptible gap in the family circle ; and
this question jarred upon her with sudden
discord.

What do you mean ? " she asked faintly,
conscious all at once of a certain chilliness round
the region of the heart. She had hoped for a
few words of friendly interest and advice on her
own affairs to-night. Had he only brought her
out there to talk of Dora Cunningham ?

Why don't you two girls get on better
together ? " pursued Garth, inexorably. He was
quite aware of the reluctance of Queene's tone
as she answered him, but the opportunity was a
good one, and he thought he would have it outwith
her. She was indebted to him for much
kindness, he told himself; his sisters and he had
taken her by the hand, and found her occupation,
and a roof to cover her head ; he had a right to
ask, as a return, that she should show a little
consideration for him and his friends ; and her

manner to Dora somehow galled him. Perhaps
he Alas a little curious on the subject as well ;
anyway, he would have his answer.

How do you know that we do not ? " she
replied, fencing in her turn. " I have not seen
Miss Cunningham more than three or four times;
we are comparative strangers to each other."

You know her as well as you know Mrs.
Fawcett or Miss Faith Palmer ; they are all
comparative strangers to you, but to them your
manner is always so bright and genial."

*' Ah ; one cannot help getting on with them'*

"I should have said the same of Miss Cunningham.
There, you shake your head ; how impossible
it is to understand you women. Miss Dora
seems so willing to be friendly on her side. She
has driven over twice to see you, and tender her
advice and help; but one cannot help seeing how
these overtures have been repelled."

Mr. Clayton, pray don't speak as though you
were hurt with me."

I do feel a little hurt about this," he replied,
gravely ; " at least it disappoints me. You
see Dora, I mean Miss Cunningham, has been

intimate with us ever since we were children together,
and we think so much of her opinion in
things. When you came among us, and decided
on taking up this new work, I thought at once
what a valuable friend you would secure in her."

'' You were very kind," stammered poor
Queen ie with downcast eyes.

Confess that my kindness was thrown away
though," he continued in a lighter tone, for her
distress was not lost on him. '* You are such an
iceberg in her presence that even her good nature
has failed to thaw you. You are never proud
with Langley or Cathy, and yet Cathy can say
rude things sometimes."

'' I am. never proud with those I love."

Then you don't mean to love Miss Cunningham."


No," reluctantly ; '^ but I do not dislike her.
There is simply no sympathy between us, and her
manner jars and irritates me somehow. It seems
as though she were trying to keep me down in
my place, and make me remember that I am
only the poor school-mistress in Hepshaw, when,
when you all try to make me forget it," continued

the girl, and now the tears rushed to her eyes.
Garth had never seen her so moved, but her
frankness did not displease him. It might be
his duty to give her a little wholesome advice,
and to bid her curb that troublesome pride of
hers ; but, on the whole, he felt sorry for her.

*• I think we ought to be very patient with a
person that displeases us, and ask ourselves
whether the fault may not lie on our side,"
continued her young Mentor gravely. He rather
liked the rio^ht he had assumed of lecturing this
girl ; the occupation was piquant and interesting,
and then she took his rebukes so meekly. " Miss
Cunningham is a very superior person, you cannot
fail to own that, I am sure ; so many people
rely upon her. She is the mainstay at home ;
her father's right hand in everything ; and then
her sisters idolize her. She must be truly
lovable, or they would not be so fond of her."

Mr. Clayton, what does it matter whether
we get on together or not ? " exclaimed Queene
at this point, stung by all this praise, and sore
almost to unhappiness. " It cannot matter to
her, or to you either, whether I like her or not."

"It matters a good deal to me whether my
friends are appreciated. I am disappointed
about it, because I wanted to secure you a
valuable ally, that is all ; but I suppose it cannot
be helped. Women are unaccountable beings; it
is best, after all, to leave them alone," and Garth's
voice was so full of kindness and regret that
Queene's soreness vanished in a sudden effort of
magnanimity.

I dare say it was my fault ; I am sure Miss
Cunningham meant to be kind," she faltered out
hurriedly. " Only when one is poor, one is
proud and sensitive over little things. Don't say
anything more about it, Mr. Clayton ; I mean to
like her. I will like her, and you shall not have
reason to complain of my disagreeable manner
again."

"No; not disagreeable, only cold," he returned,
with a smile of genuine content, for this admission
pleased him well. They had stopped simultaneously
at the little gate, and Queene made a
movement as though to go in, but he would not
suffer it. No; you shall not leave me in this way,
we will have another turn," he said cheerfully.

Let us talk of something else — of yourself and
your plans. Do you know, I feel quite dull at
the thought of losing you and Emmie tomorrow.
I wonder how much you intend to miss us."

More than 1 ever missed any one in my
whole life before," was the answer on Queene's
lips, but she prudently forbore to utter it, as she
moved again by his side in the darkness. Did
no warning monitor within her whisper that this
man was growing dangerously dear to her ; that
the snare was already spread for her unconscious
feet ?

He means to marry Dora; but I have a right
to claim him still as my friend. No one shall
steal his friendship from me. I will have what
belongs to me," she had said to herself, almost
fiercely ; but the falseness of the sophistry was
glossed over and hidden from her eyes. Por the
last few days a great sadness had crept over her.
Since the evening Dora had passed through the
little gate, and had walked with him up and
down in the sunset, some visionary hope, baseless
and unsubstantial as a cream, had vanished from
her heart.

Of what avail was her idle whim now ? Would
it not have been better, so she told herself, to
have shaken off the dust of Hepshaw from her
feet ? Whose blame was it if she had tangled
her own life ? Some impulse, some undefinable
influence, had drawn her to weave these strange
plans of hers ; more than a girl's fancy and love
of mystery and adventure were wrapped up in
them. But might it not be that bitter failure
and remorse should be her portion hereafter ?

Would there not have been greater peace
and safety for her in that house in Carlisle ?
Queene asked herself these questions with a sigh
long after she had left Garth, and retired to her
own room, where Emmie was slumbering peacefully.
She kissed the child, and placed herself
under the shadow of the window-curtain, and
watched, for the last time, the tiny red spark
emerging every now and then from under the
trees.

Miss him ! he little knows how I shall miss
him ! " she said to herself, bitterly. " Right or
wrong, he has got into my life, and I cannot get
him out. Does he love Dora., I wonder ? I

cannot make up my mind ; but lie will marry her,
for all that ; and then, then, if I find it very
hard to bear, if she will not let me keep him asa
friend, we will go away, Emmie and I, somewhere
a long way off, where I can have plenty
of work, and forget, and begin afresh."

But when Queene came to this point she suddenly
broke down ; an oppressive sense of loneliness,
as new as it was terrible, crushed on her with
overwhelming force. For the first time Queene's
brave spirit seemed utterly broken, and some of
the bitterest tears she ever shed wetted the
child's pillow.

As for Garth, he strolled on for a long time,
placidly enjoying his cigar. He had delivered
his little lecture, and had then sent the girl in
soothed and comforted ; so he told himself. It
is true a sad and wistful glance from two large
dark eyes somewhat haunted him at intervals,
but he drove it persistently away.

She is a sweet girl, a very sweet girl ; but
she has her faults, like all of us," he said to himself.
" I am glad I put her right about Dora.
If Dora ever comes here, it would not do for

Miss Marriott not to be friendly with her. Dora
would have a right to expect then that the
others should give way to her, if she ever comes
here as my wife ; " and here the young man's
pulses quickened a little, and in the darkness the
hot blood rushed to his face. " Dora my wife !
how strange it sounds ! Well, I suppose it will
come to that some day ; things seem shaping
themselves that way. She will expect it, and
her father too, after what has passed. I fancy
there is a kind of understanding between us. I
wonder what sort of feeling she has for me ? She
keeps a fellow at such a distance, there is no
finding out ; but I'll master her yet. She will
soon find out, if I once make up my mind, that
I am not one to bear any shilly-shallying. I
don't think I could stand nonsense from any
woman, not even from Dora. Her father told
me once that if he died Dora would not have a
penny, though the other girls have tidy little
sums, each of them. I like her all the better
for that. Well, after all there is no hurry. Being
in love is all very well, but it is better to
take life easily, and digest matters a little ; " and

with a conscious laugh that sounded oddly to
him in the darkness, Garth swung back the little
gate, and walked towards the house.

It was arranged that the sisters' modest luggage
should be sent over to the cottage in the
course of the morning, and that Queen should
take possession of her new abode as soon as her
afternoon duties were discharged, and that Cathy
and Emmie should be there to receive her.

'* I am to pour out tea my own self, and
Cathy has promised to make some of her delicious
cakes," exclaimed Emmie, rapturously.
Langley will not come, though I have begged
her over and over again ; she says we three will
be so much cosier tog-ether."

Queene nodded and smiled as she bade her
little sister good-bye, and trudged down the
lane. The sun was shining brightly ; a rose-laden
wind blew freshly in her face ; with the morning
light courage and hope had returned ; she felt
half ashamed of her last night's sadness. Queene
was young, and life was strong within her. In
youth happiness is a necessity, a second nature.
When the heart is young it rebels fiercely against

sorrow. To exist is to hope ; to hope is to
believe.

In youth we believe in miracles ; utterly impossible
combinations would not surprise us ;
the sun must stand still in our firmament,
the stars in their course fio^ht against Sisera ;
what has happened to others cannot happen
to us.

It is only bitter experience that tears down
this fairy glamor, the thin, gossamer film through
which we so long looked. How barren and loveless
life appears then I Our fairest hopes are shipwrecked
; a moral earthquake has shattered our
little world. We look up at the heavens, and
they are as brass, and the earth under our feet
as wrought iron ; while beyond, aud in the dim
horizon, hollow voices seem to whisper a perpetual
dirge.

It is a terrible subject, this awful mystery of
pain, this dim and inscrutable decree, that man
is born to trouble. Ah, well for those who, like
that tired wanderer in that far-off land, can
discern in their darkness and loneliness the
ladder that reaches from earth to heaven, and

feel the fanning of invisible wings even in their
heaviest stupor.

Queene's healthy young nature recoiled and
shuddered at the first touch of probable pain ; it
lay folded like a troublesome nightmare far back
among her thoughts. It had mastered her last
night in the darkness ; this morning the sunshine
had chased it away.

How do I know ? how does any one know ? "
she said to herself, somewhat ambiguously, as
she sat among her children that morning. " I
may be wrong ; it may never happen ; and if it
does, what is, is best, I suppose," and here she
sighed. " I am thinking of him, of them both,
too much. After all, what is he to me ? a dear
friend, a very dear friend ; but my friendship
must not cost me too much. I will be good
and reasonable, and not ask more than a fair
amount of happiness ; it is only children who
cry for the moon."

If you want to be happy, be good ; it is a very
safe maxim Queene felt quite bright as she
walked through the little town. True, she had
a slight qualm as she passed the turning that led

to Church-Stile House ; but she bravely stifled
the feeling, and hummed an air as she opened
her own little gate.

How fresh and bright it all looked. The walk
was new gravelled, the little lawn looked trim
and green ; roses and geraniums bloomed under
the windows ; a honeysuckle was nicely trained
round the porch. Emmie met her on the threshold,
and dragged her in with both hands.

"Oh, Queen, it is all so lovely; just like a
bit out of a story-book. To think of you and me
living alone together in our own little cottage ;
only you and me ! "

I am so glad you are happy, darling, because
that makes me happy," returned her sister,
affectionately. " Ah, there is our little maid
Patience," as the girl stood curtseying and smoothing
down her clean apron, with a pleased, excited
face. '' Cathy — oh, Mr. Clayton, are you here
too ? " as Garth's dark handsome face suddenly
beamed on her from she little parlor.

"I could not resist the pleasure of showing
you the transformation," he returned, gaily.
You hardly know the place, do you ? Langley

and Cathy have done wonders. It is a pretty
little home after all, and quite big enough for
you two, and I hope you will be as happy as the
day is long."

Oh, what have you all done ! " exclaimed
Queene, in a stifled voice. Her heart began to
beat more quickly, an odd, choking feeling was
in her throat. Was this their thought for her ?
She could not for her life have spoken another
word as she followed Garth and Cathy into the
parlor.

We have only put a table and some chairs
into the front roora ; it will be handy for Emmet
learn her lessons and play there. Langley
knew we must not put you to any unnecessary
expense," went on Garth, cheerfully. "This is
very snug, is it not ? "

Snug ! Queene looked round her half dazed.

Had she ever seen this room before ? Though it

was summer, a little fire burnt in the grate. There

was a crimson carpet ; a grey rug was spread

invitingly ; a couch stood by the open window.

There was a bird-cage, and a stand of flowers.

A pretty print hung over the mantel-piece. Some
II. 31

book shelves with some tempting-looking volumes
had been fitted up over the corner cupboard. A
gay little pink and white tea-service was on the
round table. Some low basket-work chairs gave
an air of comfort.

Outside the transformation was still more
marked. Instead of the green wilderness, all
docks and nettles, there was a long green lawn.
A broad gravel path bordered the window ; a
few flower-beds had been cut in the turf.

'rit is too late to do much this season; we
shall have it very pretty next summer," observed
Garth, in a cool, matter-of-fact tone, as he followed
her to the window. " We have cut away a good
deal of the turf, as it made the house so damp ;
the gravel path is far better. Cathy wants you
to have a rockery and some ferns in one corner."

It will look very nice," returned Queene,
absently.

She had a misty vision after that of a bright
little kitchen that reminded her of a doll-house
that she had had as a child, and then of two
bed-rooms, one for herself, and one for Emmie,
with a small room for Patience, all as fresh as

white dimity could make them. There were
flowers on the toilet-table ; the little painted
chest of drawers had a sweet perfume of
lavender. Everything was simple and well
chosen, and testified to thoughtful and loving
hands.

Oh, Cathy, what am I to say to him ? what
am I to say to you all ? " exclaimed poor Queene,
feeling ready to throw her arms round her friend's
neck and burst into tears. They were standing
in the little entry, and Garth was watching
them.

*' Aren't you going to give me tea after all this?"
he interposed, in a droll voice. "Here I have been
gardening and carpentering and acting as odd
man to the establishment for I do not know how
long."

Tea ! oh, I forgot," returned Queene, dashing
the tears from her eyes, and hurrying to her
place.

Garth stood near her a moment as he brought
her one of the basket chairs.

Does our work satisfy you ? have we given
you pleasure ? " he asked, looking into her downs

*

cast face rather anxiously. " Do you think you
will be happy here, you and Emmie, in your own
little home ? "

*' It will be my own fault if I am not," she
faltered, holding out her hand ; and such a look
of pure childish gratitude lit her dark eyes that
the young man reddened and turned aside. "Oh,
Mr. Clayton, what can I do to repay you and
Langley ? "

Hush," he replied, lightly, and trying to turn
it off with a laugh ; " there is no talk of payment
between friends ; it is all understood between us.
You are only in our debt a little while ; besides,
you are a rich woman now."

Oh, I forgot," she exclaimed in such a tone
of dismay that the others looked quite startled.
I mean — ah, yes, it will all be right soon,"
endeavouring to recover herself.

It was a cosy little meal after all. Garth, who
saw that Queene's fluctuating spirits needed
tranquillizing, set himself to reassure and soothe
her; and when he had succeeded, the three had one
of their long thoughtful talks. By-and-bye Langley
came, and then Ted, and filled the little room

to overflowing, so that they betook themselves
to the porch and the lawn.

It was quite late dien they separated, and
Queene went up to her new little room. The
glimmering lights in the village had been extinguished.
The roads looked white and still in
the moonlight ; only a faint barking from a dog
in the distance broke the stillness.

How wrong and wicked I was last night ! "
thought the girl humbly, as she stood by the
table, touching Langley's roses with caressing
fingers. " I was lonely and sad ; I wanted I
cannot tell what. But to-night it is so different ;
it is so sweet to feel he has done all this forme
; that it is his thought for me as well as
theirs ; that, whatever happens, he will be my
friend, always my friend."

CHAPTER IX.

FIGHTING FOE FREEDOM.

She prayed me not to judge their cause from her,
That wrong-'d it, sought far less for truth than power
In knowledge ; something wild within her breast,
A greater than all knowledge, beat her down."

Tennyson's ' Princess.'

The days passed very tranquilly and pleasantly
after this for the inhabitants of the cottage.

Queene had regained her brightness in a great
measure. In spite of a certain dim fear that
haunted the background of her memory, her life
seemed full of a strange, sweet excitement. The
buoyancy of youth was strong within her ; the
knowledge of her secret wealth gave an intoxicating
flavor to everything. As she walked to
and fro to her daily work, she felt like a disguised
princess, like the heroine of some fairy
story she had read once, spinning in her woollen

garments among the simple peasant folk. "I
like being a rich woman after all," she said to
herself, *rit is so amusing. I feel just like
Cin della before the pumpkin coach arrives ; it
is a story-book sort of life I am leading. Fancy
teaching in a village school when one has five
thousand a-year. What shall I do with it all, I
wonder ; I wish I might give some to Langley
and Cathy."

Queene used to build all sorts of impossible
castles in the air when she was by herself or
With Emmie.

AVhat would you say if we were to be rich
one day, very, very rich ? " she would ask sometimes
; but Emmie only shook her fair head.

Each, so that we should be obliged to leave
this dear cottage ! Oh no, Queen, I should not
like it at all. I think it is so lovely, we two
living all alone together. I never, never, never
was so happy in all my life before' finishing with
a prolonged hug.

Thank God for that," murmured her sister,
fervently, passing her hands gently over the
chikVs upturned face.

The sharp outlines were filling out and rounding
daily ; a soft bloom tinged the thin cheeks ;
but there was still the same solemn, childlike
look in the large blue eyes. Their expression
used to trouble Queene sometimes. " Would
the shadow of past woe never die out of
them ? "

''Emmie, your eyes never smile," she said
once, " and yet you say you are so happy,
darling."

They were sitting alone in the porch ; Cathy
had just left them, Garth had fetched her away.
Emmie was in her favorite position, with her
head resting on her crossed arms on her sister's
lap. They had sat for a long time so without
speaking, only Queene's fingers every now and
then twined in the child's golden hair. " Why
don't you teach your eyes to smile too ? " she
went on, half seriously.

Emmie wrinkled her brows thoughtfully. ^' I
wish they would look like yours, Queen ; but
then I never saw any eyes like yours, even Cathy
says so. When you laugh they seem full of
brown sunshine, only so deep, deep down ; and

when a great thought comes to you, one seems
to see it, somehow."

Oh, hush, you little flatterer ; " but Queene
blushed, well pleased, over the praise*'

You do not know half how beautiful I
think you," continued the child, earnestly; "it
makes me feel happy and good only to be
near you. Do sisters always feel like that, I
wonder ? "

No, darling, not always."

It must be because we love each other so.
There never was a time when your voice was not
like music to me. Sometimes I love you so that
I ache all over with it ; that was in the dreadful
old days, when I thought I must die and leave
you. Oh, Queen, that would have been so very,
very miserable."

Miserable to lose you, Emmie 1 don't speak
of it; I can't bear to think of it even now,"
pressing the child's slight figure closer in her
arms.

It would not be so dreadful now ; I should
not feel that you were quite so lonely, I mean.
No, I will not talk any more about it," catching

sight of Queene's averted face ; 'ewe will never
be sad, you and I, never.

I wonder if we shall always live alone," lie
went on, while Queene dried her eyes. " Perhaps
one day you will marry — people do, you know.
How strange that will be ! "

- " Should you dislike that idea very much,
Emmie ? "

I — I don't know," in a reluctant tone. '' It
will spoil things rather; but if you like it.
Queen "

'' Hush," kissing her, " I think we are talking
dreadful nonsense. Don't you know that I have
told you that we are leading a story-book life,
Emmie ; first in that dreadful old garret, and
now in our pretty cottage ? By-and-bye it may
turn into a palace ; who knows ?"

"Ah, then the prince will come ; he always
does in fairy stories."

No ; he will ride away with the golden -
haired princess ; they will disappear into the
forest together, and never come back. We will
have Caleb and Molly to live with us instead.

"Ah, that would be nice," returned the child.

clapping her hands. '' Only keep it the cottage ;
we don't want the palace, Queen. Is the prince
never to come back then ? "

Of course not ; would you have him leave
his fair one with the golden locks ? Fie, Emmie ;
what a perfidious prince ! They will go riding on
and on for ever in the enchanted forest, while
you and I are walking hand in hand down the
long white road that people call life."

What a funny idea ! I like the wood best,
Queene."

Ah, so do most people," she returned, rising
with a sigh ; " but perhaps we do not know what
is best for us. Don't you recollect the story we
once read of the child who wanted the star, and
missed all the flowers that grew under its feet,
and so pined away, and died of unfulfilled
lonofins? You and I will be wiser than that,
little one ; we will leave the star to move in its
own particular orbit, and gather all the sweet
homely flowers that grow in our way;" and
Queene heaved another little sigh, for she was
moralizing to herself as well as to Emmet

was not often that the sisters were alone.

Cathy spent all her leisure hours at the cottage,
and even Langley would often bring her work
and sit with them in the porch of an evening.
Garth too was a frequent visitor ; he would comedown
the lane of an evenings, and lean attains t
the little gate for half an hour at a time. Sometimes
he would come in and help the sisters with
their gardening, and bring them little gifts of
fruit and flowers.

When Langley or Cathy were there he would
join the little group in the porch, and linger
beside them for hours, but never when they were
alone. Often Ted would saunter in and trail his
lazy length in one of the basket-work chairs. On
these occasions Queene would whisper to her
little sister, and by-and-bye there would be a
dainty repast set out for them of milk and fruit
and cakes. How pretty and home-like their little
parlor looked then, with its soft shaded lamp
and bowl of roses ! Sometimes the moonlight
would stream in at the uncurtained window ; one
or two large grey moths would wheel round their
heads. Garth would go and smoke his cigar on
the broad gravel walk outside, while the girls

talked softly within ! Sometimes Mr. Logan would
walk across and assist at these simple festivities,
or Miss Cosie trip down the road with a grey
shawl pinned over her curls ; for the cottage was
decidedly popular.

Cathy, wdiat makes you so quiet with Mr.
Logan now ? " Queene asked her one afternoon
when they where sitting together.

Emmie was spending the evening with the
Fawcett. Captain Fawcett had called for her,
and the two had gone off as usual hand in hand,
the Captain glancing over his stiff stock at his
little companion.

Mr. Logan had looked in on them on his way
to the school, and had brought them a message
from Miss Cosie.

Charlotte wants you both to come over to
tea with her ; she has a present of fine fruit from
the Abbey farm, and she wants our friends to
enjoy it with her. Miss Faith is coming, and sois
Langley, and Garth has promised to look in
by-and-bye."

Queene assented cheerfully ; she had a warm
liking for Mr. Logan, and a great affection for Miss

Cosie, and nothing pleased her better than an
evening spent in their company. It struck her
that Cathy acquiesced rather unwillingly in the
arrangement ; she made one or two excuses
rather ungraciously, but Mr. Logan would take
no denial.

Never mind all that ; Charlotte and I will
quite expect you, Miss Catherine," was his
tranquil answer.

Cathy flushed in a displeased manner, but she
offered no more objections. A cloud settled on
her brow now as Queene spoke.

"You and he used to be such friends," she
continued. " Don't you remember our talks in
the garret ? You used to call him your Mentor,
and write such long letters to him sometimes ; a
word from him always seemed to influence you,
and now it seems to me as though you tried to
avoid him."

Cathy bit her lip and remained silent.

'dear Cathy, it is so strange, so unlike you to
quarrel with your best friend. The more I see
Mr. Logan, the more I honor and revere him,
Such intellect, and yet the simplicity and guilelessness

of a child. 1 believe he lives only to do
good ; he reminds one of those olden saints of
whom one reads."

Cathy's dark eyes flashed, and then grew
humid with repressed feeling.

Ah, that is just it ; one cannot breathe in
such a rarefied atmosphere."

Do you mean that you find this goodness so
oppressive ? I am not like you then ; a really
good man rests me somehow. I feel in looking
at one as if I were in the presence of God's
highest work, as though even He could do
nothing better — the best and finished work before
the seventh day's rest, when * God saw that it
was good.' Think of that, Cathy. I suppose,"
continued Queene, reverently, " He saw the
one Divine likeness stamped on the face of
humanity, the one Man shining through the
ages of men. Oh, there is nothing grander in
all creation than a really good man."

Don't, Queene ; I am not in a mood for your
great thoughts to-night; you must come down
and meet me on my own level. You don't know
how inconceivably little and mean and insignificant

he makes me feel. I begin," enunciating
her words with an effort, '' to feel afraid of myself
and him."

Afraid of Mr. Logan ! what nonsense, Catherine
mia. Why a child, the very poorest and most
miserable child, would slip its little hand in his
fearlessly, and be soothed and comforted by the
mere contact."

''A child, ah, yes; but I am a woman," returned
Cathy, almost inaudibly.

*' You are a girl, and so am I, which means weare
faulty, imperfect creatures, full of fads and
fancies, and brimful of mischief I dare say. Do
you think a man like Mr. Logan, who knows
human nature, expects us to be perfection ? "

No ; but he expects us to grow up to him,
and live and breathe in his atmosphere. But I
can't, Queene ; I have tried, I have tried so hard
to be good, but it stifles me ; I feel just as I do
when I am teaching the children in one of those
close cottages, as though I must rush out and
get some air, or I shall be suffocated."

Why do you undervalue yourself so ? " returned
her friend, looking at her affectionately.

*' You have got into the habit ; it is such a pity,
and it spoils you so. I think you good, and
3'ou are good." But Cathy only pushed the
dark locks back from her face, and looked
disconsolate.

What constitutes goodness, I wonder ? " continued
Queene, reflectively. " We are simple
every-day folk ; we cannot all be saints. In
every age there will be giants in the land. You
and I, dear old Cath, must be content with
being ' the little ones.' "

Ah, you are nearer his standard than I," ina
low, bitter voice.

It must be a painfully low one then. For
shame, when you know all my faults as well as
you know your own. I for one will always
believe in you. You have such a great heart,
Cathy; you would lay down your life for those
you love."

'' You are right there."

Is unselfishness so common a virtue in this
world that one can afford to despise it ? How
often have I admired your thorough honesty,

your hatred of anything crooked and mean.
II. 32

There is nothing little about you, that is why I
care for you so much."

All pagan virtues," with a faint smile.

'' Cathy, your self-depreciation is incorrigible."

I tell you what I mean to do," rousing herself,
but speaking in the same suppressed voice.
I want to go away from here ; this little corner
of the world stifles me. I get so tired of it all,
the trying to be good and keep down my restlessness,
I mean. I have so few home duties ;
Langley and Garth do not really want me. I
should not be much missed."

You would leave me and Emmie ! " incredulously.


Poor old Madam Dignity. It does seem
hard, I know. Never mind, 1 should come back
to you all the better and the happier for having
worked ofl" my superfluous steam. One must
have a safety-valve somewhere."

But, Cathy, you are surely not serious. I
cannot see any reason for this absurd restlessness ;
you must throw it off", fight against it, as other
women do."

"My dear oracle, there are women and women.

I really believe there is a little of the savage
about me ; I do so object to be tamed down, and
made submissive to mere conventionality. Perhaps
my great grandmother was a Pawnee ora
Zingaree ; I must ask Garth. I don't feel
completely Saxon or Celtic."

How can you talk so willy ? "

Grandmamma Wolf, what great eyes you
have got. Don't eat me up in your fiery indignation.
Seriously, Queen, don't you think it
would be good for me to go away for a time ? "

Are you so anxious to leave us all ? " regretfully,
but moved by a certain passionate pain in
the girl's face.

"I think I am. Yes, though I shall half
break my heart over it. I think I am. You see,
I am uot like other girls. I cannot lead a quiet,
humdrum life that means nothing and leads to
nowhere — that is just it. I want to see the
world, to rub up against other folk, and study
their characters and idiosyncrasies ; to have a
life of my own to live, not tagged on to other
people."

But women cannot choose their own life. It

32^

always seems to me that their fate is decided
for them," interrupted Queene, in a puzzled
tone.

Not for my sort of women. Thank Heaven I
am still myself enough to decide my own fate.
No, I am not crazy, Queen," as her friend looked
at her with a sorely perplexed countenance ;
*' my plan is a very reasonable and sensible one.
I have an idea that my vocation is nursing ; not
stupid sort of illnesses, but downright hard
hospital nursing — broken limbs, and accidents,
and horrible fever cases ; real horrors, not imaginary,
mi lid. Nervous or hypochondriacal patients,
no, thank you ; Catherine Clayton will have
nothing to say to them."

Go on," was the injunction, in a resigned
voice, as Cathy paused to collect her breath.

"Miss Faith and I have had a long talk about
it ; she is not sceptical like you, she knows too
well how bad this sort of restlessness is to bear ;
besides, she has tried it herself, and loves the
work."

Yes, I can understand such a life suiting
Miss Faith ; she is one of those ministering

women born to smooth sick pillows. But you,
Cathy," trying hard to repress a smile.

'• I grant you that I might deal the aforesaid
pillow an occasional thump if my patient should
l)Yoye refractory ; but all the same, I feel as
though bandages and blisters were my vocation.
I have theories about nursing that would astonish
your weak mind. I believe a nurse requires as
thorough an education, as careful a training, as
any medical student. Miss Faith is quite of my
opinion ; she advises me to go to London."

I did not know Miss Faith was your
confidant," in a slightly hurt voice.

*' Only in this one thing, my dear Madam
Dignity," with a penitent squeeze. " She said
London, and I said ' Amen.' Garth knows the
house surgeon at St. George's, and the matron is
a great friend of Langley's ; that makes it so easy
to carry out my plan."

Cathy, I do believe that you are serious."

'' I am glad you have spoken a sensible word
at last."

The work will be most revolting."

*' Do you tlnnk that will daunt mee ? Are not

Avoient sent into the world to minister and
relieve pain ? ''

*the labor will be excessive, and trying in
the extreme," persisted Queene. "Have you
ever seen the wards of a hospital ? T believe you
will soon sicken and droop for your northern
home."

Pshaw ! I should scorn to be such a coward ;
half-measures are not to my taste."

That is all very well now ; but when you
are weak and unnerved by watching."

"Thank heavens I don't know what nerves
are, my dear. A healthy mind and body are the
first requisites for a good nurse. Just as indecision
is fatal to a general's success, so would nervousness
ruin the best trained nurse. Even Garth
owns that as far as that goes my physique is
perfect'

Do you mean that you have already spoken
to him ? " in aghast voice.

Yes ; and to Langley too. They were surprised
of course, and rather incredulous, but they
do not thoroughly oppose my project. Langley
has told Garth more than once that our quiet

home life will never suit me. Langley is a wise
woman, Queen."

And you have communicated your plan to
all but me' very sadly. " What has become of
our old confidence, Cathy ? "

Hush ! there speaks jealousy, not my Queen.
If I did not tell you, it was because I woukl not
harass you with half-digested plans. I could do
nothing without Garth's and Langley 's consent."

They have given it then ? "

Not yet ; but I know they will. You see,
my demands were very moderate. I told Garth
my views : that every woman should have a
definite work or trade, and that it should, if
possible, be self-supporting; that teaching was
not to my taste, but that nursing was. And then
I asked his permission to go up to London for a
six months' trial. Could there be anything more
sensible ? "

But did they not question you about your
reason ? No, Cathy, do not turn away from me ;
am I not your friend ? can I not see that you are
unhappy ? "

I shall not be unhappy if I can once get

away from here and taste freedom ; when 1 am
no longer straitened, thralled, in bondage. No,
Queene dear, indeed I have told you all that I
know about myself; there is nothing more to
tell. Hush ! here comes Miss Faith ; not a word
of this before her. I am tired of the subject ;
your scepticism has quite exhausted me."

'cathy, Cathy, what an incomprehensible
being you are ! " sighed Queene, as she ran off to
fetch her broad-brimmed hat.

Miss Faith had come to fetch them to the
Vicarage. Her quiet face brightened at the
sight of the girls. An evening's pleasure, a
simple tea-drinking with her friends, was an
unwonted event in her colorless life.

It was so good of Cara to spare her a whole
evening, just when they were finishing the last
chapter of ' Trench's Parables,' and she wanted
her to begin Bossuet's life. It vas very unselfish
of Cara," she went on, smoothing down the soft
grey merino, with its fresh lace ruffles ; for Miss
Faith was not without her pet vanities, and fine
lace ruffles round the neck and wrists were her
special weakness.

As they crossed the road Garth emerged from
the lane that led to Church-Stile House. A
gleam of pleasure overspread his face as he
greeted them.

Good evening, Miss Faith ; what an age it is
since we have seen you. How are the rest of
the cardinal virtues ? and what new book-torture
is Miss Charity inflicting on you ? By-the-bye,
ladies, have you heard the wonderful intelligence
? the new doctor has made his
appearance."

No ; oh, tellus all about it ! " exclaimed the
three. "Who is he? What is his name? Is
he young and nice-looking ; or is he old, and
stout, and horridly uninteresting ? " this last
from Cathy.

Garth looked benignantly at their agitated
countenances. Their curiosity imparted a relish
to the news. Here he had been in possession of
the latest intelligence for at least half an hour ;
had met the new-comer with Mr. Logan, and
had shaken hands with him ; had discussed the
weather and the crops, after the usual manner
of Englishmen, while Hepshaw was buried in

profound ignorance of the acquisition it had
gained.

So you have not heard the news ? " he repeated,
calmly.

Ko ; of course not. Do be quick, Garth.
Who is he ? "

Ah, that is the question."

Have you seen him ? has any one told you
about him ? will he live in Dr. Morgan's old
house ? is he married ? has he a tribe of children
? "

One question at a time, ladies. Who asked
if he were married ? Cathy, of course. No ; I
believe not ; but I never asked him."

You have seen him then. Oh, Miss Paith,
does he not deserve to be shaken, to keep us in
this suspense ? Perhaps, after all, he is only a
red-headed little apothecary."

That I am sure he is not."

He is nice then ? " stimulated to fresh efforts
by the twinkle in her brother's eye. Garth was
evidently bent on enjoying himself at their
expense.

That depends on what you call nice. He

seemed tolerably pleasant, talked good English
without a twang, and had no disagreeable provincial
accent."

Young or old ? "

About forty, I should say ; couldn't answer
for a year or two."

Over forty ! Then he must be an old bachelor.
How dreadfully uninteresting ! "

I will repeat that speech to Mr. Logan."

Cathy moved aside as if she had been stung.

Miss Faith hazarded the next question rather
timidly : " Was he tall or short ? "

Neither the one nor the other."

Still further questioning elicited no remarkable
items of information. He was not very stout,
neither was he particularly thin ; had a pleasant
voice and manner ; was somewhat sallow in complexion
; and was becoming decidedly grey ; did
not wear spectacles, and had shrewd and rather
humorous eyes.

Where was he going to live ? "

Did not ask him ; is at present putting up
at the Deer-hound. Comes from Carlisle, so he
says."

From Carlisle ? " in a faint voice from Miss
Faith.

*' Yes. His name is Stewart, Angus Stewart,
or rather Dr. Stewart, as he is now. On the
whole he is a gentlemanly sort of fellow, and
likely to prove an acquisition to our little circle.
I say, Cath, won't Mrs. Morris set her cap at
him ? "

I think we had better walk on now," returned
Cathy, abruptly, at the mention of the name.
She had started violently, and had shot a quick,
sidelong glance at Miss Faith. '' Come, Miss
Faith, we shall be late for tea."

'* Yes ; we shall be late," she returned, mechanically,
putting a shaking hand on the girl's
arm, as though to steady herself. There was nota
tinge of color in Miss Faith's fair face ; Iter
breath came and went unevenly ; she spoke in
little gasps. " Are you sure that we heard right,
Cathy '? did your brother say his name was
Stewart ? "

Yes ; Angus Stewart," returned Cathy, in a
brisk, off-hand voice ; " he comes from Carlisle.
Ah, by the-bye, I should not be surprised if he

should prove an old hospital acquaintance of
yours, Miss Faith. What fun that will be !
After all, the world is not so large as oue thinks
it."

It is very strange," rejoined Miss Faith, and
her lips trembled nervously over her words.
The coincidence of the name and the place
startled me a little. I knew some one of that
name in Carlisle — let me see — ten years ago."

How very odd ! " returned her companion,
with well-counterfeited surprise, and looking
straight before her. " Only ten years ago ? Ah,
then it must be the same ; besides, the name is
so very uncommon."

'^ Angus ? ah, that is what he used to say.
He was very proud of his name. He told me
once that was all of which he had to be proud.
He was so poor, he meant. He was the house
surgeon, and one used to see a good deal of him.
He had a mother and sister, I remember, dio
lived in such a tiny house in the town."

'^ And you have never seen him since ? "

"No," hesitating and faltering; ''I had to
give up nursing, and come back to Cara. One

loses friends sometimes in that way. It was
hard, of course ; for I loved my work and my
children ; but one must do hard things sometimes
in this world," finished poor Miss Faith,
with unconscious philosophy.

CHAPTER X.

THE NEW DOCTOR.

I learn'd at last submission to my lot,
But, though I less deplored thee, ne'er forgot."

Cow per.

I WONDER how women of thirty-five feel
under these circumstances," thought Cathy, as
she followed the others up the narrow dark staircase
leading to Miss Cosie's neat sanctum. " I
should have imagined all sentiment would have
been worried out of them by this time, in this
dismal old mill-pond they call life. It is very
odd, but it is amusing too," she continued, with
a certain girlish curiosity at the elderly romance
that was impending before her eyes. After all it
was not without its pathos. " Perhaps he will not
recognize her when they meet, or most likely be
has a wife and two or three children somewhere ;

I would not answer for him. It is the women
who are faithful in these cases. In my opinion
Jacob is the exception, not the rule. Poor old
Jacob, how threadbare they have worn him ! He
was very patient and deep, but I liked Esau
best."

Cathy mused on in her rambling fashion. Now
and then she and Queene exchanged glances
full of meaning.

'' Is it — can it really be he '? " whispered
Queene, as she tied and untied Cathy's velvet.

Not a doubt of it," replied the other. " Hush !
we shall hear more by-and-bye."

Miss Faith looked at them both with soft dazed
eyes. She had no idea that they were talking of
her. " Angus Stewart ! there cannot be two of
that name," she said to herself, as she smoothed
out her ruffles with trembling hands, and tried
to adjust her pearl brooch to her liking. "I
wonder when I shall see him, and if he will know
me again." But here Miss Cosie rushed upon
them with a small whirlwind of interjections and
exclamations.

Oh, my dears ; there, there, you all look as

fresh as rosebuds. What do you think ? The
most wonderful thing has happened. Just fancy
Christopher taking it into his head to bring him
here ! "

To bring whom, dear Miss Cosie ? " asked
Cathy quickly, for Miss Faith's color was varying
dangerously.

"Why, Mr. Mac'ivor, or what's his name —
something Scotch I am sure. The new doctor, I
mean. And there they are talking as comfortably
as though they had known each other for years,
instead of minutes. Christopher has taken him
over to the church already."

If Mr. Stewart be here we had better go
down," observed Cathy, demurely, but her eyes
danced with fun.

"Ah, Stewart, of course. There, there, my
dear, my head is like a sieve, as Kit always tells
me. ' Why, Charlotte, there must be a hole in your
brain somewhere,' as he often says. And there he
is, dear fellow, looking as pleased as though he
had got some one to his liking ; and indeed he
seems a pleasant, sociable sort of person."

Yes ; but your tea will be spoiled if we stand
II. 33

talking any honore," put in artful Cathy ; and
Miss Oosie took the hint, and trotted off in her
velvet high-heeled slippers, looking like a little
grey mouse of a woman, in her dove-colored
gown and soft Shetland shawl.

There, there, my dear, if I had not forgotten
all about the tea ! " they could hear her exclaim,
as she whisked down the passage.

Now we will go down," exclaimed Cathy,
promptly. " Come, Miss Faith, you are just as
nice as possible ; " for the nervous fingers were
still adjusting the troublesome ruffle. " Think
what a loss you have over those last chapters of

Trench's Parables,' and how Cara will miss you,"
continued the mischievous girl, as she hurried on
her trembling companion. " You have exchanged

the feast of reason and the flow of soul ' just
for Miss Cosie's junket and fruit."

I wish — I almost wish I were back with Cara,"
gasped poor Miss Faith at the parlor door ; and
indeed the ordeal was a trying one even to a
woman of thirty-five.

Mr. Logan made the necessary introductions
as easily as possible. "Here, ladies, is our new

doctor, Mr. Stewart ; give him a hearty welcome
to Hepshaw. This is our girls' school-mistress,
Miss Marriott, and this is Miss Catherine Clayton,
but Miss Faith Palmer ought to have come first'*

"Miss Faith Palmer ?" queried a pleasant voice,
for the parlor was somewhat dim ; " here at least
I ought to require no introduction," and the newcomer
pressed forward to catch a farther glimpse
of Miss Faith's pale face.

Yes, we are old friends, Mr. Stewart," she
returned, putting a very cold hand in his. She
was glad of the half-light ; he could not see her,
she thought. How his voice thrilled her ? Was it
really ten years ago since she had last heard it ?

You are the last person I expected to see tonight,"
he continued, still standing near her. " It
was very forgetful of me. I remember now that
you said you lived at Hepshaw, but all sorts of
things have driven it clean out of my head."

*' All sorts of things ! He is married then,"
argued Cathy, shrewdly. '' Oh, you men, you
men !

Ten years is a long time, a very long time,"
faltered Miss Faith. She experienced a chill

33 *

feeling at the same moment. Was it a presentiment.


Is it ten years since we met ? I had no idea it
was so long," he returned, pulling his whiskers
reflectively. *' Do you recollect the hospital and
the boys' ward. What a capital nurse you used
to he, Miss Faith, and how attached your little
patients were to you ! "

Is it — is everything just the same ? " she
asked, nervously.

As when 1 was house surgeon there, do you
mean ? I don't know ; I have been away from
Carlisle a good many years. The hospital work
got humdrum somehow, and I had a berth
offered me as army surgeon in Bombay ; and as
Alice was married, and my mother was dead, I
thought I might as well try my luck. I got
tired of it though ."

Alice married ! " with a quick flush of interest.
They were sitting at Miss Cosie's tea-table now.
Mr. Stewart was by his hostess, but he had found
room for his old acquaintance beside him.

You can't think how pleasant it is to meet an
old friend in a strange place," he had observed

confidentially to Miss Cosie, and the little woman
had nodded and smiled delightedly.

Yes, Alice is married ; pretty girls will sometimes,"
with the humorous sparkle in his eyes that
she remembered so well. " She married a
clergyman in Lincolnshire, and has two fine boys
of whom she is very proud ; I have just been
staying with them in their pleasant vicarage.
By-the-bye, she asked after you."

After me ? " with another rush of sensitive
color that made her look years younger.

Yes ; she asked if I had seen you, but I could
not satisfy her on that point. Don't you think it
was a shabby trick. Miss Faith, vanishing from
Carlisle as you did, and never coming back ? I
always meant to ask you that question if weever
met again."

I hoped to come back ; T never meant to
leave like that," she returned in such a low
voice that Dr. Stewart had some trouble to hear
her. " It was my sister's accident. You remember
that I told you when I wished your mother and
Alice good-bye."

'' Yes ; but I trusted that it was only a

temporary affair, and that you might soon have
been set free."

I am not free yet' in a sad voice that went
far to explain to Dr. Stewart the meaning of the
worn, patient face and set lines.

The Faith Palmer of ten years ago had been a
fair, pretty girl, with the lightest step and the
happiest laugh imaginable, and all manner of
bright winning ways. It was a sweet face still,
he thought, only so thin and careworn, and all
the soft coloring faded. Even her voice was
subdued and quieted past recognition ; the despondence
of the key had touched him painfully
from the first.

Faith's scrutiny had not been half so severe.
Dr. Stewart was older, of course, and browner;
well, and stouter, and he was becoming very
grey ; but what did that matter ? There were the
pleasant outlines, that had lingered for ten years
in her memory, the shrewd, twinkling eyes, with
their touch of humor, and the clear, genial voice.

What does that mean ? we are none of us
free, for the matter of that," he asked abruptly, but
not unkindly. '^ Here I am tying myself down

for life in this northern village, because an Indian
sun chose to play the most confounded tricks
with my liver, and to make my existence a
burthen to me. Do you mean that your sister
is still an invalid ? "

Yes ; I have been nursing her for ten years.
There are the others, but she has got used to me.
Poor Cara, she is to lie down all her life, they
say."

Humph 1 that accounts for it," with a dissatisfied
glance, and pulling his whiskers rather
fiercely. " Well, Miss Faith, 1 can t say home-nursing
has agreed with you."

That means that you find me changed,"
thought poor Miss Faith, trying to swallow down a
very large lump in her throat. She had sustained
her share in the conversation with tolerable
success up to the present moment, but now the
chilliness was creeping over her again. Why had
he not tried to find out what had become of her ?
Hepshaw and Carlisle were not so very far apart
after all. True, she had promised him to return,
and had left him in perfect confidence that she
would redeem her promise ; but she had not been

to blame for her failure. " I gave it all up,
all that 1 knew was waiting for me, because
Cara wanted me," she thought ; '' but he
never tried to find out what had become of
me."

It was well for Faith Palmer that Cathy, who
was watching them from the other side of the
table, struck in boldly at this juncture ; it gave
her time to swallow down the troublesome lump,
and regain her lost self-command. During the
animated talk that followed, and in which Dr.
Stewart bore a chief part, she sat plaiting the
snowy table-cloth with her slender fingers, and
saying over and over to herself, " Ten years, and
he never cared to know whether I was alive or
dead."

AVhen tea was over she moved away from him,
and took refuge beside Miss Oosie and her
knitting. He would amuse himself with the
younger ones of course. She had noticed already
that Cathy had seemed to interest him with her
frank liveliness, and then there were Langley and
Queene. Queene was looking so pretty this
evening, with those deep-colored roses in her

dark dress. If only she could sit quiet in her
corner, and watch him unobserved ! It was hardwork
finding appropriate answers to Miss Cosie's
somewhat rambling remarks.

Of course he will take a fancy to one of
them," she thought, taking advantage of a pause
during which Miss Cosie counted her stitches,
and quite ignoring the fact that there might
possibly be a Mrs. Stewart somewhere. '' I
wonder which it will be. Queene Marriott is far
prettier to my taste, her eyes are lovely ; but
then Cathy is very taking. Men of forty generally
fall in love with young girls ; and then he is
such a young-looking man, and does not look his
ao^e " and Faith sighed as she thought of her
faded youth.

Did you speak, my dear ? " asked Miss Cosie,
at this point. " Knit one, purl two, and knit two
together. There, there, I am a stupid companion.
Why don't you go and join that merry party
opposite ? Look at Kit ; how delighted he
seems with the doctor."

*' Miss Cosie," stammered Faith, " did he —
did Dr. Stewart say anything about his being

married. He did not mention his wife, I mean.
Cathy was wondering, and, and "

'' Married ! why, to be sure, how stupid of us !
I never thought of such a thing for a moment.
Of course he must be ; and not one of us has
asked after her," and the little woman patted her
big curls in a flurried manner. " Kit, Kit, my
dear," in a loud whisper, " do tell Dr. Stewart
that I want to speak to him."

Oh, Miss Cosie, pray don't. How can you
think of doing such a thing ? " exclaimed Faith, ina
perfect agony at this unexpected proceeding.
** He is such a stranger. What will he think of
us ? " But her protestations were in vain, for Dr.
Stewart had left his place with alacrity, and had
come up to them with the brightest possible
face.

'' Did you send for me. Miss Logan ? "

Dear, dear, to think of that, when I have not
been called Miss Logan for the last twenty years.
Why even the Bishop says Miss Cosie ; but then,
as Faith says, you are a stranger among us, and
don't know our manners."

Did Miss Faith say that ? Well, I shall hope

not to be a stranger long. I will promise not to
offend again, Miss Cosie."

There, there, my clear, if he has not got it as
pat as possible, as though he had known me all
my life. Why even the school-children, bless
their little hearts, call me Miss Cosie ; I don't
know myself under any other name. But talking
of names, Dr. Stewart, and you have a nice
funny, outlandish one of your own, here we
have been together for two whole hours and not
one of us has asked after Mrs. Stewart."

My mother is dead, Miss Cosie," he replied,
very gravely, while Paith flushed and grew white,
and wished herself home again with Cara. It
was too dreadful of Miss Cosie. What would he
think of them ?

"Poor thing! well, well, she is better off,"
returned his sympathizing questioner ; " she is
where the weary are at rest, you know, one must
think of that. But I was not speaking of your
poor dear mother. Dr. Stewart, but of your
wife."

For a moment Dr. Stewart looked at her in
some perplexity, and then he got red, and glanced

at Faith ; but Faith had taken possession of Miss
Cosie's knitting, and was doing her best to
reduce it to hopeless and intricate confusion, and
then a decidedly amused expression crossed his
face.

What makes you saddle me with a wife,
Miss Cosie ? "

'' There, there, you must not take it amiss of
us," returned the little woman earnestly, laying
her hand on his arm. " Of course we shall be
glad to know her ; and if there is anything that
I can do to make her more comfortable when
the poor thing comes amongst us a stranger, I
will do it with all my heart."

** But, my dear Miss Cosie," with a smile, " I
have no wife."

^' No wife ! " and Miss Cosie's eyes grew
round, and she threw up her plump little hands
in astonishment ; " no wife ! do you mean she is
dead too, Dr. Stewart ? "

*' I mean that I never had one," lauorhinoj now
outright. "Don't you know poor men have no
right to such luxuries ? When one has a mother
and a sister to maintain, one must put away those

sort of thoughts, however much one is tempted,"
and Dr. Stewart spoke now in a curiously constrained
voice.

Miss Cosie, I must go home now, Cara will
be looking for me," exclaimed Faith, rising
hurriedly. There was ar misty look in the soft
blue eyes, and the color had returned to her
face,

"May I take the right of an old friend, and
come and see you and your sisters tomorrow ? "
asked Dr. Stewart as he held her hand. " May
I come and talk to this Cara, of whom I have
heard so much ? "

Yes ; we shall be very glad," she replied,
almost inaudibly, and then he let her go.

He left Miss Cosie after that, and went back
to the little group gathered round the window ;
but a change had come over them ; they seemed
talking seriously.

Miss Catherine, are you in earnest ? " Mr.
Logan was saying, in an incredulous voice. He
pushed his spectacles up to his forehead as he
spoke, and the keen, near-sighted eyes seemed to
probe the girl's soul as he spoke.

Cathy winced, but she maintained her ground
unflinchingly.

*' Ask Garth and Langley what they think on
that subject."

She is leading us a sad life about it," returned
Garth, tilting his chair that he might have a
better view of Queen ie. Somehow the combination
of the dark dress and roses took his fancy.
Miss Marriott was certainly very pretty tonight
; even Dr. Stewart seemed to find a certain
witchery in the dark eyes, at least Garth thought
so, which put him a trifle out of humor. He had
been so long without a rival in Hepshaw, that
the introduction of this sudden new element of
manhood was likely to disturb his equanimity.
Langley says there are no valid objections, so I
suppose we shall have to let her go."

"Let us ask Dr. Stewart what he thinks of
it," put in Langley, and, to her sister's relief, she
quietly turned to him, and gave a brief sketch of
Cathy's plan, to which he listened with ready
interest, asking a question here and there in a
skilful professional manner. When he Alas in
possession of all the facts, he turned to Cathy.

I 'don't see why it should not answer ; at
least you might give it a trial. I like your idea
of every woman being trained to a definite
employment; T never could understand the
enforced helplessness of the sex. I have known
pitiable examples of women being left dependent
on over-taxed brothers, or turned upon the world
absolutely without resources."

Your rule holds good with generalities,
but in Miss Catherine's case," began Mr. Logan,
but Cathy somewhat proudly interrupted
him.

"If it be Miss Catherine's wish to be independent,
and hold her own against the world,
no one has a right to interfere. No," speaking
with sparkling eyes, and a certain sternness of
manner, " I am not one of those women who
could bear to be cramped and swathed with the
swaddling-clothes of conventionality ; I claim
my right to work for work's sake, and to be as
free as any other of God's creatures."

You are quite right, Miss Clayton ; I admire
your sentiments," observed Dr. Stewart.

Hear, hear," from Garth, somewhat sarcastically.

He did not wholly approve of his wilful
little sister s plan. " Bless me, child, you are
hardly more than eighteen ; you seem in a vast
hurry to male yourself independent of your
brother ; no one wants to get rid of you, you
little monkey."

Cathy melted a little at that. She gave him
an affectionate glance.

All the same, you will be wanting to get rid
of me one of these days," she returned, meaningly,
and Garth reddened. " Besides, I don't mean to
leave home for good and all ; I want to go up to
London and learn nursing in all its branches,
and then I shall know if I am fit for it. A fair
trial is all I ask ; and if Garth consents, no one
has a right to raise an objection," in an injured,
appealing voice.

"You have chosen a noble profession," began
Dr. Stewart warmly, but Mr. Logan quietly
interrupted him.

Granted, my dear sir, provided the motives
are equally noble."

Now, Oath, you are going to catch it from
your Mentor," observed her brother in an amused

tone. " Mr. Logan has discovered a flaw in your
grand scheme."

I suppose one can discover flaws in everything,"
returned the Vicar in a musing tone.
Youth is the time for great projects ; sometimes
they are another name for restlessness and discontent.
Youth lights a candle, — a farthing dip-light
sometimes, — and sets out through the word
to look for duties, and leaves the hearth-stone
cold, and old hearts growing chill round it. T
have an old-fashioned notion, that woman's mission,
in its perfectness, very rarely lies beyond
the threshold of home."

How about Florence Nightingale 1 " interrupted
Cathy.

'' Or Sarah Judson ? " from Langley.

Or Mrs. Fry ? or Joan of Arc ? " commented
Dr. Stewart.

Or we might add Grace Darling, and a score
of others," put in Garth.

All typical women, r used up in their generation
to perform a certain work, and performing
it right nobly. The world calls them heroines,
and with reason. They are heroines in the true
II. 34

sense of the word, for they have discovered
the needs of the world, and, recognizing their
own power to remedy, have fearlessly dared to
cross the threshold of home duty for the larger
arena, where only the strong prevail and the
weak go to the wall."

*^ Cathy does not pretend to be a Florence
Nightingale," put in Langley, quietly.

I thought you always told us to elevate our
standard ? " a little defiantly, from Cathy.

The higher the better," with a benign glance
at her ; '' but it must be a true standard, unselfishness
and self-sacrifice for its base, and built
up of pure motives. If it be one-sided it will
topple over."

Ah ! I can't read parables," rather crossly.

"Are you sure that you are really trying to
read mine ? You remind me of some little child,
Miss Catherine, gathering shells by the sea-shore,
and throwing all the pearls away. If you look
far enough into the meanings of things you will
perceive their value. About your plan, now ? "

*'' I will not hear a word against it," she returned
wilfully, and going over to Miss Cosie.

** It is bad enough to have to argue with all one's
home people ; but to be lectured in public, and
before Dr. Stewart — no, indeed, Mr. Logan."

Very well, I will reserve what 1 have to saying
private," he returned, looking after her with a
sort of indulgent tenderness, as though she were
the little child to whom he had compared her ;
and Queene, who was near him, saw a certain
vivid brightness in his eyes as he watched her.

The circle broke up after this ; but, though it
was tolerably late for Hepshaw hours, they did
not yet talk of separating. It was a lovely
moonlight night, and, at Garth's invitation,
Queene strolled with him up and down the
Vicar's steep, narrow garden. Dr. Stewart joined
them, and talked for some time about his Indian
experiences.

They were both novel and interesting, and
engrossed them wholly. Queene was so fascinated
by his description of Indian' scenery that
she with difficulty remembered the lateness of
the hour, and that Langley and Cathy would be
wondering at her absence ; but she at last made
an excuse to leave them.

34*

She lingered for a moment under the shadow
of the house to watch the two dark figures still
pacing up and down the steep path. This evening's
excitement had quickened her pulses. The
arrival of the stranger, Miss Faith's repressed
agitation at the sight of him, Cathy's strange
restlessness and plan for leaving home, had disturbed
the even current of events. The moral
air seemed charged with electricity and rife
with disturbance ; somewhere a storm seemed
impending. This sense of movement, of vitality,
was not unpleasant; youth dreads nothing
more than monotony. It is only in age that
one sits with folded hands expecting nothing.
Garth's manner, too, had given her pleasure ;
it had been more than usually friendly. There
had been appreciation in his glance, a certain
cordiality in his tone, that had fallen pleasantly
on her ear. "If he will only remain my
friend I shall envy no girl her lover," thought
Queene, with a sudden fulness of heart ; but at
that moment she was startled from her reverie
by the sound of voices in the dark entry behind
her.

She could hear Mr. Logan's quiet tones, and
yes, surely that voice answering him was Cathy's !
Before she could free herself a sentence or two
reached her ear.

You will think over what I have said, my
child ? You will be good and give up this, to
please me ? "

No, no," returned the girl passionately, and
the low, vehement tones gave Queene a shock,
for they were broken as though with weeping ;
you must let me go. I will not stay and make
you wretched, as I know I should do."

You would make me very happy, Catherine."

No, indeed, Mr. Logan, you are too great,
too high for me ; I cannot reach to you. I
should tire myself and you with my efforts to be
good. Oh, you must let me go ! I must be free !
indeed, indeed, I must be free ! "

*' Then go, my wild bird, and take my blessing
with you ; only — " but here the tones were too
low to be distinguished ; only as Queene moved
away a figure brushed past her, and glided down
the garden path.

It was Cathy.

CHAPTER XL

NEXT DOOR TO THE EVERGREENS.

Even her little mirror

Bore witness to the change ;
For to love the face within it

Was something new and strange.
She had looked before and seen it

So thin and hard and grey ;
Looked, that her hair and collar
Were smooth and in trim array."

Pisa Craig-Knox,

Cara, Dr. Stewart has come to see you."
It was Faith who spoke. It was the afternoon
after Miss Cosie's tea party, and she had
met her old acquaintance down the village and
had brought him in at his solicitation to see her
sisters. Matters were not quite satisfactory today.
Faith had had a sleepless night after her
excitement, and a racking headache had been
the consequence. And Miss Charity had been

in one of her trying moods. A fresh access of
pain made her exacting and irritable. Faith's
nervousness and pale looks met with scant
sympathy. " If you were not quite so fond of
gadding about and leaving other people to do
your work you would not be so tired," was
the severe comment ; the truth being, that
poor Miss Charity was having a bad time of it,
and had missed Faith's soft voice and gentle
manipulations.

It did not improve matters when Miss Hope
came to the rescue, and took the book out of her
sister's unwilling hands. " There, Faith, run
along and put on your bonnet and get some air ;
1 will read to Charity," she said, in her brusque,
kindly way, and settled herself vigorously to
her task ; and Faith, who knew how Cara hated
Hope's reading, hesitated and lingered, and then
finally yielded to the temptation of the fresh air
and sunshine.

It was a little trying that at this moment she
should meet Dr. Stewart.

At thirty-five a sleepless night is no beautifier,
one lacks youth's cosmetics then. Faith knew

her heavy half-extinguished eyes had black rings
round them. The face under the close little
Quaker bonnet looked older and more worn than
it had last night.

How do you do, Miss Faith ? we can see
each other more clearly than we could last
evening. Well, we have neither of us grown
younger," and Dr. Stewart scrutinized his pale
companion with the utmost composure.

Faith glanced at him rather timidly; his
manner troubled her, it was more brusque, a
little rougher than it used to be. The shy young
doctor had seen the world since then. Dr.
Stewart certainly looked a little different this
afternoon. He was much older and stouter than
she had thought him yesterday ; h^s whiskers
were iron-grey, and his face had a brown, weatherbeaten
aspect, and the lines round the mouth
were a trifle hard and sarcastic. She could see
him more clearly than in Miss Cosie's dim
room.

You find me changed too, I dare say," he
continued abruptly, reading her thoughts more
shrewdly than of old. " You see I have knocked

about the world for the last seven or eight years,
and that makes a man old before his time."

I don't think you look particularly old, Dr.
Stewart."

Well, forty is not exactly patriarchal," somewhat
sarcastically. 'eon the whole I think I am
rather proud of my grey hairs, they make me
more important. You ought to have kept
younger. Miss Faith, leading this quiet pastoral
life of yours ; you have not had all the hard hits
and thumps that fate has dealt me."

I think inaction is sometimes more trying,"
she answered faintly, for this absence of sympathy
fretted her ; and just then they met Cathy walking
down the road with free easy gait, and
carrying a basket of poppies and wild flowers.
She nodded to them hurriedly and passed on.
Dr. Stewart looked after her.

'that is a fine girl with a fine character, I will
be bound," he said, " but I think I admire Miss
Marriott more ; I like her soft brunette coloring,
and then she has such splendid eyes. Is that
fine fellow, young Clayton, rather smitten with
her ? "

I think, I am almost sure, that he cares for
some one else ; at least, one never knows,"
putting up her hand to her head.

No, one never knows ; there is a fate in
these things, I believe. That elder Miss Clayton
looks very worn, a story there I expect ; most
unmarried women have had their story, — one can
read it in their faces, — and men too, for that
matter. There is a skeleton in every one's cupboard
they say. At forty we begin to wonder
if life's worth having after all. Well, well, you
have a headache, I see ; this sunshine is making
it worse. If you will allow me I will see you
home and call on your sisters."

They are all at home ; they will be very
glad to see you," she stammered, but her heart
sank within her.

It was one of Cara's bad days, she might not
receive him graciously ; and then what would
Dr. Stewart think of their humble little household
'? She was absent and nervous all the
rest of the way. No wonder he found her
changed.

Cara, Dr. Stewart has come to see you," she

said, in a deprecating voice, as though she were
committing some solecism.

Miss Hope put down her book with a start,
and Miss Charity looked up sharply from her
knitting. *' Whom did you say. Faith ? " in an
inflexible voice.

An old hospital friend of hers, one of ten
years' standing," observed Dr. Stewart, throwing
himself into the breach with military promptness.
In a moment he recognized the position ; his
shrewd, observant glance took in the little parlor
and the occupants in a trice.

It was not a very attractive scene to a man of
the world ; the details were homely and uninteresting.
The bay window with its geraniums
and fuchsias ; the sharp little bright-eyed woman
with her high cheek-bones and thin curls ; Miss
Hope, vigorous and loud - voiced ; and Miss
Prudence's ungainly figure hovering in the background.
Faith, with her pale face and grey dress,
looked like a soft speck of shadow in the sunlight.
Dr. Stewart's masculine breadth and
freedom of movement seemed to fill up the little
room.

*' Dr. Stewart ! have we ever heard of him,
sister ? " asked Miss Charity, a little sarcastically,
and appealing to Miss Hope.

If you have I dare say you have forgotten it ;
ten years is a long time for ladies' memories. I
was house-surgeon in the hospital at Carlisle,
where your sister worked."

'' Humph ! " responded Miss Charity, dryly.

Dr. Stewart's eyes twinkled at the sight of
Faith's despondent face ; he was quite master of the
position. Miss Charity's cool reception did not
daunt him in the least. He placed himself leisurely
by the side of the little ?quare couch, and
eyed its occupant curiously ; he turned over the
books that were piled on the narrow table beside
her, and read their titles one after another, and
then he began to talk. How he talked ! Faith's
downcast face brightened ; after a time she became
less nervous. Dr. Stewart did not address
himself to her, he seemed to ignore her existence
completely. He talked to Charity, who let her
knitting fall out of her hot, dry fingers as she
listened ; to Miss Hope, sitting there erect and
open-eyed ; even to poor, grim Miss Prudence,

to whom few people talked. Faith raised her
soft eyes every now and then in surprise ; she
had no idea Dr. Stewart was such a clever, well-read
man ; his brusqueness did not jar on her
now. To judge by his conversation he might
have read half the books that where written. He
swallowed up Miss Charity's little modicum of
information in a moment, and left her high and
dry, with all her long sentences unsaid. Miss
Hope gasped and said, " There, now, would you
have believed it ! '' to the stock of choice anecdotes
with which he regaled them. Never were
four maiden ladies so well entertained on a
summers afternoon.

Even Miss Prudence, the most rigid of housekeepers,
counted over her scanty store of preserves
mentally, and decided to ask him to tea. Faith
almost held her breath for the next moment ; but
Dr. Stewart accepted the invitation with alacrity.
While the tea was brewing, and Miss Prudence
hunted out a remnant of rich cake, he drew his
chair a little closer to Miss Charity, and questioned
her somewhat minutely on the subject of
her accident.

You suffer, of course, a great deal ? It is a
complicated case, I fear."

Yes ; I have had my share of pain," she
answered cheerfully. The sharp angles had relaxed
now.

And your prospect of ease is small ? "

Ah, well ! it might be worse," she returned
resignedly ; and somehow the restless bright
eyes and thin ringlets were less repellant to him.
I have bad times and good times, and have to
lie here and make the best of it. We need to
have broken walls. Dr. Stewart."

Cara is so very patient," interposed Faith,
leaning over her sister's couch.

Miss Charity gave her an odd little push.

No ; I am dreadfully cross, and give heaps
of trouble. One's pain gets into one's temper.
Faith's been a good girl to me all these years ; I
don't know what I should have done without
her."

'' Oh, Cara ! please don't speak so," whispered
poor Faith with tears in her eyes.

It was Dr. Stewart who said " Humph ! " now.
He glanced curiously at the two women before

him. Faith was considered quite a girl still by
her sisters.

"I have a temper my-self ; I believe every one
has, though he or she will not always own to it,"
he remarked coolly, as he placed himself by Miss
Prudence, and helped himself liberally to seedcake.


It was getting quite dark when he rose at last
to take leave. Faith accompanied him to the
door.

Well, is your headache better ? you are not
quite so pale," he asked, not unkindly, as they
stood together.

'' Yes ; the walk and the tea has done it good,"
she answered evasively. What if he should guess
at her sleepless night ?

I hoped I should have come in for a compliment,
and that my conversation might have
helped to charm it away. You used not to be so
matter-of-fact. Miss Faith."

Such a rush of color answered him. '' I
wonder you recollect so long ago," she returned
somewhat unsteadily.

I wonder at it myself. Perhaps you have

helped to jog my memory. Well, well, we were
young and foolish once. So this has been your
life for the last ten years ? "

Yes ; just this, and nothing else," with a
sigh.

No wonder you are thin, and have forgotten
how to smile. Ten years of this sort of thing !
Well, you women beat us after all ; " and then
he turned on his heel and went down the little
garden path bordered by Faith's roses.

In a very little while Dr. Stewart took up his
position in Hepshaw, and buckled to his work ina
stout, uncompromising manner that seemed
natural to him. From his patients he reaped
golden opinions, in spite of a deeply-rooted dislike
of humbug, and a tendency to shrug his
shoulders impatiently over feminine fads and
fancies. He was soon a general favorite. He
was prompt and kind-hearted ; in cases of real
suffering nothing could exceed his patience and
watchfulness. People soon got over his little
brusqueness, and said openly that Dr. Stewart
was a real acquisition to the neighborhood.

He had taken temporary lodgings in the village

; but report was already busy with the fact
that Juniper Lodge, Dr. Morgan's old house,
next door to the Misses Palmer, had been visited
more than once by the new surgeon. By-and-bye
suspicion became certainty, when painters
and workmen arrived on the premises. Soon the
forlorn exterior of Juniper Lodge began to wear
a brighter look — the old green verandah was repainted,
fresh papers and plenty of whitewash
made the dark old rooms habitable, the evergreen
shrubs were cut down or transplanted, the walks
weeded and gravelled, a van-load of furniture
made its appearance, and a tidy-looking woman
with a pleasant Scotch face, answering to the
name of Jean, took up her residence. The next
day there was a brass plate up ; and Dr. Stewart
quietly walked into the Evergreens, and announced
formally to the sisters that he was their
next-door neighbor.

And a very pleasant neighbor too," observed
Miss Hope to her gossips ; "so different to
Dr. Morgan, with that slatternly housekeeper of
his always down at heels and talking to the postman
at the gate. That Jean must be a treasure ;
II. 35

it is a treat to look at her caps and aprons. I
have been all over the house, and you could eat
your dinner off the floor, as the saying is. Dr.
Stewart drops in to see us very often ; it brightens
Charity to have a good chat with him. They
have fine long arguments sometimes, only he
always gets the best of it. He makes a rare
commotion when he comes, for he always pulls
up the blinds and throws up the windows, though
I tell him not to expose our shabby old carpet.
He had Charity and her couch out on the lawn
the other evening ; just fancy ! and the poor
thing has never been out for years. She was so
pleased and excited that we all had a cry over it,
and then he scolded us all round."

It was quite true that the arrival of Dr.
Stewart as their next-door neighbor made a
great change in the little household at the
Evergreens ; the introduction of the masculine
element diffused new life and activity. During
his brief visits, for he seldom stayed long, it was
wonderful how much Dr. Stewart contrived to
effect. The close little parlor where Faith had
toiled over weary books or sewn long seams by

Cara's couch for ten monotonous years was a
different place now. The obnoxious geraniums no
longer blocked up the window, there was plenty
of air and light ; Faith no longer gasped with pale
cheeks in the close oppressive atmosphere. On
fine afternoons Miss Charity's couch was wheeled
out under the apple-trees ; the poor lady could
watch the butterflies glancing round her, or the
great brown bees humming round her neighbor's
hive. Instead of Trench's ' Parables,'
or D'Aubign^'s ^ Reformation,' suspicious green
volumes in certain standard editions lay beside
her. Faith had no need to stifle 
yawns over Kingsley's ' Hepatic,' or
Two Years Ago.' ' Laura Done ' and Black's
Adventures of a Phaeton ' held them enchained
for hours.

I am afraid our tastes are demoralized, weare
getting very lax and dissipated over our
reading. It is very nice, but there is no method
in it," sighed Miss Charity.

You have had solids for ten years, now your
digestion needs a lighter form of nourishment ;
all work and no play dulls the brain as well as

35*

poor Jack," returned Dr. Stewart decidedly. He
had come in for one of his brief, business-like
visits ; he was always dropping in somewhere, at
the Vicarage, at Church Stile House, at Elderberry
Lodge, even at the Sycamores, where comely
Mrs. Morris with her seven olive branches lived.
He did not favor Brierwood Cottage often with
his visits, but he constantly met Queene going
to and from her school, and walked beside her in
animated conversation.

Faith met them sometimes as she went about
her charitable errands among the cottages ; she
would turn a little pale and pass on somewhat
hurriedly. Dr. Stewart never stopped her on
these occasions ; he would go on with his talk,
casting shrewd kindly glances under the girl's
shady straw hat. Poor Faith would look at them
wistfully, with a shy, deprecating smile ; she would
have a certain sinking of heart for hours afterwards.
'' He admires her, I knew he would," she
would say to herself a little sadly.

Poor Miss Faith ! it may be doubted if this
revival of an old intimacy were a source of unalloyed
pleasure. True, the changeless monotony of

her days was broken up ; but the new interest
and excitement had their draw-backs.

Time, after its usual kindly fashion, had to a
certain extent healed her wound ; the passionate
yearning of ten years ago had merged into sad
serenity. Faith treasured the remembrance of
those few fleeting months, as women will
treasure their one romance ; those unfinished
hopes and fears were buried tenderly in her
breast. She had ceased to suffer, but she had not
ceased to remember ; the sacred impression had
stamped her whole life.

And now, when the freshness of youth had
passed, she had met her ideal again ; but was the
girl's ideal likely to be the woman's reality ? did
she fully recognize in Dr. Stewart the dark
young surgeon in that Carlisle hospital, whose
soft looks and words had won her heart ?

Faith winced secretly at these questions, as
she did at Dr. Stewart's brusque remarks. His
experience, his knowledge of the world, his
laxity and breadth of church views, daunted the
simple woman ; once or twice his roughness of
argument hurt her.

Ah, I am a poor creature ! " she said to him
once. " I am not one of the clever ones, like you
and Cara."

No ; you are only so so, Miss Faith ; your
knowledge of the world is not in any way remarkable
; you are not one of the strong-minded
women," with a little dry chuckle, with which
he would conclude his remarks.

But, though he hurt and disappointed her,
there were times when a sudden softening of

o

voice or look brought back the past with strange
vividness. Now and then he let fall a word that
showed that he too had not forgotten, some
chance allusion to old scenes, some memory of
her tastes. " Ah, you used to like this. Miss
Faith," or some such speech, that brought a flush
of pleasure to her face.

Dr. Stewart looked very benign as he glanced
at the homely group before him on the afternoon
in question.

This is better than twenty feet by eighteen
of stuffiness," he said, in his concise way.

The sisterhood were all gathered on the lawn.
Miss Charity's favorite — an enormous tabby—

was purring underneath the old scarlet wrapper ;
Miss Hope's knitting-needles clicked busily ; Miss
Patience was occupied over some silk patch-work,
the little squares and diamonds shone in the
sunlight ; Faith was reading aloud ' Westward
Ho.' She put down the book with a bright,
welcoming smile. The interest of the story had
moved her, her eyes shone with soft, serious
excitement ; there was a scent of tall white lilies.
Dr. Stewart's bees were humming noisily ; a light
wind stirred the long grass shadows ; Miss
Charity's curls were in disorder. Some fine white-heart
cherries hung over Dr. Stewart's head ; he
commenced gathering some, " byway of dessert,"
he said coolly as he transferred them to his own
pocket. " Why did they not call you Cherry,
Miss Charity, instead of that affected Cara ? "

It is only one of Faith's whims," returned
Miss Hope ; " neither Prue nor I ever use it ;
she begun it as a child and never left off."

Why should I not use it, it is far softer and
prettier than Charity ? " interposed Faith appealingly.
Dr. Stewart gave one of his dry laughs.

^' Every one has a right to their own fancies. I

am prosaic enough to dislike pet names. Cara,
when one is christened Charity ! " with a contemptuous
shrug ; *^ why, it is a direct snub ^o
one's sponsors."

Faith looked uncomfortable ; she always did
when Dr. Stewart was in one of his quizzical
moods. At such times he was given to find fault
with everything. But in another moment he
became serious.

'' AVhat ao odd fancy that was of Chester's
calling his little girl Nan. She is a pretty little
creature, and her father seems to dote on her. I
was over there yesterday ; Mrs. Chester had one of
her attacks."

Poor thing ! " sighed Miss Charity, " she is
very delicate. People are fond of calling her
fanciful, and no doubt she is full of whimsies
like the rest of us ; but it is hard work having an
ailing body and an ailing temper too."

Yes," he assented ; " she has her share of
trouble, but she has got the blessing of a good
husband." But here Miss Prudence shook her
head grimly. She rarely joined in the conversation
if a stranger were present ; and, as her remarks

were generally of a lugubrious nature, they
were not greatly missed.

*' An ill-assorted couple, doctor," smoothing her
black mittens with sad satisfaction. Miss Prudence
was much given to expatiate in the domestic
circle on the evils of matrimony, and to thank
Heaven that she and her three sisters had not
fallen into the hands of the Philistines ; a
peculiarly happy state of resignation for an unattractive
woman, with a rigid and cast-iron
exterior, and endowed besides with a masculine
appendage of the upper lip.

Humph ! " grunted the doctor laconically ;
for he had an ill concealed antagonism to Miss
Prudence, and disliked gossiping about his
patients' affairs.

K we were to add up all the ill-assorted
marriages in the world, the sum would last us a
long time," observed Miss Hope philosophically.

Right, my dear madam," was the brisk
answer ; " but ' if folk, won't suit themselves
properly it is not other people's fault,' as the
old clerk said when — when the wrong couple
got married."

*' They say marriages are made in heaven,"
began Miss Charity, a little sentimentally ; but
Dr. Stewart interrupted her.

They say so ; but don't you think there is a
good deal of humarx bungling and obstinacy at
the bottom ? One can't fancy the angels, for
example, taking a very great interest in a marriage
de convenance or a ceremony where title-deeds
and money-bags play too prominent a part !
I have seen something of human nature, Miss
Charity, and have often found occasion for
astonishment at the sad mess men, and women
too, make over their lives."

I don't think women are often to blame,"
observed Faith in a low voice.

Humph ! so that is your experience," with an
odd, inexplicable look as he rose from the grass.
"Well, ladies, this is vastly entertaining, and one
could learn a good deal, no doubt ; but there is
work waiting for me in the shape of Jemmy
Bates' broken leg, which, by-the-bye. Miss Faith,
is progressing most favorably," and, with a
benevolent nod that included them all. Dr.
Stewart walked off, still munching his cherries.

CHAPTER XII.

LITTLE NAN.

Those whom God loves die young ;
They see no evil days ;
No falsehood taints their tongue,
No wickedness their ways.

Baptized — and so made sure
To win their safe abode,
What can we pray for more ?
They die, and are with God."

Bohert 8. Hawker.

A FEW days after Dr. Stewart's garden visit
Emmie came running up the gravel walk at
Brierwood Cottage with a frightened face.
Queene, who was sitting in the porch as usual,
put down her work rather hurriedly.

Oh, Queen, I do think something is the matter.
Mr. Chester is coming ap this way, and he
has got Nan in his arms, and she looks so odd ;
I am sure she is ill or something."

Is he bringing her here, or to Church-Stile
House ? " asked her sister anxiously ; but as she
spoke Mr. Chester's tall figure came into sight.
In another moment there was a click of the little
gate, and he came rapidly up to them carrying
his child.

May I come in, Miss Marriott ? the sun is so
hot I dare not go up the lane ; " and, as Queene
nodded and made room for him to pass into their
cool little sitting-room, he continued in an agitated
voice, '' I do not know what ails Nan, she
has been sleepy and quiet for a long time, and
just now she turned very sick and poorly."

He had placed himself in the low chair by the
window as he spoke, and Queene knelt down by
him and examined the child. As she untied the
large white sun-bonnet Nan shrank from her
rather restlessly.

Nan did want to go home, father ; Nan very
sick," she answered, hiding her face on his
shoulder.

That is what she keeps saying over and over
again," he continued, still more anxiously. "She
was quite well when we left home this morning ;

she and her little maid were chasing each other
along the lanes, pelting each other with poppies.
I thought she was only tired and wanted to be
carried ; I can't understand this sickness and
drowsiness all at once. Do you think, Miss
Marriott, that it could possibly be a sunstroke
? "

'^ I don't know ; her eyes certainly look very
odd," returned Queene in great perplexity.

Oh, father ! Nan is so very tired' moaned
the little creature again, creeping closer to his
broad breast. " Ellen did say it was naughty to
eat the pretty currants ; but Nan is good now,
only so sick "

Have you any pain, my darling ? " he asked,
bending over her.

''No; no pain, only Nan so tired," she repeated,
in the most pathetic voice. Mr. Chester looked
appealingly at Queene.

I am afraid she is very ill," she returned
reluctantly, for there was a strange look about
the child that alarmed her. " Emmie dear, tell
Patience to go and fetch Dr. Stewart at once,,
and you run across for Langley."

Aye, we must have Langley," he repeated
helplessly, looking down at his pet. Nan had
left off her moaning and seemed sinking into
drowsiness.

Will she let me undress her and lay her in
Emmie's bed ? she will be more comfortable than
in your arms ; " but, as Nan stirred uneasily and
murmured '^ Father ; Nan cannot leave father,"
Mr. Chester was obliged to carry her up himself.
But even when he placed her on the cool pillow
she still held his hand tightly.

"Father will not leave his pet; don't be
afraid, my darling."

When Langley arrived she found him still
hanging over the child. Nan seemed sleeping ;
her dark eyelashes swept her cheek ; one small
hand was folded in her father's.

This sleep will do her good. It must have
been the sun that made her feel sick," he said,
looking up at Langley with a relieved expression.
Langley put back the long silky hair from the
child's forehead, but did not answer. Some chill
presentiment for which she could not account
had seized her at the moment of Emmie's

summons ; and then, why did not Nan move
when she kissed her ?

"I do not think this looks quite like sleep,
like natural sleep, I mean. I think we ought to
try to rouse her, at least till Dr. Stewart comes.
Speak to her, Harry ; she has never slept so
soundly before."

Nan, Nan, my little one, father wants you,"
but, for the first time in her infant life. Nan was
deaf to her father's voice.

What can we do ? what are we to do ? Dr.
Stewart will not be home for another hour,"
exclaimed Queene, now really terrified. No
suspicion of the truth had entered into any of
their minds. Only when it was too late did the
child's speech about the pretty currants recur to
her.

The next two hours that passed were never
effaced from Queene's memory. No efforts of
theirs could rouse the child from the death-like
stupor that oppressed her. Langley had tried
two or three remedies, but they were unavailing,
and the father's agony was pitiable to witness.
The little town was fairly roused, and messengers

on horseback were scouring the neighbourhood
after Dr. Stewart. But he had gone to a farmhouse
some five miles distant, and delay was
inevitable. Garth and Ted had each gone indifferent
directions, and Faith Palmer had driven
over to Karldale to tell Mrs. Chester the reason
of her husband's long absence.

It was just before Dr. Stewart's arrival that
Langley, examining the child's clothes, found
some dark crimson stains on the front of the
little white frock, and showed them to the doctor,
as he stood with a grave face looking down at
the child. A very brief survey had satisfied
him.

Humph ! it is just as I feared when young
Clayton told me the symptoms. She has been
eating deadly night-shade. Children sometimes
mistake them for currants. Why was she allowed
to run about without her nurse ? "

She had the girl with her," returned the
poor father, and here he uttered a strong expletive
; but Langley laid her hand on his arm and
said Hush ! " What can you do to wake her.
Dr. Stewart ? "

Nothing," returned the doctor sadly. " An
hour or two sooner and I could have saved her.
But, my good sir, these things are not in our
hands. It is neither your fault nor mine that I
was not here."

'* You can do nothing ! " turning upon him
almost fiercely in his despair, as though he would
wrest the child's life from him by force.

'' Nothing," he repeated emphatically, for it
was best that the miserable father should realize
the truth at once, and not cling to the shadow of
a hope. " The child is sleeping herself to death ;
in a few hours it must all be over."

Try to bear it, Harry," said Langley, in her
low, soothing voice, for the strong man absolutely
staofofei'ed under the blow. Her face was almost
as white as his as she guided him to a chair, but
he turned from her with a groan and hid his face
in the child's pillow.

I will come again ; there is nothing for me
to do here," said Dr. Stewart. His voice was
rough, probably with emotion, as he turned away
abruptly.

An hour or two earlier and I could have
II. 36

saved her," he said to Queene as she followed
him down-stairs. " It goes hard with a man to
know that, and that he can do absolutely nothing;
just because my mare wanted shoeing, and I
went out of the beaten track. There is another
life gone, that is what I call a mystery," and Dr.
Stewart muttered his favorite ^' humph!" and
went away with a sorrowful face, for he was softhearted,
and loved all children for their own
sweet sakes.

There was literally nothing to be done after
this. Garth came in by-and-bye and paid a
short visit to the room up-stairs, but he did not
stay long.

Langley is with him, and we have sent for
his wife. There is nothing that a fellow can do,
and — in short, I can't stand it," he blurted out
confidentially to Queene, with a man's instinctive
horror of scenes. " If there were something that
one could do ; but in these sort of cases women
are the best. It cuts one to the heart to see him
going on like that ; " and Garth turned on his
heel abruptly, and walked to the window.

But he made himself of use too in that troubled

little household ; for he succeeded in coaxing
Emmie, who was sobbing with nervous excitement,
to go with him to Church-stile House, and
promised Queene to place her under Cathy's care
for the night. This was a great relief to Queene,
who had reason to dread any of these sort of depressing
scenes for her, and left her free for any
duty that might devolve on her.

A sad sight awaited her up-stairs. The setting
sun was flooding the little chamber, and the last
dazzling rays shone full on the face of the child.
Mr. Chester was kneeling by the bed, with one
little hand hidden in his ; Langley, with a white,
rigid face, was standing beside him. As the
hoarse uncontrollable sobs, those tearless sobs of
a strong man, smote on her ear she shivered and
shrank back as though some blow were dealt her.

Oh, Queene, this is dreadful ! Who can
comfort him ? Where is his wife and the
mother of his child ? " she whispered, as the girl
went up to them. " It is she who ought to be
here, not I."

We have sent for her. Hush, Langley, he

will hear you."

36*

Ah, he hears nothing ; he will have it that
she will wake and speak to him." But her words
reached his ear.

She will, Langley ; how can you he so cruel ?

They always do just before '' " the last' he was

going to say, but the words choked him. "You
will say good-bye to father, and give him one
sweet kiss, will you not, my little Nan, my
darling, my treasure V

"Oh, Harry, try to bear it ! Harry, Harry,
won't you listen to me a moment ? " and Langley
laid her cold hand on his arm ; but her touch
only seemed to make him more frantic.

No, I will not bear it ; I carnot bear it.
Have I not suffered enough ? "Will God take
from me my only comfort ? Oh, my little child,
my little child ! " with another burst of anguish.

See how calm and peaceful she looks," she
went on, in her quiet, controlling voice, but her
face was like marble; "just sleeping peacefully
into her rest ; no pain, no suffering. It is so ' He
giveth His beloved sleep ; ' try and think of that,
Harry."

She was my ewe Iamb," he muttered,

gloomily; 'she drank of my cup, and lay in my
bosom. She was my own little daughter, my
only one. She used to kneel up upon my knees
and say her pretty prayers to me every night,
the darling. * God bless Nan and Nan's father,'
she always said that."

Yes ; and He will bless you, my poor

IT V

larry.

*' Is it blessing me to rob me like this of my
all ? Oh, Laiigley, pray to Him ; you are a good
woman ; pray both of you that she may be spared
to me."

Ah, if it were only His will I" sighed Langley.
Did the memory of those strange pathetic words
of another heart-broken father cross her memory ?
'' ' While the child was yet alive, I fasted and
wept ; for I said. Who can tell whether God will
be gracious to me, that the child may live ? ' Ah,
if it were only His will ! "

*hush! did you see her stir ? I saw her, I
felt her ; she is waking now. Nan, my pet, my
darling, open your sweet eyes and look at
father." But, alas, the little inanimate form
stir lay in its deathly torpor.

And so the hours passed. Dr. Stewart came
and went again ; and Garth stole up the uncarpeted
stairs, and stood outside with bated
breath, to listen if a further change had taken
place. But still Mr. Chester knelt beside the
little white bed, and Langley and Queene kept
faithful watch beside lira.

It was long past midnight when Queene,
laying her hand on the child's brow, felt it cold
beneath her touch, and knew that the last feeble
breath had been drawn, and signed to Langley
that all was over.

But even then the unhappy father would not
realize the truth ; and when at last it dawned
upon him, he bade them with passionate impatience
to leave him there with his dead.
Leave me alone with my child ; she belongs tome
; she is mine ; " and as they went out sadly
they could hear him groan, '' Oh, my little Nan,
my little, little child."

As they left the room, Queene could hear
Garth calling to her in a suppressed voice, and
at once went down to him. He took hold of her
hand, and led her into the cheery little parlor.

There was a bright fire iu the grate ; an old
wooden rocking-chair stood near it ; the tea-tray
was on the round black table where the sisters
ate their simple meals.

"Sit down there and warm yourself," he said,
kindly, " and I will give you a cup of tea.
Where is Langley ? "

She went into my room ; I think she wants
to be alone ; I will go up to her presently. Oh,
Mr. Clayton," bursting into tears, for this touch
of thoughtfulness moved her from her enforced
calmness, " it has been so sad, so dreadful, all
these hours."

Yes ; I know it has been very hard upon
you. Poor Chester, and poor dear little Nan ;
who would have dreamed of such a catastrophe ?
Even Dr. Stewart, who is inured to all sorts of
painful scenes, seems quite upset by it. It must
be hard for a man to lose his only child," continued
Garth, gravely, as he brought the tea,
and stirred the fire into a more cheerful blaze.

I did not know you where here," she said,
after an interval of silence. The warmth had
revived her, and the flow of nervous tears had

done her good. How she wished that Langley
could be induced to come down too !

I could not make up my mind to leave sou
all in such a strait. Langley was here, and I
thought after all that I mio^ht be of use. I am
glad I thought of keeping up the fire. I had a
grand hunt for Patience's tea-caddy ; it took mono
end of time to find."

Garth was talking in a fast, nervous way to
keep up his own and Queene's spirits. He had
never seen her cry before, and it gave him an
odd sort of pain. The thought of the room upstairs,
and of the heart-broken father kneeling
there by his dead child, weighed upon them both
like lead ; only Queene stretched out her cold
hands to the blaze, and drank her tea obediently,
and felt cheered by GartVs kindness.

These sorts of things upset one's views of
life," he continued, after a pause. " I suppose we
all know trouble in some shape or other; but
when it comes to a man losing his only bit of
comfort, and Heaven only knows what that child
was to the poor fellow — well, I can only say it
does seem hard."

"That is what I felt when I thought I was
o^oinor to lose Emmie. Mr. Chester has his
wife."

She has never been much good to him. I
am no scandal monger, but one can't help seeing
that. I wonder what has become of her and
Miss Faith ? " he went on, restlessly, walking to
the window and looking out on the dark summer
night.

Queene left him soon after that. " She must
see after Langley," she said ; " and there were
other things that ought to be done," she added,
with a shudder.

Garth let her go with some reluctance ; the
little parlor looked desolate without her. He sat
down in the old rocking-chair after she had left,
and fell into an odd, musing dream. "How
strangely they seemed to be drawn together,"
he thought. He was as much at home with
her as he was with Langley and Cathy ; it
had come quite naturally to him now to take
her under his protection, and care for her ashe
did for them. It had been pleasant ministering
to her comfort just now. How pretty she

bad looked sitting there in her back dress, with
her head resting against the hard wood of the
chair. Most women looked ugly when they cried,
but her tears had flowed so quietly. And then
he won tered how Dora looked when she cried,
and if she would ever gaze up in his face as
gently and gratefully as Queene did just now.
And then he fell to musings in a grave, old-fashioned
way on the inequalities of matrimony,
and the probable risk of disappointment. Things
did not always turn out well, as poor Chester had
found to his cost. In times of trouble a man
must turn for comfort to his wife. Was Dora the
one likely to yield him this comfort ? She was
very strong and reliable ; all manner of good
qualities were hers, besides her creamy skin and
golden hair; but Vv^ould she be gentle and soft
with him at times when a man needed gentleness
?

Garth was disquieting himself a little over
these thoughts while Queene stole up the little
staircase. All was quiet in Emmie's room as she
passed ; her own was chill and dark as she entered
it. Langley had not lighted the candle ; she was

sitting by the open window looking out at the
black, starless night. The rain was falling now,
the drops were pattering on the creeper. Queene
gave a little shiver of discomfort at the dreary
scene, and thought regretfully of the rocking-chair
downstairs.

Have you been in again, Langley ? "

Yes ; but he will not let me stay or do anything
for him ; he wants her all to himself for a
little, he says. He just let me put things a little
comfortable, and as they should be, watching me
jealously all the time, and then I came away.
Garth must go in by-and-bye, and coax him
down."

Langley spoke in a tone of forced composure,
but her breath was labored, and the hand that
touched Queene's was so damp and cold that the
girl absolutely started.

Dear Langley, all this is making you quite
ill. Do come down with me ; your brother has
lighted a fire, and it is so warm and cosy, and
we can talk ever so much better there." But
Langley refused.

No, no ; I must stop here as long as he is

shut up in that room. What do I want with
warmth and comfort while he is suffering —
suffering: ? and I can do nothings for him — •
nothing, nothing ! " in a voice of such despair
that Queene started. A new light seemed
breaking on her.

"He asked for you directly, before his wife
was sent for, I know. . 1 think he likes you to be
with him, Langley ; you are old friends, you
know."

Yes ; I know. He called me to him just
now, and we stood together for a long time looking
down at the child. His eyes asked me for
comfort ; but what consolation had I to give him ?
His wife ought to be there, not I ; we both knew
that ; and then he sent me away."

But you need not have gone."

Could I have stood there taking her place
when I know too well what we have been to each
other ? He was right to send me away, and I
was right to go ; but oh, Queene, this night is
killing me ! " and Langley leant against her so
heavily, and her voice sounded so strangely in
the darkness, that Queene was frightened. If

she guessed rightly, what utter misery there was
locked up in this woman's breast !

*' You must lie down on my bed ; I will not
talk to you like this," she said, firmly. And when
Langley, faint and exhausted with emotion,
offered no resistance, she fetched a thick shawl
and folded it round her, and then lighted a
candle and administered some sal-volatile. The
dim light showed a very ghastly face, and great
bright eyes brimful of wretchedness ; the somewhat
thin lips were trembling with weakness.

*' Don't look at me, Queene ; don't let me talk.
I am not myself to-night ; I shall say things I
ought not to say." But Queene only kissed her
tenderly, and drew the white face down to her
shoulder.

"Do talk, Langley; it will do you good. You
have kept it all in too long, and it has done you
harm. No one wants me, and I can sit beside
you a little. When I hear the least movement
in Emmie's room I will go in."

We ought not to leave him ^oug^ alone," she
answered, faintly. *' Garth must go in to him
presently. He would mind me, I know ; but I

dare not let him see me like this. Oh, Queene,
whatever sorrow you may have to bear, may you
never know mine — to bring trouble on the man
you love, and then not to be able to comfort
him ! "

Queene stroked her hair softly ; there was
sympathy conveyed in every touch. " Tell me
all about it, Langley," she whispered ; " I always
knew you had a grief. If you loved Mr. Chester,
and he cared for you, why did you not marry
him ? "

*why, indeed! I have had Rye years in
which to ask myself that question. I loved him,
of course. We had grown up together ; as long as
I could remember, Harry and I had been together
caring for each other. Garth, every one, expected
how it would be."

Perhaps they all took it too much as a matter
of course. "

How did you know that ? " lifting her head
from Queene's shoulder. ** No one can have
told you. I never had any confidant."

*' One guesses things by instinct sometimes."

You are young to know human nature so

well," sinking back with a sigh. '' Ah, six years
ago I was like Cathy — proud, impulsive, and
loving my own will. I had a great notion of
independence. I thought women were not
allowed enough liberty, that they held themselves
too cheaply ; and though I loved Harry,
I was not quite willing to marry him."

That sounds strange. I can hardly imagine
you like Cathy."

No ; my self-will is broken now ; I have expiated
my girlish failings too bitterly. One's
spirit dies under such an ordeal. But though I
blame myself, not him, I think a stronger nature
would have controlled me."

'' Did you refuse him then ? "

I suppose I did. He came to me one day ;
things had been going on for a long time, but
there had been no actual wooing. Harry was a
mat ber-of- fact man, and I was just the reverse.
I had got my head full of novels, and had framed
my own ideas of love-making. I wanted an
ardent lover, one who would carry me away with
the force of his own feelings. The quiet, businesslike
manner in which Harry spoke fired my

pride and resolved me ; besides, as I said before,
that though I loved him, I was not quite willing
to be married."

Do you remember what he said to you ? "

'' Yes ; his very words. I was in the drawing-room
at Church-stile House, and he came to me
looking very quiet and pale. ' Langley,' he said,
'this has been going on a long time, too long.
Garth and I think, and I don't seem to be any
nearer to what I wish. AVe care for each other, I
know. Can you not make up your mind to be
my wife ? Karldale Grange is waiting for its
mistress.' Just that ; not a word of his love forme,
not a single protestation."

I think it was very honest and straightforward."


Can you guess how I answered him ? I
thanked him coldly, and said that I was in no
mood for marrying, that I was not sure that I
should ever marry ; I cared too much for my
freedom.

* Have you been playing with me all these
years, Langley ? ' he said, sadly, and his face grew
so white. * I can hardly believe that. I will

not press or annoy you, dear ; I will speak to
Garth ; ' and then he went away.

Oh, if he had only stayed, Queene, and
reasoned with me a little, my better nature must
have prevailed, for I loved him so ; but his apparent
coolness angered me, and then Garth came
and scolded me, which made matters worse. He
was for carrying things with a high hand ; but I
only grew obstinate > And so one wretched day
Harry and I had bitter words together, and he
faced round upon me when I sat pretending to
work, and swore that if I would not marry him,
Gertrude Leslie should ; and with that he turned
on his heel and left me.

I felt I had gone too far then, and that he
meant what he said. Sooner than lose him
altogether, I would have humiliated myself in the
dust. I threw down my work, and called out
Harry, but he did not hear, and in another monument
his horse's hoofs sounded in the lane.

I did all then that I could do. I wrote a

penitent little note begging him to forgive me,

and come back to me, and all should be as he

wished ; and I sent a messenger on to Karldale

IL 37

with it, charging him to deliver it into Harry's
own hands ; but, alas, it was brought back to me
unopened. Harry had never been home at all,
he had ridden straight off to Blanddale ; and the
next morning I heard Gertrude Leslie had promised
to be his wife.

Oh, Queene," as the girl leant over her and
kissed the white lips that quivered still with the
remembrance of that long-past agony, "that
moment was a sufficient punishment for all my
mad folly ; even Garth thought so., for he had no
word of reproach for me.

^' But I opened my lips to no one. None knew
what I suffered daring those nights and days.
An old aunt of ours had fallen ill in Carlisle, and
I went to her, and stayed with her till she died.

When I came back they were married, and by-and-bye
Harry and I met. I could sec he was
greatly changed, and his manner was constrained
and nervous ; but it was not in his nature to
bear malice, and I know he soon forgave me, all
the more that he must have seen that he was not
the only one to suffer."

Dear Langley," stroking the worn face still

more tenderly, " I can hardly bear to hear it ;
it seems all so dreadful. I cannot understand
how women can live through such things."

"One gets used to torture," with a strange
smile. '^ Have you not read that martyrs have
been known to sleep on the rack ? The worst part
of life always seems to me that pain so seldom
kills. We go on mutilated, shorn of our best
blessings, wounded and bleeding, but we never
die."

Queene stooped down and quoted softly in her
ear, " Wherefore is light given to him in misery,
and life unto the bitter in soul ; which long for
death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more
than for hid treasures ? "

Ah, I have often repeated those words. I
thought when I first saw Harry after he was
married that it would kill me ; to think that he
belonged to another woman, that she, not I, had
a right to his every thought and care. It seemed
as though my heart could not hold all its pain."

^' Ah, but he had not ceased to love you.
There must have been some consolation in that
thought."

37*

Yes ; but it was not a right consolation ; and
tien I knew that I was the cause of his unhappiness
— that was the hardest part of all. He was
so good ; he tried so hard to do his duty by her,
and make her a fond and faithful husband ; but
she never loved him."

*' But she married him."

Alas, she married him out of pique. Her
lover had jilted her, and in her despair she took
the first offer that came to her. Poor Gertrude !
she has told me all her troubles. I am her friend
as well as Harry's, and all that can be done for
them I have tried to do to my utmost."

*' That T am sure you have."

It used to be dreadful to go there, and see
how lie treated him ; but it was my penance,
and I bore it for his sake. When the child came
things were better between them, and latterly
I hoped that he had ceased to regret the past ;
but now," she wrung her hands, and the despairing
look came back into her eyes, " God has
taken from him his only comfort, and I must see
his misery and do nothing."

There was a moment's silence, only the ceaseless

patter of the rain sounded on the leaves, and
then Langley raised herself with effort.

He has been too long alone ; some one must
go to him," she said, anxiously. " Either you or
Garth must rouse him."

Hush ! " interrupted Queene ; '' I think I
hear something. There is surely the sound of
wheels in the distance. It is coming nearer ;
yes, it is stopping at the gate."

Then it must be Gertrude," exclaimed
Langley, putting back the damp hair from her
face, and trying to rise from the bed. '' Lookout,
dear Queene. Oh, if it should be
Gertrude ! "

I am straining my eyes in the darkness, but
it is so hard to distinguish anything. Yes, there
are two figures, one very tall. I think that must
be Mrs. Chester. Garth is opening the door ;
now he will bring her up. Lie down again,
Langley; you look dreadful." But Langley
only shook her head, and renewed her efforts
to rise.

They could hear footsteps ascending the narrow
stairs. The gleam of a candle preceded them.

Langley tottered feebly to the head of the staircase
; but Mrs. Chester did not see her.

Where is she ? where is my child ? " she said,
putting out her hands and feeling before her,
with the gesture of a sleep-walker, or one stricken
suddenly blind ; and Queene, moved with sudden
compassion, sprang forward and guided her to
the door.

*' Little Nan is there," she said. *' He is
sitting by her ; we cannot get him to leave her."

Yes ; he was sitting there in the same attitude
in which they had left him, with the child's
dead hand still clasped in his. At the sight of
that bowed figure, that mute despair, the wife's
heart woke into sudden life, and she walked
feebly towards him.

"■ Harry," she said, bursting into tears, and
throwing her arms round his neck, " my poor
Harry, it is our little child ; mine as well as
yours. We must comfort each other."

CHAPTER XIII.

I KNEW YOU WOULD BE SORRY FOR US."

When they see lier their tears will cease to flow,
Lest they should fall on this pure pale brow,

Or the lilies the child is holding.
With symbol flowers in stainless hand,
She goes by the great white throne to stand.
Where Jesus His lambs is folding."

Helen Marion Barque.

As the door closed upon the bereaved parents,
Queene heard a low " Thank God " behind her,
and immediately afterwards Langley crept softly
away. When Queene went back to her, she
found her lying on her bed shedding tears quietly.
The strained and fixed expression of her face had
relaxed ; the worn nerves and brain had at last
found relief.

Let me cry, it will do me good," she said,
when the girl would have hushed her. " If you

only knew how long it is since I have been able
to shed a tear. T felt as though I were turning
into stone. But now — ah, if she will only be
good to him I think I could bear anything."

Queene was obliged to modify her opinion of
Mrs. Chester as she watched her during the
trying hours that followed. Whatever sins
Gertrude had committed against her husband
and child during their brief married life she felt
must be partially condoned by her present self-forgetfulness.


It may be doubted perhaps whether she had
loved her child while it lived with a mother's
strong passion. Certain words that little Nan
had uttered in her baby language had given a
contrary impression. " Mammie did say, ' Go
away, Nan,' " she had observed more than once.
'* Mammie always so tired when Nan looks at
her." Might it not have been that, absorbed in
her own selfish repining and discontent, she had
refused to gather up the sweetness of that infant
life into hers until it was too late ? That she was
suffering now, no one could doubt who looked at
her. The father's heart might be broken within

him, but his was the agony of bereavement. No
self-reproach festered his wound ; no bitterness
of remorse was his. But who could measure the
anguish of that unhappy mother ?

Queene watched her half fascinated as she
glided softly from place to place, a graceful,
dark-eyed woman. The tall figure, once so full
and commanding, was attenuated and bowed as
though with weakness. Bright patches of color
burnt on the thin cheeks ; soft streaks of grey
showed in the thick coils of hair ; and how low
and suffering were the once sharp, querulous
tones.

It was a mournful little household in Brier-wood
Cottage. Mr. Chester had refused to leave
the place where his child was. Little Nan still
lay in Emmie's room. Queene had given up
hers, and had betaken herself to Patience's little
chamber. Emmie was still at Church - Stile
House.

Queene used to go out to her work, and leave
Gertrude alone with her husband. On her return
she would see them sitting hand in hand talking
softly of their child. Nothing but his wife's

presence seemed to console the unhappy father.
Only she or Langley could rouse him or induce
him to take food. Once when they thought they
Averse alone Queene saw Gertrude take her husband's
head between her hands and kiss it
softly, and lay it on her breast. " Harry, my
poor Harry," she whispered over him, with a
perfect passion of pity. Did the warning voice
within her admonish her that she too must soon
leave him and join her child ?

Langley came and went on brief ministering
errands, but she never remained long. Now and
then, when all was quiet in the little room above,
she would go in and kneel down beside the baby
coffin. What sort of prayers ascended from that
lonely heart that had missed its way so early in
life ? " little Nan, I would have laid down my
life to have saved yours," she whispered, pressing
her lips to the wood.

One day Captain Fawcett stood there with
Emmie beside him. Emmie's great blue eyes
dilated and widened with awe and wonder at
the sight of the tiny white face. The little coffin,
the bed, the room were perfectly strewn with

flowers. Great boxes of rare hot-louse flowers
sent from Carlisle, and directed in an unknown
hand, had arrived that morning at the cottage.
Gertrude was sitting weaving a cross in the room
down-stairs, while her husband watched her.

Is that Nan ? it looks like a stone angel
lying under a quilt of roses and lilies. It is
just like a little angel that I used to see in the
cathedral," whispered Emmie.

Aye, it is Nan ; it is just as my girl looked
when her mother dressed her up for the last
time in her flowers," returned Captain Fawcett,
tremulously. A tear rolled down his grizzled
moustache ; but Emmie's eyes only widened and
grew solemn.

*rit is a pity, such pretty flowers; and they
will have so many there," she continued, reflectively.
" Aren't you glad that Alice has all those
roses ? Do you know, I often dream about your
girl. She was like me, you know, only she had
long hair. Last night I thought sbe and Nan
came running to meet me ; they where laughing
so, and their hands were full of roses."

Bless your pretty fancies, my darling. Well,

I dream of my little maid often myself, and she
always comes to me and says, * Father.' I can
feel her little hand slipping into mine. And then
when I wake I am lonesome somehow. Poor
little Bailie."

"You must not say poor," returned Emmie,
pressing heavily against his knee ; " she is not
poor at all ; she was very tired, you know, and
now she is rested. Perhaps Nan would have
been tired too if she had stayed longer."

'• Ah, so she might, poor lammie," with a
heavy sio;h.

The world is such a tiring place," continued
Emmie, moralizing in her quaint childish way.
Some one is always crying in it. If it were not
for leaving Queene alone, I think I should like
to go too, and walk about the golden streets with
Alice and Nan ; there are such lots of children
there, and it is all bright, and nobody cries and
looks sad and miserable."

Let us go and look for blackberries ; the
Missus is so fond of blackberries," interposed the
Captain, hurriedly, for Emmie's dilated eyes
filled him with alarm. The child's sensitive

nature was depressed by the sadness that surrounded
her ; a whole world of pathos, a strange
involved meaning, lay behind those simple
words.

The world is such a tiring place ; some one
is always crying in it." Alas ! yes, little Emmie.
Out of His bright heaven God looks down on
the upturned wet faces of myriads of His creatures.
What seas of tears roll between the earth
and His mercy ! If the concentrated pain of
humanity could be condensed into a single groan,
the whole universe could not bear the terror of
that sound, reverberating beyond the bound of
the uttermost stars, silencing the very music of
heaven.

Such a tiring place ! True, most true, little
Emmie. A place where mistakes are made and
never rectified ; a place where a joyous meeting
is too often replaced by a sad good-bye ; where
hearts that cleave together are sundered ; where
the best loved is the soonest taken ; where under
the sunshine lie the shadows, and the shadows
lengthen the farther we walk.

Such a tiring place ! since we must work

and weep, and live out the life that seems to us
so imperfect ; since sweet blossoms fail to bring
fruit, and thorns lui-k underneath the roses. Yet
are the letters written up, graven and indelible,
on every mutilated life : " What I do thou
knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter."

So one bright summer's morning, loving hands
lifted little Nan and laid her in her resting-place
by the lime-tree walk, and the childless parents
followed hand in hand.

The churchyard was crowded with sympathizing
faces. Queene was there at the head of her
scholars, and Langley stood near her, leaning
heavily on her brother's arm. When the service
was over the children stepped up two and two,
and dropped their simple offerings of rustic
wreaths and flowers into the open grave. One
child had fashioned a rude cross of poppies and
corn, and flung it red and gleaming at the
mother's feet. Gertrude took it up and kissed
it, and placed it tenderly with the rest. The
child, a chubby-faced creature scarcely more than
an infant, looked up at her with great black
eyes.

Oo' little gell will like my sowers," lie
lisped, as Gertrude burst into tears.

Queene felt very heavy-hearted when, the
next day, the Chester left her and went back
to their lonely home. Gertrude kissed her, and
tried to say a few words of thanks.

'you have been a good Samaritan to me and
Harry, Miss Marriott," she said, in a broken
voice ; "you have taken us in, and tried to bind
up our wounds with oil and wine, and yet you
were almost a stranger to us."

I shall come again. I cannot keep away
from there," added Mr. Chester, with a yearning
look towards the place where the mortal remains
of his darling were laid. "No, I cannot thank
you. Miss Marriott, I never can do so."

Oh, hush ! go away, please. Would not anyone
have done it in my place ? " cried the girl,
with a little sob. She leant against the little
gate, watching them until the phaeton was out of
sight. Garth, who was coming down the lane,
crossed over the road and joined her.

So you have your little home to yourself
again," he said, looking down at her kindly.

"Ah, well, it has been a miserable week to you
and to all of us. No one can help feeling for
poor Chester ; and as for that wife of his — "

*well!" interrupted Queene, fixing her
strange, fathomless eyes on the young man, ashe
left his sentence unfinished. Every now and
then they startled people with their strange
haunting beauty ; they startled Garth now, for
he became suddenly confused.

"All I meant was, that one can plainly see
that Mrs. Chester is not long for this world.
Stewart says so plainly, and she must be conscious
of it herself. One can tell that there is
trouble in store for that poor fellow."

"Yes, and she has begun to love him too
late," replied Queene. "All these years lost,
and only to understand each other at the last ;
there does seem such a mystery in things, Mr.
Clayton."

Not at all ; he has only married the wrong
woman," returned Garth, coolly ; " hundreds of
men do that, and have to rue their mistake.
You are only a girl, you do not know the world
as we do," continued the young man, a little

loftily. " There are all sorts of temptations and
influences. One needs all one's wisdom and
strength of mind to steer clear among all the
shoals and quicksands one finds in life."

'^ It was Mr. Chester's own fault marrying the
wrong woman," persisted Queene, with a little
heat.

Garth's loftiness and burst of eloquence did
not move her in the least. His cool statement
of facts was rank heresy in her eyes. AVhat
was it to her that hundreds of men had made
matrimonial mistakes ? In her woman's creed,
that code of purity and innocence, it was a
simple question of right and wrong. To love one
woman and marry another, however expedient ina
worldly point of view, was a sin for which
there was no grace of forgiveness.

'men make their own fate ; it is for them to
choose. No one need make mistakes with their
eyes open," continued the girl, with a little
impatience and scorn of this matter-of-fact
philosophy. "If they make a poor thing of their
own life it is not for them to complain."

Ah, you are hard on us. You are only a
IT. 38

girl ; you do not know," returned the young
man, looking down from the altitude of his
superior wisdom into Queene's wide-open indignant
eyes with exasperating calmness. " Your
life compared to ours is like a mill-stream beside
a rushing river: one is all movement; the strong
currents draw hither and thither."

The mill-stream is often the deeper," was the
petulant answer.

Garth laughed ; he was not at all discomposed
by Queene's impatient argument. He would
have enjoyed having it out with her if he had
had time, but, as he told himself, he had more
important business in hand.

'^ By-the-bye, you are making me waste my
precious moments as usual," he observed, good-humoredly
; " and I have never given you
Langley's message. She and Cathy want you to
come up to our place this evening ; they think
the cottage must be so dull now your guests have
gone."

How kind and thoughtful of Langley ! "
returned Queene ; and now the brown eyes had
a happy sparkle in them. There was no place so

dear to her as Church-Stile House. If Garth
could only have known it !

You will be doing them a kindness by cheering
them up a little, as both Ted and I will be
away. Have you heard," he continued, gravely,
"that they are rather in trouble at Crossgill
Vicarage. I had a letter this morning from
Dora, I mean Miss Cunningham," went on Garth,
coloring a little bashfully over his mistake.

Are you going there ? I hope there is not
much the matter," asked Queene, in a measured
voice. There Alas no sparkle now in her eyes.
The evening was to be spent without him ; and
then Miss Cunningham had written to him at
the first hint of trouble. She had sought him,
and nob Langley.

Oh, as to that, she does not say much in
her letter. Miss Cunningham is not one to make
a fuss about anything. It is Florence who is ill,
and she and her father mean to go over to
Brussels. Stay, I have her note here," producing
it from his breast-pocket. '•' You can judge for
yourself there is not much in it ; but then Miss
Cunningham is one of the quiet sort."

38*

Queene took the note "a little reluctantly.
Dora wrote a large, business-like hand. Those
firm, well-formed characters had nothing irresolute
in them. It was curt and concise.

"Dear Mr. Clayton," it began, "my father
wishes you to know that we have had bad news
from Brussels. Darling Flo is very ill. Madame
Shle'ifer says it is typhoid fever; but as there
are no unfavorable symptoms, there is nothing
serious to be apprehended. One must make
allowances for Beattie's nervousness ; girls of
seventeen are apt to exaggerate. Still papa and I
cannot help feeling anxious, and we shall start
by the early train tomorrow. If you could come
over this evening we shall be glad, as papa wants
to consult you about a little business. The porch-room
shall be got ready for you, as I know you
will make an effort to come to us in our trouble."

She does not say very much, but one can
read between the lines. Florence is the youngest
sister, and her favorite. I know she is terribly
anxious," observed Garth, as Queene returned
the note in silence. "Well, I must be ofi"; my
trap will be round directly. You three girls will
have a cosy evening without me I expect. Goodbye

till tomorrow," and Garth touched his felt
hat and ran down the lane.

He might have shaken hands," thought
Queene, as she walked slowly back into the
cottage.

The empty room felt very dull, but still it
would have been better there than in Church-Stile
House without him. On the whole, the evening
was a failure. Cathy was in one of her quiet
moods, and could not be roused into interest
about anything. Langley looked paler than usual,
and complained of head-ache, and Emmie was listless
and restless. As for Queene, she took herself
to task severely for all manner of miserable fancies
as she walked back to the cottage in the darkness.

'' AVhat is the use of your perpetually crying"
for the moon ? " she said indignantly to herself.
'' Are you going to spoil your life and other
people's with such nonsense ? It is not for you
to say that he is marrying the wrong woman.
She is a hundred times superior to you, and I
suppose he thinks so. Why is he to be blamed
because he sees no beauty in your little brown
face ? You are nothing to him but Miss Marriott,
the village school-mistress."

But that would not do, so she began again,
looking at herself in the glass and crying softly.
*' Yes, you are a poor thing, and I pity you, but I
am disappointed in you as well. You are not a
bit better or more to be trusted than other girls.
You know you are jealous of this Dora Cunningham
; that you hate the very sound of her name,
as though she had not a better right to him than
you. Has she not known him all her life ? and
could she know him without loving him ? Why,"
with a little sob, that sounded very pathetic in
the silence, " as though any one could help it.
Even Emmie loves him, and follows him about
like a dog everywhere. I am not a bit ashamed
of my affection for him. I would rather live
lonely, as I shall live, and care about him in the
way I do, receiving little daily kindnesses at his
hand, than marry any other man. It is not
much of a life perhaps," went on the girl, with a
broken breath or two ; "it does not hold as
much as other people's ; but such as it is, I
would rather live it than go away elsewhere, and
forget, and perhaps be forgotten."

Queene was preaching a desolate little sermon
to herself, but it edified and comforted her. It

was only the eddying of the mill-stream when a
stone had been flung into it, she told herself
by-and-bye. She would be reasonable, and cease
to rebel against an inevitable fate.

Garth's evening promised to be more successful.
He had driven himself up to the Vicarage
in the red sunset light that he loved, and Dora
had come out into the porch to welcome him
with her sweetest smile.

*' How good of you to come ! papa and I both
wanted you so," putting up a white little hand
to stroke the mare's glossy coat. " Poor old
Bess, how hot she looks, and how fast you must
have driven her ; you are quite twenty minutes
before the time we expected you."

Have you been looking out for me ? I am
glad I was wanted," returned Garth, leaning
down to take possession of the little hand. " I
suppose Bess and I were both in a hurry to be
here," he continued, as he looked down with
kindly scrutiny at the dainty figure beside him.

Dora was a little paler than usual, and the
blue eyes were a trifle heavy, but somehow her
appearance had never pleased him better. She
had dressed herself with even greater care than

was customary with her. The soft cream-colored
dress, with its graceful folds, rested the eye with
a sense of fitness. One tiny rosebud gave a mere
hint of color.

I am glad you wanted me," he went on, with
a little stress on the personal pronoun. " I must
have been engaged indeed to have remained
away at such a time."

Yes, indeed. Poor papa, and poor dear Flo ! "
returned Dora, earnestly, leading him into the
hall. " How could we help being very anxious
and unhappy, and after Beattie's miserable letter
too ? But that is the worst of girls ; they cannot
help exaggerating things."

'* I was afraid from what you said that poor
Florence was very ill."

She is ill, of course ; one is always afraid of
typhoid fever for a growing girl ; and then papa
has such a horror of German doctors. I must
confess myself that I have every faith in Madame
Shle'ifer — such a judicious, temperate letter, and
so different to poor Beattie's, who is crying herself
to sleep every night, and making herself ill."

"But Madame Shle'ifer does not love Florence
as Beatrix does ; she is liable to take alarm less

easily," returned Garth, moved at this picture of
the warm-hearted, impetuous girl he remembered
so well.

Beatrix's affection is not greater than ours,"
replied Dora, calmly. " Florence is the youngest,
and I have brought her up from such a child. It
is inconsiderate and a pity to write like that, and
has upset papa dreadfully ; but, as I told him, it
was only Beatrix's way. I am afraid you will
not find us very cheerful company to-night,"
looking up with a certain bright dearness in her
eyes — not exactly tears, but a suspicion of them.

Dora never cried, as he knew he had once heard
her say that it never mended matters, and only
spoiled the complexion ; but as she looked up at
him now with a certain unbending of the lip,
and a shining mist in her' blue eyes, he felt
himself touched and softened.

'M cannot bear to see you in such trouble," he
said, with involuntary tenderness in his tone.

I knew you would be sorry for us," she
returned simply, not moving away from him, but
taking the sympathy as though it belonged to
her of right. " It was so good of you to come
all this distance just for papa and me."

CHAPTER XIV.

IT MUST BE YEA, YEA, OR NAY, NAY, WITH ME."

** Silent she had been, but she raised her face ;
And will you end,' said she, ' this half-told tale ? ' "

Jean Ingelow.

Garth felt a little excited as he went up to
the porch-room to dress for dinner ; to put on
his war-paint as he told himself with a little
grimace. Garth was a handsome man, and he
never looked better than when he was in evening
dress. Though he had less personal vanity than
most men, he was in some measure conscious
of his advantages, and on this occasion he was
a little fastidious as to the set of his collar and
the manipulation of his tie.

The porch-room had always been allotted to
him on the rare occasions when he slept at the

vicarage. The best bed-room was always apportioned
to more formal guests, but Garth much
preferred his old quarters. The little room with
its pink and white draperies fragrant with
lavender, and its lozenge-pane lattice swinging
open on the roses and clematis, and other
sweet-smelling creepers, always reminded him
of Dora. There was a portrait of her in
crayons hanging over the mantel-shelf, taken
when she was many years younger, with golden
hair floating round her like a halo, the round
white arms half hidden under a fleecy scarf — a
charming sketch half idealized, and yet true to
the real Dora. Garth leant his arms against the
high wooden mantelpiece and contemplated the
drawing for some minutes.

She is prettier than ever to-night," he soliloquized.
"No one would think she was seven-and-twenty
to look at her this evening. She is
just the woman never to look her age ; she is
so thoroughly healthy in her tone of mind ; she
has none of the morbid fancies and over-strained
nerves that make other women so haggard and
worn. Look at Langley, for example, getting grey

Queene S WHIM.

at thirty. Poor dear Langley ! that was a bad
business of hers and Chester's.
I. " And then Dora always dresses so perfectly ;
there is a good deal in that, I believe. Many
pretty women are sloven or absolutely tasteless.
I should hate that in my wife. I never saw
Dora look otherwise than charming, this evening
especially. She never wears things that rustle
or fall stiffly, she and Miss Marriott are alike in
that. By-the-bye, how that girl looked at me
this afternoon as she handed me back Dora's
letter. There was a sort of pained, beseeching expression
in her eyes that I could not make out,
and which haunts me rather. I have a notion
that she is not quite so happy as she used to be,
and yet it must be my fancy. Well, I won't think
about that this evening, I am always questioning
Miss Marriott's looks. 1 want to make up my
mind if it would not be as well to say something
to Dora ; if things are to be it would be just as
well to feel one's way a little. I have a notion
this philly-sallying may lead to some sort of
mischief presently. I never knew quite how I
stand with her and what is expected of me. If

a things is to be done one need not take all one's
life doing it," finished Garth, pulling himself together
with a quick movement as though he
would shake the courage and determination into
him.

Men make their own fate, it is for them to
choose ; no one need make mistakes with their
eyes open." Why did that speech of Queene's
suddenly recur to him ? "If they make a poor
things of their own life it is not for them to
complain." The little protest came to him almost
painfully as the gong sounded, and he
went down stairs.

Dora looked up at him rather curiously from
under her white eyelids as he came into the
room, holding his head high and carrying himself
as though he knew the world was before him.
He returned Mr. Cunningham's affectionate greeting
in a frank, off-hand way.

'' Well, Garth, you are rather a stranger to the
vicarage ; but I am glad to see you here again,
my dear fellow. How are the sisters ? and how
is that young scapegrace of a Ted ? "

*' All well, and I only wish you could say the

same, Mr. Cunningham' began Garth heartily ;
but, as the Vicar sighed heavily, Dora shook her
fair head at him.

Poor deaf Flo ! " she said softly, as though
speaking out her father's thought. " But papa
must eat his dinner, and then he has some
business on which to consult you, Mr. Clayton ;
troubles will always keep, and it is no good papa
spoiling his digestion by dwelling on them, is
it ? " finished Dora with tranquil philosophy, and
Garth took the hint.

There was no sad talk after that. The Vicar
still shook his head lugubriously at intervals, but
he did ample justice to the excellent repast before
him, and even brought up some Hermitage with
his own hands for Garth to taste.

The young man drank it with a little show of
indifference, more assumed than real. It was not
that the rarity and flavor of Mr. Cunningham's
wine pleased him, but that the attention shown
him made him a little dizzy. More than once
some favorite dish for which he had expressed a
predilection had been brought to him.

I knew you would like this Mayonnaise.

Mrs. Gilbert has made it exactly to your taste,"
Dora said to him with an engaging smile.

Garth, who was only human, and not yet
thirty, felt the delicate flattery thrill through
him like a personal compliment.

He was sorry when Dora left the room, and
Mr. Cunningham drew his chair nearer and
plunged into the business that required his
assistance. With all his good nature aud natural
aptitude for these sort of things, he found
it very difficult to lend his undivided attention.
*' Why did she prepare that pudding with the
pine-apple sauce with her own hands, because
Mrs. Gilbert would have spoiled it ? " he thought,
as he balanced his spoon idly on the edge of his
coffee-cup, thereby imperilling Mr. Cunningham's
favorite Wedgwood. She had never condescended
to show him such honor before ; no
wonder he was dizzy, and turned rather a deaf
ear on the Vicar's tedious explanations. His
absent, fidgety demeanor attracted the attention
of his host after a time.

"I am keeping you too long with all these
bothering details, you want to be in the next

room," be said, with a meaning smile, over vvliicli
the young man blushed hotly.

'* Not until you have finished with me. Is
there anything more that I can do in your
absence ? " he stammered, feeling a little foolish
and crest-fallen.

"No, no; Beale can do the rest. Get along
with you, and tell Dora to let me know when tea
is ready," and the Vicar flung his cambric handkerchief
over his white head and composed himself
for a nap.

Garth had not quite got rid of his flush when
he opened the drawing-room door. Mr. Cunningham's
smile had rather daunted him, but Dora
gave him a bright little glance as he entered.

How long you and papa have been over your
stupid business ! I am so tired of being alone,"
she said, welcoming the truant with a fascinating
attempt at a pout.

The shaded lamps had been lighted in the
Vicarage drawing-room ; there was a burnished
gleam of silver and china on the little square tea-table.
A wood fire had been kindled on the
hearth, but the windows and the glass door of

the conservatory were open. Dora sat in her
low carved chair with her hip full of silks and
rebels.

I wanted to get away. I think your father
saw that at last, for he set me free. I am afraid
he thought me very inattentive," replied Garth,
taking up his favorite position against the mantelpiece.


He was still a little flushed, more from that
smile than the Hermitage, and his eyes had a
quick excited gleam in them. Dora understood
it all perfectly, but she was quite mistress of the
situation. Woman-like, she felt a little triumph
in the exercise of her power.

'' If I were to yield another hair's-breadth there
is no telling what the foolish fellow would do,"
she thought, not without a quickening of the
pulse under those intent looks. The danger had
a subtle sweetness even for her, though she was
too self-controlled to be swayed by it.

"Do sit down ; you are so tall that it quite
makes me ache to look up at you," she said, with
that pretty attempt at a pout ; "and then I want
to speak to you seriously."

II. 39

Garth might be pardoned if he took that
petulant command as an invitation to draw his
chair rather closely. But though Dora saw her
mistake she went on calmly, quite ignoring the
near neighborhood of the infatuated young
man.

When one sees a thing clearly it is always
best to speak of it," began Dora, busily sorting
her rebels, and making believe not to notice that
Garth had his elbow on the back of her chair.
Langley is too lenient, and then Miss Cosie is
not one for lecturing ; but still some one ought
to speak."

On what subject ? " demanded Garth absently.
He was wondering how he ought to
begin.

Why, on the subject of Miss Marriott's dress,
of course," returned Dora briskly and with
emphasis. "If no one will speak, neither Langley
nor Miss Cosie, and then Cathy is such a child,
it seems to me as though I ought not to keep
silence."

Miss Marriott's dress ! " interrupted Garth
in an astonished voice. " Why, Dora, what can

you be meaning ? The subject has nothing todo
with us — with you and me — at all."

"Every subject has to do with me that touches
on questions of right and wrong," she returned
with dignity. " I consider Miss Marriott's
general style of dress and appearance is perfectly
unsuitable to a village school-mistress, and sets
the worst possible example to the grown-up girls
in Hepshaw."

This is perfectly incomprehensible," he replied,
secretly exasperated by the turn the conversation
was taking, and rather resenting this
undeserved attack on his fvotegee. " Langley
and J are always praising Miss Marriott's quiet,
unobtrusive style."

One knows what to expect of a gentleman
when there is a pretty face in question," retorted
Dora, with a touch of scorn in her voice. "" Not
that I call Miss Marriott pretty. She has such
singular eyes, and then I never admire a brown
skin. But I must own I thought better thinkers
of Langley."

I am completely at sea," returned Garth,
lifting his eyebrows in comical perplexity.

39*

That little speech of Dora's about Miss Marriott's
eyes and brown skin amused him. Could
she be jealous of the young stranger he had taken
under his brotherly protection ? Garth's elbow
rested still more comfortably on the back of her
chair as this little bit of self-flattery intruded
itself.

I always see Miss Marriott in a plain black
stuff gown, with just a bit of white lace or frilling
round her throat. I don't see how any one could
dress more plainly."

That shows how much you men notice
things," returned Dora still more scornfully, and
somewhat irate at his incredulity. Garth was
never very easy to convince. " Black stuff ! a
fine cashmere, that cost four shillings a yard if
it cost a penny, and looking as if it were made
by the most finished dress-maker in Carlisle,
and a Leghorn hat trimmed with an ostrich
feather."

Garth looked a little sheepish at this. The
feather had certainly non-passed him. It was
quite true that during the last few Sundays Miss
Marriott had appeared in church in a shady hat

with a long drooping feather that had suited her
remarkably well.

"I cannot deny the feather," he rejoined, with
a rueful smile at his defeat.

The admission mollified Dora.

And then her boots and gloves — best Paris
kid, and boots that look certainly as though they
were from a French maker. Ah, you cannot
deceive me ! Do you think such a fine lady is
likely to benefit the village girls ? Why, if Miss
Stapleton were to mount a feather like that papa
and I would be down upon her at once."

''I should not compare Miss Marriott and Miss
Stapleton," a little testily. *' Miss Marriott is
better born and educated. She is a country
vicars daughter. I am sure that you cannot
deny that she is a perfect gentlewoman."

*' I do not deny that she is a very pleasant-mannered,
well-looking young woman," returned
Dora, in an aggravating manner, crossing her
plump hands on her lap and looking up at Garth
serenely. ^' I take a great interest in Miss Marriott,
not only for her own sake, but because she
is yours and Ij3.nglejQ professed, When one sees

a thing is wrong it is a duty to speak, and I
hope I shall always do my duty," finished Dora,
virtuously.

Garth was silent. He was quite used to these
sort of lectures from the young mistress of Cross-gill
Vicarage. It had long been an admitted
fact between them that her mission extended to
Hepshaw. The village school - mistresses had
been perpetual thorns in her side ; their dress
and demeanor, their teaching and morals, had
always been carefully investigated. The last
Hepshaw mistress had been a weak, pale-eyed
creature, with no will of her own, and no particular
views, — a washed-out piece of humanity,
as Garth termed her, — but highly esteemed and
lamented by Miss Cunningham.

Garth could not forbear a smile of secret
amusement at Dora's persevering efforts to draw
Miss Marriott under her yoke. The contest
between the two interested and provoked him.
He had taken upon himself to lecture Queene
on her stiff-necked demeanor towards Miss
Cunningham, and now he was ready to take up
cudgels in her defence.

I think you are a little hard upon her," he
began at last slowly, and then he stopped.

Why should he concern himself with things so
wholly feminine ? most likely Dora was right, at
least he had never found her wrong in anything
yet. Perhaps that drooping hat and feather might
be a snare to the female population of Hepshaw.
It had startled even him as she had walked up
the aisle that Sunday. Let them fight it out ;
he was not sitting there in that lamp-lit fragrant
drawing-room to talk about Miss Marriott. He
was Dora's guest, summoned there by her own
will and behest. Mr. Cunningham did not often
leave them alone like this, the opportunity was
too precious to be wasted.

Garth moved a little restlessly as he pondered
thus with his arm against Dora's chair. The
shapely head was very close to him. For the
first time he felt an irresistible impulse to touch
the smooth coil of fair hair with his hand, it
looked as fine and silky as a child's.

Dora," he began, and then again he stopped.
'* Dora," and this time he came a little closer,
almost leaning over her, but not touching her,

*' shall things be different between you and
me?"

He had taken her by surprise, and for an
instant she turned pale, but she recovered herself
immediately.

Mr. Clayton," she returned, carefully avoiding
his eyes, and sorting her rebels industriously,
I thought I had broken you of that foolish
habit of calling me Dora."

Garth drew back, stung by her tone.

^' What does that mean ? " he inquired hotly.
If I am not to call you Dora how are things to
be put straight between us ? I thought we understood
each other, and that the time had come forme
to speak. What does this mean ? '' continued
the fiery young man, twisting his moustache in
sudden excitement and wrath.

Did you think to-night was a fitting opportunity,"
inquired Dora with mournful gentleness,
*' with poor darling Flo, and papa in such a state ?
How could you be so inconsiderate and selfish ? "
looking at him with appealing blue eyes.

But Garth's feelings had been outraged, and
no soft looks could mollify him. He was a well-meaning,

plain-spoken young fellow, and he lead
brought himself with much searching: of conscience
to the brink of an honest resolution.
Dora's coldness of rebuke had wounded his
susceptibility and grazed his pride. No woman
should trifle with his affections, so he told himself,
and least of all his old friend Dora.

I am sure you did not mean to be inconsiderate,"
she said, looking up at him with a
beseeching glance.

I do not know what you call want of consideration,"
returned Garth, with one of his rare
frowns. " I should have thought if you cared
for me that trouble would have drawn us closer
together, that this was the time of all others to
speak."

If I cared for you ! " with reproachful sweetness.
"Oh, Mr. Clayton, how can you say such
harsh things ? and to me of all persons in the
world ! Is it my fault that darling Flo is ill, and
that Beattie is so young and such a wretched
manager that one dares not trust things to her
for a long time yet ? Can I help not being my
own mistress like other women, and having so

many responsibilities — poor papa, and the girls,
and the school, and hundreds of things ? " she
finished with a little pathos.

But Garth was not to be so easily appeased.
His strong will was roused by opposition, and
Dora must learn that he was not a man to be
trifled with. A moment before he had felt a
longing to press his lips to that smooth, golden
coil, but now all such desire had left him.

This is all nonsense," he returned, almost
harshly. " We have known each other all our
lives, and this has been understood between us.
There are no insuperable obstacles — none, or I
would not have spoken. Beatrix is seventeen,
and she must learn to manage as other girls do.
If you mean to sacrifice your life for a mistaken
sense of duty you have no right to spoil mine
with all this waiting. I am not to call you
Dora ; I am not to be any more to you than I
have been. What does all this folly mean ? "
finished Garth, with angry excitement.

It means that things cannot be different just
now," replied Dora, with real tremulousness in
her voice, and now again there came that soft

mistiness in her eyes. She was not offended at
her lover's plain speaking ; she liked Garth all
the better for that manly outburst of independence.
He was a little more difficult to manage
than she had thought, but she was in no fear of
ultimate results; he was straining at his curb,
that was all.

You must not be angry with me because I
am disappointing you," she went on, laying her
hand upon his coat-sleeve. "It is not my fault
that everything depends on me, and that Beattie
is so helpless. Of course if one could do as one
wished — " and here there was a swift downward
glance, but Garth broke in upon her impatiently.


'all this is worse than nothing," observed the
exasperated young man. " It must be yea, yea,
or nay, nay, with me ; this going backwards and
forwards and holding one's faith in a leash
would never do for me. How could a man
answer for himself under such circumstances ? If
you send me away from you you will find it
very hard to recall me, Dora ! " with a sudden
change of voice, at once injured and affectionate,

and which went far to mollify the effect of his
former harshness.

'you will always know T cared, and that one
could not do as one wished. If we are Christians
we know that duty cannot be shirked," began
Dora with beautiful solemnity, and a certain
brightness of earnestness in her blue eyes ; but
at that moment her father entered.

'' Papa," she said, as Garth rose hastily, almost
shaking off her hand in his excitement, " what
a long nap you have been taking ! Mr. Clayton
and I have been talking for ever so long, and the
tea is quite cold."

I hope not, Dorrie," observed Mr. Cunningham,
seating himself comfortably in his elbow-chair
and warming his white hand over the
blaze.

Ah, but it is perfectly lukewarm," returned
his daughter cheerfully, as she walked to the
tea-table and poured out the soothing beverage.
She was quite tranquil as she sat there under the
shaded lamps. The danger had been met and
encountered, but she had remained mistress of
the situation. It was natural for him to feel a

little downcast and aggrieved over his defeat.
Men were such creatures of impulse.

He is angry with me now, but he will come
round by-and-bye," thought Dora, watching
him with affectionate solicitude. In her breast
she was very fond and proud of him, though the
young mistress of Crossgill was not ready to lay
down her prerogative and rights at his behests.
I am not afraid of his taking the bit between
his teeth," she said to herself, with a smile of
incredulity at the bare idea. How was Garth
Clayton, her old friend and playmate, to prove
unfaithful to her ?

As for Garth, he conducted himself as most
high-spirited young men do under the circumstances.
He took his cup of cold tea from her
hand mutely, much as though it were a dose of
poison, and stood aloof, glowering at her at
intervals, and talking faster than usual to Mr.
Cunningham.

He did not make much of a reply when, after
prayers, Dora lighted his silver candlestick as
well as her father's, and hoped he would sleep
well.

Good night, Dorrie my dear," observed her
father, kissing her smooth forehead just above
her eyes. "Don't forget you have a long journey
before you tomorrow."

'^ Good night. Miss Cunningham," said Garth
with pointed emphasis as he just touched her
hand.

He thought the coldness of his tone would
have cut her to the heart, but she merely smiled
in his face.

Garth went upstairs in a tumult of vexation
and excitement. The porch-chamber, with its
sweet perfume of fresh lavender, no longer
charmed him. The girlish reflection of Dora
with its arms full of lilies angered him. He
turned his back upon it and sat down by the
open window.

He was bitterly mortified and disappointed.
Dora had been his fate, he told himself, and now
his fate had eluded him. She had drawn him on
with sweet looks and half-sentences of fondness
all these years, and now she had declined to yield
to his first honest efforts of persuasion. Well,
he was not the man to be fooled by any girl,

though she had golden hair and knew how to use
her eyes. She was managing him for her own
purposes, but he would prove to her that he was
not to be managed. He would shake off her
influence much as he had done her hand on his
coat-sleeve just now ; all the more that such
shaking' off might be difficult to him. There
were other women in the world, thank heaven,
beside Dora — women who would be more subservient
to his masculine royalty, whose wills
and lives could be moulded by his.

His heart was still whole within him, though
his pride was so grievously wounded. He knew
that, as he turned his back upon her picture, and
sat down in his sullen resentment. There was
no inward bleeding, no sickness of repressed
hopes driven back upon themselves, no yearning
void, only the bitterness of an angry wound,
against which he called out in his young man's
impatience. The golden head would not come
and nestle against him when he longed for it,
and now he thrust it from him.

As for Dora, she went up to her room in
perfect tranquillity. "Foolish fellow, how angry

he was with me," she said to herself as she
brushed out the long fair hair that fell round her
in a halo. Her blue eyes looked through it like
Undine's. " I wonder if all lovers would be so
troublesome; it wanted all one's tact to keep him
within bounds. I wish Flo were not so young,
and that Beattie were less helpless," she went on,
with a sigh. ^' It will be hard work keeping him
in good humor the next year or two, but it would
never do to engage myself to him as things are
now. I have enough on my hands without
that," and with another involuntary sigh, as she
thought of Garth's handsome countenance, Dora
Cunningham, like a right-minded young woman,
put away the subject from her mind and went to
sleep.

END OF VOL. II.

BUNGAY : CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

^



L I B Really

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

V.5 ^

University of Illinois Library

L161 — H41

VOL. III.

% Hofatl

ROSA NOUCHETTE CAREY

AUTHOR OF

Nellie's Memories," "wooed Ann MARRIED,"

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. ITL

LONDON

RICHARD BENT LEY AND SON

PubUsbrrs in (Orbiivavi) to iticr Hlajrstu tbc ftjurcn
isti

[A'4'-///o nf Translation R"S('r7<e(f\

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

IN THE Gloaming

Pair



CHAPTER 11.

"do you like me as well as you did then]" . 2G

CHAPTER III.

"charity begins at home" . . . . 47

CHAPTER IV.

THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM . . . . 73

CHAPTER V.

CHANGES AND CHANCES . . . . . 92

Contents.

CHAPTER VI.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS

PAGE



CHAPTER VII.
"you know this is a great secret" . . 138

CHAPTER VIII.
CROSS purposes . . . . . 160

CHAPTER IX.
"too many cooks" . . . . . 175

CHAPTER X.

"have you nothing to say to mew . . 194

CHAPTER XL
"a golden-haired circe " . . . . 213

CHAPTER XII.
''HE belongs to me" . . . . . 232

CHAPTER XIII.

"why does he not come and see Us?" . . 255

CHAPTER XIV.

Page

"Emmie's letter" . . . . . 277

CHAPTER XV.

gath's avise . . . . . . 300

CHAPTER I.

IN THE GLOAMING.

So she loved, and lie was happy,
As if walking in Paradise ;
Nay, as heaven he seemed above her,

This love of her own heart's choice.
It was not his birth or riches,

But that he was born to bless.
With the treasure of his wisdom.
And the wealth of his tenderness."

ha Cra'uj-Knox.

Dora's sleep was quite peaceful and unbroken,
while Garth tossed restlessly on his bed half the
night, staring open-eyed into the darkness. She
came down in the morning in her pretty travelling
dress looking as fresh and bright as possible.
HI. 40

She was not even pale as she had been the
previous evening ; possibly the excitement of last
nio-ht had stimulated her, and roused her from
her sadness.

She was thinking more of Plo than of Garth
this morning. With all her coolness of judgment,
and her disposition to meddle in all things
spiritual and material, Dora dearly loved her
young sisters, and was warmly beloved by them
in return. Beatrix was at times almost too much
for her, with her helplessness and impulsive ways,
but Flo was to her as the apple of her eye.

*' My poor Flo, I hope they will not have cutoff
her hair, papa," she observed, tenderly ; '' she
has such pretty hair, though it is darker than
mine."

Ah, Dorrie, my dear, it is a bad business I
fear," returned her father mournfully. '^ I always
said that I disliked those foreign schools ; and
then those German doctors ! "

*' Now, papa, it is only Beattie's absurd letter
has made you so faint-hearted," replied Dora
cheerfully, " as though girls of seventeen are to
be trusted, and Beattie especially ! "

I think Beatrix is remarkably sensible for
her ao-e," observed Garth in a caustic tone. " I
cannot understand your always under-valuing
her ; in my opinion she has twice the amount of
common sense that Florence has," he went on ina
contradictory manner.

Garth had slept badly, a rare occurrence in his
healthy, well-regulated life, and one that he was
likely to remember for a long time with a sense
of injury ; and he was irritable in consequence,
and in a bad humor with himself and all the
world. Nothing would have pleased him better
this morning than a downright quarrel with
Dora ; but Dora's perfect temper was invulnerable,


That only shows" how men judge of girls'
characters," she returned, with a little shrug and
an amused smile. " Because Beattie is better
looking, and has a nice complexion, she is endowed
with a double portion of common sense.
Oh, you men ! " shaking her head and laughing
in a pitying sort of was

We men are tolerably hard in our judgment
sometimes," returned Garth, looking at her with

40*

a gleam of anger in his eyes ; but Dora took no
notice of the ill concealed sarcasm.

It was so natural for him to feel sore, poor
fellow, under the circumstances. She thought it
would want a good deal of coaxing and finesse
to charm him into good humor again. She was
very considerate and mindful of his comfort
throughout the whole of breakfast-time, sweetening
and preparing his coffee with extra care, and
even bringing him some favorite sauce with her
own hands ; but her little overtures towards reconciliation
were all rejected. Garth put the
sauce away somewhat ostentatiously, and bore
himself as though he had received an injury for
which there could be no forgiveness. He stood
aloof as the servants crowded round the door and
the young mistress dispensed her parting injunction.
When the luggage was on the carriage,
and the Vicar had taken down his felt hat, he
came forward and handed Dora into the carriage
with much dignity.

"I hope you will have a tolerably pleasant
journey, and find the invalid better," he said
very gravely ; '' please give my love to Beatrix."

He lead not spoken more than a dozen words
throughout the whole of breakfast time, but he
could not forbear this parting thrust.

"And not to Flo! not to poor darling
Flo ! " returned Dora, looking at him with reproachful
sweetness. "Oh, you poor fellow, I
am so sorry for you," her eyes seemed to say, as
she waved her hand, and the carriage disappeared
down the village.

Garth threw his portmanteau into the dogcart
somewhat vehemently when it came up to
the door. The old nurse put her hand on his
arm with the familiarity of a trusted friend, and
tried to detain him, but he was in no mood for
her garrulity.

"Dear Miss Dora, she is a blessing to us allis
she not, Mr. Clayton ? such a pretty creature,
and with such wise, womanly ways ; for all the
world like her mother," cried nurse, with the
ready tear of old age trickling down her wrinkled
cheek. " The others are dear girls, bless their
sweet faces, but they are not equal to Miss
Dora."

Of course not, nurse ; there could not be two

such paragons in one house," returned Garth,
squeezing the old woman's hard hand, and trying
to whistle as he mounted to his seat and took the
reins in hand, but the whistle was a failure. He
looked up at the porch-room somewhat bitterly
as he drove off. He was shaking off the dust of
the place from his feet, so he told himself, but
there was a hard, resentful pain at his heart ashe
did so.

No one knew what to make of the young
master when he appeared hot and dusty at the
works. Two or three of the men had been
soundly rated for some slight omission of duty,
and one of the severest lectures that he had ever
received from his brother had been dinned into
Ted's astonished car.

'' I am sick of your laziness and want of
punctuality ; if you cannot fulfil your duties
properly you must find work elsewhere," stormed
the young master of Warstdale. With all his
sweet temper, Ted had much ado not to flare up
and get into a passion.

'^ Haven't we all caught it nicely at the works !
there is a screw loose somewhere," observed Ted

confidentially to his sisters that evening, as
Garth drove the dog - cart round to the
stables.

The brothers had driven home from the quarry
in perfect silence, and Ted, who was still a little
sore over the rating he had received, had made
no attempt to promote cheerfulness.

I hope there is nothing wrong between him
and Dora," observed Langley, dropping her work
a little anxiously.

Poor soul, her own troubles had made her
nervous; but on that point Ted could not enlighten
her. Evidently Garth had attempted to
recover his temper, for he came in presently,
and greeted his sisters affectionately.

I hope you lava lost your headache, Langley
? " he said, as he took up the paper knife and
the latest periodical, and withdrew with them to
the window.

Did you see them off ? Have they had any
better accounts of Florence ? You look tired and
done up. Garth," enquired his sister anxiously.

Yes ; they went off all right. Miss Cunningham
sends her love to you and Cathy. They made

me very comfortable as usual, and gave me my
old room."

Garth was trying to read by the evening
light, and his face was hidden.

"One is always comfortable at the Vicarage;
Dora is such a capital manager," returned Langley,
feeling her way in feminine fashion. "Poor
girl, Florence's illness must be a sad trial to
her."

Humph ! she takes it as coolly as she does
most things. When are the lights coming, and
what has become of tea ? " demanded Garth, a
little irritably ; and Langley knew that she was
not to ask any more questions.

A good night's rest did much towards restoring
Garth's outward equanimity, but he still chafed
secretly under the mortification he had undergone
with a soreness that surprised himself.
The check he had received had angered and embittered
him. He was not in love with Dora, after
the usual interpretation of the word ; nevertheless,
her yoke lay heavy upon him. The friendship
between them had grown with his growth ; he
had learned to see with her eyes, and read with

her judgment. In a cool, temperate sort of wayne
had loved and wooed her from his earliest
manhood. He had been a trifle indifferent to
women in general. When the time came to take
a wife, that wife should be Dora.

But now the plan of his life was disarranged.
He had waited long enough, and now he told
himself that no more time should be given her ;
he would shake off the dust of the place from his
feet ; he would bear himself as a stranger towards
her and her belongings ; but even while his indignation
was hot within him, he knew that such
resolution would be vain. Not even now had he
wholly relinquished all hopes of her. True, she had
sinned against him, and the gravity of the offence
demanded a fitting punishment. Well, he would
hold aloof from her, and treat her on all occasions
with studied coldness, until she would rid herself
of this womanish folly, and capitulate on his
own terms. Then, and then only, would he forgive
her, and raise her to the former measure of
his favor. The surrender on her part must be
total. There should be no softness, no half-measures,
no conciliating persuasion on his ; for

the future it should be yea, yea, or at least nay,
nay, between them. Garth was just in that
dangerous mood when a straw might decide the
current of his will, when a trifle might widen
the breach which a word at one time could have
spanned. Dora had little idea of the danger she
risked when she sent her lover from her discontented
and dissatisfied. '' You may find it
very difficult to recall me, Dora," he had said to
her, with some instinctive prevision of the truth,
but she had not believed him.

For the first time the young master of Warstdale
found himself restless and unhappy ; his sleepless
night still abided in his mind as an undeserved
and lasting injury. The next day had set
in wet and stormy ; heavy autumnal rains swept
across the moors, and flooded the country road,
and the little straggling town of Hepshaw.
Garth had driven himself and Ted in the same
taciturn fashion from the quarry, and both had
entered the house, shivering and uncomfortable,
in their dripping garments.

Oh you poor dear creatures," cried Cathy,
flying out into the hall to receive them ; but Ted

waved her off gravely, and shook himself like a
wet Newfoundland.

"talk not of wasted young raindrops ! these raindrops never

are wasted.
If they enrich not the coat of my brother, their waters returning
Back to my hat, shall fill it full of brown moisture ;
Portia which the Ulster sends forth returns again to the oil-cloth.


Patience, accomplish thy labor ; accomplish thy shaking, my

brother ;
Broad-cloth and buckskin are strong, and patience and muscle

are stronger.' "

'' Bosh," growled Garth in a sulky undertone,
as he pushed past him somewhat curtly.
Ted shook his head mournfully.

' I knew a young man nice to see,' "
continued the incorrigible boy ;

■ " ' Beware ! beware !
Trust him not, he will bully thee;

Take care ! take care ! ' "

Whatever is the matter with him, Eddie
dear ? " asked his sister coaxingly.

"Hush!" in a melodramatic tone; "meddle
not with mysteries that belong not to thy female
province, Catherine mia. How do you know
what dark deed fetters the conscience of that

unhappy young man ? Did you remark the
gleam in his eye, the frown on his brow, as he
rushed past me just now ? remorse only could
have kindled that fury. Dora and despair speak
in every feature."

Oh do be quiet, you ridiculous boy, and give
me a sensible answer."

But nothing was farther from Ted's purpose.
His aggravated feelings needed some
outlet. And when Garth made his appearance,
refreshed and re-habited , he found Cathy sitting
on the stairs in fits of merriment, while
Ted strutted to and fro spouting pages of
nonsense.

He stopped and looked a little foolish at this
sudden apparition ; but his brother took no notice
of his confusion.

If you keep your wet things on any longer
you will have an attack of rheumatism," he
remarked coldly, as he made his way past them
to the hall door. Both of them started as it
slammed violently after him.

Where has he gone in all this rain ? " asked
Cathy, in much distress, but Ted only shrugged

his shoulders, and tried not to look pleased. For
once his brother's absence was a relief.

Garth was in no mood to-night for his sisters'
society and Ted's ceaseless fire of puns. The
quiet home evening, with its work and music,
and gentle gossip, would have jarred on him in
his present state of mind. It was true, Langley's
tact was seldom at fault, and the others could be
chided and frowned into silence ; but still he
would have been loath to mar their enjoyment.
He was jaded and tired ; the day's work had
been done against the grain, and he needed rest
and refreshment sorely. Some impulse, for
which he could not account, led him across to
the cottage.

The rain was still falling heavily as he plodded
down the miry lane ; but a warm, welcoming
gleam shone enticingly from one lattice window
across the road. He would step in and surprise
them, he thought, as he gently lifted the latch.
He and Cathy often stole upon them in this way ;
they liked to see Emmie's delighted clap of the
hands and Queene's pleased start when they
looked up and saw their friendly intruder.

The door of the parlor stood open. He was in
full possession of the pretty, homely picture long
before they saw him standing on the threshold.
Tea was on the little round table, but the candles
were still unlighted ; Emmie was curled up on
the rocking-chair, watching Queene, as she knelt
on the rug with a plate of crisp white cakes in
her hand.

They were evidently some chef-d'ceuvre of her
own. She was still girded with her cooking
apron ; the firelight shone on her white, dimpled
arms and flushed face ; all sort of ruddy gleams
touched her brown hair. She gave a little satisfied
laugh as she regarded the cakes.

"They are just as light as Mrs. Fawcett's, are
they not, Emmie ? "

'^ Yes, they are lovely ; you are quite a genius,
Queen ; but do go on with the story, we have
just come to the interesting part. Poor Madeleine !
you must make it end happily. I never, never
could bear a sad finish."

Those sort of stories never end happily,"
returned Queene, in a musing tone, shielding
her face from the flame ; "they are just like life

in that. AVe have no King Cophetuus nowadays
to endow poor maidens with their nobleness
; it is all matter-of-fact prose now."

Why did you make poor Madeleine love the
squire then ? the village carpenter would have
suited her much better ; and then she and he, and
that dear little sister Kitty, could all have lived
in that pretty cottage under the chestnuts. Can't
you alter the story, Queen ? "

Queene shook her head remorselessly. " It is
a pity, but one can't alter these sort of things,
Emmie. Poor Madeleine loved, and suffered, and
lost, as other women have done since this world
began ; but she would not have been without her
suffering for all that."

I can't understand you," returned the child,
with tears in her eyes. " It was such a beautiful
story, quite your best, and now you have spoiled
the ending."

Life is full of these sad finishes," replied the
young story-teller, oracularly ; " there is a fate
in such things, I believe. Don't be unhappy,
darling, poor Madeleine would have been miserable
in that cottage under the chestnuts ; she

would much rather have lived in her attic with
dear little Kitty, and watched the young squire
riding by on his grey horse. Evening after evening,
as they disappeared in the distance, she would
think of the lovely young wife that awaited him.
You may be sure that her heart was full of
blessings for them both, even though she felt a
little sad and lonely sometimes."

'but she Avould not have been quite happy,
even with Kitty," persisted the child in a
troubled tone ; " and then poor little Kitty would
have been so sorry."

What was there in the child's artless words
that made Queene suddenly flush and tremble ?

'' Hush, you must not say that ; it is only a
story we are telling, it is not true, any of it. No
one is perfectly happy in this world ; there are
always wishes unfulfilled, unsatisfied longings,
troubles everywhere."

'' Yes, I know ; but somehow it reminded me
of you and me," interrupted Emmie, with a little
sob. " If you were ever unhappy. Queen, — in that
way I mean, — I think I should break my heart."

*soh, hush, my darling!" snatching the thin

hands, and covering them with kisses, " it is only
a story ; you must not fret. Do you think
Madeleine would have been wicked and made
herself miserable, just because she loved the
noblest man that ever lived ? No, no, my pet ;
not when she had her own little sister to love
and cherish."

Do you always tell stories in the gloaming ?
that seems a very pretty one. I suppose I ought
to apologize for being an uninvited auditor,"
observed Garth, as he quietly walked in and took
possession of the hearth.

Emmie gave a little shriek of surprise as her
sister hurriedly disengaged herself from her
embrace.

"How long have .you been standing there?
Did you mean to startle us ? You are very
naughty ; you have made Queene look quite
pale, and she had such a color the minute before."

Have I startled you ? that was very wrong
of me," returned Garth, taking her hand.

Garth was speaking and looking in his usual
way ; but in reality he was taken aback by
Queene's evident agitation. She had always met
III. 41

and greeted him brightly ; why had she grown so
strangely pale at the sight of him this evening ?
The brown eyes that had often haunted him had
not yet been lifted to his face.

'* Have I startled you ? " he persisted, still
detaining her until she should answer him.

A little. I am sorry you should have heard
all that foolish talk," she stammered, growing
suddenly hot over the remembrance, and not
venturing to encounter his candid glance.

What had possessed, her to concoct such a
story ? Would he read the secret meaning ?

*' I must make the tea, the kettle has been
singing for the last half-hour," she observed
hurriedly, glad of an excuse to move away and
recover herself.

Garth did not ask any more troublesome questions
; he turned his attention to Emmie, taking
possession of the rocking-chair, while the child
took her little stool beside him.

Queene left them to themselves for a longtime.
All sorts of preparations seemed needful
before the meal was declared ready. The candles
were still unlighted, and she made no attempt to

kindle them. Garth threw on another pine knot,
and the warm ruddy light was soon diffused
through the little room. As Quf^enie moved
about, contriving endless errands for herself, she
had no idea that Garth was furtively watching
her.

Why had she grown so pale ? what was therein
his sudden appearance to confuse her ? " the
young man was asking himself with a little throb
of curious excitement. Somehow this unusual
agitation on Queene's part soothed and tranquillized
him ; he began to think less bitterly of
Dora ; some subtle influence, half painful and
half pleasurable, seemed to steep his senses.

Garth was quite unconscious why he wanted
Queene to look at him. He watched her graceful
movements about the room with quiet satisfaction.
Two days before his fancy had been
taken by the soft whiteness of a dress that flowed
smoothly and did not rustle, and by the shining
of golden hair in the lamp-light ; and now a
black serge dress with snowy collars and cuffs
charmed him with its nun-like simplicity.

What was there in these two women, so utterly





dissimilar, that fascinated him ? As far as he
knew he was not in love with either, although
he had given the preference to Dora — Dora, who
allured and yet repelled him, and for whom he
now felt such bitterness of resentment.

'' Why are you so quiet, Mr. Garth ? no one
has been telling you sad stories," cried Emmie,
lifting her kitten on to his knee. " I wish you
would speak to Queen, she always makes things
end so badly."

I am afraid your sister draws from life," he
returned absently. He spoke without intention,
but a shadow swept over Queene's sensitive
face.

^'You ought not to have listened," she said
reproachfully. " It was only some nonsense to
please Emmie. I make up things, any rubbish
pleases her; sometimes it is a fairy story, or
some odd bits one picks out of books ; nothing
comes amiss," she went on, bent on defending
herself

And you think a girl can make herself happy
with an unrequited love preying on her '? " he
observed in a quizzical tone. '' I don't know

what women would say to such heresy. I think
Emmie was right, and that little Kitty would
have a great deal to bear."

Queene was silent.

Confess that you don't believe such a thing
could be possible."

As what ? " looking up at hai with varying
color.

"That a girl, that Madeleine, for example,
could make herself comfortable under the circumstances."


Did I say a word about comfort ? " she returned
with spirit. " Of course Madeleine thought
her trouble a trouble, and never called it by any
other name."

And of course-she made herself and little
Kitty miserable ? " he rejoined, enjoying the
play of words, but watching her keenly all the
time.

** She did nothing of the kind," flaring up
with sudden heat. " You have not heard half
my story, or you would not say such a thing."

Suppose you enlighten me," with some raillery
in his tone. *' Your heroine is not different

from the ordinary run of women ; and most of
them make themselves miserable under the
circumstances."

*' Not women like my Madeleine," with a
sudden lighting-up of earnestness in her face.
I don't think men are quite like that ; they
don't understand."

What is it they don't understand ? " he
asked, somewhat puzzled.

The blessedness of giving," she returned
simply ; " the privilege of being able to see and
love what is highest and best without hope or
thought of return. Some women feel like that."

'' But not many," he replied, touched by her
earnestness, and conscious again of that strange
thrill.

"No, not many," looking at him gravely.
The great number dread suffering, and fear to
enter into the cloud. They let men spoil their
lives, and then the disappointment hardens and
embitters them ; instead of which they ought to
go on simply loving, and being sorry, but not
too sorry, about things."

'' But suppose the object is not worthy ? You

know how often that is the case' he demanded
gravely.

Ah, that is the greatest pity of all. There
is no trouble like that, to see the degradation of
one we love ; indeed, that must be terrible ! "

'' Ah, your golden rule of giving will not hold
there ! "

Why not ? " she asked quietly. " I heard
a sad story once, when Emmie and I were at
Granite Lodge. One of the governesses had had
a dreadful trouble. Lie was engaged for some
years to a man who professed a great affection
for her, and suddenly the news of his marriage
reached her."

'' Well ? "

Well, she staggered under the blow, but she
bore it somehow. It would have nearly killed
some women. She just took up her life and did
the best she could with it. ' I am keeping it all
for him,' she said to me once, with such a mournful
smile ; ' when he wants it, it Avill be ready
for him, but it will not be here.' "

'' Keeping what ? " asked Garth, somewhat
absently.

Why the love be had thrown away as worthless,"
she returned with kindling eyes. '' Don't
you think the faith of that poor German governess
had something noble in it ? She had forgotten
her own wrongs and his fickleness. In the world
to come it should be all right between them."

Wasn't that rather far-fetched ? "

Not at all," returned the girl warmly ; " those
who have sympathy here must have sympathy
there. There will be no broken lives in heaven."

'' No ; of course not," feeling himself a little
out of his element, but strangely attracted by the
eloquence of Queene's eyes.

As for Queene, she had almost forgotten to
whom she was speaking. She was wrapped up,
absorbed in her subject ; all sorts of deep
thoughts stirred within her.

These things were true to her, but she felt
with a kind of wonder that he did not understand.
Perhaps he felt with a young man's
reverence the mystery of the world to come.
Some men have a great dread of touching sacred
things with unconsecrated hands ; but Queene's
young eyes had the fearlessness of the eagle,

they looked unblushingly up at the light.
What was the use of separating things spiritual
from things material in her creed ? Love was
^"he ladder that Jacob saw reaching from earth to
heaven ; evermore there were angels ascending
and descending. The doctrine of the communion
of saints had infinite readings.

"Those* that have sympathy here have sympathy
there," she had asserted with entire faith
and simplicity. Why did not he, why did not
everybody, understand ?

As for Garth, he felt a little moved and
excited, stirred by her earnestness, yet not
wholly comprehending it, and quite out of his
element.

CHAPTER II.

'' DO YOU LIKE ME AS WELL AS YOU DID THEN ? "

The true one of youth's love, proving a faithful helpmate in
those years when the dream of life is over, and we live in its
realities." — Southey.

Garth pondered somewhat heavily over
Queene's words that evening. In spite of his
warm human sympathies his imagination was
still undeveloped. Under the margin of those
brief sentences lay unexplored meanings, whole
worlds of thought and fancy that he only dimly
comprehended, and yet he felt himself stirred by
the girl's enthusiasm.

'you have done me good," he said to her,
when tea was over and Emmie had betaken herself
to Patience. He had risen to take leave,
but he still lingered, as though loath to break
the tranquillity of the scene. '' Something had

worried me and put me into a bad humor with
myself and all the world, but now I feel better."

I am glad I have done you good," she
returned simply.

When he had left her she knelt down by the
hearth again and shielded her face from the
flame. All sorts of bright, visionary pictures
danced under the light of the spluttering fir-knots
; thoughts almost too great and beautiful
to be grasped brushed 23ast her like wings.

Queene was only dreaming, as girls will sometimes,
only somehow her dreams were better than
other women's realities. She was thinking of
Garth, marvelling a little over his manner that
evening. He had been kinder, gentler, and yet
somehow different.

She was not quite so sure, after all, that he
meant to marry Dora. She had mentioned her
name once, and he had answered her in a constrained
manner, and had then changed the subject.
Could Miss Cunningham have given him
cause for displeasure ?

Queene was not sufficiently experienced in the
ways of the world to know how quickly hearts

are caught at the rebound. She had no idea of
the real state of the case, and that Garth's first
thought in his mortification had been to seek
solace in. her friendship. She only knew that
somehow Garth had been nicer, and she had
done him good.

'^ What does it matter if one is disappointed
here ? " thought the young visionary in that first
sweet gush of satisfaction, "that it is all giving
and no return — at least, not the return that one
wants? life will not last for ever. In that bright
hereafter there will be no marrying or giving in
marriage, the Bible tells us that. Nothing but
love, which, after all, is another name for life.
We are only hiding our treasures now, heaping
them up in silence and darkness, like that poor
Fraulein Heldrig. By-and-by, up there, those
whom we love will call to us and stretch out their
hands, and we shall come bearing our sheaves
with us."

Queene was weaving all manner of pure
womanish fancies as Garth went back through
the rain. The young man's pulses still throbbed
with excitement. His sluggish imagination had

been quickened and stirred within him ; he felt
with a curious, indefinable sensation that he had
drifted long enough down the tide of circumstance,
and that his fate approached a crisis.
Would it be different to what he had planned all
these years ?

And that night he thought less of Dora.

How inexplicable are the ways of mankind,
even the best of them. Garth, with all his uprightness
and integrity, failed to see that his
conduct lay open to questioning when, after this
evening, he began to haunt the cottage. He was
only seeking solace and forgetfulness, a healing
compensation for the hurt under which he still
smarted at intervals ; but he had no idea that
such self-indulgence might be fraught with peril
to another's peace !

Queene could not tell him if the intercourse
between them were too pleasant to be perfectly
harmless. The fault lay with him, not her. It
was not for her to receive her benefactor coldly ;
and then if she could do him good.

It was true Garth seldom came alone, either
Cathy or Langley or Ted were with him ; but the

invitations to Church Stile House became more
frequent and pressing.

** Garth likes to see you and Emmie amongst
us of an evening' Cathy said to her more than
once. " You know what men are, my dear ;
they get tired of their sisters' company, and then
Dora is away. I suppose that makes him so
discontented and restless. Poor Florence is
worse, and there is no possibility of Dora's return
at present."

So your brother informed me," returned
Queene demurely ; but not to Cathy did she
dare hint that Miss Cunningham's absence was a
relief She was somewhat afraid of questioning
her own feelings too closely at this time. The
incubus that had weighed upon her spirits was
removed, at least temporarily. Life was passing
pleasantly with her just now ; she had work
enough to occupy her ; a pretty cottage where
she and Emmie lived like disguised princesses,
and friends whom she loved and trusted to
brighten her leisure hours.

'' Shall I ever be so happy again in my life ? "
she said once to Cathy. " I think this summer

is the sunniest I have ever known. When one is
so thoroughly satisfied one dreads a change."

I like change' returned Cathy, boldly. " I
think a long lease of monotonous happiness would
stupefy me. Life is not a mere table-land ; there
are mountains to ascend before one can see the
view, broad rivers to cross, and long deserts to
traverse ; he is a poor traveller who fears either."

'you forget Emmie and I are already footsore
with our rough pilgrimage," rejoined Queene,
with her bright quaintness. " We have 1)een
through the Slough of Despond and the Valley
of Humiliation."

'rand the other valley that was worse," put
in Emmie, who was listening to them ; " but you
only stood at the entrance, Queen ; it was I who
had to fight with all the hobgoblins."

Hush, my sweet. Yes, I know," hastily
kissing her, for Queene could never bear to be
reminded even by a word of Emmie's past
danger. "Well, we are in our land of Beulah
now, the land flowing with milk and honey."

It strikes me that you are very thankful for
small mercies," observed Cathy, gruffly, who

could never feel quite reconciled to her friend's
humble employment, and who was ready to
quarrel with Dora for her patronage and condescension.


^' Supposing we were one day to spread golden
wings and fly away," rejoined Queene, gaily.
'' Supposing some one were to leave us a fortune,
and Emmie and I suddenly became grand people,
would you like me better then, Cathy ? "

No ; I should dislike to see you so spoiled,"
she returned, frowning at the idea. '^ I believe
Garth and I have a monomania on that subject,
we hate rich people so. I would not have you
and Emmie a bit different ; but, Queen," changing
her manner and speaking rather nervously,
"I can't help thinking that you are a little
extravagant ; Langley said so the other day."

Extravagant ! " repeated Queene, opening
her eyes wide.

*eyes; I think Garth put it into her head, for
Langley never notices those sort of things. He
found out that you had hired that piano from
Carlisle, and then you are always ordering pretty
things for Emmie. Garth has such a horror of

debt, and, as he said, two hundred a-year will not
buy everything ; and you have not got nearly
that, have you, Queen ? "

I must be more careful," returned Queene,
evading the question. " I am very much obliged
to your brother for the hint; but there will be
no fear of my getting into debt, you may assure
him of that. I have had a terror of that from a
child, ever since I saw the misery it involved."

I am thankful to hear you say so," returned
her friend, much relieved.

She had been a little bewildered by Queene's
purchases. The menage of the cottage had been
perfectly simple, and, with the exception of that
Gainsborough hat, Queene had kept her own
and Emmie's dress strictly within bounds. But
the fifty-pound note had burned a hole in her
pocket, and she had begged Caleb to forward
some amusing books and games for the child's
entertainment; and the expensive selection made
had caused dismay to her friends at Church-Stile
House when Em^mie displayed her treasures.

Queene laughed at her friend's lecture, but it
caused her a little anxiety. What would they
111. 42

think of her playful deception ? would they consider
themselves at all aggrieved at it ? Garth
too, with his horror of heiresses and his exaggerated
notions of independence ! She felt a little
sinking of heart at the thought.

The autumn had set in cold and rainy, ceaseless
down-pours still flooded the country ; the
field path to the Vicarage was impassable, and
the lane almost a grey mire. Garth and Ted
plodded past the cottage daily in their leathern
gaiters, and Dr. Stewart shook his head ruefully
when he encountered Queene in his rounds.

Why don't you give your scholars a holiday,
such constant wetting are good for no one ? " he
asked ; but Queene only laughed, and drew her
old grey waterproof closer round her. After
Cathy's sermon she dared not invest in a new one.
She looked so bright and good-humored, there was
such a fresh radiance about her, that Dr. Stewart
failed to notice the shabbiness of the garment.
He only carried away with him an impression
of youthful brightness that lingered long with
him.

And Miss Faith used to look like that," he

thought a little bitterly, as he rode homeward in
the darkness.

Dr. Stewart had by no means ceased his visits
to the Evergreens. He still dropped in at odd
times, and kept up a running fire of argument
with Miss Charity, and still maintained a rigid
surveillance of the books that lay on the table
beside her. There was not much conversation
between him and the younger sister ; a handshake
and a brief word was often all that passed
between then. His praises of Jean, and the
merits and demerits of her housekeeping, were all
retailed into Miss Hope's sympathizing ear; while
to the somewhat mm Miss Prudence belong-ed
the privilege of pouring out his tea and providing
the crisp griddle cakes that his soul loved.
Faith felt herself somewhat out in the cold ; she
was younger and more attractive, but she had not
Charity's wit and cleverness ; in spite of all those
long hours of reading, she was often at a loss to
comprehend the subject which they were discussing.
She sat by a little silent and heavy-hearted
over her work ; it was not for her to speak if he
had ceased caring to listen.

42 *

Faith was growing paler and more worn everyday
; the renewal of lier intercourse with Dr.
Stewart had brought disappointment as well as
pleasure with it. True, he had brightened her
life in many ways, and his brief visit was the
chief event of the day, but it often left behind ita
strange restlessness and sadness. In a vague
sort of way she began to understand that she
had not fulfilled the promise of her younger
days ; that he was disappointed in his ideal.
The old Faith had been a brighter and more
hopeful one ; and at this thought the sweet face
grew more troubled and downcast.

What's to do with you, Faith ? you always
seem in a maze about something when Dr.
Stewart is here," Miss Charity would say sharply,
when their visitor had taken himself off with a
curt nod that included the whole sisterhood.
It was Miss Prudence who generally let him
out now ; Faith did not offer to stir from her
corner. How did she know whether he wanted
her.

*' It seems so strange that a woman of your
age should find so little to say," continued Miss

Charity, with a displeased jerk of her thin
ringlets.

He only talks to you, Cara ; you neither of
you seem to want me," returned poor Faith, with
the least possible trace of bitterness in her tone.

She did not often retaliate, for hers was a
quiet, peace-loving nature, but to-day she felt
chafed even to soreness.

Never had her sister s yoke oppressed her so
bitterly ; never had those readings in that close
hot room seemed so tedious. The novels had
been replaced by biographies, all of Dr. Stewart's
choice ; but the pure English and the nobility of
the lives delineated were lost upon Faith, chafing
under a secret sense of injury, and longing to be
alone with her burthen. How hard is enforced
companionship, even to the most patient of us.
Faith looked out wearily at the driving rain that
kept her a prisoner, and deprived her of the one
thing she most prized — a solitary walk.

But at night she had it out with her thoughts.
She would lie awake for hours, covered round by
the sacred darkness, thinking out the problem of
her life.

Why had Dr. Stewart crossed her path again ?
to what intent and purpose ? She had become
resigned to her life in a weary sort of way, and
that one bright summer had only lingered in her
memory like a dream of good to be prized. True,
it washer most precious possession, the one thing
that redeemed her life from blankness ; but still
time had in a great measure healed the wound of
her disappointment.

But now they had met again as friends, who
had once been something closer to each other.
True, there had been no spoken understanding
between them ; but there had been looks that
had been as plain as words, half sentences that
conveyed whole meanings, glances of mutual trust
and sympathy. Was all this to go for nothing ?
was he to be free, to put away the past, and
forget and come again, while she alone had been
faithful ?

Dr. Stewart took no apparent notice of her
changed looks ; he came and went in his blunt
way, and left her alone in her quiet corner.
Sometimes his evenings were spent at ChurchStile
House or the Vicarage ; now and then they

heard of him at the cottage, making one of a
merry party, and welcomed warmly everywhere.

The day after Faith had uttered her little protest
to her sister the weather showed signs of
breaking. The rain had abated towards afternoon,
but the low grey skies and wet roads were very
uninviting. Faith looked out at the prospect a
little disconsolately, it seemed to her an emblem
of her own life, and then she turned to her sister.

'' The rain has stopped, I think I shall go out
now, Cara ; it will do my head good."

*' I thought Dr. Stewart was coming this afternoon,"
returned Miss Charity, clicking her 
busily as she spoke ; " he promised
to bring us more new books. You heard him
say so yourself, Faith."

'' Yes, I know ; but be will not miss me ; he
has got you to talk to him, Cara, and I feel I must
have a walk. I am sure he will understand,"
she returned deprecatingly.

*swell, if you like to be so ungracious it is
not my business to interfere," retorted Miss
Charity in a displeased tone. " If you are only
going to sit in the corner and not open your

lips when lie comes in, you may just as well be
out. But he won't have a high opinion of your
politeness."

I cannot help that," returned Faith, wearily.

Another afternoon of needle - work and her
sister's sharp speeches was not to be borne. She
began to feel a dread of these visits, they made
her so uncomfortable.

Well, put on your waterproof, if you must
go," snapped Miss Charity, aggravated at Faith's
unwonted resolution. " The rain will only keep
off for an hour, and you will get nicely soaked."
And Faith meekly acquiesced.

The waterproof was not a becoming garment,
it was almost as shabby as Qaeenie's ; the shapeless
folds quite disguised her neat figure. She
had on her old brown hat too, that suited her
less well than her little Quaker bonnets; but
Faith knew she would have one of Charity's sharp
lectures on extravagance if she got her nice
bonnet ribbons soiled, for, with their modest
expenditure, even bonnet ribbons had to be

considered.

It was a severe shock to her womanly vanity

when, a little way down the road, she met Dr.
Stewart. There waterproof might be considered
fit raiment for such an uncertain afternoon, but
the old brown hat ! Faith smarted with mortified
vanity down to her finger-ends.

He was on foot, as it happened, and he turned
back and walked with her a little way, but he
scanned the cloak and the hat rather quizzically
as he did so.

So you went out to avoid me, did you, Miss
Faith," he said good-humoredly ; but the sudden
question grazed the truth so closely that Faith's
pale cheeks flamed up in a moment.

'' I have not been out for three days, and then
my head has been so bad," she stammered. She
was not asking for his sympathy, but she wished
to defend herself from all charge of rudeness.

''Do you always suffer from these headaches ? "
he asked suddenly.

"No, not always; but they have been pretty
bad lately," she returned indifferently. " I suppose
the close room does it. Cara is so afraid of
draughts, and so much reading does not suit
me."

I think the others ous^ht to take their turn.
I mean to tell Miss Charity so some day."

Oh, no ; pray do not' in much distress. " It
does not really hurt me, not much ; and Cara
does so dislike Hope's reading, it is too loud and
fast for an invalid."

She must be taught to read slower then."

Oh, no ; you must not say anything about it,"
imploringly. " I have nothing else to do but to
wait upon Cara, it is right for me to do it ; and if
it hurts me what does it matter ? We cannot
live for our own pleasure," continued Faith,
walking fast and nervously, but he checked
her.

Slower, please ; 1 had no idea you were such
an energetic walker. I want to talk to you, not
that you ever honor me with many words. I
am not to be included in the list of your duties,
eh ? " with a sidelong glance of mingled fun and
earnestness.

I am afraid you have thought me very rude,"
in a subdued voice.

No ; I have only found you a little depressing.
What's been the matter with you all this

time, Miss Faith ? I am an old friend, and you
might be frank with me."

There is nothing the matter," she returned
in much confusion, thereby burthening her conscience
with a whole falsehood. But how could
she hint to him the reason of her weariness ?

Dr. Stewart pocketed the falsehood with perceptible
distrust.

"You are growing: thinner and more nervous
every day and there is no cause for it? Do you
expect me to believe that ? " with an incredulous
laugh. " I mean to put a stop to these pernicious
readings, so look out for yourself, Miss Faith."

*' Oh, you must not ; indeed you must not, Dr.
Stewart," she implored, with tears in her eyes.
"It is Cara's one pleasure, and I cannot have it
interfered with. You have no right to interfere,"
she continued, turning upon him with the fierceness
of the dove.

Poor Miss Faith ! she was trying to work
herself up into anger against her friendly tormentor,
but somehow the anger failed to come.

Have I no right ? are you sure of that ? " he
demanded gravely. '' You know better than I,

Miss Paith ; you must question your own heart
and memory on that point."

'what do you mean?" she asked, growing
suddenly pale, but walking still faster ; but he
put out his hand and stopped her.

*' What do I mean ? Have you forgotten
Carlisle ? It is ten years ago, and we have both
grown older since then ; but I fancy we have
neither of us forgotten. Do you like me as well
as you did then, Miss Faith ? Do you think
you could make up your mind to exchange the
Evergreens for Juniper Lodge ? "

Faith gave a startled glance into his face, but
what she saw there left her in no doubt of his
meaning. It was as though an electric shock had
passed through her. She bad been accusing him
in her own mind of fickleness and forgetfulness,
and all the time he had meant this !

I thought that it was you that did not care,
that had forgotten," she gasped, not answering
his very plain question in her first dizziness of
surprise.

Then you thought wrong," he returned
coolly. '^ Women are not the only faithful beings

in creation, so you need not lay claim to that
extra virtue. It was you who left me, remember
that, Miss Faith'

'' But you might have followed ; you might
have asked what had. become of me," she
faltered.

What was the use ?" was the uncompromising
answer, " I had a mother and sister to maintain.
A wife is too expensive a luxury for a poor man,
and I was poor enough, in all conscience. Well,
so it is settled, and we understand each other at
last, Faith ? "

Yes, I suppose so," she returned, softly.

The wooing had been brief and matter-of-fact
on Dr. Stewart's side ; but apparently he was
quite satisfied with the result, for he walked on
in a brisk, contented sort of way.

Faith walked beside him, dizzy, and with her
head throbbing with nervous pain. She had
forgotten all about her old brown hat and her
waterproof. The low, grey skies still foreboded
rain, and the wet pools shone under her feet ;
but if a miracle had transformed them into rosy
wine she would scarcely have been more

astonished. That he should have meant this all
that time !

And I thought you had forgotten, Dr.
Stewart," she said presently, in the tone of one
that craved forgiveness.

'^ Humph ! you will find Angus more to your
purpose," he returned, curtly. " How about Miss
Charity and the readings now. Faith," with a
merry twinkle.

Cara ! oh, what shall we do with her ? "
she exclaimed, clasping her hands in sudden
despair. " It is I who have forgotten now. My
poor Cara ! "

*^ Leave Cara to me," was Dr. Stewart's only
answer, as they turned their faces homeward.

CHAPTER III.
"charity begins at home."

Beseech your Majesty,
Forbear sharp speeches to her ; she's a lady
So tender of rebukes, that words are strokes,
And strokes death to her." — Shakespeare.

Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks.
Shall win my love." — Shakespeare.

Faith's nervous trepidation returned in full
force when they came in sight of the Evergreens.
She cast a piteous glance at the bay-window and
then at Dr. Stewart, which secretly moved him
to inward laughter, though not a muscle of his
face betrayed amusement.

There are no white slaves in England, leave
Miss Charity to me," he said again, and the
masculine assurance of his voice gave her a
delicious sense of security.

The quiet way, too, in which he relieved her

of her cloak in the hall, and bade her lay aside
her hat, brought with it a strange new feeling of
protection and care. There had been on his part
no protestations, no vehement declaration of
affection ; but for a matter-of-fact, middle-aged
wooer, rather new to his duties. Dr. Stewart
was doing remarkably well.

Miss Charity was alone when they entered. The
other sisters were in the habit of indulging in an
afternoon nap, which they enjoyed in strict
seclusion ; but Miss Charity's bright eyes never
closed till night, and not always then. The poor
lady could have published many a volume of
midnight meditations, when she and pain held
their dreary converse together during those ten
long years of suffering.

She looked up rather sharply over her knitting-needles
as the two made their appearance. She
was still put out at Faith's unusual manifestation
of self-will, and an afternoon's lonely cogitations
had not sweetened her acerbity.

So you have come back at last, Faith," she
remarked ironically ; " I hope you have enjoyed
your wet walk. I wish you would cure Faith,

Dr. Stewart, of her absurd restlessness and love
of wandering ; she goes out in all weathers, and
that is such a ridiculous thing in a woman of her
age," finished Charity, who, in certain moods,
was given to remind her sister that she would
never see thirty-five again.

But the taunt was lost for the first time on
Faith, for had she not received this afternoon a
fresh lease of youth ?

'what does it matter about age, we have had
a beautiful walk," returned Faith, laughing a
little nervously as she hung over the back of her
sister's sofa so that Tier face was hidden. The
conjunction, so sweet to newly-engaged people,
had slipped out by mistake. Miss Charity looked
up testily.

Who do you mean by we ? I wish you would
speak plainly. Has the doctor joined you in
your hunt after dripping hedges. If one does
not learn common sense when one has turned
thirty-five last March I don't suppose it will ever
be learned," grumbled the invalid, who, with all
her sharpness, had not an idea of the real state
of the case.

III. 43

Dr. Stewart's eyes began to twinkle wickedly ;
lie was enjoying the fun. Miss Charity's humors
always amused him. He generally let her fret
and fume to her heart's content without attempting
to contradict her, but a glance at Earth's
nervous face determined him to give her a
clincher," as he called it.

*^ Yes ; I met Faith, and we had a walk
together," he commenced blandly, but Miss
Charity began to bridle.

You met my sister. Dr. Stewart. I suppose
you did not mean — to say what you did," she was
about to finish, but the doctor interrupted her
cheerfully.

sewell, I call her Faith because we are old
friends, and because we have settled our little
matters between ourselves this afternoon. When
two people have decided to become man and
wife there is no further need for formality, eh,
Miss Charity."

Man and wife I " responded Miss Charity with
a faint shriek, and then she covered her face with
her hands.

Yes ; have we startled you ? " he continued

more gravely, for her surprise and agitation were
very great. " Faith was unprepared for my
speaking, or she would have given you a hint. It
seems we have cared for each other, in a sort of
a way, for the last ten or eleven years ; there's
constancy for you ! Why I have been all over the
world, and have yet come back to my old sweetheart."


Where are you, Faith ? Why do you let Dr.
Stewart do all the talking ? " demanded Miss
Charity, uncovering her pale face, but speaking
in her old irritable manner. " If you have
accepted him, and you are going to be what he
said," shivering slightly, for the words brought
back a dreary past and void of her own, " there
is nothing for me or "any one to say. You're nota
girl." with an hysterical laugh ; *' I suppose you
know your own mind."

Oh, Cara ! " cried poor Faith, with tears in
her eyes, " I don't know how I can be so selfish
as to wish to leave you, but it is all true that he
says. It was coming back to nurse you that put
a stop to everything ten years ago ; and now he
has come back, and it seems as though we were

43 *

LIBRARY

M.x/cDQi-rv OF ILLINOIS

meant for each other, and — and — " here she broke
into nervous sobbing.

'* Pooh, pooh," returned the doctor, but his
eyes glistened a little in sympathy ; ^' Juniper
Lodge is only next door, you are not going to be
separated. Come, Miss Charity, you are a kind
soul, and have courage enough for ten Faiths,
say something comforting to your sister, to give
her a good heart over this."

Dr. Stewart knew how to treat Miss Charity,
Underneath the sharpness and irritability there
was the true metal of a good womanly nature,
and a courage few women could boast. Years
ago she had fought out her own battle, and had
laid herself down on her bed of pain with a
breaking heart but unmurmuring lips. Had
she ever forgotten poor George since the day
she had given him up ? had she ever believed
the stories they had brought her of his unworthiness
?

The small world of Hepshaw only saw in Miss
Charity a little bright-eyed woman, with a
caustic tongue and a temper soured by disappointment
and suffering ; but no, one but Faith,

and perhaps Dr. Stewart, knew what the martyred
body and nerves bore day and night.

'' I feel sometimes like St. Lawrence on his
gridiron : I wish it were a bed of roses to me
too," she said once grimly to her sister ; but not
even to her did she speak of the slow agonies that
consumed her. AVhat would be the use, she
thought ; pain is sent to be borne, not to be
talked about.

Neither to Faith did she speak of the strange
thoughts and dreams that haunted her nights.
Sometimes, half lulled by opiates, it would seem
to her as though the walls and roof of her
chamber were thrown down ; through the room
rushed the cold winds of heaven ; above her was
the dark midnight sky seamed with glittering
stars. How they wavered and shone ! Voices
sounded through them sometimes. Grey and
white shadows moved hither and thither, silent,
but with grave, speaking eyes pitying and full
of love. '' Poor Charity ! " they seemed to
say, '' still fastened to the cross and waiting
for the angel of peace and rest. Will hebe
long ? " And the echo seemed to be caught

up and passed on shuddering : " will he belong
? "

Ah, yes ; those were her parents ! and poor
George, how plainly she could see him ! He
had died a drunkard's death they had told her,
with a sorry attempt at comfort. He had ridden
after a night's debauch, and his seat and hand
had been unsteady ; but she had shaken her
head incredulously. What mattered how he
died ? he was at rest, she knew that, she was
sure of it ; he could not have sinned as they said
he had — her poor George, on whom she had
brought such misery !

And now, because her cup was not yet full, this
farther sacrifice was demanded of her. She must
give up Paith, the patient nurse and companion
of all these years of suffering. True, she was
often cross and irritable, but could any one be to
her what Faith was ? could any one replace that
soft voice and gentle hand that had lulled and
made bearable many an hour when the pain
threatened to be intolerable ? would any other
bear her harsh humors with such patience and
loving resignation ? The thought of this new

deprivation paled the poor invalid's cheek and
swelled in her throat as Dr. Stewart uttered his
persuasive protest.

"Oh, Cara ! I shall never have the heart to
leave you when it comes to the point," cried
Faith, clinging to her with fresh tears. What
did it matter that they were middle-aged women,
and that Cara's hair, at least, was streaked with
grey, and that Dr. Stewart was regarding them
with eyes that alternately twinkled and glistened.
Had they not their feelings ? was not
Cara her own sister ? " Oh, Cara ! I never shall
be able to leave you ! "

*' Nonsense," returned Miss Charity, pushing
her away, but with tears in her eyes too. '' Getup.
Faith, do ; what will Dr. Stewart think of
us ? Of course you must have him if you
want him ; and a good husband at your age
is not to be despised, let me tell you
that."

But what will you do without me ? and
Hope reads so badly," sighed her sister.

Miss Charity winced a little over the idea, but
she returned bravely,

Oh, I shall get along somehow ; Hope is not
so bad if you put cotton wool in one ear ; and
she always knows what she is reading," with an
accent of reproach to denote Faith's wandering
attention. " There, there, it is all right," patting
her shoulder kindly. " Juniper Lodge is not a
hundred miles off, and I dare say Dr. Stewart
will often spare you to us ; and all I have to say
to him is, that a good sister will make a goodwife,
and that he will soon find out for himself;"
and with that Miss Charity composed herself to
her knitting again, and shortly after that Dr.
Stewart took his leave.

'' Must you go yet ? I hoped you would have
waited and seen Hope and Prudence," faltered
Faith timidly, as she followed her lover into the
little hall and watched him invest himself in his
shaggy great coat ; but Dr. Stewart only smiled
and shook his head.

Not to-night ; give my kind regards to them.
To-morrow afternoon if it holds up we will have
another walk together and discuss future arrangements.
You will want this evening to get your
thoughts in order, eh, Faith ? " with a look of

such thorough understanding and good-humor
that her color rose.

Miss Charity is enough for one afternoon, I
could not quite stand the other cardinal virtues,"
he said to himself as he sat down contentedly to
his solitary tea.

Jean, excellent woman, knowing his ways,
had lighted the fire and brought down his
slippers to warm. " I am not so badly off asa
bachelor that I need be in such a hurry to
change my state," he went on, stretching out his
feet to the blaze ; *' but how is a man to enjoy
comfort and the pleasure of a good conscience
knowing that a human creature is dying by
inches next door ? and though that's rather strong,
I do believe she gets thinner every day, with all
that worry and reading nonsense. When she
is my wife no one can interfere wdtli her, and I
can keep Miss Charity within bounds. Poor
soul ! one is bound to pity her too. I felt quite
soft-hearted myself when Faith was kneeling
there looking so pitiful. Well, she is a dear
woman, and I don't repent of what T have done ;
for, in spite of Jean s excellent management, one

feels a trifle dull sometimes now the old mother's
gone and Die is married. By-the-bye, I must
write and tell Die about this, she will be so
delighted''

Faith returned a little soberly to the parlor
when Dr. Stewart had taken his departure. She
would gladly have slipped away to her own room
to dream over this wonderful thing that had
happened, but she knew that would have been
an offence in her sisters' eyes. There were Hope
and Prudence to be enlightened, and a gauntlet
of sisterly criticism to be run. Dr. Stewart was
such a favorite with them all, that she knew that
in whatever light they might regard her acceptance
of his offer that it would not be unfavorable.

Miss Charity broke the ice herself in her usual
trenchant fashion.

A fine bit of news I've got for you two while
you have been napping," she began, knitting in
an excited manner. "Here's Faith, who is old
enough to know better, has gone and made a
match of it with Dr. Stewart."

'' What ! " ejaculated Miss Hope, and then she
broke into one of her loud hearty laughs that

always jarred on the invalid's nerves. " Well
done, Faith ; so you don't mean to be an old
maid like the rest of us. Well, three in a family
is enough to my mind, and plenty, and you
never had quite the proper cut. So it is mistress
of Juniper Lodge you mean to be ! Well, well,
this is a rare piece of news to be sure ; nothing
has happened in the family worth mentioning
since Charity took up with poor George."

Well, there will be one mouth less to feed,"
put in Prudence in her usual strong fashion ;
and with the present exorbitant price of meat
that's something for which to be thankful."

But though the speech was not sympathetic
Miss Prudence's lean brown hand trembled a
little as she unlocked the tea-caddy and measured
out the scanty modicum of tea. Poor Miss Prudence
! there was still a warm woman's heart beating
under the harsh, unloving exterior, though it
seldom found utterance. Her one object in life
had been to eke out a narrow income, and bringdown
her own and her sisters' wants to the limits
of penury. A small saving constituted her chief
joy ; the low standard had dwarfed her moral

stature; petty cares had narrowed and contracted
her ; the mote in her eye hindered the incoming
of heart sunshine, and made her life a hard,
unlovely thing.

For it is a sad truth and a painful one to
many of us, that in a great measure we form our
own lives. The wide blanks, the vacuum that
nature abhors, are all self-created. Outside the
void, the chaos, the central abyss of self, there
wait all manner of patient duties, joys, griefs,
possible sufferings, a world of human beings to
be loved, to replenish emptiness and the waste of
spent passion.

Miss Prudence was one of those unhappy
beings who read the meanings of life by the light
of a farthing dip. Within her secret sanctuary
the small god Economy dwelt as a favored deity.
She would sweep her house like the woman in
the parable for the smallest possible missing coin,
and go to bed in despair for the loss of it ; but
she left her own inner chambers miserably
unclean and full of dust and cobwebs.

And yet, as in many other persons. Miss Prudence's
faults were only caricatures of virtues.

She was miserly, but it was for her sisters' sakes
more than for her own. To keep the little house
bright and respectable she toiled from morning
till night; but I do not know that any of them
loved her better for it. It was Prue's vocation,
her one taste. If she could only have read to
Miss Charity, and taken her share in the nursing.
Faith would have been more grateful to her.

She fretted, as was natural, over that little
speech of Miss Prudence's, for she was faint with
excessive happiness, and thirsted for a pure
draught of sisterly sympathy.

Is that all you have to say to me, Prue ? "
she demanded in an injured tone.

AVhat have I got to say," returned poor
Miss Prudence, looking greyer and grimmer,
'except that it is a fine thing to be Dr. Stewart's
wife and the mistress of Juniper Lodge, and not
be obliged to count your pence till your eyes
ache with trying to make out that five are equal
to six ? That's what I've been doing all my life,
Faith, and no thanks to me either ; and it does
not always agree with one."

There, there, take your tea. Faith," interrupted

Miss Charity, testily ; " we've wasted
more than an hour already over this business of
yours, and we shall get through very little reading
to-night."

Nonsense, Charity ; let Faith have her talk
out," observed Hope, in her good-humored way.
"We don't have weddings every day in the
family, and it is hard if we don't make much of
them when they come. Well, and is the day
fixed, Faith ? "

"No, indeed! What are you thinking about?"
returned Faith, quite terrified at the idea.

She sat at the tea-table a little sad and confused
as Miss Hope plied her with good-natured
jokes and questions. Why did not Cara want
her to talk ? why was Prudence so snapping and
hard ? and why could they not all leave her alone
with her thoughts ?

*' I think I will read now," she said, taking up
the book and sinking with a sigh into her usual
seat.

As the soft harmonious voice made itself heard
Miss Charity's eyes filled with tears and her
forehead contracted as though with pain. '' And

she must lose this her one consolation," she
thought. Faith's reading was to her as David's
harp to the sick soul of Saul — it drove away the
evil spirit of despondency. "It is giving the
widow's mite — all I have," thought Miss Charity,
with a little thrill of pathos.

As for Faith, she went through her allotted
task with an outward semblance of patience
and much inward rebellion, reading mechanically,
without perceiving the drift of the sense.
"And he meant this all the time," she said to
herself. "Oh, how little I deserve him and my
happiness."

Faith's evening, on the whole, had been disappointing,
but before many hours were over she
found that things were not to be arranged to
her liking. The moment it came to a clashing
of wills she soon discovered that Dr. Stewart's
was to be paramount.

Faith had certain old-fashioned views on the
subject of courtship and matrimony. The one
must not be too brief or the other too sudden
in her opinion. Dr. Stewart's views were indirect
opposition.

'when a man gets on to middle age, and lias
knocked about the world as much as I have
done," he said to her the following afternoon as
they again plodded through the miry roads,
only now a pale uncertain sunshine followed
them, ''he finds courtship just a trifle difficult.
I am a plain man, and speak my mind plainly.
Faith. We've known each other, or at least
thought about each other, these ten years. Weare
neither of us young, and we are not likely to
get younger ; so if you're ready I'm more than
willing, and we will just say the middle of
November, and talk no more about it."

"But, Angus, that is only just six weeks",
faltered \n.^ fiancee.

Yes, and that's a fortnight too much," he
returned bluntly. " Shall we make it the end of
October then ? " at which alarming alternative
Faith had only just strength to gasp out a faint
negative, and subside into startled silence. After
all, was not this exchanging one sort of tyranny
for another ?

She made known the news of her engagement
to her friends at Church Stile House in a shamefaced

manner that was quite new to her.
Cathy fairly danced round her with delight, and
even Langley's wean face brightened with sympathy.


Dear Faith, I am so glad," she whispered.
Such constancy deserves its reward."

"A wedding at Hepshaw, and one of the
cardinal virtues, of all people ! " crowed Cathy.
What will the sisterhood do without you ? in
such a household, loss of Faith must be terrible,"
finished the girl solemnly.

"It is dreadful for Cara. I lay awake half
the night thinking what she would do without
me. It does not matter so much for Hope and
Prudence ; they will miss me, of course, but then
they have each other ; but Cara ! "

Oh, Miss Charity will do well enough ! "
returned Cathy in her off-hand manner. '' You
must not think of any one but Dr. Stewart now."

Of course I think of him ; he — Angus— is so
good ; oh, you don't know how good he is tome.
But all the same, six weeks, and he will
not hear of waiting any longer ; and now he has
talked Cara round to his opinion, and she says
III. 44

the sooner the fuss is over the better ! " finished
Miss Faith, in a tone between crying and
laughing.

Poor bewildered Faith ! she had taken refuge
with her kind friends at Church Stile House
to seek the sympathy that was not forthcoming
at home. Langley's womanly intuition soon
guessed the real state of the case — that Faith was
half afraid and half proud of her lover's rough-and-ready
wooing, and needed quiet and soothing.
She dismissed Cathy and her overpowering
liveliness as soon as possible, took off Faith's
bonnet, put her in the easy chair in her favorite
corner, and petted and made much of her all
the evening. Before many hours were over Faith
had made her little confession, feeling sure that
Langley would understand her. It was not that
she was not happy, but she was just a little bit
disappointed. Angus was very kind, just what
he ought to be ; but he seemed to take everything
as understood, and that there was no need to say
nice things to her. Why he had been far more
lover like ten years ago, when he had never said
a word to her. '' But all that he and Cara think

almost is to have it over quickly ail without fuss.
One ought not to call sacred things by that
name," concluded Faith, with tears in her eyes.

Dear Faith, men are so different to us ! "
returned her friend gently. '"' I c[uite understand
how you feel ; but then Dr. Stewart thinks he
has given you an all-sufficient proof of his affection
beyond any need of words. You are not
going to marry a demonstrative man, you must
remember that ; but I don't doubt for one
moment that he means to make you a happy
woman."

*' Things never come c[uite in the way one
wants," replied Faith with a little sigh ; but
she felt more than half comforted by Langley's
sympathy and wise common-sense ? When Dr.
Stewart came in to fetch her by-and-bye she
had regained her old serenity of manner.

As for Dr. Stewart, after a few minutes' quiet
observation of him Langley was quite satisfied
to trust her friend's happiness in his keeping.
There was a watchful tenderness in his bearing
towards her, a quiet unobtrusiveness of attention,
that spoke for itself without need of words. Faith

44 *

would soon find out for herself that she was
warmly loved and cherished, though it might not
occur to him to tell her so.

He gave Langley a hint too of his reasons for
hurrying on the preparations for the wedding.

She is almost worn out now, and the sooner
some one takes care of her the better," he said, in
his straight-forward, sensible way, when Faith
had gone up-stairs to put on her bonnet. " She
has been taking care of people the best part of
her life, and now she wants rest and a little
comfort. Miss Charity is a good woman, but
she is awfully trying at times ; but she will
have to ask my leave before she tyrannizes over
my wife."

You have got a treasure, Dr. Stewart ; you
don't know how much we all think of Faith,
and how dearly we love her. Garth says she is
the best woman he knows."

'' I always knew she was a good creature,"
returned Dr. Stewart in a provokingly matter-of-fact
tone ; but the gleam in his eyes contradicted
it, and Langley understood him, and was
satisfied.

The six weeks' courtship was soon over, but not
until Faith was nearly harassed to death by the
multiplicity of her labors. The slender resources
of the sisters could only furnish a very modest outfit
for the bride. The wedding silk of delicate
fawn was Langley's gift, and the rich black silk
and handsome seal-skin jacket, that were the
glories of the whole, were anonymous presents
directed to Faith Palmer in an unknown hand.

Faith believed that she was indebted for them
to her lover's generosity, until he assured her very
seriously that such an idea had never entered his
head.

No, no, Faith ; I am not a poor man now, but
I am not as rich as Croesus," he returned, shaking
]his head over the rich roll of silk.

Why that must have cost seven-and-sixpence
a yard if it cost a penny, and the seal-skin is
worth eighteen or twenty guineas ! " exclaimed
Miss Prudence, eyeing Faith with profound,
astonishment not unmixed. with respect. The
future Mrs. Stewart was evidently a very different
person to the oft-snubbed younger sister.

'' How I do Ions to know who sent them ! "

sighed Faith, bending over the parcels with a
flushed face, which recalled the Faith of old to
Dr. Stewart's e^^es.

Queene, who happened to be at the Evergreens,
laughed over the fervency of the wish.

"What does it matter? the donor does not
want to be thanked evidently. If I were you I
should rather enjoy the mystery. People's thanks
always seem like payment to me, they are
delivered so punctually and with such effort."

All the same, I should like to know who has
taken such kind interest in me," returned Miss
Faith, with a puzzled expression as she fingered
the sealskin.

This anonymous wedding-gift was the only
little bit of romance about the whole business.
Faith sat and sewed with her sisters day after
day, listening to long lectures on economy from
Prudence, or read her allotted task to Charity.
She did not dare to omit this duty even the day
before the wedding. Dr. Stewart came in towards
evening and found her pale and half
hysterical over Carlyle's ' French Revolution.'

I think we need one too," he muttered, ashe

removed the book from her hand. " No more
reading to-night, Miss Charity. "What do you say
to a game of chess with me ? " and Faith gave
him a grateful glance and darted from the room.

It was a simple, unpretending wedding. Faith
looked very demure and sweet in her fawn-colored
silk and pretty white bonnet. Dr.
Stewart paid her the first compliment she had
received from him.

We shall have the old Faith back by-and-bye,"
he said to her. " I mean to give you a
week of sea breezes, and then we will settle down
into regular Darby and Joan ways, shall we, my
wife ? "

And Faith blushed and said, " Yes."

And it could not be denied that Mrs. Stewart
was a far happier woman than Faith Palmer had
been. Langley and Cathy were amused at the
brisk, matronly airs that soon replaced the soft
melancholy that had been Faith's habitual manner.
Angus was evidently perfection in his
wife's eyes ; his opinions were the soundest, his
views never to be controverted, or his word
questioned.

Are you happy, Faith ? " Langley asked her
very tenderly when they first met after her
marriage.

I am the happiest woman in the world ; and
Cano-us is everything that he can be," returned the
mistress of Juniper Lodge. '* Do you know, he
won't hear of our neglecting Cara. I read to her
every day for an hour, and he often goes in and
plays a game of chess with her ; and he has taught
Hope beside and cribbage, and they play them
together. Ah, you don't know how dear and
thoughtful he is for them as well as for me ! "
finished Faith, with a look of infinite contentment.


CHAPTER lY.

THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM.

A woman is more considerate in affairs of love than a man,
because love is more the study and business of lier life." —
JFa^li'wfjton Irving.

It was about this time that Garth began to
feel very uncomfortable. Hitherto his quiet,
well-assured life, with its eight-and-twenty years
of healthful work and activity, its moderate aims
and small ambitions, had been singularly free
from conflict. Mental disturbance, the weariness
of self-argument, the harass of stormy passions,
had been wholly unknown to him. In his
ordered existence the pains and penalties of a
lover's martyrdom had not vexed him.

He was still angry with Dora, but his discomfort
did not proceed wholly from his wrath ; it
lay rather in a concealed fear that he was mistaken
in his own feelings.

After all, was it Dora that he wanted ? "Was
the friendship between them sufficient to warrant
the assumption that they would be happy
together in a life-long union ? Was not her
lukewarmness, her procrastination, tolerably clear
signs that she was, in reality, as heart-whole ashe
? Would it go hardly with either of them
if that dust-shaking movement of his should be
carried out ?

There was no engagement; the tacit understanding
between them did not even amount to
a promise. Dora had rejected his first attempt
to place things on a more satisfactory footing ;
in reality he was free as air. Why was her influence
so strong over him then that he feared to
break the yoke of his subservience, and so stood,
as it were, on the comfortless borders of uncertainty,
battling between two opinions ?

Dora was still away at Brussels, but Mr. Cunningham
had returned. From him Garth learnt
that they had found the invalid in a far more
precarious state than they had at first imagined.
The fever had subsided, but had been followed
by a serious attack on the lungs. It was impossible

for her sister to leave her ; and Mr. Cunningham
feared that a winter in the south of
France would be imperatively needed.

Dora wrote a short letter soon after to the
same effect.

The sight of the well-known characters moved
Garth to a certain impatience. Why had she
written to him ? how did she know that his
ano^er was not still hot against her ?

It is grievous to see dear Flo's sufferings,"
she wrote. " She is such a patient creature, and
does all she is told ; but at one time we hardly
dared to hope that she would be spared to us.
Poor papa was quite in despair ; and as for Beatrix,
she has been no use at all, she quite upset
us the first evening by the way she clung to us.
It is sad to see a girl of her age so entirely without
control. The doctor still looks very grave
over darling Flo, and I fear we shall be condemned
to a winter in the south of France ; in
that case I shall send Beattie home to papa, for
her crying and fretting only harass one. I daresay
Langley will look after her a little for me.

I little thought I was saying good-bye to

5^ou for such a long time. If you had known
that, you would have been a little kinder, would
you not ? But I must not think of that. I am
afraid I think of you all a great deal too much ;
the prospect of the long winter away from everyone
makes me dreadfully homesick. Write and
tell me how dear papa looks, and how every one
is, and all about yourself, and believe me always
and ever your faithful friend,

Garth's answer was very cool and matter-of-fact.
It contained a full description of Miss
Palmer's wedding, with lengthy messages to
Beatrix and Florence, and a few formal words of
condolence over her prolonged absence. *' It must
be such a bore to be exiled against one's will,"
wrote Garth ; but he did not say one word about
himself.

Dora heaved a little sigh of regret as she
folded up the letter. 'poor fellow! he is still
very angry with me," she thought to herself.

Garth took a long, solitary walk when he had
finished his epistle ; it had taken him more than

an hour to compose, and yet it had hardly filled
one sheet of note-paper. He was heavy with
discomfort, and yet a feeling of triumph was
uppermost. " She will see that 1 am not to be
played with ; that I regard myself as free, and
mean to keep my freedom," he said to himself,
as he tramped through the country roads in the
starlight.

It was the beginning of November, and there
was a keen, frosty feeling in the air. The fields
that bordered the road on either side looked
black in the dim light ; the trees looked gaunt
and grotesque, stretching out their unclothed
limbs in the darkness ; the grey stone walls
seemed dim and unsubstantial. Garth walked
on with long, even-strides. The cold air, the
exercise, stirred his young blood, and drove away
despondent fancies ; in their place came pleasurable
images, faint, yet full of grace, making
pulsation stronger within him.

When did the thought first occur to him ?
AVhen and where ? or was it a thought at all, or
only a feeling or sentiment ? A novel sensation
not to be described, and certainly not to be

analyzed, had taken possession of him the very
night after his interview with Dora, when, sore
and angry, he had betaken himself to the cottage.

It was strange how that picture of the two
sisters haunted him. Sometimes, when he woke
up in the middle of the night, he recalled it
vividly : the child curled up on the rocking-chair,
the girl kneeling on the rug with the plate
of cakes in her hand, the firelight shining on her
round, dimpled arms and flushed face, and then
her paleness, and the startled brightness of her
eyes when she turned to him.

Had Dora ever grown pale at the sight of him ?
had she ever moved his better nature by such
sweet, strong words as those that greeted his ear
that night ?

'' What is it that men do not understand ? " he
had asked her in his simple, straight-forward
way.

The blessedness of giving," she had answered
him, without guile or hesitation, " the privilege
of being able to see and love what is highest and
best without hope or thought of return. Some
women feel like that."

Good heavens ! could she — was it a bare possibility
that she could be speaking of herself ? and
though, a moment after, he repelled this thought
with a blush of shame over the vanity of such a
supposition, other words conspired to haunt him.

Those that have sympathy here must have
sympathy there," she had gravely assured him,
and her earnestness had moved him to excitement.
What if this sympathy were between them two ;
between him. Garth Clayton, and the young
creature that he had befriended ?

"Dolt, fool, idiot! that's what I've been for
my pains," growled Garth between his teeth, ashe
struck at a young sapling with his stick ; *' as
though one could map and trace out one's feeling
and one's life in that way. What is Dora to me
after all compared to this girl, this stranger,
whom I did not know six months ago ; and yet,
like a blockhead, I must try to bind myself to
her, and call her my Fate." And then he softened
and grew pitiful. " Poor Dora! poor dear Dora!"
he said, with a kindly memory of his old playmate,
and all his anger died out of him.

After all, there was a very true friendship

between them none the less that he did nob
deceive himself, and called it by its right name.

Garth meant to go home straight that night,
like the good young man he was ; but, somehow,
before he was aware he had unlatched the little
gate. Perhaps it was the sound of Langley's
voice in the porch that determined him. Of
course it was the duty of an affectionate brother
to escort her home.

But Langley had only left her own warm fireside
to visit an ailing child in the village, and
was carrying the report to the young schoolmistress.


She still wore her Sister-of-mercy's grey cloak,
as Cathy called it, which Queene was half-coaxingly,
half-playfully trying to unfasten. She
started at Langley's surprised exclamation, and
again that paleness was perceptible.

As for Garth, he flushed a little over the girl's
evident surprise.

I heard your voice, Langley, and so I followed
you in," he said gravely, looking at her and not
at Queene. All at once he seemed embarrassed
and ill-appease, his usual assurance had left him.

Now you have come you must both stay,"
replied Queene brightly ; she had recovered
from her momentary agitation. " Langley has
brought me a very sad account of poor little
Bessie. I must go down there the first thing
in the morning."

Where is Emmie ? " asked Garth, looking
longingly at the empty rocking-chair, but not
daring to take possession.

Langley's cloak still hung round her in straight
long folds, she stood quietly warming herself by
the fire, looking down on the flame with a
thoughtful, intent face.

'^ Emmie is tired and has gone to bed. Do
you know," looking up at Garth rather sorrowfully,
" that I am afraid that she is not as strong
as she ought to be. I have been telling Langley
so. I often find her lying on the rug in the
twilight, and yet she will have it she is only
tired."

*' She is growing so fast ; children are often
languid at that age : you must not be overanxious,"
he returned kindly.

How can I help it ? she is all I have," replied
III. 45

the girl, turning from him to hide the tears in
her eyes.

The kindness of his tone had brought them
there. Garth looked after her wistfully, but he
said no more.

Come, Garth, it is late, and we must not
stay," exclaimed Langley, rousing herself. She
put her hand on his arm and drew him gently
on without seeming to notice his reluctance.

Queene stood in the porch and watched them
till they were out of sight.

How kind he is to-night — kinder than usual,"
she thought, as she fastened up the door and
went in.

The brother and sister were somewhat silent
as they walked up the lane ; Langley was taking
counsel with herself. When Garth entered
his study she followed him, somewhat to his
surprise.

*' Are you very busy to - night ? " she said,
pausing by the table, on which lay several letters,
Dora's amongst them.

Not too busy to talk to you, if that is what
you mean," returned Garth pleasantly.

If the truth must be known he would rather
have had his study to himself to-night, but
selfishness was not one of Garth's faults ; perhaps
Langley needed his advice, so he stirred up the
fire, drew the easy-chair towards it, and then
relieved his sister of her heavy cloak.

We have none of us heard from Brussels but
you," she observed absently, as she perused the
envelope before her. ^* Garth, I hope you will
not be vexed with me, but I think, as things are
between you and Dora, that you ought not to go
so much to the cottage."

Garth nearly dropped the poker. *' Et tu,
Brute 1 " he groaned. " Is that what you have
to say to me to-night, Langley ? " he asked in a
constrained voice, and Langley knew the matter
of her speech displeased him.

"You must not be hurt with me, my dear, if

I say what I think," she returned, following him

to the rug. "You are such a good, kind

creature, that it would never occur to you that

your kindness could hurt any one ; but Miss

Marriott's position amongst us is somewhat

peculiar."

45*

I thought she was Cathy's friend," he
responded, a little crossly.

Yes ; and mine too, and yours, if you care to
call her so. You are only a young man. Garth,
though you are so steady and reliable, and she is
young and very attractive, and temptation comes
when we least expect it ; and a friendship is not
always a safe and a wise thing ; and — and I have
long wanted to speak about this, my dear,"
went on Langley in a motherly tone. True, Garth
was only two years younger, but was she not
older by years of suffering ? could any sister love
him better than she ?

There are some things that need not be
discussed between us," he returned with a little
dignity. *' I am quite aware of Miss Marriott's
position."

'eyes; but a sister is such a safe confidante,"
she responded softly, not repelled by his loftiness.
'you and I have always been such friends.
Garth, and I cannot bear you to be so close. I
know you would not do anything that is wrong ;
but, as things are between you and Dora, I
cannot but think these constant visits to the cottage

are a mistake. If you knew how long I have
wanted to say this to you, ever since — " But here
Langley hesitated ; she dared not hint that her
uneasiness was chiefly caused by Queene herself.

With her warm affection and clear-sightedness
she had arrived at the conviction that this constant
intercourse was fraught with danger to
the girl in whom they were so much interested.
It was for her sake as well as Garth's that she
was speaking now.

Stop a moment, Langley," exclaimed her
brother angrily. " You have twice made an
observation ; have 1 ever informed you that I
was on the eve of an engagement with Dora ? "

I thought it was understood between you.
I am quite sure Dora feels that she belongs to
you," was the serious reply.

Then I beg to differ from you ; Miss Cunningham
feels nothing of the sort," was the
indignant retort. " As far as I know, and I
suppose I am the best authority in the matter,
things are at an end between us. It is quite
true," flushing at the remembrance, "that when
I last went to the Vicarage that I tried to put

matters on a different footing. I had made up
my mind that I owed Dora a duty, and I thought
then that I wished this thing ; but it appears I
made a mistake. Miss Cunningham," somewhat
bitterly, *had no intention of meeting my
views."

** Garth, surely you are mistaken ! " exclaimed
his sister, much startled.

^' I am not mistaken, Langley," in an offended
voice. ^^ Miss Cunningham is neither ready nor
willing to enter into any engagement, she made
that perfectly clear to me. She puts her father
and sisters first, and me last ; but she will see
that I am not one to be trifled with."

'^ Do you mean to tell me that Dora refused
you ? " was the incredulous question.

Not exactly ; at least she would not let it
come to that point between us, but she made
her meaning tolerably clear. I am to go on in
this way until she pleases to consider herself
unfettered ; but I have waited long enough."

Did you tell her so ? "

Yes ; I said that there must be no more
backwardness on her part, no pretence of insuperable

obstacles where none existed ; that it must
be yea, yea, or nay, nay, between us ; that, in
point of fact, she must have me or lose me."

^' Did you say all this ? "

Yes ; but not in so many words."

I think she has treated you badly, and
deserved to be frightened ; there are no very
real obstacles, as you say. Beatrix is a dear
good girl, and will soon be old enough to look
after her father and the parish. I always knew
Dora's chief fault was a too great love of power."

I shall be sorry to interfere with her prerogative
as mistress of Crossgill Vicarage," he
returned coldly.

*' Now, Garth, that is hardly fair," rejoined his
sister, smiling affectionately in his face. *' Dora
has behaved very badly, but she has not sinned
past forgiveness ; she has never cared for anyone
but you all her life. I think that ought to
soften your resentment."

I dare say we shall always be good friends,"
was the indifferent reply.

The very best of friends. Why this is sheer
nonsense, Garth ; Dora would be miserable if she

knew how she had hurt you. Take my advice,
dear ; sit down and write to her, she is lonely
and unhappy, and full of anxiety about her sister.
Tell her that you are serious in what you said to
her ; that you are not patient, and do not mean
to be ; that she must make up her mind to give
you a decided answer, and see what she says. Do
you think she would run the risk of losing you
altogether ? "

'' It does not matter, I shall not give her the
chance of refusing me again," he returned gloomily.
'' Thank you for your advice, Langley, but
it has come too late ; I have made up my mind
that Dora and I will be better friends apart."

"You have made up your mind after all these
years," she said slowly and regretfully. " Poor
Dora ! whom we all loved for your sake, and who
is so good and faithful a sister and daughter, so
thoroughly trustworthy and intrinsic ! Oh, no.
Garth, you could not be so fickle ! "

You speak as though I have been in love
with her all these years," returned Garth sullenly.
You know very well, Langley, I have been
perfectly heart-whole all the time. True, I always

believed that we should come together, but it is
not my fault if my inclinations no longer point
that way'

'^ Ah ! " Langley uttered no more than that
little monosyllable, but the blood rushed to her
brother's face ; she knew now what he meant.
Poor Dora ! " she sighed, and then she put
up her face and kissed him, and said goodnight.


She had come to speak to him about Dora, not
of the other one ; that was none of her business.
As far as she knew, his choice was not an, unwise
one ; no one could know Queene and not love
her. She had grown into all their hearts
strangely ; but the old friend of their childhood,
Dora !

She went away very sadly after that. Garth
made no effort to detain her. His purposes were
not yet ripe enough for confidence ; he was a
little shy of whispering them even to himself.

*' You are not hurt with me because I ventured
to say this to you ? " she asked him, as she was
about to move away.

'*No ; I think I am relieved; it is always best

to undeceive people," was his sole reply, and then
she left him.

Garth enjoyed his solitude uninterruptedly
after that, but he was not quite at ease in his
own conscience. Langley's words, few and
temperate as they were, had troubled him. It
seemed so strange to hear her pleading. Dora's
cause, the very girl whom all these years he had
intended to make his wife.

Should he give her this one chance more ?
should he write such a letter that its very sternness
should constrain her to answer him ? but no,
she might repent and fling herself into his arms,
and now his heart had gone from her.

'' It is well to be off with the old love before
one is on with the new," thought Garth, somewhat
ruefully, but it was very clear that it was
not Dora now that he wanted. " We are better
apart ; she will get to see that in time herself,"
he said, as Langley's earnest pleading rose uncomfortably
to his mind. " I don't believe she is
a bit in love with me." And before he retired that
night he made up his mind that things must
take their chance. He would wait a little perhaps.

there was no liuriy. When the time for his
wooing should come he would carry it in far
different fashion than he had done, and the ofiii
he should woo would not be Dora.

CHAPTER V.

CHANGES AND CHANCES.

One half our cares and woes

Exist but in our thoughts ;
And lightly fall the rest on those

Who with them wrestle not.
The feather scarcely feels the gale
Which bursts the seaman's strongest sail."

a Wesley.

'&^

Things went on tranquilly for the next few
days. Garth looked a little shame-faced when
he next saw his sister, but he knew her too well
to fear that an unready confidence would be
solicited. Langley never asked to know people's
secrets. If they reposed them in her they found
her trustworthy and sympathizing. She had
eased her conscience by warning her brother, and
now her duty was discharged her heart was full
of forebodings for their old friend Dora ; and a

feeling that was almost akin to disappointment
troubled her when she thought of Garth's changed
fealty. " Toujours s fidele " had been her motto
for him as well as for herself, and yet, of the two
girls her heart clave more to Queene. Garth
had no intention of reposing confidence in anyone.
He hid his feelings as well as he could,
assuming at times an uneasy gravity that did not
belong to him ; but the usual symptoms were
not lacking. He became enamored of his own
company, addicted to solitary walks and an
over - much use of meditation, was somewhat
absent and desultory in his conversation, and
haunted the lane with his cio^ar at all manner of

CD

unseemly hours. Queene was not unmindful of
this change in Garth. It may be doubted
whether women are ever entirely unconscious of
even a hidden passion ; trifles are significant in
such cases. A certain subtle change in Garth's
tone, a hesitation, nay, a reluctance in speaking
her name, a swift unguarded look, brought a
sweet conviction to her mind : Dora must be forgotten.
A rosy flush of hope, bright as her own
youth, dawned slowly upon her.

Queene was sitting alone one evening, late in
November, thinking over these things. It struck
her with a little surprise that she had not seen
her friends at Church-Stile House for two days ;
such a thing had never happened before. She
and Emmie had spent the previous evening at
Juniper Lodge ; Cathy had been expected and
had not made her appearance, and she had also
omitted her usual afternoon visit at the cottage.
A fleeting glimpse of Garth as he drove by in his
dog-cart was all that was vouchsafed her. Even
Langley had been invisible. " If it were not so
late I would run up the lane and see what has
become of them," thought Queene, with a slight
feeling of uneasiness.

It was followed by a sensation of relief as the
little gate unlatched and footsteps came up the
gravel walk ; but it was only Miss Cosie, with
her grey shawl pinned over her curls, and a
voluminous mass of soft knitting in her hand.

"Dear Miss Cosie, to think of your coming
out such a bitter night ! and I thought it was
Cathy," exclaimed Queene, pouncing on the
little woman with vehement hospitality, and

depositing her, smiling and breathless, on an
easy-chair.

There now, my dear, it was all Christopher's
thought, at least he put it into my head," began
Miss Cosie, in her purring voice. " There I was
going on, purl two, knit two together, knit plain,
and so on, and nothing but the wrong stitches
coming uppermost; and Christopher, poor fellow,
couldn't stand it any longer. ' What's to do
with you to-night, Charlotte,' he says. ' I think
the work has got into your head ; hadn't you
better leave it for Miss Marriott to put right ? '
for I just fussed him, you see, counting out loud
and never getting any farther."

Do you mean that you could not get on with
the new pattern I was teaching you the other
night ? "

Well, ray memory's treacherous, that's what
it is," returned Miss Cosie, placidly regarding
the pink and white tangle that Queene was rectifying.
*'' Charlotte, my love, your head is justa
sieve, and your fingers are all thumbs,' as my
poor dear mother used to say when I took my
work to her. Dear, dear, I can hear her say it

now ; but wasn't it clever of Christopher to pop
the idea into my mind. ' I will just run across
to her, Kit my dear I replied, as pleased as
possible, and he gave quite a comfortable sigh of
relief."

Poor Mr. Logan ! " laughed Queene. " You
must learn to count to yourself, Miss Cosie ; knit
one and purl two is not a very pleasant running
accompaniment to the leading article."

Bless you, dearie, Christopher was not reading
! " responded the little woman with a sigh,
he was just staring at the fire and groaning to
himself in a quiet way. Though he has said
very little about it he feels it terribly ; he was as
pale as a man could look when he came home
and told me last night. ^ I feel it as much as
though it had happened to myself, Charlotte,' he
said ; and I believe, poor fellow, he meant it."

'' Dear Miss Cosie ! what can you be talking
about ? " asked Queene in a perplexed voice.
'' Is there any trouble in Hepshaw with which I
am unacquainted ? "

*' There, there, you don't mean to say they
have not told you ? " replied Miss Cosie in an

awe-stricken whisper, " and such friends as you
are, too. Ill news fly apace, they say. Well, the
righteous are taken away from the evil to come.
His poor mother would have fretted her heart
out to see him look as he does to-night, poor
dear ! and not a wink of sleep and scarce a
mouthful of food since he first heard it, and that
Alas yesterday morning, so Christopher says'

Dear Miss Cosie ! won't you please tell me
what you mean ? " begged Queene beseechingly.

Miss Cosie was apt to become incoherent and
rambling under any strong emotion, it would
never do to hurry her into an explanation ; but,
all the same, these vague hints were filling her
with dismay.

"I have not heard of anything : is — is there
any trouble at Church Stile House ? " faltered
the girl, growing a little pale over her words.

Dear, dear ! who would have thought of such
a thing ? wdiat could Catherine have been thinking
of ? " cried Miss Cosie, patting her curls
nervously. *' Never mind, there, don't distress
yourself, for there's good come out of every kind
of evil, so Christopher tells us ; and very beautiful
iiT. 46

his sermons are, my dear, and very comforting
to sick souls ; and it showed great want of
faith in me to burst out crying as I did. ' Don't
tell me that that poor young fellow has lost all
his money, Kit, my dear ! ' I said, ' for it breaks
my heart to think of such a thing ; ' and Christopher
said — "

Well, what did Mr. Logan say ? " asked
Queene as calmly as she could, while Miss Cosie
wiped her eyes.

There was not an atom of color in her face.
Could it be Garth of whom she was speaking ?

Christopher said," responded the little woman
in a trembling voice, " ' I am afraid it is all true.
Charlotte,' he said, * there has been a run on
the Bank, and things look as bad as they can
look ; and I shouldn't be surprised if that poor
fellow has lost every shilling he has invested.'
That's what Kit said, my dear, and a great deal
more that I did not take in."

"Is it Mr. Clayton of whom you are speaking
? " persisted Queene, in a set voice.

Yes ; that poor boy Garth. He and Christopher
have been together all day looking into

things. Christopher says he is as cool and quiet
as possible, for all his haggard looks, only they
can't get him to touch his food ; and when a fine
young man like that won't eat, it shows things
have gone badly with him, as Christopher says."

I must go and see Langley," exclaimed the
girl, starting up. '' Dear Miss Cosie, please
don't think me rude ; but I cannot stay away
from them now I know they are in trouble ! It
is not so very late, is it ? but I could not sleep if
I did not see them to-night."

No, no ; of course not, my dear. I should
have felt the same in your case," replied Miss
Cosie placidly. She always agreed with everyone,
and would break off contentedly in an engrossing
conversation at the slightest hint of
weariness. '' If sou have set my work right I
will just go back to Christopher, for he is very
down, poor dear, over all this, and will no more
take his supper without me than a baby would
cut up its own food. There, there, my dear, I
won't keep you," as Queene hovered near her in
feverish impatience ; and the girl accepted her
dismissal thankfully.

46 *

She ran up the lane, regardless of the rain that
beat down on her uncovered head. Her glossy
hair was quite wet when she entered the warm
room where Langley and Cathy were sitting together.
Contrary to their usual custom, the
sisters were quite unoccupied: Langley was lying
back, as though wearied out, in her basket-chair
; Cathy was sitting on the rug staring into
the fire. Both of them looked up with an
exclamation of surprise when they saw Queene.

'* So late, and in this rain ! " cried Langley,
affectionately passing her hand over the girl's
wet hair as she spoke.

What does it matter ? — the rain I mean. I
have only just heard ; Miss Cosie has told me.
Do you think I could sleep until I heard more ?
and Cathy has not been near me ! " with a
reproachful glance at her friend.

You must not blame Cathy ; she wanted to
come to you to-night, only Garth and I would
not let her. One ought not to be in a hurry to
tell bad news ; tomorrow would have been soon
enough' replied Langley in her tired, soft voice.

Did not Mr. Clayton — did not your brother

wish me to know ? " stammered Queene, somewhat
nervously. Had she intruded herself where
she was not wanted ? would they think her
officious, interfering ?

Langley's calmness was baffling. Cathy, indeed,
looked as if she had been crying, but she
kept her face averted and did not speak.

'' I weill go back if I am not wanted, if I am
not to know," faltered the girl, growing red and
confused.

Nonsense, Queen ! as though the whole
world won't know it by tomorrow ! " exclaimed
Cathy sharply. "Do you think it is a secret
when people are ruined ? "

''Oh, it is not as bad as that ! " shrinking at
the idea. '' Miss Cosie was so vague ; she said he
had lost money, that something had happened to
the Bank ; you know her way. It was impossible
to understand ; and then I said I must go to
Langley."

Things are as bad as they can be," replied
Langley sorrowfully, while Cathy shivered a
little, and drew closer to the fire. " The shock
has been so bad for Garth ; nothing could have

been more sudden and unexpected. We were allas
cheerful as possible yesterday morning, and
then the letter came from Garth's solicitor ; and

when Garth went over to A to investigate

the matter, it was all too true. There had been
a panic, and run on the local Bank ; the thoroughfare
was quite blocked up with people, farmers
and tradespeople, wanting to draw out their
money. Of course, with such a run there was
only one result, the Bank broke, and all Garth's
hard-earned savings are lost. It was between
two and three thousand pounds that he had invested
; not much of a fortune to some people,
but a large sum for so young a man to put by.
The worst is," continued Langley, sighing, '' that
Garth will blame himself for what has happened*
Mr. Logan has always advised him to bank with
a London House, and he had made up his mind
to do so ; but for some reason he has delayed the
transfer of the money, and now it is too late ;
and he will have it that his procrastination has
ruined us."

Queene pondered a little over Langley's account,
and then her face brightened.

*' It is sad, very sad, of course, to lose so much
raoney, but it is not absolute ruin ; there is the
quarry, your brother has still got that."

But Garth only rents it. You see there is
the rent to pay, and a royalty besides, and all the
workmen's wages ; and just now there is a dearth
of orders, and the men are asking higher pay.
And now all Garth's ready money is gone, and
there is no one rich enough in Hepshaw to
advance him the few hundreds that are necessary
to carry on the works. We are trying to make the
best of it, Cathy and I, for poor Ted is so utterly
hopeless ; but we do not see what is to be done."

Is there no one who could help you ? " demanded
Queene in a low voice, but Cathy struck
in impatiently.

"Do you think money is to be picked up in
Hepshaw for the asking ? there is not a friend
we possess who could advance the loan, even if
Garth would accept it. Captain Fawcett has
only his pension and a small annuity, and Mr.
Logan is as poor as a church-mouse, though I
believe both he and Miss Cosie have expectations
from some old aunt or other, who objects to die.

We have not a relation in the world ; never were
there such distressed orphans," continued Cathy,
in a droll, disconsolate voice, that at another time
would have made Queene laugh.

^' Cathy is right ; I do not see who is to
advance us the loan," added her sister dejectedly.
We do not quite understand the details, but
Ted assures us that it is absolutely necessary
that two or three hundred pounds should be
forthcoming in the course of a week or two, or
Garth will be compelled to throw up the whole
concern."

'' Yes," broke in Cathy ; '' and when Ted said
that Garth turned round upon him quite angrily,
and asked how he was to lay himself under such
heavy obligations that he would never be able to
repay. Then they had almost a quarrel over it.
Poor Garth was so sore and unhappy ; he says
he has never owed a penny in his life to any
man."

*• How large a sum do you think would clear
him?" asked Queene casually, but two feverish
spots burnt in her cheek.

^'Ted said about six or seven, hundred was

required to put tliera on their feet again. There
are some workmen's cottages Garth has been
building, and the architect's bill is not paid. We
have only Ted's word to rely on, for we cannot
get Garth to open his lips to us. He just says ina
resigned, hard sort of voice, that it is all up
with us, and he and Ted must take situations ;
and then he looks at Langley and me and goes
out of the room ."

His work is the best part of his life ; he is so
proud of his position," put in Langley. '' Garth's
nature is so proud and independent ; he is so
accustomed to be master of all his actions that
he would feel dreadfully at being placed in a
subordinate position."

Why will you aggravate me by saying such
dreadful things," interrupted Cathy stormily, but
the tears sprang to her eyes. " I won't think of
Warstdale without Garth. Why it would break
his heart to give up the quarry."

Some one must lend him the money just
to go on," observed Queene in a low voice.
"Surely there must be some friend who will
assist him in this matter."

We do not know where such a friend is to
be found," returned Cathy. " One thing, I am
determined to begin my hospital work without
delay, and if things come to their worst Langley
must go out as a companion. It seems hard
breaking up the dear old home that we have
lived in all our lives. Ted says if it ever comes
to that Garth will never hold up his head
again."

Ted seems a Job's comforter," returned
Queene, but her eyes overflowed with sympathy,
for the girl's voice was very sad. " My poor
dears, what am I to say to you, it is all so sudden
and dreadful ? "

'^ Ah, that it is."

I don't see that it makes it any better to
talk about it," interrupted Cathy, springing up
in a fit of nervous impatience. " We are only
making Queene miserable, and it does no one
any good. 1 am going to see if I cannot coax
Garth to eat some supper. I shall tell him that
it won't benefit the rest of the family for one
member to starve himself"

^' Poor Cathy ! she feels this terribly,'^ sighed

Langley, as the door closed on her, " but she will
not let Garth see how nmch she takes it to
heart. If it were not for Cathy and Ted I
think I could bear this better, but it does
seem so hard if we cannot keep the home for
them."

Langley, don't you think Mr. Chester could
help your brother ? "

Queene was almost sorry that she spoke so
abruptly when she saw how the worn face
flushed at the question. The suggestion was
evidently a painful one.

*' Hush ! if you knew how I have dreaded
some one proposing this ! but Garth will not, he
respects me too much for that. Harry is very
often embarrassed himself. Gertrude is so extravagant,
and then there are such heavy
doctor's bills ; but if he knew of our difficulty I
am sure he would sell his land rather than not
help us. Oh, Queene," and here Langley's voice
grew thin and husky with emotion, "promise
me that you will not hint at such a thing to
any one."

*dear Langley, of course I will promise, if

you wish it," shocked at the agitation she had
caused.

Yes ; and you will go home now, and sleep
quietly," folding the girl's hand between her
own. '' You must not take our troubles too
much to heart. As Cathy says, that will do no
one any good ; perhaps in a few days we may see
our way a little clearer."

"I will go, if you wish it," replied Queene
gently. And indeed what more could she find to
say to this patient creature who was looking at
her with such tired eyes. '' Dear, dear Langley,
if you only knew how sorry I am for you all ! "
she said, kissing her, and then she went away.

But she was not able to leave the house
unobserved ; the door of Garth's study was open
as she passed. As he caught sight of her, he came
forward slowly and, as it seemed to Queene, a
little reluctantly.

^^I did not know you were here ; what brings
you out so late ? " he asked with a little surprise,
and then he mechanically stretched out his
hand and took down his felt hat to accompany
her down the lane.

*' There is no need for that, it is not so very
late," returned Queene hurriedly. " I only came
to see Langley, and — and because I heard there
was some trouble."

Queene hardly knew what she was saying in
her confusion and nervousness ; now they were
face to face what could she find to say to
him.

All the same, that need not prevent my
walking with you," he returned quietly. He spoke
in his ordinary manner, but Queene noticed that
his face was very pale and his eyes had dark
lines under them ; he had avoided looking at her
too, and his hand when it touched hers had been
cold and shook a little. '* It has left off raining,
and the stars are coming out overhead, so there
is no fear of your getting wet."

'' I am not afraid of getting wet," she replied
with a little nervous laugh. When they were
outside the gate be slackened his steps a little.

'' So they have told you about everything ? "
he said in rather a forced tone.

Yes ; they have told me everything," she
returned simply, "and, Mr. Clayton, I do not know

what to say, except that I am more sorry than T
can tell you."

"I always knew we might count on your
sympathy."

'rit seems such a dreadful thing to have
happened, so utterly unexpected."

"You may well say that. If an earthquake
had yawned under my feet it could not have
been a greater shock. I thought myself so safe,
in such absolute security, and now my foolhardiness
has gone near to ruin us."

Ah, you must not say that."

Why must I not say it ? A man must call
himself names and speak badly of himself if he
has proved himself an utter fool. Have I not
been a fool to procrastinate in the way I
have done, and to neglect the advice given
me?"

"No; you ought not to be so hard on yourself.
You have worked all these years, and all your
hard-earned savings are lost ; every one must
pity you for such a misfortune, there is no room
for blame, none."

''Ah, if I could only believe that. Do you

know, my remorse for my carelessness has been
such that I have scarcely eaten or slept since the
news came. I cannot forgive myself for bringing
all this trouble upon them."

'' Hush 1 this is worse than wrong ; it is utterly
morbid and wicked. Do not the wisest men in
the world make mistakes sometimes ? Could you
know that the Bank was unsafe, and that there
would be this run on it ? "

But all the same, I am reaping the fruits of
my imprudence," he returned, but his tone was a
little less gloomy.

The knowledge of this girl's sympathy was
very precious to him. A little comfort dawned
on him in his misery.

It makes things " so much worse when we
blame ourselves," she went on. " It seems tome
you want all your strength for actual
endurance, from what Langley tells me. Your
difficulties are very great."

I am ruined," he returned in a choked voice.
And then in a few brief sentences he recapitulated
much that his sisters had told her, the absolute
need of ready money for the architect's and

builder's account, as well as for the rent and
workmen's wages.

Things have never been at such a low ebb

o

with us before. We have executed fewer orders
this year than any previous years. I had no
business to speculate on those cottages. I don't
see how matters are to go on at all. In a few
weeks' time you will see my name on the bankruptcy
list, and then there will be nothing but
for Ted and me to look out for situations."

'^ Oh, Mr. Clayton, I cannot bear to hear you
talk so ; something must turn up, some help must
come," repeated the girl, earnestly.

Her face was flushed in the darkness, and her
eyes full of tears, but he could not see that ; perhaps
he detected it in her tone, for his changed
instantly.

But I have no right to bother you with all
this wretched business, or to keep you out herein
the cold," for they were standing now by the
little gate. "Good night. Miss Marriott. I know
you are sorry for us, but we must not burthen
other people with our troubles."

^' But I like to be burthened. You must not

treat me as a stranger' she replied, putting
her hand in his. "If I do not say much
about all this it is because I am so very
sorry, and I do not know how to comfort
you ; but, all the same, I believe something will
turn up."

*let us hope so," he returned, with a pretence
at cheerfulness, and then he left her and went
back to the house.

He had made no unmanly moan over his misfortunes,
but his heart was sick within him as he
thought of the future. He had lost his money
and perhaps his home, and must he lose this
sweet new hope that had come to him ? If he
were a poor man could he ever dare to trammel
himself with a wife ? and the thought of shutting
out this new-found happiness was very bitter to
him.

There is enough to bear without thinking of
that to-night," he said to himself, with a sort of
shudder, as he shut himself up in his solitary
room ; but, all the same, Queene's soft words
haunted him with strange persistence.

He would have marvelled greatly if he could
III. 47

have heard what she whispered as he left
her.

Oh, how ungrateful I have been, how utterly
foolish. I can thank heaven now that I have
eve thousand a-year."

CHAPTER VI.

THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.

' Now look you ! ' said my brother, 'you may talk
Till weary of the talk.' I answer, 'Ay,
There's reason in your Avoids ; and you may talk
Till I go on to say, This should be so.' "

Jean Ingelow.

Thank heaven, I have five thousand a-year,"
repeated Queene, as she drew the rocking-chair
to the hearth and sat down by her solitary fireside.
" For the first time I am really glad in my
heart to be rich."

Any unseen spectator would have marvelled
what thoughts possessed this girl. Queene's
brow was knitted as though with perplexity, and
yet a radiant smile hovered round her lips.

It is difficult, far more difficult than I
thought it at first," she soliloquized. " There is
a complication that prevents me seeing my way

47*

clear, but if I sit here until morning I will find
out what is the right thing to be done.

I wonder what Langley must have thought
of me," she went on. " I must have seemed so
cold and unsympathizing. How could they know
what kept me so silent ? Why, it needed all my
strength of mind to refrain from crying out, 'I
am rich ; I can give you all, and more than you
want, if you love me ; let me share some of my
good things with you.' I wanted to fall on her
neck and say some such words as these ; but
second thoughts are the best, and I knew I must
be prudent.

*' And then when he talked to me my secret
seemed to choke me then. Oh, how my cheeks
burnt in the darkness ! how I longed to say to
him, ' Do not be unhappy ; there is no cause for
despair. I have more than I know how to spend;
let me be your creditor and advance you the
sum you need. What are a few hundreds to me
who have five thousand a-year ? Let me prove
my friendship for you and yours by rendering
you this trifling service' That is what I should
have liked to have done, but I knew him too

well. Would lie have taken it from me ? Alas,
no ! He would have turned round with that
high manner of his and upbraided me for my
foolish mystery. In sjDite of his wretchedness he
would have taken me to task, and put things in
such a light that he would have made me
ashamed of myself, and then he would quietly
refuse my offer. Would he accept this thing
from the girl who a few months back was a
stranger to him ? No ; a thousand times, no ;
but his embarrassment and discomfort would
make him suspicious. He would be vexed with
me for my silence, mortified by my importunity,
and in his trouble I should be less to him than 1
am now."

Queene's secret predilection for Garth Clayton
was making her timid. It had come to this, that
nothing on earth could have induced her to offer
him this money ; she would have been as shamefaced
and tongue-tied in his presence as a child
just discovered in a fault. The silent understanding
that was between them was too vague
and unsatisfactory a basis for her to presume on ;
the word that was to give her the right and

privilege of spoken sympathy had not yet been
uttered, might never be. Mahomet's bridge is
not more slender than this vague connection
between two hearts that beat in sympathy and
yet are asunder. Over the sacred abyss of silence
hangs the invisible chain ; it is strong enough to
bear myriads of heavenly visitants, but only the
eye of the faithful may discern it. To how many
remain only the void and the mystery !

When a sensible person makes a mistake they
are almost sure to repent it at some time or
other. Queene, who was as healthy-minded and
straightforward as any pious, well-conducted
young person could be, had yet fallen into the
error of supposing that she might deviate into a
by-path of romance and unreality without causing
any great disturbance in her little world,
while, in point of fact, she was only raising difficulties
for herself. If she had gone to Garth
Clayton and acknowledged the truth with all the
eloquence of which she had been capable he
would have been charmed with her naivete and
frankness, and treated the whole matter as a
girlish whim. Her perfect honesty would in time

have reconciled him to Ler heiress-slip. True, it
was highly probable that he might have rejected
the loan, and given her plenty of trouble on that
score. She might have had to experience the
grief of seeing him refuse her aid and struggle
on alone and single-handed ; but such men as
Garth Clayton rarely get their heads under water
for long. He would have moved heaven and
earth rather than this girl to help him, and in
the end would have attained to some fair
measure of success ; and, while things were at
this low ebb with him, he would have vexed himself
and her by imposing a barrier of reserve and
coldness on himself. Queene would have been
made to suffer for those riches of hers. He would
have pointedly assigned to her the place she must
hold in the future — a friendship not too close or
intimate. If the girl's faithfulness could have
served this rough apprenticeship, and she could
have meekly acceded to these hard conditions,
his man's heart must have spoken at last, and
broken down all barriers between them.

After all, there is nothing like truth, pure,
straightforward truth, especially to men of Garth's

calibre, who was a foe to all mystery, and disposed
to treat such things somewhat harshly.
But Queene's foolish whim had ensnared her, and
there was no freeing her feet from the meshes.
One thing was clear to her, Garth must have the
money at once.

And so the young intriguer set her brains to
work. How was she to put this sum in his
hands ? how could she negotiate the loan so that
it could not fail of acceptance ? At first she
proposed starting oflP to Carlisle and seeking
Caleb Eunciman's aid ; she could twist Caleb
round her little finger and make him do as she
wanted. Should she concoct a letter and get
the old man to copy it in his shaky handwriting ?
Only Emmie knew those crabbed, feeble characters,
and she was never likely to see the letter.
What could she say 1 and here Queene got a
pencil and paper and scrawled a rough draft.

Dear sir," it began, " I have long taken a
great interest in your work. The reforms you
have introduced among the quarrymen are not
only known at Hepshaw, they have reached
further ; and I have long wished to express to

you the respect and sympathy I entertain for
your labor.

'rit is a good work, a noble work, and it
would be grievous if anything were to hinder or
frustrate it. I have heard with much regret of
the failure of the A Bank, and the difficulties
in which it has involved you. Such difficulties,
of course, are only temporary, but still it
is at such times that one requires a helping hand.
I have more wealth than I need for my own use,
and at present there are a few hundreds for
which I am wanting a safe investment ; permit
me to take the liberty of an old friend and well-wisher,
and to place these hundreds to your
account, to be repaid in quarterly or half-yearly
instalments, as you think best. The sum is
between eight and nine hundred ; and you will be
doing me an immense service if you will make
use of this money instead of letting it lie by
idly.

*' I remain, sir, with profoundest respect and
sympathy,

"An unknown friend and well-wisher."

"Pes. The instalments to be paid to Messrs.
Withernn & Smitliers, Carlisle."

Will it do, I wonder ? " asked Queene with
an anxious frown, as she laid down the document.
*' I hope Caleb will think it sounds business-like.
That part about the quarterly or half-yearly instalments
was a very happy hit, I don't think
Caleb could have done it better. I named Messrs.
Withernn and Mothers because Mr. Calcott had
no dealings with them. The only thing I am
afraid of is, that Caleb is getting so old and dazed
that he may make a mess of the whole business ;
and then, on the other hand, will Mr. Clayton
accept anonymous aid ? will he not ferret it out
somehow ? Messrs. Withernn and Mothers know
Caleb by sight, all the leading firms in Carlisle
do, and then it will be somehow traced to him.
Mr. Clayton will leave no stone unturned ; he
always hunts mysteries to death, as he says. He
will go over to Carlisle and set all manner of
enquiries on foot, and he will work it round to
Caleb, and then there will be an end to the
whole business."

No ; I am afraid I must adopt the other
course, much as I dislike it. I must take Mr.
Logan into my confidence, and make him my
cat's-paw. I should not wonder if we both get
terribly burnt in the end ; but never mind, I
must transpose Louis XIV. 's sayings for my own
benefit, acres nous le deluge. Once get the
money in his hands, and the quarry in working
order, and I must bear the brunt of the rest ; he
will not be so very angry with me when he
knows — " But Queene left the rest of the
sentence unfinished.

And so it was that Mr. Logan got the following
little missive the next morning :

'' Dear Mr. Logan,

I have something very important to say
to you. Will you come round to me at ^n^, if
it will not greatly inconvenience you ? Emmie
will be out, and I shall take care to be alone ;
please say nothing about this to Miss Cosie.
"Yours sincerely,

'queene Marriott."

Queene had a great liking and respect for Mr.

Logan. She came forward to meet him with a
very frank blush when he entered the cottage the
following afternoon. She was a trifle nervous at
the task that lay before her, but her determination
lent her courage.

She had seen Garth go past that morning
looking ill and weary, as though from a sleepless
night ; and the memory of his pale, harassed face
was with her as she spoke.

"It is very good of you to come to me, Mr.
Logan ; I think my note must have surprised
you a little."

Well, well, perhaps it did," he returned good-humoredly,
putting down his felt hat and placing
himself near her. He had laid aside his spectacles,
and his keen, near-sighted eyes beamed on her
full of benevolence and kindness.

That part, I mean, about not telling Miss
Cosie that you were coming here," she continued
in her straightforward way. '' The fact is, I amin
a difficulty, and want the advice and assistance
" — laying stress on the latter word — " of a
friend."

*' Then you were quite right to send for me ;

a vicar ought always to be at the beck and call
of his flock, and to be ready for any temporal
and spiritual emergency ; the highest privilege
we possess is the power of helping others. Now,
supposing you tell me all about your difficulty ;
I am prepared to listen for any indefinite time,"
with a bright, persuasive smile, for, in spite of her
assumed courage, the girl's nervousness was not
lost on him ; and Queene, nothing loath, plunged
boldly into her subject.

Of course I know you will respect my secret ;
but, all the same, I am afraid I shall shock you,
for I have to acknowledge a little deception on
my part. The fact is, Mr. Logan," continued
Queene with the utmost frankness, " I am not
wdiat I seem."

This statement, to say the least of it, was
slightly startling; for the moment Mr. Logan
looked taken aback, but a glance at the bright,
ingenuous face before him seemed to reassure
him.

'you have all of you thought me poor," she
went on, "and so I was when I first came among
you ; but 1 am a rich woman now — 1 have five

thousand a-year," opening her eyes wide at the
mention of this surprising sum.

My dear young lady, do you mean this ? "
Yes, indeed ; and of course I knew how
greatly I should surprise you. It is a droll idea,
that the school-mistress at Hepshaw should have
five thousand a-year, is it not ? I have hardly
got used to the fact myself ; and then, you see,
even Emmie does not know. It was Emmie's
uncle, Mr. Calcott, who left me all that money.
But I know Cathy has told you all the particulars
of that sad story ; he could not leave it to Emmie,
you see, and so it has all come to me ; but I
shall always feel as though it belongs most to
her."

I must say I am extremely astonished ! "
Queene looked a little mischievous at that.
I congratulate you most heartily on your
good fortune ; but, all the same, I cannot understand
your motives for secrecy. Here you have
been for the last three months living in this
cottage, and teaching in our village school, while
all the time you might have been dwelling in
ease and luxury." And, with all his knowledge

of Imman nature, Mr. Logan looked extremely
perplexed.

You must not be too hard on a girl's whim'
she replied, looking down.

Oh, it was a whim then 1 " with a dawning
perception of the truth.

Yes, it was just that," rather hastily. " You
see I did not want the money, and it rather
vexed me, coming in such quantities, and when
everything was so nicely arranged. I had just
been elected your school-mistress, and the cottage
was being furnished for us, and Emmie was so
looking forward to it, and I had grown to like
you all so ; and it seemed so hard to give it all
up, and go and live in a grand house in Carlisle,
as Caleb wanted us to do. And so I thought,"
with a little quiver of the lip she could not hide,
'that I would just put it all away for a little
while, and be happy and enjoy ourselves ; and
by-and-bye, when I had got tired of teaching, it
would come out, and you would all laugh with
me, and think it a good joke that Emmie and I
had been living like disguised princesses."

Ah, well ! it is a pretty piece of girlish

romance," smiling in spite of himself; "but I
must say I thought my schoolmistress was a very
different sort of person — far more staid and
matter-of-fact."

"And you are disappointed in her?" a little
piteously, for Queene had lately grown to distrust
the wisdom of this freak of hers, and was
sensitive in consequence.

"Nay, it is no such heinous offence; it is very
venial and girlish," but Queene blushed hotly
at his tone. She was afraid Mr. Logan thought
her very romantic and silly, missis, in fact.

I wanted to be liked for myself, and in spite
of my poverty. It was not so very foolish,"
defending herself somewhat plaintively.

Well, well, perhaps not ; we will not say anymore
about that," he continued soothingly, for
the girl's cheeks were burning under his implied
reproof. " One can carry out these sort of
Quixotic schemes for a little while ; but I should
think by this time you have had enough
teaching."

"No! oh no!" she cried, greatly alarmed at
this. "I must go on for some time longer pretending

to be poor, for months, perhaps a whole
year. Emmie is so hajDpy, and I am quite content.
Mr. Logan, you will promise not to betray
me f

*but, my dear young lady, there can be no
possible reason for this ! '^

Ah, but there is a very important reason,"
and now her manner changed, and became grave
and anxious. " Don t you know I must
help Mr. Clayton ? and there is no means of
doing that unless I go on pretending to be
poor."

And what good would that do him ? "

"Why," she returned, hesitating, "you know
him better than I do. If I were to go to him
and tell him that I was rich, as I am telling you
now, and offer to lend him money, he would put
on his grand manner, and talk about independence,
and make me feel ashamed of myself in a
moment. Do you think he would take money
from a girl, even in the shape of a loan ? no ; he
would starve himself first, and bring them all to
misery, and he would call his conduct manly and
straightforward, and all sorts of fine names,
III. 48

instead of putting it clown to pride and sheer
obstinacy."

I must say I think you are right," watching
her somewhat anxiously, for a strange excitement
seemed upon her. " I think it very probable
that he would refuse the loan."

'' Yes ; and then Langley and Cathy will suffer,
and who would help them, Mr. Logan ? I have
been thinking about this nearly all night, and
there is only one way of making him accept
the loan — you must offer it in your own
name."

He had been expecting this, for his manner
testified no surprise ; she had been leading up to
this for the last ten minutes. Queene's courage
would have utterly failed if she had known how
clearly those mild, near-sighted eyes were reading
her. "Why it is the old story — a girl's first
innocent romance," he said to himself.

I knew what you were going to say," he
returned aloud. " This is a very clever scheme
of yours. Miss Marriott ; but how is it to be
carried out ? Garth Clayton is perfectly aware
that I have no surplus money lying by. All

Hepshaw knows that my living is hardly a rich
one."

Why, I have thought of that too," she went
on excitedly. ^^ But we can easily get over that
difficulty. I will place nine hundred pounds to
your account, — that can be done in the next few
days ; I have only to write to Caleb Runciman, —
and you must go to Mr. Clayton and tell him
that that sum of money has just come into your
possession ; that it is lying at the Carlisle Bank.
It will be no falsehood, for I shall have made it
over to you, entirely and solely for their benefit.
And then you must insist on his using it as he
requires, and paying you back in half-yearly
instalments. You must be very careful and busi-
ness-like in what you say to him," she went on,
pointedly, " for he is so proud that he will not
touch the money unless he thinks he can repay
it ; and you can tell him that he can jay you
interest on the money, or do just as he pleases,
so that we get him to take it."

My dear child," he returned, much startled,
and not a little touched at her earnestness, and,
indeed, the brown glow of Queene's ej^es was

48 *

something pleasant to see, " this is a generous
project of yours, and I hardly know what to say
about it, excerpt that I foresee many difficulties."

But what of that ? " she pleaded, " things are
not always easy, we know. Surely you do not
see any harm in my innocent little plot ? There
is nothing untrue in saying that you have this
sum of money lying by, if I have given it into
your own hands."

Well, perhaps not ; but I should be afraid of
blundering on my part. You see, we Hepshaw
people are very simple and straightforward. We
know each other's affairs almost to the lining of
our purses. We have never dealt in romance
and mystery as you have done, and I am bound
to confess that the piece of diplomacy you have
entrusted to me is far beyond my powers. The
ruse is so transparent that Garth would see
through it in a moment."

''Oh no," she returned, clasping her hands;
you must not fail me, Mr. Logan ; everything
depends on you. Why," she continued, with
one of her quick bursts of eloquence, " could you
bear to see them leave Church-Stile House, with

Langley and Cathy breaking their hearts for
their old home, and Mr. Clayton looking ill and
harassed and working himself to death, and all
for the sake of a fev^ miserable hundreds, for
which I have no possible use, which, probably, I
shall not need at all ? What would it matter if
he did find us out," she went on boldly, but her
words concealed a secret tremor, ''so that he gets
out of his difficulties first ? One of these days,
not now, but a long time hence, when, he has
paid some of it back, you shall go to him and tell
him the truth, and, though he will pretend to be
angry, I know he will forgive us at last, and
thank us for having saved him in spite of
himself."

Mr. Logan shook his head. " I am not quite
so sure about that. I think our deception would
annoy him terribly."

Perhaps so ; but after a time he will forget
his annoyance. What does it matter if he be
angry if we only do him good in spite of himself?
It is the end for which we are working. We
ayant to save him and Langley and Cathy from
being ruined. It does not matter so much for

Ted, who is young and a man, and must work for
himself. It is Langley and Cathy one must
help," continued the girl, a little artfully. '' I,
for one, love them so dearly that I cannot bear
to see them turned out of their old home, and
made to feel how hard and bitter and cruel the
world is, as Emmie and T have done.

That moved him, as she knew it would, for he
got up and paced restlessly about the room. The
muscles of his face twitched under the influence
of his emotion. Queene watched him anxiously,
but did not venture to disturb his reverie. After
a silence of some minutes he came and stood
before her.

Well, Mr. Logan ? " -

Well," he returned, but very gravely, " I
suppose I must do as you wish ; I can't find
it in my heart to resist your eloquence, or to
see such dear friends on the brink of ruin without
stretching out a helping hand. As far as
Charlotte and I am concerned, we would share
our last crust with them, but what was the use of
flinging our mite into the pit ? I am not without
hopes that I may be able to refund your money

very soon, and to constitute myself their creditor,
for, by all accounts, our poor old Aunt Prue is
failing rapidly, and her death will make a tolerably
rich man of me, that is to say, in a Hepshaw
point of view."

Queene did not like this, but what could she
do ; she would be ashamed to hint at her reluctance.
It pleased her to feel that the secret
bounty was from her hand, that she was repaying
in this way a little of her debt of gratitude and
affection ; but, after all, might it not be well that
Aunt Prue's money and not hers should be used.

"It is this that makes me less reluctant to
undertake the business," he went on. " In a few
weeks or months I might myself be in possession
of ample means, though one never knows how
long an aged invalid may linger. Still, as Garth's
needs are so pressing, I will try my best to induce
him to accept the loan. I am only afraid
of Charlotte or myself making some stupid
blunder."

Miss Cosie ! " exclaimed Queene, very much
startled. " Oh, Mr. Logan, you do not think we
need tell her ? " for Miss Cosie's absence of mind

and mistakes were even more proverbial in
Hepshaw than her brother's; the extent of
amiable blunders she had committed during the
course of her blameless existence were simply
innumerable.

"Why, of course we must tell Charlotte," with
a smile at her evident discomfiture. " Garth is
sure to say something to her about the loan, or
else Miss Clayton or Miss Catherine will do so,
and she must not be left in ignorance. Charlotte
manages all the business at the Vicarage, you
know, and her first words would be sure to be,
Dear me, Christopher, we have not more than a
hundred and fifty in the Bank, how can you lend
Garth eight or nine hundred pounds ? ' "

'' Yes, I see ; it was very stupid of me not to
think of that," returned Queene, but her heart
sank within her. If Miss Cosie were admitted
to their council she could not long rely on
secrecy.

"Ah, well, you have promised to carry this
through for me," she continued with a sigh ;
but do pray urge upon Miss Cosie to be very
silent and discreet, a hint may spoil everything ;

at any rate you must not speak to her until the
money has been offered to Mr. Clayton."

'' Oh no, I will guarantee as much as that. I
am almost as anxious as you are in this matter."
And then, after a few more words, he got up
and took his leave.

CHAPTER VII.
"you know this is a great secret."

*' ' And had he friends ? ' 'One friend perhaps,' said he,
'And for the rest, I pray you let it be.' " — Jean Ingeloio.

Queene was terribly restless during the next
few days. While the important negotiation was
impending she held aloof as much as possible
from her friends at Church Stile House. She
could scarcely look Garth in the face when she
met him in the village, so heavily did her secret
weigh upon her. She had been once to see
Langley, and had sat with her some time ; but
their talk had languished, and at last degenerated
into silence. Langley had been too sad and
heavy-hearted to make any pretence of cheerfulness,
and Queene had been so oppressed with
secret consciousness that she had failed in outward
manifestations of sympathy.

If talk would only mend matters you would
have no reason to complain of my silence'
Langley said, by way of excuse for her down-heartiness,
when Queene rose to take leave.

One cannot always talk ; I wish I were only
as patient as you," had been Queene's reply. But
she breathed more freely when she had crossed
the little bridge and was walking down the lane
in the grey, waning light.

But Cathy came to the cottage, and was so
low-spirited, and drew such dismal pictures of
the future, that Emmie, who was weakly and
tender-hearted, burst out crying, and for a longtime
refused to be comforted.

Oh, Queen, if we were but rich ! " sobbed the
poor child, " how nice it would be to help them.
I can't bear to think of Langley and Cathy working
as you used to work at Granite Lodge, and
being hungry and cold and miserable. Cathy
might come and live here, there is plenty of
room."

'eyes, yes, my sweet," returned Cathy, drying
her eyes and kissing her hurriedly, " I will
promise to come to you if I am starving ; but I

am going to nurse the sick people in the great
London Hospital, you know, and nurses are sure
to get plenty to eat," and the warm-hearted girl
changed the subject, and began a ludicrous
narration of Ted's sayings and doings during the
last few days.

But Emmie could not forget her friends'
troubles ; she brooded over them silently, and at
last made a little pilgrimage on her own account.

Garth, sitting moody and listless in his study,
was surprised by a feeble tap, and then by the
entrance of the child in her little scarlet hood.

Why, Emmie, my dear," he said kindly, '' has
your sister brought you over to see us ? surely
you have not come alone this cold evening."

Queene and Cathy are talking so busily that
they will not miss me ; they think I am with
Patience. I did not mind the cold a bit ; I came
all by myself, because I wanted to see you, Mr.
Garth."

To see me ! " in a surprised tone, for, in spite
of their friendship, Emmie had never before
distinguished him in this way ; her visits had
always been to Langley. 'well, I am highly

honored, and must make much of my visitor.
Will this think' untie ? " touching; the red hood.
But Emmie took no notice of his question ; she
stood beside him with her large blue eyes fixed
gravely on his face, and then she put up her
hand and stroked his cheek, but very gently and
timidly.

'' Poor Mr. Garth, I am so sorry for you."

Why, my dear ? " But he was touched in
spite of himself, the little thin hand spoke so
eloquently.

Because you have lost all your money, and
are so dreadfully unhappy. Was there a great
deal, Mr. Garth ? "

AVell, it was a tolerably large sum, at least
for me," he replied gravely.

And God has taken it away from you ; that
is very sad, is it not ? I don't like to think
of you being poor, it makes me feel bad allover."


Why, Emmie, I never expected you to feel
it like this ! You must not trouble your dear
little head about my affairs."

I am sorry, but not half so sorry as Queene

is, I know, though she says so little about it.
She never talks now, at least hardly at all, and
she has not told me stories for ever so long ; but
she sits and looks at the fire, and sometimes her
eyes are full of tears, though she thinks I do not
see them."

He flushed at this, and a look of pain crossed
his face.

She may have troubles of her own ; she will
not like you to tell me this," he began in an
embarrassed tone ; but Emmie was too much
engrossed with her subject to heed him.

'' Shall you be very poor ? " she persisted ;
'' shall you be obliged to leave this old house,
where you and Langley were born, and go and
live in a poky little place in Warstdale, as
Cathy says ? "

'cathy knows nothing about it; she ought
not to tell you such things," rather quickly.
Of course we must leave this house, and of
course we shall have to work ; but we are young,
and that will not hurt us. Come, come, things
are not as bad as you and Cathy make them out ;
put all these sad thoughts out of your head. How

could they have talked so before the child ? " he
muttered to himself.

But Emmie was not so easily comforted. She
stood silently by Garth a minute, and then her
eyes filled, and two large tears coursed slowly
down her cheeks.

Now, Emmie, don't be silly ; I can't have
you crying over this ! " but his tone was kind ;
and as he spoke he drew the child gently to
him.

'* I can't help it," she whispered. " Cathy says
you eat nothing, and that you are getting so thin
and ill ; and that frightens Queene, and makes
lier look grave."

Why, this is too absurd ! " he began, and
then his tone changed. The child would make
herself ill if she went on like this. " Do you
think you could make me some tea and some hot
buttered toast if I were to promise to eat it ?
Now I think about it I am rather faint, and
hot buttered toast is a favorite luxury of mine.
Langley will find you the toasting-fork and
things if you go and ask her."

In a moment Emmie's tears were dried by

magic, and the little reel hood laid aside. When,
half-an-hour afterwards, Queene entered the
house in some alarm to know what had become
of Emmie, she found a little scene that surprised
her.

Garth and Emmie were seated with a little
round table between them ; a choice pile of
buttered toast, done to a nicety, lay on the
young man's plate. Emmie's face was flushed
with excitement and heat, her hands were slightly
blackened.

He has promised to eat all that ! " she cried
out, pointing with the teapot in the direction of
Garth's plate ; '' and he says he feels better
already. I have made the tea so strong, just ashe
likes it. Langley let me go to the caddy
myself ! "

Garth rose with a droll expression and shook
hands with Queene.

** Emmie has played truant, I am afraid. She
has got it into her head that 1 am starving
myself to death as the best way of escaping my
difficulties. I have had to eat and drink before
her to dissipate the unpleasant idea."

** Oh, Emmie ! how could you think of running
away like this ? " exclaimed her sister, fondly
pressing the child's fair head between her hands ;
but she said very little to either of them after
that. In the months to come that little scene
often recurred to her, and the strange, embarrassed
look on Garth's face as she entered.

More than a week had elapsed since the two
conspirators had met in the little parlor at Brier-wood
Cottage. Queene was just beginning to
feel that the suspense was becoming terrible,
when one night, as she was sitting alone after
Emmie had gone to bed, she heard Mr. Logan's
voice in the entry, and in another moment he
came in shaking the raindrops off him.

Well," he said, beaming on her through his
spectacles, " I have not kept you too long waiting,
have I ? Of course you have been very
anxious, but a delicate matter like this required
plenty of time and management."

''Oh, yes, I know," she replied hastily; "but,
all the same, my suspense has been dreadful.
Tell me quickly, Mr. Logan. Has he taken it ? "

"He has."

III. 49

Oh, thank heaven ! " she excLaimed, and
turned away lest the relief and joy should be too
legibly written on her face.

'•'It has been a difficult job," he went on,
sitting down and spreading his white, finely-shaped
hands over the blaze. "At one time I
feared whether I could carry it through. He
was so hard to manage ; but I timed it well, and
spoke before Miss Clayton. I knew I could
count on her common-sense to help me''

But how did you begin ? Did you say the
words I put into your mouth ? Tell me all about
it, please," and Queene tried to compose her
glowing face.

I can hardly remember my words. I said
very little at first. I told Garth that a sum of
money had lately come into my possession, and
was lying idle at the Carlisle Bank ; that it was
there, and that I intended to make no use of it ;
and I entreated him, for his sisters' sake, to lay
aside his pride and accept the loan offered to
him."

'' Well ? "

Well, he was very difficult at first. He

seemed cut up, poor fellow, and very low over
the whole business. He would have it that it
was dishonest to help himself to another man's
money unless he could see his way clear to repay
it in a fair time ; that his embarrassment was
such that, even with this help, it might be two or
three years before he could perfectly right himself
; that he had had other losses lately ; and
that perhaps the wisest course would be to throw
up the Works and take a manager's place himself.
We should not starve on a hundred and fifty
a-year, and Ted would earn something he said
more than once."

Of course you did not give in to him ? "
No ; I grew tremendously eloquent, and
Langley helped me. I talked myself hoarse for
nearly two hours before I could move him. I
hurled all sorts of thunders at him. I anathematized
the Clayton pride as an unholy thing. I
told him that it was a grievous sin against charity
to refuse the help of a friendly hand when it was
stretched out to save him. What would have
been thought of the conduct of the poor traveller
if he had refused the assistance of the good

49 *

Samaritan ; if lie had lain tlierc in his obstinacy,
declaring that no such bindings up of oil and
wine should be his ? "

Ah, you had him there."

"Well, he did look a little uneasy at that; and
then I plied him with arguments. Did he think
it a manly thing to let his sisters go out into the
world and work because he could not do as other
men did under such circumstances, and bend that
pride of his ? I noticed he winced at that. And
then I upbraided him with his want of friendship.
AVhat did Charlotte and I want with the money ?
we had sufficient for our simple needs. Buy
books with it ? for he actually suggested that in a
feeble sort of way. Did he think we were such
lukewarm Christians that we should lay it out
in luxuries while our dearest friends were on the
brink of ruin ? "

I can well imagine your eloquence."

"It was worse than preaching half-a-dozen
sermons. I was just getting weary and out of
breath when Langley came to my rescue, and
begged him, with tears in her eyes, not to
grieve me ; and then between us we talked

him into a better and more hopeful state of
mind."

And he consented to accept it at last ? "

"Yes; he is to draw two hundred and
fifty tomorrow to meet some bills that are
pressing upon him, and next week he is
to take three hundred more, that will put
him straight ; but he will require the remainder
for current expenses. It appears there will
be little or no profit coming in from the
Works for the next six months. His great
fear is that he may not be able to repay me
for two or three years."

What does that matter ? " exclaimed the
girl, joyfully. " Oh, Mr. Logan, how shall I
thank you for doing what you have done tonight
? How did he look ? and what did
Langley say to you ? "

"Well, he looked very pale, poor fellow ; but
I think on the whole he is very grateful and
relieved. I know he wrung my hand nearly off
when I took my leave. I felt such a consummate
hypocrite when Miss Clayton burst into
tears, and thanked me for saving her brother.

I wonder what they would say if they knew the
truth ! "

Hush ! we will not say anything about that.
Have you come straight from Church-Stile House?
does Miss Cosie know yet ? "

*' No ; but 1 must tell her directly I get home.
By-the-bye, where is Miss Catherine, I missed
her to-night ? "

'' She is spending the evening with Mrs.
Stewart. Dr. Stewart has gone over to Karl-dale
for the night. Mrs. Chester is very ill, and
there is to be a consultation."

'' Her days are numbered, poor soul, at least
I greatly fear so," he returned very gravely, and
soon afterwards he took his leave.

Queene could scarcely compose herself to
sleep that night, her relief was so intense ; butin
the morning the old fear obtruded itself.
Could they rely with any degree of safety on
Miss Cosie ?

"Solomon tells us, that in the multitude of
counsellors there is wisdom," she thought to
herself ; " but I do not think it holds good in
the case of a dear fussy little old maid like

Miss Cosie." And then she groaned in spirit,
and finally decided to go then and there to the
vicarage, and threaten that harmless old maiden
with all sorts of pains and penalties if she did
not keep that busy tongue of hers in order.

She found her in an old wooden out-house,
that went by the name of the dairy, busily
skimming a great bowl of yellow cream, with the
inevitable grey shawl pinned round her, and a
little drawn grey hood tied over her curls. •

When she caught sight of her visitor she
dropped her spoon, and came clattering over the
brick floor in her little clogs.

Dear, dear, it is never you. Miss Marriott !
and not a wink of sleep have I got all night
with thinking of you and those poor creatures at
Church Stile House ; but there, there, I must not
upset you," went on the little woman breathlessly,
reaching up on tiptoe to kiss her.

Dear Miss Cosie, I knew how glad you would
be."

'' Glad ! I couldn't coin the word that would
express my feeling. I seem as though I were
made of india-rubber, I feel so drawn out and

expanded with sheer happiness . It is a mountain
that is lifted off me and Christopher, that's
what it is," continued the soft-hearted little
creature, wiping her eyes, and dimpling all over
her round bright face. "Dear, dear, to think
that you are a rich woman, and all the rest
of it."

Now, Miss Cosie, remember this is a great
secret," began Queene solemnly.

''My dear, I wouldn't breathe a word to a
soul not if it were to save my life. Didn't Christopher
tell me all about it last night, sitting
there in his big chair, looking so good and
beautiful, more fit to be lifted straight up to
heaven, as I always say, than to be down herein
father's big elbow chair, and with the tears
all but running down his cheeks, so that he
had to take off his spectacles to wipe them."

But, Miss Cosie— "

'' And to begin in that joking way, too," went
on Miss Cosie, too intent on her reminiscences
to heed the interruption. '' ' Well, Charlotte, my
dear,' — I hardly thought I should be deceived
at my time of life in this bare-faced manner, —

what do you think this sly little puss of a
schoolmistress has been doing '? ' that's how he
began."

I wish I had been behind the door."
"why, it was as good as a play, and he enjoying
my fright, for I was quite in a fuss and worry
in a moment. ' Don't tell me that our Miss
Marriott could do anything wrong, for I won't
believe it. Kit,' I returned ; ' for she is as good
a girl as ever lived, and a better sister to that
poor little sickly child never breathed, and you
may take my word for it, as sure as my name is
Charlotte Logan.' "

** Thank you for that, dear Miss Coster
Don't put yourself out, Charlotte, there is no
reason for it he answers, quite calmly. ' I am
not saying a word against Miss Marriott's goodness
; but she is a sly little creature for all that,
for she is hiding from us all that she is a rich
woman, with a tidy little fortune of five thousand
a-year.' Dear, dear, the maze I was in when he
said that ! "

If only I had been there ! " ejaculated Queene
feelingly.

I wouldn't believe it for a long time, and
then it seemed to come on me like a flash.
Why of course, Kit, my dear I said, as well as I
could speak for crying, for he had been telling
me all about the Brierwood Cottage conspiracy
as he called it, and a more blessed deed of charity
never reached my ears ; but it shall be restored
four-fold, pressed out and running over, and all
that, my dear, you may rest assured of that. ' Why
it stands to reason, Kit, my dear,' I said, ' that a
young lady like Miss Marriott, who has the
carriage of a duchess, and puts on her clothes
well, and always holds her head high, and looks
you in the face, and moves about as though she
knew there was a barouche and pair waiting for
her round every corner ; why it stands to reason
that a noble young creature like that should turnout
to be somebody.' "

'but, Miss Cosie," exclaimed Queene, trying
not to laugh in the little woman's face, '' I am
the same that I was before ; it does not make
any difference in me, really, because Emmie's
uncle chose to leave me all his money."

No, my dear, certainly not ; and of course in

church you will always call yourself a miserable
sinner, and all that, and of course that will be right
and proper ; but if only you could have heard
what Christopher said about you ! but I must not
make you vain."

Ah, Mr. Logan has been so good in helping
me; he has managed everything so cleverly,"
returned Queene, thankful to turn Miss Cosie's
thoughts into a less embarrassing; channel.

My dear, you have no conception of Christopher's
cleverness ; he ought to be the bishop of
the diocese, or the prime minister, with that head
of his. No one can hold a candle to him, that is
what I always say ; he is the wisest and the best
and the cleverest man I ever knew, in spite of
his never remembering to take a clean handkerchief
out of his drawers unless I put it ready for
him. Why he actually ran after the bishop in
that old patched dressing-gown of his ; but I have
told you that story before," interrupting herself
just in time, and stopping to take breath. Now
was Queene's opportunity.

Miss Cosie," she began, still more solemnly
than before, "you know this is a great secret,

and that it must be only known to ns
three."

Yes, yes ; of course, my dear."

"If the truth were to leak out in any way
the whole plan will be spoilt. Mr. Clayton
would not touch the money if he knew it were
mine and not Mr. Logan's, and then he and
Langley and Cathy would be ruined."

My dear, as though I would breathe a syllable
! "

No ; you will not mean to say a word, but,
all the same, a hint or a moment's forgetfulness
would betray us. Ah, there is Langley coming
up the garden ; she has come, of course, to thank
you as well as Mr. Logan: Dear, dear Miss Copied
promise to be careful ! "

There, there, you are quite agitated, and no
wonder ; but you may trust me ; oh, you may
trust me ! " returned Miss Cosie with a soothing
pat and nod.

But she had no time to add more, for Langley
was approaching them with her pale face brightened
with unwonted smiles.

'' Dear Miss Cosie, I hardly know what I am

to say to you and Mr. Logan," lie exclaimed,
clasping the little woman in her arms with
unusual warmth, for Langley, in spite of her
gentleness, was not a demonstrative woman.

There, there, say nothing at all about it,"
returned Miss Cosie hurriedly and nervously ;
** that is by far the wisest plan, is it not. Miss
Marriott ? " appealing in some alarm to her young
companion.

Yes ; Miss Cosie would rather not be
thanked," returned Queene in a low voice.

Must I not tell you good dear people what I
think of you both ? " continued Langley in her
soft, persuasive manner. " When one's heart is
brimming over with gratitude one cannot refrain
from speaking. I always knew what unselfish
Christians you were, but now you have proved it
without doubt."

Oh, my dear, this is dreadful ! pray, pray do
not say any more, you make me quite unhappy,"
exclaimed Miss Cosie, putting up her plump
hands in dismay. *' Miss Marriott, if you loA^e
me, ask this dear soul not to say any more."

'* I think it upsets her and Mr. Logan to be

thanked," observed Queene, turning her face a
little aside, for Miss Cosie's helplessness and
terror moved her to inward laughter. '' I think
I would let it be, Langley."

*' Yes, do, there's a dear good creature,"
returned Miss Cosie, breathing a little more
freely ; " it cuts one like a knife to hear you, and
then to know that one has nothing to do with
the matter at all."

Miss Cosie means that she and Mr. Logan
have no present use for the money, that they did
not intend to spend it," put in Queene calmly ;
'but she is so flurried and upset by the whole
business that it is kindest not to talk to her at
all upon the subject. It only distresses her kind
heart," went on the young girl with the utmost
calmness, though her heart sank over Miss Cosie's
first blunder.

And Langley, with her usual tact, quietly
changed the subject.

But Queene returned home ill-appease.

I feel as though I were walking over a mine
that might explode at any moment under my
feet," she said to Mr. Logan when he came to

lier the next clay to inform her that Garth had
paid that visit to the Carlisle Bank. " I hardly
dare trust Miss Cosie out of my sight."

*' Oh, it will be all right," he answered soothingly
; 'ein a. few days the subject will have
l)lown over, and she will have forgotten all about
it. Don't trouble yourself. This little plot of
yours is making you nervous."

I think it is," she returned frankly ; " my
peace of mind is quite gone, and I do nothing
but anticipate difficulties ; but, all the same, I
would not undo our work," smiling in her old
bright manner.

Chapter Vm.

CROSS PURPOSES.

When love shall, pitying, call me home,

To that sweet, sweet home that has long been hers,
With yearning rapture my eyes will roam

O'er throngs of the sainted worshippers .

Por I think the child with the starry eyes,

Who vanished away to that far-off land,

Will look from some window in Paradise.

And beckon me in with her tiny hand."

Helen Marion Burnside.

Queene's forebodings were not verified, for,
in spite of two untoward circumstances, the
greater part of the winter passed quietly to the
inhabitants of the cottage and Church-Stile
House.

Only two things marred its perfect harmony.
Garth had not yet spoken, and Cathy had bade
good-bye to her friends at Hepshaw, and had
bep:un her London work in earnest.

Queene felt the loss of her friend bitterly ;
every one missed the bright, light-hearted girl.
Cathy's moods had of late been strangely variable :
fits of despondency had alternated with bursts
of wild, exuberant spirits ; a certain sweet recklessness
had tinged even her farewell greetings.

They were all at the station to see her off,
even Mr. Logan and Miss Cosie, and at the last
moment Dr. Stewart appeared.

Queene seemed utterly quenched, and Langley
looked depressed and tearful ; but Cathy looked
at them all with her bright, resolute smile.

Good-bye, dear friends ; don't miss me too
much, before long I shall be amongst you again,"
she said, as she waved her hand gaily, and the
train moved slowly away.

A curiously sweet expression crossed Mr.
Logan's face as he walked by Queene's side
down the path bordered by plane trees that
led from the station to the Deerhound.

"Miss her! how can we help missing her ? "

cried the girl, appealing to him with sorrowful

eyes, as though to claim his sympathy. " Langley

will be dreadfully lonely without her, and as fur

III. 50

Emrnie and me ! why she was the only friend
that we had at Granite Lodge, the dearest,
and the kindest, and the bravest." But here
Queene's eulogy ended in a little sob.

"Young things love to try their strength,"
replied Mr. Logan, softly. '' We would fain clip
their wings, but they would be sure to grow
again. When I think of Miss Catherine," he went
on, his eyes darkening strangely, " going out
so bravely to her work in the heart of the great
city without a tear on her bright face, however
much her heart may be aching at leaving us
all behind, I cannot help thinking of the white
dove flying all those days over those wastes of
water, with the olive branch in its mouth, and
what Noah must have felt when he pulled it into
the ark. It did not come to him even of its own
accord, the wild weary thing, but he must needs
put out his hand and draw it into its refuge."

Queene looked up at him somewhat startled,
but he did not seem to notice her surprise ; his
eyes had a far-off, abstracted look in them, and
during the remainder of the walk he preserved
an almost unbroken silence.

Cathy wrote long cheery letters, full of amusing
descriptions. She liked her work on the whole,
she told them, and was not daunted by the difficulties
that beset the path of beginners. " It was
all in the day's work," as she wrote; " and what
was the good of possessing a fount of endurance
fit for a Spartan woman if there was nothing to
bear. In fact, I am determined to serve my
noviciate properly, and to make the best of
things. I am no more inclined to see bugbears
now than I was to discern Emmie's favorite
ghost in the old garret at Granite Lodge ; so
make your mind easy, my jD^ecious old Queen,
and do not indulge in any more troublesome
fancies on my account."

Queene did not show these letters to any one
but Emmie ; but the two gloated over them in
private, and tried to imagine Cathy in her black
stuff dress and little white cap, moving among
the dim wards with her light springy step
hushed so as not to disturb the sleepers, " looking
not a bit like our Cathy, but like any other
ordinary person," as Emmie observed with a
sigh. But if Queene missed her friend now,

50 *

the time was to come when she would yearn for
her out of the fulness of an over-charred and

o

wounded heart ; when her first thought would
be, " If only Cathy were here."

Things were not quite satisfactory between
herself and Garth Clayton. The young man had
grown strangely shy in his ways with her, and
held himself almost entirely aloof from the
cottage.

The fact was, Garth was in a predicament.

He was more in love than ever ; but in his
present circumstances marriage was out of the
question. How was he to bring home a wife to
the old home, entangled as he was by a load of
debt and difficulties ?

Garth was perfectly honest in his intentions.
He had made up his mind that Queene Marriott
was the woman he loved ; but he had a man's
horror of a long engagement. 'what's the good
of telling a girl you love her if you can't see
your way clear to make her your wife ?" he always
said; and he acted on this opinion so thoroughly
that his quiet withdrawal of attentions filled the
girl's heart with dismay.

Would he be so cold and distant with me if
he really loved me ? " Queene asked herself. " He
never comes to see me now, and if I go up to
Church Stile House he is always so busy, and
seems as if he fears to be alone with me. Does
he think that I want him to pay me attentions if
he has ceased to care for me in the way he did?"
asked the girl, her breast heaving at the thought ;
and she mourned for the loss of her friend, and
in her secret soul refused to be comforted.

But she knew nothing of the conflict that went
on under that assumed coldness of manner that
wounded her so greatly.

Garth found his life anything but easy just
now j to be sure, ruin no longer stared him in
the face, but his debt was a secret torment to
him, and fretted his proud nature with a sense of
positive injury.

He would fain have drawn out as little as
possible of the sum placed for his benefit, but his
needs were pressing. Scarcity of orders, the rise
in the men's wages, the heavily-freighted accounts
of the cottages he had so lavishly provided for
his workmen, had obliged him to expend already

seven or eight hundred pounds of the money.
The quarry was now in good working order
again ; and in a few months the young master
of Warstdale trusted that he would be enabled
to repay the first instalment of the debt ; and
then, and not till then, would he open his lips to
speak any words of love.

Garth was capable of keeping any resolution
that he had formed. It was no fear of betraying
himself that made him avoid Queene ; but the
girl's presence was so sweet to him, and the
longing to tell what was in his heart was so
great, that the pain of such silence was unendurable
to him.

And so he quietly withdrew himself, and went
on with his daily work as though no such
thoughts were his ; and Queene meekly accepted
her banishment and bore Langley's reproaches on
her unsociability as patiently as she could, until
Langley discovered how matters were, and held
her peace ever afterward like a wise woman, and
petted and made much of the girl when she
came down to the cottage.

And Queene saw little of Garth, only lifting

her brown eyes timidly to Lis face when she met
him in the village, and he stopped to exchange a
greeting with her and Emmie ; but he never
once said, " Why do we see yon so seldom at
Church-Stile House ? " but only asked kindly
after hers and the child's welfare, and bade her
wrap up Emmie and cherish her now the bitter
winter weather had set in.

Queene ate her Christmas dinner at the
vicarage, with only Mr. Logan and Miss Cosie ;
and her New Year's day was spent at Juniper
Lodge. The Claytonss were not present on
either of these occasions ; Garth had gone up to
London to see Cathy, and Langley had spent
both days at Karldale Grange in Gertrude
Chester's sick room. A long season of suffering
that no skill could avert or tenderness alleviate
had set in for the unhappy lady, and Langley's
services were in constant requisition.

Now and then Mr. Chester came over to Hep-shaw.
He always paid a visit to the cottage,
and would go up, as a matter of course, into
Emmie's little room, and sit for a long time by
the empty bed where his darling had slept her

little life away, and then he would come sorrowfully
down again, and he and Queene would
talk softly of the child and her endearing
ways.

These visits always made Queene feel very
sad. Time had not mitigated the father's heavy
loss. He still mourned heavily for his little
Nan. His florid face looked pale and haggard.
A few threads of grey were clearly perceptible in
the golden brown beard ; but his eyes always
lighted up with a look of tenderness when
Queene mentioned his wife.

Ah, my poor Gertie," he would say, sorrowfully.
" You would scarcely know her. Miss
Marriott, she is so changed ; she suffers so terribly.
Langley will have told you ; and yet
since the death of our little darling there has
never been a word or breath of complaint. She
endures her worst agonies with fortitude ; even
Dr. Stewart marvels at her, and says he had
never witnessed greater stoicism. It is only
Hold my hand, Harry,' or ' I shall soon be
relieved, dear husband, when this attack has
passed,' just that, and nothing more."

*' Yes, indeed ; Laiigley cannot say enough in
her praise, she says her self-control is wonderful."

*' Poor soul, she's fighting away her life by
inches. You cannot tell what a man feels when
he sees his wife suffering and is helpless to relieve
it. Sometimes I think that for her sake I shall
be thankful dien it is over, and she is with the
child. I can't get it out of my mind that she
ought to have her mother or myself to take care
of her ; she must feel so lost in that great
glittering place."

She is safer and better cared for there than
even in your arms, dear Mr. Chester."

"Yes, I know; and Gertie reproves me and
says I am a sad heathen, and so I am ; but I am
sure of one thing," speaking in a voice of suppressed
emotion : " that if I am ever good
enough — God help me for the sinner that I am,
but if I am ever helped to win an entrance in
heaven, that my little Nan will be the first to
see me, and she will come running to me, the
darling, and I shall feel the clasp of her sweet
arms about me, and the softness of her baby face
against mine ; and ' father's come,' she will say

that first, I know' breaking off hurriedly as the
tears came into Qaeenie's eyes.

"And a little child shall lead them." The words
seemed to come to her mind with sudden, irrepressible
force. What if he were right, though
he spoke only the language of love's fantasy ?
Might not the baby hand be stretched out to
him through the darkness and silence that lay
between those two loving souls, ever beckoning
him on to possible good and high endeavour,
through devious wanderings, past yawning pitfalls,
over the tumultuous sea of life, beckoning
with faint invisible touches, ever higher and
higher.

Father's come." Fanciful, and yet what more
probable in the mystery of Providence and God's
dealing with men than this, that amid the shining
crowds the form of his little Nan should
softly glide towards him ; and even there in
God's bright home a little child shall lead them.

And so with all apparent quietness, but with
many secret anxieties, the winter wore softly
away.

A week's holiday at Christmas had given the

young school mistress a short reprieve from her
duties, and she had taken advantage of it to pay
a three days' visit to her old friend Caleb Eunci-
man. Emmie had pleaded hard to accompany
her, but the weather was unusually inclement,
and Queene shrank from exposing the child's
delicacy to such a test ; so she remained under
Mrs. Fawcett's charge, as Langley was engrossed
with continual visits to Karldale Grange.

Caleb and Molly made much of their visitor,
but the old man grumbled a good deal over his
favorite's looks.

Well, Miss Queene, I don't believe school-keeping
has agreed with you after all," he began,
shaking his head. " She is thin, Molly, is she
not, and looks a bit graver than she used to
look ? "

Now, Caleb, don't begin fancying such nonsense.
I was never better in my life. Think of
this hearty meal I have just eaten; thin indeed!"
and Queene opened her brown eyes and threw
up her pretty head with a movement of disdain.

Of course you must be having your own
way. Miss Queene dear," returned the old man

as lie lighted his pipe ; 'but, all the same, I don't
believe that Hepshaw air agrees with you both.
There, why the precious lamb has a cough, didn't
you tell Molly so just now ? and you are ever so
much thinner yourself, my pretty ; and when is
it all going to end, this play-acting, the school-distressing,
I mean, and you and the blessed lamb
settle down comfortably, like sensible-minded
Christians, in a nice handsome home of your own,
eh, Miss Queene ? "

"Wh}^ I don't know, Caleb," stammered the
girl, rather startled at this very direct question,
''I don't know at all; I have not made up my
mind. Not before the end of the summer ; no,
certainly not before then."

Caleb laid down his pipewitb a dissatisfied
look.

I thought better of your common-sense, I
did, indeed, Miss Queene."

'' Now, Caleb, if you are going to be cross I
shall tell Molly to pack up my bag, and I shall
just take the next train home. What is the
good of being an heiress if one is never to have
one's own way ? "

You have bad it for a pretty long spell, I'm
thinking," returned the old man with unusual
pettishness, but the p;irrs whim fretted him
sorely. '^ Mark my words, Miss Queene, you
will play at this thing a bit too long."

I shouldn't wonder if you were right," a
touch of gravity replacing her fun ; " and I think
myself that it would be as well to fix a limit, for
fear I should be tempted to put off the evil
hour."

"Eh, eh ! now you are going to be sensible."
I must have six clear months. Let me
see, I will say the first of August. There,
Caleb, on the first of August I will enter into
possession of my riches. Will that content
you ? "

Why not say May or June, Miss Queene ? "
No ; not a day, not an hour before," returned
the girl resolutely. " My dear old friend, this is
not a whim only, it is real stern necessity. The
dearest friends I possess have been in great
trouble, as you know, and my seeming poverty
has enabled me to help them; it is for their
sake, not mine, that I am making this further

delay. There, it is decided ; and now let us talk
of something else," she finished gaily.

But Caleb was only half-mollified.

She is thinner, and looks different somehow,"
he said to his faithful confidante, Molly, that
night. "There is a peaking look in her brown
eyes, like a half-fledged bird that sees its nest,
but can't find its way to it. I doubt that she is
not quite happy, Molly."

'nay; she is no differ from other young
girls," returned Molly shrewdly. 'bless your
dear heart, Mr. Eunciman, they are all alike !
they fret a bit, and then cheer vip. It is the law
of nature, that's where it is ; she will be as perky
and chirping-like as ever by-and-bye," and
Molly, who knew the symptoms well, and had
buried her own sweetheart many years ago,
changed the subject with womanly tact and
sympathy.

CHAPTER IX.

Make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it will out at the
casement ; slit that, and 'twill out of the keyhole ; stop
that, 'twill fly with the smoke out of the chimney."

It was a mild day in February, and as Queene
closed the door of the little school-house, and
walked up the field that led to the vicarage, it
seemed to her as though the very air held a
promise of spring. Now Queene, like all healthy
young creatures, dearly loved the spring-time ;
to her imaginative temperament there could be
nothing more beautiful and satisfying than to
watch this spectacle of a faded and dead nature
rising again into fresh life.

*' How can people say there is no hereafter,
when the miracle of the resurrection is every

year repeated before our eyes ?'^ she said to herself.
To her there was ever a fresh pleasure in seeing
the brown, lifeless limbs of the elms and sycamores
gradually clothe themselves, first with
budding shoots, and then with fair, green leaves.
The bursting hedgerows, the unfolding of the
fronds of ferns, the first peep of the fairy white
bells of snowdrops, the pale glitter of primroses,
and the fragrance of violets, gave her a positive
feeling of happiness.

Everything so new, so fresh, so fair, soiled by
no dust, scorched by no burning sunshine ; the
whole world bright and unsullied as a baby soul,
to whom good and evil are unknown mysteries,
and life means nothing but perpetual satisfaction
and content.

Queene had a little errand to fulfil at the
vicarage ; one of her scholars was ill, and she
wanted Miss Cosie's recipe for a certain compound
that Miss Cosie judged to be highly
efficacious in such cases.

She entered the little parlor with her usual light
step. Miss Cosie was engaged in her favorite
occupation — knitting socks for her brother. She

put clown her work with a little flurry when she
caught short of her visitor.

*' There, there," exclaimed the little woman,
turning very reel, " Christopher was right, as he
always is, dear old fellow ; and of course you've
come to scold me."

"To scold you, dear Miss Cosie ! "

'' Dear, dear, to think of my poor head getting
into such a muddle, and the words slipping out
before I knew they were coming. Why, I could
have bitten my troublesome tongue I was so
vexed with myself ; but what was the use of
crying over spilt milk, as my poor mother used
to say, and a secret is sure to be proclaimed on
the house-top some time or other, as I told Mr.
Garth."

Now, Miss Cosie, what does this mean ? "
asked Queene, conscious of an uncomfortable
sensation creeping over her ; little Janie's sore
throat was quite forgotten. '' Do you mean that,
after all my entreaties and warnings, you have
betrayed me ? "

There, there, perhaps it is not so bad as you
think," returned Miss Cosie, patting her curls
III. 51

nervously, and prefacing lier words with a gentle
cough ; ^' it was only just a sentence or two that
I let drop to Mr. Garth when he came in here
last night for a pleasant chat with Christopher
and me."

Well ? " somewhat sternly, for there was no
denying that Queene was a trifle angry.

Well, we were sitting as comfortably as
possible ; Christopher hadn't come in, be had
gone to baptize Wheeler Wilson's baby, and none
too soon, for it died this morning ; and I took it
its little burying gown, and laid it out, the
precious blossom, myself. And very touching it
was, and the poor mother crying her eyes out,
because it looked so pretty ; and well, if she does
take a drop of spirits now and then we are all
miserable sinners, the very best of us, and
Wheeler Wilson is none too careful ; and — where
was I, dearie ? for I have just gone and muddled
my pelf again, I believe."

"You. said you were alone with Mr. Clayton,"
returned Queene, with an inward prayer for
patience. Miss Cosie's garrulity was terribly
trying.

Yes ; he was sitting there just where you
are, and he was talking and laughing and making
believe to joke, — you know his way, — but all
of a sudden he turned serious, ' Miss Cosie,' he
said, ' I have never spoken to you about that
money. Langley tells me you don't like to be
thanked ; but, all the same, you and your brother
have earned my gratitude for the rest of my life,
and I must say, God bless you for it ! ' flushing
up to the roots of his hair, poor young fellow,
what with the heat of the fire and his feelings
together."

Queene's hands clasped each other rather
tightly, but she made no observation as Miss
Cosie paused to take breath.

Well, I was turning the heel of my stocking,
and I don't believe I rightly took in the meaning
of his words. ' You have nothings to thank us
for,' I said, as innocently as possible. ' We
would have lent it you and welcome, over
and over again, Mr. Garth,' I said ; ' but Kit
is as poor as a church mouse, and we hadn't
more than a matter of ninety pounds or so in
the Bank'"

51 *

Miss Cosie, were you in your senses ? " burst
from Queene's indignant lips.

Well, I was a bit dazed, I believe, for turning
the heel of a stocking is rather a delicate job to do
by the firelight, and Dolly had forgotten to light
the lamp ; but I was frightened as soon as I had
said it, for there he was staring at me with his
eyebrows lifted, and making me all of a tremble.
Ninety ! you mean nine hundred pounds, Miss
Cosie ! ' he said, quite sharply, for he could
not make me out at all. ' No ; ninety, Mr.
Garth,' I returned, for I knew I had gone too far.
and a lie is a thing I have never taken on my
lips ; but I was all of a shake thinking about
what Christopher and you would say to me,
and there he was forcing the truth out of
me with his eyes. 'What's the use of trying
to deceive him ? ' I thought, ' I am brought to
book, and nothing but a heap of falsehoods
can save me,' and a falsehood has never come
natural to me since I was a baby, and poor
mother read to me the story of Ananias and
Sapphira," finished Miss Cosie in her innocent
way.

Go on ; I am listening," sighed Queene in a
resigned voice.

Well, I couldn't tell a direct story, as I said
before, but I thought just a tiny bit of deception
wouldn't be wrong. ' There is only ninety pounds
now, Mr. Garth I went on ; but that wouldn't
do at all. ' I don't like the look of this,' he
muttered, and such a frown came over his face,
for he was getting put out with my stammering
and nervousness. ' Miss Cosie, tell me the truth,
as you are an honest woman ; did you and Mr.
Logan lend me these nine hundred pounds ? '
Why no, Air. Garth,' I answered, for there was
no evading such a direct question. ' Then, in the
name of heaven, who did lend me the money V he
asked, looking as cross and perplexed as possible.
Well, I didn't want to answer him till Christopher
came in, for I felt I had done enough mischief for
one evening, so I let him guess one person after
another, till he jumped up and said he could bear
it no longer ; he would go out and find Mr. Logan,
or perhaps Miss Marriott might be in the secret,
and could give him an idea who his secret benefactor
was. Yes ; he would go and ask her first,

for lie always spoke the truth, and would tell
him at once if she knew who had lent him the
money."

I wish he had come to me. Yes ; I wish
he had spoken to me himself," murmured
Queene.

Dear, dear, to think of that ! and all I
thought was to prevent his coming. ' You must
not go near her, Mr. Garth,' I said, ' for she is so
sensitive that she would half break her heart if you
were to say an angry word to her ; and the poor
child meant well when she lent you the money.'
The poor child ! what do you mean, Miss Cosie ? '
for he thought me daft, I could see that. ' I
was talking of Miss Marriott, what has she got
to do with it, I should like to know ? ' ' Dear,
dear, this is dreadful, Mr. Garth,' I cried, for he
was standing over me, and wringing the truth
out of me by inches. ' Why don't you go and
ask Christopher, he will tell you all about it ? '
'I will,' he answered, quite steadily, but thereat
the very moment was Kit standing on the
threshold looking at us, and I clapping my hands
with joy to see him."

^'AncI what did Mr. Logan say?" asked
Queene with a proud flush upon her face.

AVell, there was no keeping it back after
that. Kit told him everything clearly out, and
how you were a rich woman and all that, and
how you had begged and prayed him to lend
the money in his name."

"Tell me, tell me quickly, for I can bear
no more, did Mr. Clayton seem very
angry ? "

Angry ! oh, dear no," returned Miss Cosie,
soothingly. " All his fierceness died away, and
he seemed quite lamb-like directly Christopher
spoke. After the first exclamation of surprise he
never said a word, but just sat looking as pale
and dazed as possible until Kit had finished all
he had to say, and then he got up and said that
he must tell Langley, and he shook hands with
me and Christopher and went away."

"And he said nothing more ? "

No ; his eyes looked a little queer, and I
noticed his hand felt cold, but he would not
listen to me when I pressed him to have some
hot elder wine. I do believe he was quite in a

maze with astonishment and being taken so
aback, poor young man."

*' Thank you for telling me all," Queene said
very quietly, as she stood up and drew on her
gloves. Little Jane's sore throat was quite forgotten
; she was rather pale, and her lips trembled
slightly as she spoke, but there was no trace of
excitement in her manner.

And you are not vexed with me, my dear."

'' Oh, no, I am not vexed ; it may all be for
the best, you know." Her brief wrath had
vanished. Who could long be angry with Miss
Cosie, with her gentle little mouse-face and
tender-hearted ways ? she was not to blame,
surely, for this strange sinking of heart, for these
uneasy fears.

Something must have happened to the Spring
sun-light, it was so much less radiant as she
crossed the threshold of the Vicarage, a little of
the glory and freshness had died out of it somehow.
" Can he really be angry with me ? I feel
I cannot bear this suspense a moment longer, I
must know the worst at once. Ah ! is it possible
? " and a slight trembling passed over the

girl's frame, for there was Garth Clayton coming
up the Vicarage lane, and in another moment
they would meet face to face.

Miss Cosie had not been wrong in her account
of Garth's utter bewilderment the previous night,
the news had simply stunned him. He had
gathered up his scattered forces, and had wished
them good night, and then he had gone home
straight to Langley.

A sudden craving for sisterly sympathy had
taken possession of him ; he must find some outlet
for the bitterness that was in him. He was
battling bravely with untoward circumstance, but
this fresh misfortune that had overtaken him
had deprived him temporarily of all courage.
That the sweetness of the hope within him
should be so utterly quenched ! oh, it was hard,
terribly hard.

Langley looked up a little startled as he threw
himself into his easy-chair. The old care-worn
expression had returned again, he looked pale
and moody.

Is there anything Wrong ; is it about Harry ? "
she faltered, for the poor soul had been occupied

that evening with her own troubles, and was full
of fears that needed tranquillizing.

Wrong ! oh, no ! Won't you sit down and
write a note of congratulation to Miss Marriott ;
and won't you say something very nice and kind
from us both, Langley? One does not come into
a fortune every day, and of course she would
wish to be congratulated," and then with a sort
of enforced quietness he told her all that he had
lately heard at the Vicarage ; and when he had
finished Langley 's face wore a look of great
perplexity.

Stop a minute, Garth. I don't think I quite
understand. Are you sure that you have told
me rightly ; that Mr. Calcott has left all his
money to Miss Marriott, and that she and
Emmie are rich, and have secretly lent us all
this money ? "

'' Emmie knows nothing about it. I am sure
I told you that," impatiently.

Ah, she has kept it even from her. Well,
perhaps that was wisest under the circumstances ;
and in her goodness of heart she had made herself
your creditor. Yes, I understand ; it is

very strange. I cannot half believe it, but I
think it is good news and need not make you
unhappy."

'' Is that all you have to say about it "? " with
renewed bitterness.

Oh, no; I have a great deal to say about it.
I am very fond of Miss Marriott ; T like her
better every day. I hope you do not mean to
be angry with her about this."

Then he was silent.

I almost wish she had confided in us from
the first," went on Langley, thoughtfully. " All
disguises are perilous, however will-intentioned ;
but she has planned this loan with the utmost
delicacy and consideration for your feelings. As
far as we are concerned she has behaved with the
truest generosity ; I think you must own that
yourself."

"Truth is better than generosity" he answered
gloomily.

I never knew any one so thoroughly frank
and honest," returned his sister, eager to take
up the defence of her favorite, but conscious
of the increasing gloom of his face. "I do

think in these sort of matters you are a little
hard."

Then his bitterness overflowed and burst
forth.

"Look here, Langley, I am not a bit hard. I
have not a word to say against Miss Marriott ;
in my opinion she has not perhaps adopted the
wisest course. I hate all make - believes and
mysteries, even if they are in a good cause, and I
think with you that it would have been far better
for her to have told us all about it ; but that's
not the question. The main point is, that I have
gone and made a fool of myself, and it is all no
use.

Langley lifted her quiet eyes to his face, but
she only smiled a little at his excitement.

Oh ! it is no use your looking at me like
that. You don't believe what I say, but it is true
for all that. Haven't I made a fool of myself,
and lost my heart to her, and given up Dora for
her, and made no end of plans for myself ? and
now this act of hers has sundered us completely."

Why so, dear Garth, when you know as well
as I do that Queene Marriott has grown to care

for you ? " and Langley's voice was very sweet in
her brother's ears as she said this.

Ah, she is young, she will get over that,"
but he shuddered slightly at the sound of his
own words. "I have not spoken to her. 1 have
been careful not to compromise her in the least,
remember that, Langley. I am not to blame if
she have discovered things for herself. '^

But why put yourself to the needless pain
of saying all this when you care for each other,
and must surely, by the leading of a kind
Providence, come together in the end."

Is there a Providence in such cases ? " he
retorted bitterly. " I thought people often met
too late, or took wrong turnings in life ; half
these affairs end crookedly."

But not yours, my dear brother," her cheek
turning pale at this chance allusion. How often,
poor woman, a bow was drawn at a venture and
wounded her in this random way.

Yes ; mine. Why not ? Am I better than
other people ? Just look at the bearings of my
case : here I am, involved in debt and difficulty,
with years of hard work and harass before me,

fighting inch by inch for independence ; what if
I do care for this girl ? " his voice softening in
spite of himself. " Do you think I am such a
mean, poor-spirited fellow that I should throw
myself and my poverty and my family claims at
her feet, and ask her to take me in spite of it all,
and endow me with her riches ? "

If she loves you her riches need be no
obstacle to either of you," she returned firmly.

Well, perhaps not, in your view of the case ;
I have hardly made up my mind about that.
But what of this debt, Langley ? do you think I
shall know peace until I have wiped it off ? To
be a debtor to a woman, and, worse than that, to
the woman I love ; is. it within the limits of
possibility that I can entertain the thoughts at
which you still hint until I have at least paid
back to her every farthing of this money ? "

And how long will it take you to do that ? "

'' Two years, at the present rate of things ; at
the very best a year and a half ? "

"Two years of suspense. Oh, Garth, how
cruel ! "

*' Cruel to act like an honest man, and not

TOO MANY COOKS. 191

take advantage of a simple, inexperienced girl ?
What does she know of life and men ? " he went
on ; " has she ever seen any worthy of her
interest ? Tor shame, Langley ! you are thinking
more of me than of her ; you are not her best
friend by any means. Let her leave us, let her
quit Hepshaw, and assume her proper station ;
let her have the opportunity of judging us fairly,
and comparing us with others. How do you or I
know that she will not meet with some one far
more worthy of her than ever I shall be ? "

"Garth, my dear brother, this is truly generous
; but I know Queene, she will stand your
test, hard as it is, but she will suffer terribly."

'she will not suffer as much as I, who am
sending her from me. Do you think it is no
suffering to have to alienate her by a coldness
I must assume, for her good as well as mine?
Do I not know her? am I blind or without
feeling ? If I were to say to her, ' I am poor, but
I love you ; will you take pity on me?' I am sure
yes, I am sure of what her answer would be ;
but, as I am an honest man, I will not take such
mean advantage of her."

"Is this your final decision, Garth — to leave
her free for two years ? "

Yes, it is," he replied slowly, but his face was
pale, and he frowned heavily as he spoke. " It
must be two years, I am sure of that, and then
I will not speak to her unless I see my way clear
before me. And now we had better finish with
this, it is somehow getting too painful for me ; I
suppose I may trust to you not to betray me 1 "

I must not give her a hint of your real
intentions ? " rather pleadingly.

Of course not," he returned sternly, '' that
would undo the good and purpose of my sacrifice
to leave her freedom and scope for choice.
Promise me you will do nothing of the kind,
Langley."

Oh, I will promise to do and say nothing of
which you would not approve," she answered
meekly. Not for worlds would she add to his
trouble by even hinting that she was sorry for
his decision, and thought his generosity overstrained.
She knew well what he must be
enduring, and all the length and breadth and
depth of that great pain ; but as she leant over

him, silently smoothing out with her fingers the
lines and furrows of his forehead, and thinking
what she might say to comfort him, he suddenly
drew her tow-arts him, and kissed her twice very
hurriedly, and then got up with a sort of groan
and left the room.

III.



CHAPTER X.

"have you nothing to say to me''

Yet a princely man ! —
If hard to me, heroic for himself ! "

Mrs. Browning's ' Aurora Leigh.'

When Queene saw Garth coming towards her
she shrank back for a moment in natural trepidation
and some little dismay, the meeting was
so utterly unexpected ; but her self-possession soon
returned. "It is better to get it over' she said
to herself, " and to know the worst at once."

They shook hands without looking at each
other, and then Garth turned back and walked
by her side in silence. Neither knew exactly how
to begin the conversation.

Garth was the more nervous of the two ; he
had passed a sleepless night, and his condition of
mind was truly wretched. The bitter impulse that

had led him to unburden his mind to his sister
had by this time passed away, but his resolve
was still unaltered. As he lay awake in his
restlessness he argued the whole matter with
himself ; pride, and a certain stubbornness of will,
may have had a voice in his decision, but the
more he thought about it the less he felt that
he could take advantage of the girl's evident
affection and secure her wealth for himself.

'* How can I do this mean thing ? " he repeated
again and again to himself. 'even if Langley be
right, and she has grown to care for me, it maybe
only temporary, and she has seen no one else.
Ought we not to urge her rather to leave Hepshaw
and take her proper position in the world '? It maybe
a dangerous test perhaps, as Langley says, and
it may end in my losing her altogether, for how
can I give her her freedom and expect her to be
faithful ? but at least my conscience will be
clear." And then he swore to himself that, as far
as he was concerned, he should not coerce her
movements. If she went his judgment would
applaud her resolution ; if she stayed his trouble
would be a hard thing to bear, for he must then

52 *

wrap himself up in reserve and coldness, and
this would be difficult to him. '^ She cannot
really misunderstand me, the thing is too
evident," he said, striving to comfort himself.
And indeed he was not without some interior
consolation ; his very self-sacrifice and unselfishness,
constrained and unnecessary as they might
appear to others, gave him a certain feeling of
strength and security. His conscience was clear,
his independence assured and well-defined, while
somewhere, deep down in some hidden recess,
lay a secret hope of Queene's steadfastness and
fealty. Langley's words still rang sweetly in
his ears : '' She will stand the test, severe as it is,
but she will suffer terribly." Ah ! well, would
he not suffer too ?

But this meeting was painful to him. What
was he to say to her ? and how was he to bring
himself to speak of what was in his mind without
betraying his hidden trouble, and perhaps hurting
her feelings ?

'^ Were you going to see Langley ? " he asked,
just when the silence was becoming embarrassing.

'' Yes ; is she at home ? " returned Queene

venturing to raise her eyes, aud then becoming
conscious all at once of Garth's paleness, and
evident constraint of manner.

'' She was sitting; at her needlework when I
left her just now, and was lamenting that Cathy
was not there to help her. I think we miss
Cathy more and more every day."

I know I do," sighed Queene, and there came
over her a sudden yearning to unbosom herself
to this faithful friend. Langley was good to her,
but she was not Cathy.

Garth echoed the sigh, but scarcely for the
same reason. Cathy's warm-hearted sympathy
would not have helped him.

I have just left Miss Cosie. Mr. Clayton,
have you nothing to say to me, nothing special,
I mean ? " Queene was growing desperate, while
Garth was secretly marvelling at her boldness.
His paleness and changed looks filled her with
dismay. " I think you must have something to
say to me," with a little sharpness in her voice.

That roused him in a moment.

'' Yes ; of course we have a great deal to say
to you, Miss Marriott. I told Langley last

night that she ought to write to you. I need
hardly-tell you, I suppose, that you have our
warmest congratulations on your good fortune ? "

'* I don't think I care much about congratulations."


Nevertheless, you must put up with them,"
with a faint smile. '' You must pay the penalty
of being a rich woman."

Were you very much surprised ? " looking
him full in the face ; but he did not return her
glance.

I am afraid I must own to a very fair amount
of astonishment; such a romantic story has never
before been told in Hepshaw. It savours a little
of Hans Andersen."

Ah, I know you think me silly, and all that,"
she replied, in a voice that was at the same time
proud and pained. " I shall never be able to
make any of you understand why I did it. I
begin to see a grave ending to my little joke ;
and yet it made me so happy."

'' I almost wish you had told us from the
beginning."

That would have spoiled everything. You

and Mr. Logan would have made me resign my
school at once, and my pleasant summer holiday
would have been at an end. Perhaps it was
cowardly ; but I could not bear being rich."

That sounds strange."

''Ah, but it is true' she returned earnestly.
Such a little would have contented me ; five
hundred a-year would have made me a happy
woman ; I told Mr. Logan so. We would have
taken a cottage, Emmie and I, larger and prettier
than the one we are in, and we should have been
as happy as the day is long ; but now, what am
I to do with it all ? " putting out her hands with
a sudden gesture of repugnance and helplessness.

He seemed struck with that, and hesitated for a
moment before he answered her; there was a certain
forlornness in her words and aspect that touched
him. They had reached the end of the lane ; but
now he made a movement as though to retrace
his steps, and she turned obediently and walked
on again by his side. As she did so he stole a
swift glance at her. Did she look any different
in his eyes now she was an heiress ? His survey
took in the tall, slim figure in the simple black

dress. That was the hat, surely, to which Dora
had objected, and yet how well it suited her.
He noted all the little details — the indescribable
air of finish that had always pleased his fastidiousness,
the set and poise of the pretty head, the
mixture of girlish frankness and modesty that
gave such a charm to her manner ; and then
again that inward voice made itself heard. "Oh,
if she were only poor, and I dared speak to her ! "
and the struggle within him gave a little hardness
to his voice.

I think you ought to look at it in quite
another light," he began gravely. " It is a great
responsibility that has come to you, a talent for
which you must account. I don't think you
ought to hide it under a bushel in the way you
are doing. '^

'' You mean that Mr. Logan must find another
mistress ? Brierwood Cottage ought to have
another tenant ? " she returned huskily, speaking-out
her greatest fear.

I certainly do mean something of the kind ;
but there will be plenty of time to discuss that.
You cannot decide on your future plans without

a good deal of consideration. At present I have
something else to say, something for which I
wish I could find adequate words. I don't
know," stammering and hesitating, " how I am
to thank you for your goodness, your generosity
— "

Mr. Clayton," stopping him, " will you dome
one favor ? "

'^ What is that?"

I know what you are going to say, please let
it be unsaid."

'^ But that is impossible."

It need not be impossible. Why should there
be any talk of such things between us ? "

Because it is right that there should be such
talk. Do you think that I am to say nothing at
all about my gratitude ? "

*^ Not to me," raising her eyes with a pleading
look in them that he found difficult to resist.
*' If we talk of gratitude you know it is I
that am your debtor. Have you forgotten how
good you were to us when we where poor and
friendless ? "

I have forgotten nothing," he returned,

hastily ; " but, all the same, you must let me
speak. I am largely in your debt, Miss Marriott,
and for what is to me a very serious sum ; but T
do hope that in less than two years' time I maybe
able to repay both interest and capital."

'' As you will," she replied carelessly, but he
saw that she was much hurt. What could this
paltry sum matter to her ? Could he not understand
how great had been the privilege of helping
him ?

'you must try to comprehend how we business
men feel about such things," he said gently
to her, for there were tears in her eyes, and her
face was averted from him. " It is too late now,
but I wish you had given me the option of
accepting or refusing the loan."

How could I, when I knew you would have
refused it from me ? " walking on quickly as
though afraid of her emotion.

*' If I had my refusal would not have hurt
you, I would have made you understand my
feelings so thoroughly; but of course it is too late
to talk about that now. I suppose I am very
proud, but I cannot bear the thought of this

debt being between us ; all my life 1 have had
such a horror of this sort of difficulty and being
beholden to any one."

How can you, how can you be so proud with
me ? " burst forth from her lips. " Do you mean
that this — this trifling act of kindness will come
between us and hinder us from being friends ? "

AVe must always be friends, I think," he
returned, still more gently, for he saw how sorely
he was hurting her. " Why should you say such
things ? you are vexed with me or you would
not say them. I wish I could make you

understand how truly grateful Langley and

I))
am.

'langley will not talk to me about principal
and interest," she retorted with a little flash of
indignation, "and— and I could not have believed
that you would have done it."

Come, come, I cannot have you vexed with
me like this," he said, stopping her and taking her
hand. "You know I must go directly, and I
have wasted ever so much time already. Won't
you promise me to think better of it, and not be
hurt with me any longer ? "

"I don't know," looking down, for his voice
was rather too persuasive in its eloquence.

You know very well, do you not, that I
would not say or do anything to hurt you really ?
but my position is a difficult one. I don't think
I ever before realized how difficult it was. Things
seem all in a tangle somehow, and it is out of
my power to right them."

Why ? " she asked timidly, and her brief
indignation died away. Something in his
manner reassured her ; he had not really turned
against her.

'that is just what I cannot tell you. My
affairs have all got crooked, and there is no
shaping them. I suppose time and patience
are needed, but there's terribly hard work before
me. I don't want to lose heart over it. I could
not bear you just now to say what you did."

About not being friends ? "

Yes ; whatever happens we must be friends,
dear friends, always. I think you might promise
me as much as that."

"I do promise you that," she said, looking
straight at him ; and the expression in her eyes

haunted him long afterwards, it was so frank and
sorrowful.

Then I am content," he replied, and then
almost abruptly he lifted his hat and moved
away. Had she understood him ? Could she
follow the meaning of those vague words ? Had
she comprehended that it was only friendship
for which he asked, and with which he professed
himself content ? He could not make up his
mind how far she had understood him.

He would have been almost aghast at his success
if he could have read Queene's thoughts as
she went down the lane again, and strove with a
sick heart to piece together the fragments of talk
in her memory.

How gentle he had been with her, and yet his
very gentleness had been inexorable. Alas ! she
saw but too plainly that her riches and that
miserable debt were dividing them. The pride
and independence of the man rose between them
like a wall of rock.

''He loves me, but he never means to tell me
so," she said to herself in unutterable bitterness.
He will break both our hearts first."

As lie entered the drawing-room at Church
House Langley put down her work with a
pleasant smile and word of greeting.

Have you come to be congratulated, my
dear ? " she said, taking the girl in her arms, and
kissing her with more than usual affection.

Queene suffered the caress passively, and then
sat down by the fire, shivering slightly as though
she were cold.

^' You have given us all a great surprise."

^^ Have I?"

I was so startled when Garth told me last
night that I could hardly take in the sense of
his words. To think that it is you, and
not Mr. . Logan, who has been our secret
benefactor ! "

Don't, Laughed ; I feel as though I could not
talk about it''

Will you let me talk about it instead, dear
Queene ; I feel as though I can never love you
enough for what you have done for us, and Cathy
will feel the same ; it was such true friendship.
Ted was here just now singing your praises, I
wish you could have heard him."

Queene only sighed. What was all this to her
if Garth and she were divided.

The heaviness of her aspect moved Langley to
compassion. What could have happened to have
quenched her brightness so entirely.

'have you seen Garth?" she asked, taking
up her work again, and pretending not to notice
her companion ; a dull red flushed the girl's face
from cheek to brow at the question.

Yes ; I met him just now."

He feels very much about all this."

Does he ? " looking at the fire.

You must not misunderstand him if he feels
the weight of his gratitude rather a heavy burthen
just now, he has been sorely tried, poor
fellow ; and then men think so differently about
these sort of things."

There is no need for you to make excuses for
him," speaking with difficulty, " he was very
kind, and took great pains to show me he was
grateful. Ah ! if he only knew how I hate that
word," with a little burst of excitement.

Langley was silent ; she understood too well
the nature of the wound that had been received.

And then what was she to say that would in any
degree comfort her ?

I have done nothing deserving of the word,"
went on Qaeenie vehemently. " I have given
what literally has cost me nothing ; it was such
a privilege and happiness to help you all"

'eyes, dear; I quite understand."

I could scarcely sleep for happiness, and now
it all seems spoiled somehow. I have grown to
loathe my riches, and yet I was disposed to love
them ; they hang like a millstone round my neck.
I must give up my school now, and then I
suppose Emmie and I must go away."

For shame ! I will not have you talk in this
miserable fashion."

Where is it rich people are expected to live ?
Caleb wanted me to take a great house in Carlisle,
and visit the Dean, and all the great folk in the
Close. Fancy Emmie and I visiting at the
Deanery !" and the girl laughed half hysterically ;
would any of you come over and see me then, I
wonder ? "

'' Wait and see," returned Langley with a quiet
smile. *' Once friends always friends, that's the

Clayton motto. Have you really made any plans
about your future, Queene ? "

No, I have made no plans," she answered
drearily ; '' there is plenty of time for that. I
don't mean to leave Hepshaw yet, unless you all
drive me away. I think I will go home now",
Langley ; I am not quite myself, and all this talk
troubles me. I think I will go back to Emmie."
And then Langley again took her in her arms, and
kissed her and. let her go ; she could find no
words with which to comfort her, and indeed the
girl was very sore at heart.

When she entered her own little parlor she
found Emmie lying on the rug in the firelight,
in a listless fashion that was habitual with her
now. She crept up from the ground rather
slowly when she saw her sister ; but for once
the child's lassitude and evident weakness
escaped her notice.

How late you are. Queen ! "

Yes, dear, very late ; I have been sitting
with Miss Cosie, and then with Langley."

Did you get the stuff for little Janie ? How
tired you look ; and how cold your hands are ! "
III. 53

as Queene knelt down mechanically and warmed
them over the blaze. '' I was just feeling very
dull, and wishing that you would come in. T
have such dull, stupid thoughts sometimes."

"You shall tell me about them presently,"
returned her sister hastily ; " I want to speak to
you now. Emmie, I have often told you stories,
some of them very sad, and that made you cry ;
but I have a real story to tell you to-night."

Oh, not a sad one. Queen."

Why not, my sweet ? " '

I could not bear it to-night," answered the
child with a shiver ; *' I have been seeing pictures
in the fire, and they are all the same thing
sad, every one of them ; and when I go to
sleep at night I always dream of Alice and little
Nan, and think I am with them. I have woke
up and cried often lately to think what you
would do if it were true, and I were obliged to
leave you."

'' Oh, Emmie, for pity's sake, hush ! I have
had as much as I can bear to-day."

*' And then I ask God to let me stop a little
longer, because I am sure that you would be so

lonely without me, unless — " and here the childish
face wore a wistful expression. '' I wish 1 were
not so young, and then, perhaps, I might help
you."

My darling," not understanding her in the
least, " you always help me ! You are the blessing
of my life, and I could not do without you
at all. Hush ! I will not have any more of this,"
as Emmie seemed inclined to interrupt her. " You
must listen to my story first, it is very interesting
and exciting, and is all about Uncle Andrew."
And then she narrated to her breathless auditor
the whole history of the will, and her whim and
all its consequences. "There," she said as she
finished, and speaking with an attempt at cheerfulness,
" isn't that the nicest fairy story I have
ever told you ? "

I don't know," returned the child doubtfully.
It is very wonderful, and I do love Uncle Andrew
very dearly for leaving you all the money ; but I
don't like being so terribly rich. Queen ie."

*' No, darling ; no more do I."

It was a lovely thought of yours, lending
them that money ; and it was dear of you to let

53*

me have my wish, and for us two to live in this
cottage. We shall never be so happy anywhere
else, Queen."

*' Oh, Emmie, I know that too well! " And
then, to her own distress and the child's, she
suddenly broke down and burst into a fit of
Weeping. '' Never so happy again, little Emmie ;
never again ! "

CHAPTER XL

A Golden-haired CIRCE."

' We cannot fight for love as men may do ;
We should be woo'd, and were not made to woo."

Bhal^ cape are.

When Garth returned from the Quarry that
evening, sad and dispirited from his interview
with Queene, he found a letter waiting for him ;
a messenger had brought it over from Crossgill
Vicarage.

Did you know Dora was at home again ? "
Langley asked him in a little surprise.

But he answered " No," very briefly, as he
opened the envelope.

A curious vexed smile hovered around his lips
as he read the note, and then he handed it to his
sister.

Dear Mr. Clayton," it began, " do you know
that we have returned from our exile, and are
settled at home again ? Dear Plo was so well
that I ventured on resisting the doctor's orders.
Doctors are such old women sometimes ; so, as
she was quite strong and hearty, and in boisterous
spirits, and we were both getting terribly
restless, I just wrote to papa and Beattie to
expect us, and here we are.

"It is so delicious being at home again, and
everything looks so beautiful. Beattie has been
a good girl, and has kept things in tolerable
order. Tell Langley, with my love, that I shall
come over and see her very soon ; and now I
have a message for you from papa. He wants
to consult you again about that troublesome bit
of business, about which he talked to you in the
summer. No one helps him so well, and he
thinks so much of your advice ; that is great
praise from a man of papa's age and experience,
is it not? The girls are longing to see you; they
are for ever talking about you. Beattie was
always a great friend of yours, was she not ? if I
remember rightly, you were rather inclined to

snub poor Flo. We all have so much to tell
you ; so if you will pack up your bag and come
over and dine with us tomorrow, you will find
your old quarters ready for you. Please do not
disappoint us, the girls have set their hearts on
seeing you.

Your faithful friend,

^^DORA."

Shall you go ? " asked Langley, very quietly,
as she replaced the note in the envelope. 'rit
is rather strange that she has not asked me as
well."

Mr. Cunningham did not want to consult
you, you see," returned her brother, with an
inscrutable smile. " Yes ; I suppose that I shall
have to go ; there is no getting out of it," and
then he sat down and wrote off a brief note, with
the gravest possible face, and gave it himself to
the messenger.

When he rose the next morning it was with a
sense of having to undergo some ordeal. He
had to rest his head that night under the roof
of Crossgill Vicarage ; and before he sought his

pillow he might have to encounter some difficult
passage of arms with Dora. It was some months
since they had met, and he had still a kindly-feeling
for his old playmate. If friendship would
satisfy her he could promise her a tolerable
amount ; perhaps she had taken him at his word,
and there would be no attempt to draw him
again under her influence ; perhaps she had
grown reasonable. Dora was always such a
sensible creature, and had begun to understand
for herself that they would be better apart. If
this were so he would eat his dinner with a light
heart, feeling that nothing was expected of him.

Above everything he desired that there might
be peace between them; he would never willingly
make her his enemy. Perhaps some suspicion
that she might prove a dangerous adversary
at this time crossed his mind ; he had great
kindness of heart also, and would have hated to
disappoint or grieve any woman, especially one
for whom he had once entertained a tenderness.
It was with somewhat dubious feelings, therefore,
that he drove himself up that evening to the
Vicarage.

Dora was not as before in the porch to receive
him, but the old nurse met him at the door with
a pleasant smile on her wrinkled face as she led
him into the hall, dusky and warm with fire-light.

The young ladies were in the drawing-room,"
she told him as she helped him off with his overcoat.


Garth stood and warmed himself after his long
cold drive and listened, nothing loath, to the old
woman's prattle. Nurse was a great favorite of
his.

There was quite a ruddy glow when the
drawing-room door was opened ; the soft, harmonious
light of the great white china lamps
pervaded the long low room. In spite of his
dubious feelings Garth could not help admiring
that pretty picture of domestic comfort. Dora
was in her favorite carved chair working, with
Flo curled up on the rug at her feet ; another
girlish form was half hidden in the recesses of
the Vicar's great easy chair. The white dresses
of the girls quite shone in the fire-light.

As Dora advanced to meet him Garth was
driven to confess to himself that he had never

seen lier to such advantage. The soft velvet
gown that she wore set off her golden hair and
beautifully fair skin to perfection. As she gave
him her hand with her prettiest smile a rose-tint,
very like a dawning blush, tinged her
cheeks.

You are very good to come to us to-night,"
she said in the lowest possible voice. " I was
half afraid you would be proud and stay away on
purpose to punish me."

*'AVhy should I wish to punish you?" he
answered good-humoredly. " So these are your
sisters. The question is, which is Beatrix and
which is Flo ? " and he shook hands with them
both with a cordial word or two.

They were both taller than Dora, slim, graceful
creatures. Beatrix was the handsomer of the
two, with lively dark eyes and an expression of
great animation. Flo was plainer, with an odd,
piquante face and fair hair like Dora's, which she
wore cropped and curly like a boy's.

*' Poor Flo has lost all her beautiful hair,"
observed her sister, passing her hand regretfully
over the curls. " Is she not grown ? and Beattie

too ? They make me look such a little thing
beside them."

Beatrix has grown such a fashionable young
lady that I shall be half afraid of her," returned
Garth, looking at the girl with kindly
interest.

Beatrix's dark eyes shone with pleasure as she
answered his smile. The two had been great
friends in old times, and many a game of romps
had been enacted by them in the Vicarage hall
and garden. He had always cared less about
Flo, who was somewhat spoiled by her sister, and
was in consequence rather pert and precocious.
He had ever taken a mischievous delight in
snubbing her, or putting her down, as he called
it; but Flo was grown up now, and wore long
dresses, and had the languid air of a ci-devant
invalid, and the snubbing must now be a thing
of the past.

Garth and Beatrix had so much to say to each
other that Dora at last grew dissatisfied, and bid
him, with playful peremptoriness, break off his
chatter and get ready for dinner. And then he
took himself off rather reluctantly to the porch-room,

where he found nurse coaxing his fire to a
cheerful blaze.

'' Isn't Miss Dora looking lovely to-night ? "
exclaimed the old woman when she caught sight
of him ; " for all the world like a picture, in her
velvet gown. I do think she is the prettiest
creature in the county."

'* I think Miss Beatrix will be far handsomer,"
returned Garth, with a little spice of malice and
contradiction in his voice. " She will play havoc
with a few hearts before many years are overtake
my word for it."

Miss Beatrix I " in a tone of shrill scorn.
Dear heart, just to think of comparing her
with our Miss Dora ! But you young gentlemen
will be poking your fun at an old woman. Miss
Beatrix indeed ! "

My fire is burning nicely now, Nurse," observed
Garth rather hastily. ''If you make me
too comfortable I shall be afraid of coming
here'*

There's some folks would like to see you
come oftener, sir ; but it is not for me to tell
young ladies' secrets,'^ and then nurse dropped

her ancient curtsey and took her comely old
person out of the room, while Garth, with a shrug
and sigh, proceeded to dress himself.

Oh, my golden-haired Circe ! " was his inward
ejaculation, and then he wondered how Queene
would look in a velvet gown with some of that
fine old lace round her long white throat. " She
can have no end of that sort of thing now," he
said to himself.

After all the gong sounded before he was
ready ; but Mr. Cunningham received his excuses
with good-humor, and dinner passed off with
perfect tranquillity. It struck Garth that Beatrix
was rather quiet and a trifle dull, and he had
some difficulty in winning a look or response
from her, but he soon desisted from his attempts.
'' Poor child, she has been having a little sisterly
lecture on forwardness, I expect. Dora is not
likely to allow her to monopolize me," and he
bent with some secret amusement over his plate.
He was reading his old friend Dora by a clearer
light now.

But he soon forgot Beatrix when Dora began
to talk in earnest. Dora was very brilliant and

picturesque in her conversation when she chose.
She gave Garth full descriptions of their places
of sojourn in the Pyrenees. Now and then there
were hints and touches of a softer character : had
he thought of her spending long anxious days
and nights in that great white washed ward in
Brussels 1 why had he answered her letters so
curtly, exiles were always so homesick and longing
for news ? did he remember her and Flo
eating their solitary Christmas dinner in their
odd little room, looking out on the snow-capped
mountains. They had chestnut soup, and a
broiled fowl, and a salad to follow, and Flo was
longing all the time for a slice of turkey and
some English pi am-pudding, and he had never
taken the trouble to tell her how they had passed
the day at Church Stile House, and so on.

It was all very graphic and interesting, and
Garth took himself to task for a certain feeling
of relief when Dora and her sisters had withdrawn,
and the Vicar and he had plunged into
their business talk.

He was half disposed to prolong it when the
coffee was brought in, but, to his surprise, Flo

made her appearance. " Dora has sent me to
look after the fire while papa takes his nap,"
remarked Flo very coolly, as she produced her
knitting and planted herself comfortably on the
rug. " Papa has had rheumatism very badly,
and if the fire goes out and lie wakes up chilly
there is no knowing what will happen," finished
Flo, with a toss of her curly head that reminded
him of Dora.

My girls spoil me dreadfully' observed Mr.
Cunningham fondly. "Don't let me keep) you,
Garth, we shall be in to tea presently," and there
was nothing but for Garth to withdraw.

But his heart quailed within him when he
entered the drawing-room, and found Dora seated
alone by the fire, apparently doing nothing but
toying with a little screen.

'' What has become of Beatrix ? " he asked at
once, stopping half way and looking round for
his favorite.

"Beattie has a letter that she must finish
to-night, and will be down presently," returned
Dora carelessly ; " she is writing in the old schoolroom.
You remember the school-room, do you

not, and the cosy teas we have had there ? we
still keep it for the girls' use. I must get papa
to do it up prettily for them next summer."

Couldn't she have left her letter until tomorrow?"
asked Garth, half laughing, but the
little subterfuge secretly displeased him. Why
should his favorite be banished to that dreary
schoolroom ? and why should Flo be set to watch
her father's slumbers ? "I don't liRe the look of
this at all," he muttered to himself, and again
that allusion to Circe crossed his mind.

Come and sit down," exclaimed Dora, with
playful petulance. " Never mind Beattie's
whim, girls will have their own way, and she
does not mean to be rude ; and now tell me, sir,
why you have been so cool all this time, and
treated me so shabbily ? "

He was in for it now he saw, but he feigned
to misunderstand her.

'how have I treated you shabbily?" he asked,
with a tolerable assumption of innocence.

There was an ominous flash in Dora's blue
eyes, but she answered him gently and plaintively.


Why, in your letters, to be sure ; they were
as brief and cold as possible, not a trace of the
old friendship, not even a regret at my long
absence. They deserved to be burnt, every one
of them, but I hadn't the heart," dropping her
voice and looking at him with dangerous sweetness.


I wish you had," he returned coolly, for he
was in no mood for this sort of thing. Another
time all this might have pleased and allured him ;
he might have been faithful in his allegiance to
Queene, and yet have taken a certain pleasure
in watching her and listening to her reproaches.
She was such a picturesque little creature, and
there was something so sweetly seductive in her
manners to him, that he would not have been a
man and not felt the power of her fascination ;
but the memory of his past tenderness for her
was now a source of regret to him, and he was
too much shattered by the storm that had
swept over him to amuse himself with aimless
love-making. " I wish you would destroy
all my letters, Miss Cunningham," he went on,

gravely ; and then he remembered that he
Tii. 54

had not yet told her about the failure of his
fortunes.

He touched on it now, but lightly, and she
listened with the deepest interest.

*poor Mr. Clayton, how shocking to lose all
that money ! I am so grieved about it, and you
never told me about that either ! " with reproachful
tenderness, and the mistiness he had before
noticed gathered slowly to her eyes.

^' There is something else I have not told you,"
he continued, taking his resolution suddenly,
and determined to put a stop, at all risks, to this
dangerous softness; "but then, to be sure, I have
only just known it myself. Have you heard that
our school mistress. Miss Marriott, has come into
a large fortune V

'' Why no ! " she returned, very much startled
and becoming a little pale.

"It is a whim of hers hiding it from all of us
as she has done. Why, she was a rich woman
when you first made her acquaintance ! I call
it a tidy little fortune, five thousand a-year."

Why has she hidden it ? What has been her
purpose ? " she inquired, with a sudden sharpness

in her tone that struck him directly, but he
answered her carelessly.

'' Oh, I don't know ; some girlish nonsense or
other, nothing at all to her discredit, rather the
otherwise." But he said no word about the loan.
It was no business of Dora's; it was a matter
simply between themselves, so he told himself.

But Dora's cheek had paled visibly. " I
thought you hated money and heiresses," she
said at last, very slowly, and looking him full in
the face.

Garth flushed uneasily, the inference was too
obvious.

Did I say a word about hating or the
reverse, Dora?" he. asked, in some displeasure.
In his vexation he had called her Dora.

"I feared you had made up your mind never

to call me that again," she said, looking at him

very gently. " I have thought since," hesitating

and dropping her eyes, '^ that I was wrong and

foolish in what I said to you that night, and you

were perfectly right in being angry with me.

Couldn't you — haven't you forgiven me yet, Mr.

Garth?"

51 *

Then he jumped up from his seat, and his face
was full of pain. She was still his old friend and
playmate, and how was he to misunderstand her ?
Was it forgiveness only for which she was asking,
or was it a tacit permission for a renewal of
his attentions ? Either way, he must set things
riofht between them now and for ever, for her
sake, for his, and for Queene's.

Why are you so hard to me ? " she asked
again, and her blue eyes were still misty.

"Dora, my dear girl," he said, and there was a
certain warmth and affection in his tone, " I am
not hard with you, and I have forgiven you withall
my heart. Perhaps I was a little angry with
you once, men are such touchy creatures ; but
you did a very kind and wise thing for us both
that night, and I thank you for it most truly,
for you have saved us both, Dora, from a very
great mistake." And then he walked away
from her, and took up his position by the
fireplace.

Dora's pale cheeks were flaming now, but she
made no attempt to answer him.

'' I thought you were never coming, papa," she

said petulantly, when her father and Flo at that
moment entered the room.

When Beatrix returned from her sojourn in
the cold school-room she had a rebuke ready for
hef tardiness.

I do not know what Mr. Clayton will think
of such manners," she said rather [Severely ; but
Beatrix only shrugged her shoulders and exchanged
a droll glance with Flo.

'' I am nearly starved with cold, and I should
like some tea, Dorrie," she said very good-humoredly.


I cannot have you sit in that cold schoolroom,
my dear," observed her father ; " there was
my study, or Dora's writing-table in the front
drawing-room, why could you not use that ? "

Never mind, this cup of tea will warm me,"
returned Beatrix, hugging herself and shivering.

Garth stirred the fire unasked, and brought
her a low chair, and made her have a second cup
of tea, waiting on her himself.

And in that thin dress, too ! " he remonstrated;
** you ought to take better care of yourself,
Beatrix."

Beatrix looked up at him half grateful and half
laughing. She wished she were not grown up,
and she might ask him to chafe her cold hands
as he used to do when she was a little girL She
remembered even now the comforting warmth of
those strong, brown hands.

*' Never mind, one day he will be my brother,
and that will be nice," thought Beatrix to herself.
I wish he and Dorrie would settle it quickly
between themselves, and then there will be no
more cold school-rooms."

Garth did not find another opportunity to
exchange a word with Dora that night. The
girls played some duets, and their sister turned
the pages of their music for them, and left her
father to entertain their visitor.

Nevertheless, the sense of her displeasure
pervaded the atmosphere somehow, and drove all
comfort from him. When he said good night to
her, she gave him a very fleeting pressure of the
fingers, and scarcely lifted her eyes to his, but
her mouth looked a little scornful.

But it was not Garth this time that passed a
sleepless night. When Dora brushed out her

golden hair a pale, set face met her eyes iu the
glass, with a very decided frown on the brow.

He thinks to blind me, but I am not to be
thrown aside in this sort of way," she said to
herself '' He belongs to me, and she shall not
have him." And before she slept Dora took her
resolution.

CHAPTER XII.
"he belongs to me."

'lor. You loved and he did love ?

Mar. To say lie did
Were to affirm what oft his eyes avouched,
What many an action testified, and yet
What wanted confirmation of his tongue." — J", B. Knowles.

A FEW days after this Queene was returning
from afternoon school when Emmie met her at
the door of the cottage with her finger on her lip
and a general air of mystery about her.

What is it, Emmie ? " asked her sister somewhat
wearily. 'run in out of the cold air,
darling, it is making you cough, I see."

Why is it so dreadfully cold, I wonder ? "
returned the child shivering. 'the winter is
over, and yet the wind seems to blow right
through one. Who do you think is in there.

Queen ? actually Miss Cunningham. She has
been sitting there nearly an hour, I believe."

Miss Cunningham ! " unable to believe her
ears ; for Langley, with intentional kindness, had
not informed her of her return.

Yes ; Miss Cunningham. Oh ! " dropping her
voice to a whisper, " she has tired me so. She is
nice and pretty, and has blue eyes like our
kitten's ; but somehow I can't like her. She asked
me such lots of questions all about Uncle
Andrew and our being rich ; but, do you know, I
don't think she quite liked your lending Mr.
Garth that money."

Oh, Emmie, you never told her that ? " in such
a horrified voice that the child looked frightened.

** Was it such a great secret ? I didn't know
you would mind," faltered Emmie ; " and she
was saying such nice things about Mr. Garth."

'eyes, it was a secret," returned Queene more
calmly. "Don't you remember we are not tolet
' our left hand know what our right hand
doeth ' ? But never mind, it is done now," for
Emmie's eyes were already filling with tears at
the notion of Queene's displeasure. " Run and

tell Patience to have her kettle boiling ; I daresay
Miss Cunningham will like some tea."

"May I stay and help Patience? there are
some muffins, and I meant to toast them myself,"
and, as Queene nodded assent, Emmie stole
down the little passage noiselessly and shut
herself up safely with Patience.

As Queene walked into the room very erect
and open-eyed she did not fail to notice that
Miss Cunningham had already made herself at
home. Her sealskin jacket lay on the chair
beside her, and her little furred gauntlets also.
Her golden hair shone under her beaver hat ; the
dark close-fitting dress suited her to a nicety.
But as she came forward, holding out her hand,
it struck Queene that she looked somewhat pale,
and that her smile was a little forced.

"What an age you have been," observed
Dora lightly. '' I have been sitting with Emmie
nearly an hour I believe. I thought you were
never coming in, and then my long drive would
have been in vain. I suppose Langley told you
of my return home ? "

No ; I was not aware of it," rejoined Queene ;

and now she felt a little surprise at Langley's
omission.

Dora's delicate eyebrows arched themselves
slightly.

'* How very strange ! and her brother was
dining with us last week. He was our first
visitor, of course," with a meaning emphasis.
The girls are so fond of him, and papa can do
nothing without him, which makes it very pleasant
for me. By-the-bye," her manner changing
abruptly, ^' Mr. Clayton tells me that you have
been only playing at schoolmistress all this time,
Miss Marriott, and that you are in reality a
woman of fortune."

Mr. Calcott has been good to me and left me
all his money. I was poor, very poor, when I
met you first," her heart sinking strangely at
Dora's words. Why had she begun to talk of
Garth ?

When people do eccentric things they must
expect to have all sorts of motives imputed to
them. What will the world say, by-the-way, of
your lending all that money to Mr. Clayton 1 "
fixing her eyes a little too keenly on Queene's face.

It may say what it likes," with the proudest
possible manner, for she felfc her spirit rising at
this. What did it matter what the whole world
said about her conduct, if only her conscience
were clear? 'the world does not believe ina
disinterested friendship," a faint color coming
into her face ; "it would sneer at such an improbability."


*' 1 generally find the world is right," returned
Dora, with aggravating calmness. " Of course it
will say you are in love with Mr. Clayton, you
are prepared for that. Miss Marriott."

A painful blush overspread the girl's face.

Oh, this is too bad," she exclaimed, clasping
her hands nervously Cannot one do a little
kindness in return for so much without having
unworthy motives imputed to one ? Why do
you come and say such things to me ? " turning
on her tormentor with sudden anger and impatience.
'' It is no business of yours ; it is
nothing to you if people will say untrue things
of me."

You are quite wrong there ; it is my business,"
returned Dora quietly. She did not like

her work, but, all the same, lie must go through
with it. ^' It is just this — that is my business,"
she repeated, and her face looked worn and
irritable in the firelight. " Miss Marriott, you
must know — you cannot have been so much with
Langley and Cathy and not know that Garth
Clayton and I belong to each other."

Then a sudden coldness crept over Queene.

You — you are not engaged to him," she said
at length, and her voice sounded strange to herself
; the horror of such an announcement almost
took her breath away. " But it could not be true ! "
she said to herself, " it could not be true ! "

*' It is my own fault that we are not engaged,"
returned Dora, speaking in a tone of plaintive
regret. *' I have put him ofi" time after time,
and would not allow him to settle it ; the girls
were too young, and I could not leave papa,
that was what I told him. Why, just before I
went to Brussels last autumn he came to us,
and wanted me then to settle it, poor fellow, and
I would not listen to him."

He spoke to you, then ? " the numbness creeping
over her again.

Yes ; lie said it must be yea, yea, or nay,
nay, between us, I remember his words quite
well ; and when I would not give him a positive
answer he got angry and left me. He has never
been himself with me since, and has made me,
oh, so unhappy ; but I know the reason for it
now, Miss Marriott," fixing her blue eyes piteously
on her. " Why have you come between us and
tried to steal away his heart from poor me ? "

Miss Cunningham ! " her cheeks burning at
the accusation.

"Why have you lent him all that money, and
tried to decoy his affections ? He is not the
same to me, and you are the cause. We are two
women, and he cannot marry us both ; and — and
he belongs to me," finished Dora, with a genuine
quiver in her voice.

Poor bewildered Queene could make nothing
of it.

He cannot belong to you if you are not
engaged, and if you have sent him from you,"
she said, looking helplessly at Dora ; and indeed
she was so heartsick and stupefied that she hardly
knew what she said. If he had spoken to Dora,

as she averred, how could he have come and
looked at her the next night in the way he did,
when she knelt on the rug, with the plate of cakes
in her hand, in the gloaming ?

It was duty, not I, that sent him away, he
owns that," returned Dora, sighing, but her
conscience smote her as she uttered this little
fib.

Had he not striven to show her that her motives
of duty had been overstrained and false in his
eyes ? " If you send me away you may find it
difficult to recall me, Dora," he had said to her.
Was not that asserting his right to be free ?

I went too far that time," she went on, '' and
made him angry and-bitter ; but that would not
have mattered if you had not come between us."

I — I have done nothing. What do you
mean f

^* He was angry with me, and then he came to
you ; and, to be sure, how can he help seeing that
you care for him after all you have done ? "

Hush ! I will not hear another word ; you are
going too far. How dare you ? " exclaimed Queene
passionately, moved to sudden anger at this ungenerous

thrust. "You have no right to come
here and say these things to me."

No right ! " returned Dora meekly ; she had
quailed a little before the brown fire of Queene's
eyes. " Have I no right when I have known
and cared for him all my life ? I am nearly
eight-and-twenty now, and I was not more than
sixteen— Flo's age — when this was first thought
of between us ; why, we had been meant for each
other ever since we were children, and yet, after
twelve years of thorough understanding, you say
I have no right to speak ! "

*' I — I do not understand," began Queene
vaguely, and her cheek turned very white.

What if all this were true, and he had grown
weary of this youthful entanglement ? Might it
not be possible that he and Dora had grown
apart, that the tie had loosened between them,
and that, in reality, his second love was the true
one ? Alas ! the instincts of her own pure heart
verified this view of the case ; she understood
him so thoroughly, she was so sure of his integrity,
but what proof or evidence of her belief
could she offer Dora ? He had never spoken to

her, his looks indeed had betrayed his secret, and
hitherto their eloquence had sufficed her ; but, at
a crisis like this, the sense of his silence was
dreadful ; her faith was involuntarily built up on
no foundation. After all Dora was right, and
she had no claim to him.

I was sure you did not understand," returned
Dora, watching her, and speaking with the
utmost gentleness. " You are too generous to
take him from me, who have loved him all these
years. I knew I had only to speak to you and
all would be right between us."

Stop ! " exclaimed Queene in an unnatural
voice. " You may be mistaken, Mr. Clayton has
never spoken to me, it may not be as you think ;
but, on the other hand," growing whiter still,
I would scorn to deceive you, and I have
thought — but I may be wrong — that he has
seemed to care for me. I would not have said
so much, but you have more than once hinted of
my forwardness."

Yes ; but it has been only seeming'' replied
Dora softly ; "he could not really have changed
to me, you know. If you would only go away and
III. 55

leave us to come together it would soon be right
again'

You want me to go away ? " asked Queene
slowly.

Not for long — only for a few months, till he
has got over his fancy, and come back to me. I
don't want to hurt you, dear Miss Marriott, or to
make you angry again, but if you knew how
soon men find out these sort of things ! Of course
you thought it was gratitude and friendship, but
he was wiser, and knew better than that ; and
when I made him angry he thought it very likely
that you would console him''

"You have said enough," replied Queene in
the same constrained tone. " You will not have
long to bear with my presence ; I have already
made up my mind not to remain in Hepshaw."

And when shall you leave ? " asked Dora
eagerly.

I — I don't know ; in another month or two.
I suppose there is nothing to keep me here now."

But this vague promise was not sufficient for
Dora.

Why do you not go at once ? " she persisted.

You will think I am in a hurry to get rid of
you, but that is not the only reason," hesitating.

She was deliberately breaking Queene's heart,
and she knew it, in spite of the girl's assumed
quietness ; but somehow she shrank from imposing
this fresh pain.

Surely, my dear Miss Marriott, now that you
have nothing to bind you here you will not
think of exposing that delicate little sister of
yours to our March winds ? "

'' What do you mean ? " asked Queene sharply,
you are talking about yourself, not Emmie.
What has Emmie to do with it," shivering again
as though some cold air had passed over her. And,
strange to say, Dora grew suddenly soft-hearted
over the effect of her words, for had she not a
young sister too, and had not Flo been given
back to her from the very grave itself ?

'* I wish you would not look so unhappy," she
went on. *'I have not seen her for some months,
and of course the change struck me, growing
children often look thin ; and then she is still
weak from that long illness. Why don't you
ask Dr. Stewart about her, he will tell you

55 *

what to do ; but of course you have had some
advice ? "

'' I have had no advice. Emmie is not ill.
Why do you come here to make me so miserable
? " returned Queene, fixing her large eyes
on her with such a mournful expression that
Dora got quite uncomfortable.

'' She only wants a tonic perhaps, but I should
speak to Dr. Stewart ; and, indeed, a cold spring
would be very bad for her," repeated Dora,
earnestly, as she drew on her furred gloves. Her
conscience was very uncomfortable as she stood
smoothing down the soft sealskin, trying to find
some word that she might say at parting.

Queene did not help her. She watched her
with grave unsmiling eyes as Dora made her
little preparations. When Dora again held
out her hand to her she touched it rather
reluctantly.

'* Good-bye ; I hope you will not bear me
malice, Miss Marriott."

I never bear any one malice ; but you have
made me very unhappy about Emmie," returned
Queene, but her voice was quite steady as she

spoke. What if her heart were breaking within
her, Dora should never know it.

But when the door closed upon her visitor, and
Emmie crept softly back into the room, her
fortitude suddenly gave way.

Come to me, Emmie ; come here, my darlings''
and as the child obeyed her wonderingly,
she held out her arms with a sudden sob.

You are not ill, are you, Emmie ? What do
they mean by making me so unhappy ? They
say you are thin and weak ; but there is nothing
the matter, is there ? "

'* I don't know," faltered the child, resting her
fair head on her sister's shoulder. " I think I
am only tired, Queene. Ought people to be so
very, very tired, and to have their bones always
aching ? "

"That is because you are not strong, my
precious." But somehow, as Queene uttered the
words, the conviction seized on her that Dora
was right, and the child was certainly thinner
and lighter ; and such an intolerable feeling of
agony came over her at the thought that she
could not bear it.

'' Oh, my darling, forgive me ! " she sobbed,
kissing the little pale face passionately.

Forgive you ! What do you mean ? What
makes you cry so bitterly, Queen ? "

Forgive me. I was too wrapped up in
myself to notice. I never meant to neglect you,
Emmie, never. What does my happiness or
unhappiness matter if I can only keep you with
me, my blessing ? "

Shall you want to keep me if I get too
dreadfully tired?" she asked, languidly. ^' Don't
cry any more. Queen, I will stop just as long as I
can'' But Queene only shivered afresh and
dried her eyes.

"Sit by the fire, darling," she said, trying to
return to her usual manner. '^ Patience shall
give you your tea. I shall not be very long,
Emmie."

*' Are you going out again ? " in a disappointed
tone. 'the muffins are all ready, and I thought
we should be so cosy this evening."

"I shall not be long," repeated her sister,
hastily.

She knew she could not have swallowed food

HE BELONGS TO ME. 247

in her present state of suspense, and before
Emmie could again remonstrate she had left the
cottage, and was on the way to Juniper Lodge.

She found Dr. Stewart in his surgery. She
fancied he listened a little gravely to her account.

She has not come under my notice for the
last six or seven weeks," he said, as he prepared,
at Queene's urgent request, to accompany her.
In my opinion she has always been a delicate
child. Such an illness as you have described
may leave its effects for years."

As they entered the parlor they found Emmie
stretched on the rug as usual, and this time
Queene's heart sank within her at the sight.

'' Oh, Emmie, you are not tired again ? " she
said, almost impatiently, for she feared that this
would impress Dr. Stewart unfavorably ; but he
apparently took no notice. He watched the
child with keen attention as she roused herself
somewhat feebly, and came towards them.

"Has Queene asked you to make me less
tired ? " she demanded gravely, fixing her blue
eyes on his face.

Young creatures like you ought never to be

tired," he answered cheerfully. "Do you often
lie down in this fashion, eh ? "

I lie down because my bones ache, and I
have such an odd, funny feeling sometimes."

And then, as Dr. Stewart questioned her jokingly
about the feelings, she told him in her
childish way of all manner of strange fancies
and dreams that troubled her, and of the queer
faintness that came over her at times ; and how
her cough began to hurt her; and how she
got more tired and good for nothing everyday.


Dr. Stewart's face grew graver as he listened.
When he had finished a most careful examination
of the child he sat for a little while in silence,
while Queene watched him anxiously.

I am afraid he thinks Emmie very delicate''
she said to herself. But she little knew Dr.
Stewart's thoughts at that moment.

If she had called me in earlier I could have
done nothing," he thought. " The child is in a
rapid decline. I wonder if it would be more
merciful to tell her so at once, or to let her find
it out gradually for herself ? " And being a very

tender-hearted man, he inclined to the latter
course.

So when Emmie had been sent away on some
errand, and Queene began her anxious questioning,
he answered her evasively.

Do you think her very ill ? ought I to have
sent for you before. Dr. Stewart ? "

*well, no'; I don't see what I could have
done. Of course the child is very delicate — in a
very bad state of health I should say ; she is very
fanciful and morbid too, all these imaginative
children are. You must rouse her and keep her
cheerful''

But was Miss Cunning-ham ris^ht ? will the
cold Spring hurt her ? "

Ah, that is just what I was going to say. I
don't think our northern climate agrees with her,
it is too strong and bracing. You are your own
mistress, why don't you take her south ? Any
watering-place would do — Torquay, or Bournemouth,
or even St. Leonardss. The change
may give her a few more months," he said to
himself.

Sea air ! is that what she needs ? " asked

Queene, with a sudden dawning of hope in her
face.

Dr. Stewart shifted uneasily on his seat, and
did not look at her as he answered.

Well, one should always make use of every
possible remedy ; and of course another month
of these cold winds will kill her, there is no
doubt of that."

I will go at once ; we will start immediately,"
almost gasped Queene.

'' 1 should do so by all means. If you like, I
will speak to Mr. Logan on my way home, and
see if he cannot, temporarily at least, fill up your
place. There was a young person Faith mentioned
who would be very likely to suit. Shall
1 manage this for you, eh ? "

'' I shall be greatly obliged if you will," she
answered gratefully.

^' Then about the place, where will you decide
on going ? There's a friend of mine, a doctor, a
sort of connection of ours, living at St. Leonardss ;
he and his wife are very good people. If you
thought of going there I would write to Bennet,
and he would look after Miss Emmie."

*' I think I would rather go there, then ; it will
feel less lonely if Dr. Bennet is a friend of
yours," a sudden terrible sense of isolation and
banishment coming over her.

Very well, then, we will decide on St.
Leonardss, and I will ask them to look out some
cheerful apartments for you. You are not particular
about price, I dare say ; and I can rely
on his wife's choice. She is a very good homely
body, and will be a great comfort to you — when
the child gets worse," he added to himself.

'' When ought we to go ? " she asked in a low
voice, feeling all at once as though Fate were too
strong for her.

Humph ! well, suppose we say in a week
from now. I will talk to Mr. Logan, and I daresay
we can find somebody to take the cottage ofi"
your hands. The less leave-taking and fuss the
better in such a case, don't you think so, eh ? "

If Mr. Logan releases me there will be no
difficulty about anything else," she returned
quietly, and Dr. Stewart was charmed with her
good sense and reasonableness. She forced herself
into seeming cheerfulness when the child

returned, and they sat down at last to their
long-delayed meal. When they had finished
she beckoned Emmie to the stool at her feet.

"Darling, are you glad?" she began. ''Dr.
Stewart says that I must take you away to the
sea, nothing else will make you strong."

Does he say the sea will make me strong ? "
asked Emmie curiously, '' are you sure that he
said that, Queen ? "

'' He said these cold winds will kill you'
returned Queene shuddering, " and that was
enough for me. You will not fret at going
away, Emmie, we shall be together, and do all
sorts of nice things all day long ; and when the
summer comes, and you are strong again, we can
come back here and see all our kind friends."

*' I hope the summer will not be too long incoming,
then," she returned dubiously. " Oh ! I
wish we had not to leave this dear place, it will
be so sad parting with Langley and dear Mr.
Garth, and Captain Fawcett, and Miss Cosie,
and every one."

Yes ; but it will only be for a little time,"
returned her sister, persuasively, for the child's

voice was full of sadness. " Don't you remember,
darling, that happy summer at Morecombe Bay,
when dear father was alive, and how I helped
you to erect great castles on the sand ; you were
such a little child then, but so strong and
merry."

I think I remember a little bit of it, and how
the waves used to sing me to sleep'

*' Yes ; and we shall hear the grand old lullaby
again. Now listen to me, Emmie, and I will tell
you what we will do, you and I. We will go to a
grand hotel in London, — we are rich people now,
you know, — and we will send for Cathy, and
make her spend a long day with us."

*' Oh, that will be nice," exclaimed Emmie,
clapping her hands in her old way. '' And shall
we have a bright sunny room with a great bow-window
looking over the sea, like the rich people
we noticed at Morecombe Bay ? and shall weever
be able to drive out in a pony carriage ? "

*' I will hire the prettiest pony carriage I can
find," returned Queene, feeling now the value of
riches. "You shall have everything you wish
for, Emmie — books and toys, and all manner of

good things — if only you will be happy with me
and not fret."

"Of course I shall be happy with you,"
exclaimed the child, throwing herself into her
sister's arms. " What was it Ruth said ?
Whither thou goes I will go.' I always think
of you when 1 read that. We have been playing
at being poor, and now we must play at being
rich. Oh, it will be such fun ! " finished Emmie
rather wearily, and Queene kissed the heavy
eyes and said no more.

CHAPTER XIII.

WHY DOES HE NOT COME AND SEE US ? ''

' It is not hard to die,'
She said, with that fair smile, ' for God's sweet will
Makes bitter things most sweet. In ray bright youth
He calls me to His side. It is not hard
To go to Him.' " — ' Ezekiel and other Poems'

Friends came around Queene in her trouble.
In her letter to Cathy she compared herself, somewhat
quaintly, to Job when all his acquaintance
comforted him. For after the first few hours of
stupefied misery that followed her conversation
with Dr. Stewart and Dora, her natural courage
had returned; the pain was crushed resolutely into
the background. Her every thought must befor
Emmie ; her one care to retrieve the effects
of her unintentional neglect.

The cottage all at once became the centre of
interest to all the good Hepshaw folks

Captain Fawcett could scarcely bear the child
out of his sight, and his wife's sorrow at the
impending parting was a grievous thing to see ;
while Miss Cosie trotted in and out perpetually,
on all manner of self-invented errands.

And Langley came, saying little, but expressing
a whole world of silent tenderness in her face
and manner ; and Faith Stewart, with her quiet,
helpful ways, bringing an atmosphere of rest and
peace to poor harassed Queene.

One day Mr. Chester came, but his visit was a
sadly trying one. He wrung Queene's hand for
some moments without speaking, and for a longtime
he could not bring himself to mention the
subject of her departure.

You were so good to me when my darling
died. I wish I could do something to help you,"
he said huskily; ^'but then my poor Gertie is
dying, and I cannot leave her for more than an
hour or two," and the sympathy of this open-hearted
man almost broke Queene down.

One afternoon she went to say good-bye to Miss
Charity. Miss Charity looked up at her with
her bright sharp eyes very keenly.

**Ah, well, being a rich woman doesn't seem
to suit you," she said, not unkindly. " You are
not half as blithe and bonny-looking as when
you first came to Hepshaw."

I am so anxious about Emmie," replied
Queene, hastily, for any comment on her
changed looks made her uncomfortable. *you
see, Emmie is all I have, Miss Charity."

"Ah, well, the widow's mite was worth all
the rich men's offerings," returned the invalid
with a sigh. " Never hold what you have got
with both hands, because then it is harder to let
go. I thought I should have died of sheer grief
when my back got bad, and poor George had to
give me up ; but I thought better of it, and here
I am, and here I shall be, till my lessons are all
done, and I am perfect through patience," finished
Miss Charity, with a tear twinkling on her eyelashes.


But the one friend for whose coming she
looked daily, for whose voice and presence and
sympathy she craved with a longing that surprised
herself, never crossed the threshold of the
cottage.

III. b^

For some reason only known to himself Garth
Clayton held himself aloof.

It was not until after morning service on
Sunday that Queene found herself face to face
with him in the plane-tree walk. He was with
Ted and Langley, but after a moment's hesitation
he left them and came up to her.

You are leaving us, I hear," he said, rather
abruptly, and Queene could see he was exceedingly
nervous, " and I am much grieved at the
cause ; but I have great faith in sea air. I hope
at least I trust — that Emmie may benefit by
it."

Dr. Stewart says it is the only thing for her.
Have you seen him ? Has he given you his
opinion about her ? " fixing her dark eyes rather
searchingly on his face. Dr. Stewart's ambiguity
was causing her some uneasiness. " I wish that
he — that some one — would speak plainly to me,
and tell me what he really thinks about Emmie."

"Well, you see, doctors are rather difficult
people to deal with," returned Garth evasively,
but his tone was very gentle. " You must not
lose heart about it, you know, children are often

very ill. This cold wind is making you shiver, I
must not keep you now ; I will come over to the
cottage to bid you and Emmie ' good-bye,' " and
then he smiled at her and went back to his
sister.

Queene had arranged to go over to Carlisle
the next day to pay a parting visit to Caleb and
Molly. All her affairs were now arranged ; Mr.
I^ogan had found a temporary mistress in a young
widow, a protegee of Faith Stewart's, who was
lodging in Hepshaw with Tier little girl, and was
in search of some employment. And Emmie, who
had taken a fancy to Mrs. Henry's little girl,
proposed that they should live in the cottage, 'sit
least take care of it until we come back," to
which Queene, desirous of gratifying the child's
most trifling whim, willingly acceded. A bitter
disappointment awaited Queene on her return
from Carlisle.

'' Oh, dear, you will be so sorry ! " Emmie
exclaimed, running to her as she entered the
parlor, feeling weary and dispirited. '* Langley
and Mr. Garth have been here, and he has left
you a message, because he is going away and will

06 *

not see you again ; and he did seem so sorry
about it."

*' Going away ! " repeated Queene in a low
voice, and then she sat down. She felt all at
once so strangely tired.

*^ Yes; I heard him tell Langley that he must
take the seven o'clock train, so he has gone long
ago now. Some uncle of theirs is ill, I think
they said he lived at Perth ; but anyhow he sent
for Mr. Garth in a great hurry."

*' And what was his message, Emmie ? " putting
up her hand to her head, as though conscious of
some numb pain.

Well, he told me to say how sorry he was to
miss you and not to say good-bye, and that you
were not to lose heart about thugs ; and oh —
yes, he told me that twice over, that he hoped if
you were in any trouble or perplexity that you
would write to him or Langley, for they would
do anything to help you. And he kissed me
half-a-dozen times I am sure!" with a triumphant
air ; "and then Langley said they must go, and he
got up very slowly and went away."

Oh, it is too hard ! it is more than I can bear ! "

broke from Queene's pale lips when she was
alone with her thoughts that night. " To leave
for months, for ever, perhaps, and never to wish
him good-bye, not even a word or look to
treasure up in my memory." And for a long time
she wept bitterly.

But by-and-bye she became more reasonable.
"It is wrongs of me, I ouo^ht not to wish to see
him if he belongs to Dora. Perhaps it is better
so, after all." But, nevertheless, the bitterness of
that disappointment abided with her for many a
long day.

When Langley wrote to her brother she spoke
very briefly of the leave-taking. " Ted and I
saw them off, and Mr. Logan was with us.
Emmie clung to us and cried a good deal, but
Miss Marriott was very quiet, and scarcely
spoke. She begged me to thank you for your
message, and regretted that she had not seen
you, that was all."

Garth sighed over this brief message, but he
understood Queene's reticence perfectly. *' So
they are gone, and the happy Brierwood Cottage
days are over," he said to himself, as he sat in

the dim, sick room, revolving many things in his
mind.

Queene had a dreary journey. Emmie was
so exhausted with excitement and emotion that
she slept the greater part of the way, and left
her sister in perfect freedom to indulge in all
manner of sad thoughts.

Queene never recalled that day without a
shudder. A sadness, indescribable but profound,
weighed down her spirits — a feeling of intolerable
desolation and loneliness as hour after hour
passed on, and the distance lengthened between
her and the friends whom she had grown to love.

"Who knows if it may not be good-bye forever
to that dear place ? " she thought, "for if he
marries Dora I will never willingly see his face
aorain."

She was thankful when Emmie at last woke upto
find herself at their journey's end. Emmie,
whose imagination had been vividly aroused by
the idea of the magnificence that awaited them,
was rather disappointed by the quiet, old-fashioned
hotel to which Dr. Stewart had
recommended them. It was just the reverse of

grand, she thought, but the sight of the bright,
cheerful-looking room into which the weary
travellers were ushered speedily reconciled her,
and she was soon comfortably ensconced on the
great couch, contentedly watching Queene as she
cut up her chicken.

"Now, Emmie, you must eat that and then goto
bed," said her sister decisively, as she carried
the tempting tray to the sofa, and Emmie was
far too weary and docile to resist.

They were to spend two days in London, but
the first few hours hung rather heavily on
Queene' s hands. Emmie was fit for nothing
but sleep, and could not rouse herself to take
interest in anything, and Queene did not care to
leave her or to encounter the crowded streets
alone. She spent the greater part of the day
sitting idly at the window with her hands on her
lap, watching the passers-by with vague, unseeing
eyes, and living over every episode of their
He pshaw life.

The next day was better, for Cathy came to
them, and the sight of her bright face roused
Queene from her despondency.

What do you mean by misbehaving like this,
Emmie," she said, as she knelt down by the sofa,
and took the child in her arms. " Here you are
getting ill again and making every one unhappy."

I couldn't help it, Cathy," returned the child
earnestly. ^' Oh, how good it is to see your dear
face again, and how nice you look in that black
stuff gown ; and do you always wear a funny little
close bonnet like that ? "

'* This is nurse Catherine's costume," replied
Cathy, laughing and blushing and looking very
handsome. " What do you think Mr. Logan
would say to it ? and oh, my dear Madam Dignity,
how worn and pale you are ! "

It is nothing, I am quite well. Tell me about
yourself," returned Queene, looking fondly at
her old chum. '^Do you still like your work ?
does it agree with you ? "

My work is making a woman of me. Did you
ever see me look better. Queen ? " And indeed
Queene was driven to confess that she had never
seen Cathy look more restful and satisfied.

They had a long, quiet-toned conversation
while Emmie dozed in the afternoon. Cathy

did not talk much about Emmie. " She was
delicate and needed the greatest care," that was
all she would allow, but she was voluble on the
subject of the loan, and almost overwhelmed her
friend with her delighted gratitude.

He will get on now, dear old fellow, and it is
all owing to you," exclaimed the affectionate girl,
and somehow Queene's sore heart felt a little
lighter. But on her own affairs Cathy was still
very reticent. ''I don't know what I am going
to do, I have not made up my mind. I shall
stay on here and work for a time, I suppose," and
then her color deepened, and she broke off rather
suddenly.

But later on, as the three sat cosily round the
fire and talked of their old feasts in the garret,
and Emmie clapped her hands and laughed feebly
over many a droll reminiscence, Queene noticed
that now and then the keen grey eyes were full
of tears, and that she would look at her and the
child rather strangely.

Good-bye, God bless you both ; and keep up
a good heart, Queen," was all she said when she
left them that night. But when she re-entered

the hospital an hour later more than one patient
noticed nurse Catherine's eyes were red, as though
she had been weeping.

It was somewhat late the following afternoon
when they drove into St. Leonardss and took
possession of their new abode. Emmie uttered
an exclamation of delight as she looked round the
large luxurious room prepared for their reception.
A bright fire burnt cheerily, a trim maidservant
was spreading a snowy cloth over the little
round table ; the great crimson couch was drawn
invitingly near the hearth, outside the pier light
twinkled, and a windy flicker flared from the
esplanade, while the deep wash and surge of the
monotonous waves broke softly on her ears.

*' Oh, Queene, how homelike and delicious it
looks ! and oh, what beautiful flowers ! "

"Mrs Bennet must have sent these," returned
Queene gratefully, as she carried the delicate
spring bouquet of violets and snowdrops to
Emmie. " I am so glad you are pleased with
our new home, darling. Look, there is the bay-window
you wanted, and behind those folding
doors is our bed-room. Mrs. Bennet thought it

would be quiet and snug, and there would be no
tiresome stairs for you to climb."

I am sure Mrs. Bennet must be very nice,"
was Emmie's answer, and then, as she seemed exhausted
and disposed to close her eyes, Queene
prudently left her to repose.

Emmie's favorable opinion of their new acquaintance
was soon verified, for the Bennet
called the next day, and quite won the sisters'
hearts by their geniality and unobtrusive kindness.
Dr. Bennet was a little bluff and hasty in
manner at first, but as this wore off he and
Emmie became excellent friends. His wife was
a quiet, motherly-looking woman, and Emmie
took a fancy to her" on the spot.

Isn't she just like dear Miss Cosie, Queen,
with those grey curls and that comfortable soft
voice ; if she would only say * There, there, poor
dear,' as Miss Cosie always does," finished the
child with a quaint smile.

It was a strange new life that began for
Queene. The links that united her to the old
had been suddenly snapped asunder, and she
had drifted away into a quiet changeless

existence, which seemed almost as unreal as a
dream.

It was as though she had no separate individuality
or life of her own ; her only existence was
Emmie, her one thought from morning to night
how to gratify the child's capricious whims.

When Emmie opened her eyes on waking she
always saw her sister by her bedside ; she would
stoop over and touch her lips with the fresh,
dewy flowers she had in her hand — violets or
primroses, or, later on, lilies of the valley and
fragrant tea-roses. Emmie loved the roses
best.

I have been out for my morning walk, and
look what I have brought you ! " Queene would
say. It was always so, always the same surprise,
the same sweet morning greeting, the same
loving smile ; and so it was through the day.

Strangers began to comment on the tall, graceful
girl who drove out her little sister day after
day in the pony-carriage, or, as Emmie's strength
failed, walked by the side of the Bath chair, where
the little frail figure seemed to be lost and hidden.
How Emmie loved to watch the ships and the

little brown fishing-smacks ! The shifting groups
on the esplanade pleased and amused her ; the
music on the pier charmed her. As the daylight
faded away, and the waves grew solemn and grey
in the twilight, she would lie on her couch contentedly
for hours, while Queene read or sung to
her and told her the simple tales of her own
production.

I never dared to think ; I just prayed, and
so m}' little stock of daily strength was recruited,
like the widow's cruse," Queene said very simply
long afterwards to one who questioned her of
that sad summer. " Life just then meant Emmet
me, and nothing else."

It was true ; she never dared to think. Week
by week and month by month the brave-hearted
girl crushed down the dull aching pain of weary
suspense and doubt ; month by month she bore
the loneliness of that sad watching, with the end
plainly before her, and yet no complaint of her
bitter load of trouble harassed the kind hearts of
the friends she had left.

Very brief and touching were her few letters
to Langley ; but they told little save the record

of their daily life — " Emmie was no better, or a
little weaker," and that was all.

One day, about two months after they had
been settled at St. Leonardss, a letter came from
Garth. The sight of the handwriting made
Queene tremble with sudden emotion ; but
her face soon paled and saddened as she
read it.

It was brief, but kind, and had evidently been
written with great care. It spoke of the death
of their uncle, who was almost a stranger to his
nephews and nieces, but who had taken a fancy
to Garth in his last illness and had left him his
little all.

It is not a great fortune," wrote Garth, " it is
something less than two or three thousand
pounds ; but it has quite replaced my unfortunate
Bank loss. We are all more thankful than
we can say. It makes me especially happy, because
I can now repay you the loan you have so
generously advanced to me without any further
delay. As I am anxious to settle this matter at
once, I shall be glad if you will let me know into
whose hands I am to pay the money .'^ And then

followed a few kind enquiries after her and
Emmie.

Poor Queene, her answer was very stiff and
cold. 'how pleased he is to be quit of his
obligation to me. How the thought of this debt
has galled and harassed him," she thought, as
she slowly and laboriously penned those few
words. Garth's face grew puzzled and pained
as he read them. It is not always easy to read
between the lines.

But as the summer wore on Queene grew
graver and sadder, for even to her loving
eyes Emmie was slowly but surely fading
away.

The change had come on imperceptibly : first
the drives in the pony-carriage were discontinued,
then the Bath-chair was found too fatiguing; by-and-bye
Queene lifted the child's light form and
carried it morning after morning to the couch in
the bay-window. There was no question of even
walking from one room to another. At the
smallest exertion there were honos fainting
fits that drove Queene almost frantic with
alarm.

Oh, if only Langley or Cathy could be with
me now ! " was her one wish. But, alas ! there
was no hope of this.

She knew there was a troubled household at
Church-Stile House. Langley was ill, and Cathy
had been summoned home to tend her sister.
The long nursing at Karldale Grange had broken
down her strength, and as soon as Gertrude
Chester had drawn her last breath there had
been a sudden collapse that had alarmed her
brother.

"She was slightly better, but in a frightfully
weak state," Cathy wrote, " and likely to remain
so for some time, Dr. Stewart said, and so there
was nothing for it but for her to relinquish her
hospital work and come home."

"Dr., Stewart calls us the model nurse and
patient ; and, indeed, Langley is such a patient
creature that it is a pleasure to fend for her, as
folk say," Cathy wrote. " Poor old Garth took
her illness sadly to heart, but after Dr. Stewart's
last visit he has seemed more cheerful ; and so,
you see, why you must do without your ChurchStile
House friend, my dear Queene, though I

am longing from morning to night for a peep at
you and Emmie."

Queene kept the contents of this letter to
herself ; it would never do to harass the child's
mind with any fresh anxiety, so she answered all
her questions cheerfully, though with some necessary
evasion. " Cathy had gone home, and
Langley was overtired and far from strong," that
was all she told her.

For Emmie's spirits were drooping with her
strength. All manner of anxious thoughts
seemed brooding in the childish brain.

What ails you, darling ? What are you
thinking about ? " Queene would ask her,
anxiously, but for many days she would not
answer.

But one evening as she was lying on her
couch, watching the rosy gleam on the water
fade into grey silvery streaks, while the soft
musical wash of the waves seemed to lull her
restlessness for a little, she suddenly stretched
out her thin arm and drew her sister's head down
to the pillow.

*' Rest there a few minutes. Queen, you are so
III. 57

tired, and I want to talk to you. Doesn't the
moon look lovely shining through the clouds ?
How many evenings do you think you and I will
have together ? "

Hush, Emmie ; only God knows, not you nor I."

When He says ' Come ' I must go, mustn't I,
Queen."

Oh yes, my darling ! "

I am so tired that I shall not mind going.
I have almost forgotten what it is to run about
and play as other children do. I think it will
be nice to lie down and go sliding through the
clouds like that girl in the picture, and then
when I wake up there will be Nan and Alice,
and Uncle Andrew and mamma. Oh, how nice
to see mamma again ! "

"Nice to leave me, darling?" trying to restrain
a sob.

"Ah, that is the only sorrowful part," returned
the child, pressing Queene's head between
her weak arms. "Oh, my Queen! my Queen!
whatever will you do without me ? " and for a
short time the sisters' clung to each other, unable
to speak.

Queene was the first to recover herself.

Never mind, Emmie ; you must not fret ;
God will take care of me."

Yes, I know, but I cannot help fretting.
You look so sad and altered somehow, and all the
light has gone out of your dear beautiful eyes ;
you are so good to me, and you smile and try
to be cheerful, but I know — I know all about
it, Queen."

You know what, my precious ? "

Why, I know how lonely you are, and how
you miss them all. When I go away," rather
timidly, '' won't Mr. Garth come and take care
of you ? "

Emmie, my darling, what has put such a
notion into your head ? "

'* Isn't it true then ? " half crying. " I thought
you were fond of him, and liked him better than
any one else. Wasn't he the prince in your
stories ? he was always dark-haired, and tall, and
strong, and that made me think of Mr. Garth."

In the dim light a hot flush passed over
Queene's wan face ; Emmie softly stroked it
with her trembling fingers.

All, you will not answer ; but I know all
about it. I am only a child, but I love Mr.
Garth dearly, dearly. Why doesn't he come and
see us, Queen ? haven't you told him I am ill ? "

'' Yes'; he knows it," almost inaudibly.

Then why does he not come ? " she persisted.
'' If I were not tired I would write to him myself;
do you think I could ? "

"Not just now, by-and-bye," she replied,
hardly thinking of what she was saying, and
trying only to quiet her ; and Emmie, satisfied
with this vague permission, nestled against her
sister contentedly, and said no more.

CHAPTER Xii.
Emmie's letter."

I cannot take that anguished look to wear
On my calm heart in heaven, as my last.
Last memory of thee until we meet.
Nay, thou must smile on me ; one little smile
Cast like a wild-flower on my misty way
Will make it brighter, and I cannot go
In peace until thou bless me."

Ezekiel and other Poems''

Emmie's closing "remarks that night had left
no distinct impression on her sister's mind ; but
Queene had little idea of the tenacity with which
the child brooded over the matter, or how the
weary young brain confused itself with endless
plans and plotting. That some one must take
care of Queene, that was her one thought.

And so one morning, when Queene had softly
crept out of her room, thinking Emmie's closed
eyelids betokened sleep, and had started for her

fresh morning walk, the child painfully and
slowly dragged herself from her bed, and with
failing breath, and hands that trembled over their
task, penned the pitiful little letter that wrung
Garth's heart as he read it.

Queene found her on her return lying wan
and exhausted on her pillow, and bent over her
with undisguised anxiety.

*^ Where is Harriet, darling 1 She ought not
to have neglected you in this way," she exclaimed
in distress, putting back the curls from the child's
damp forehead.

Emmie only closed her eyes in answer, but an
odd little smile hovered round her lips. She
knew that Harriet was that moment walking
down the Esplanade, towards the red pillar-box
on the green.

And this was the letter that Garth read and
handed to Langley with undisguised emotion,
and over which Langley cried until her feeble
strength .was nearly exhausted.

Dear Mr. Garth," it began, " you are such a
long way off — you and Langley and Cathy, and
we never hear from you now ; and Queene has

left off talking about you, and has taken to sighing
instead ; and I want so badly to see you, and
have a long, long talk. If you knew how badly,
I am sure you would come.

'' 1 don't think people ever die without saying
good-bye to their friends, and I want to bid you
good-bye, and ask you to take care of Queene.
Some one must take care of her, you know ; and
I like you so much, dear Mr. Garth ; and I think
no one will be so good and kind to her as you
would be.

Queene does not know that I am writing
this ; she has gone out to buy me some roses.
She is doing something for me from morning tonight,
but I am sure it would make you sad to
see her. She never smiles now, and her eyes are
always full of tears. She is thinking of the time
when she will be missing me. It will be soon
now, for I get more tired every day.

**Do come, my dear, dear Mr. Garth. I think
I like you next best to any one in the world but
Queene, except perhaps Langley and Cathy.
Do come, please, to

Your loving and tired little Emmie."

Queene was sadly disturbed by the child's
restlessness during that day and the next; all
her sweet placidity seemed gone. She was feverish
and eager ; it was difficult to soothe her.
She started at every sound ; an opening door,
even the stoppage of vehicles in the street,
would bring the flush to her white face, and she
would sit up among her pillows, palpitating and
expectant.

'what is it, Emmie darling? What is the
matter ? " Queene would say to her over andover
again.

Oh, it is nothing ; I am only very silly," the
child would answer, sinking back with a disappointed
face. Of course her letter had not
reached him, it was such a long, long way off.
How was it possible for him to come yet ? And
then a new fear tormented her. If he delayed
at all, if he took a long time to think about it,
would he be in time ?

It was on the evening of the second day when
this fresh thought began to harass her. The day
had been hot and thundery, and she had suffered
much from the oppression of the atmosphere.

EMMTES LETTER. 281

When Dr. Bennet saw her that night he let fall
a word or two that stirred Queene's numb pain
to sharp, positive agony.

You think she is worse, Dr. Bennet ? I can
read it in your face," she asked, her poor hands
working with the effort to keep calm.

"I think there is a change of some sort ; you
must be prepared for anything now, my dear
Miss Marriott. Poor little soul, one cannot wish
her to suffer," continued the warm-hearted doctor,
who had daughters of his own.

"No ; I do not wish her to suffer, God forbid
that I should be so selfish ; but oh, Emmie ! " and
then she turned away, lest the bitter flood of her
sorrow should overwhelm her. There would be
time enough to weep when her work was finished,
she needed all her strength for Emmie now.

But that night there was no sleep for her eyes.
Hour after hour she sat beside the failing child;
fanning her softly, watching her through her
short intervals of sleep, and listening to the dull
lapping of the waves on the sand.

Once she dozed off and lost herself. The
shaded sick-room had disappeared, the monotonous

wash of the surge had lulled to sleep her drowsy
ear. She was at Church-Stile House again.
There was the plane-tree walk, and the church.
The little gate swung lightly on its hinges ; a
dark, handsome face looked in at the window and
smiled at her ; and she woke with a start to find
raindrops pattering against the window, and the
night-lamp paling beside the grey dawn.

I don't think that I shall get up to-day, so I
shall not tire your poor arms," was Emmie's
plaintive remark that morning.

Do you feel weaker, my darling ? would you
rather be spared the trouble of dressing ? "

'' Yes ; I would rather lie still and be quiet.
If you open the folding doors I can see a little
bit of the sea, and it does not sound so loud
here. I think it is coming, Queen ; and oh, I
did want to be a little longer with you ! "

*what is coming, my pet?" for the child's
voice was very sad, and the tears were rolling
down her cheeks. " Oh, don't cry, Emmie ! I
would rather endure a lifetime of sorrow than
see you shed a single tear," and Queene trembled
all over.

"But it is so hard," sobbed the child. "I
only wanted this, and then I could have gone
so happily ; just to say good-bye, and to know
that he was taking care of you. I have so prayed
for it ; and now-he will come too late. Hush !
what is that, Queen ? There are footsteps in the
next room, did you hear them ? "

It is only Dr. Bennet, my darling," returned
her sister, marvelling at her exceeding agitation.
Whom did she expect ? What impossible arrival
was she conjuring up in her sick brain ? " Hush !
it is only Dr. Bennet, he promised to come early,
and we have no other visitor, you know. Lie
down again, Emmie, and I will bring him to

you."

The sunshine streamed through the bay
window as she closed the folding doors behind
her softly.

I am so thankful you have come, Dr.
Bennet," she began breathlessly, and then she
stopped, and her heart seemed to cease beating
for a moment.

*' I am not Dr. Bennet, but I trust you are
not sorry to see me," said a familiar voice in her

ear, the voice that had vibrated through her
waking and sleeping dreams ; and there was
Garth looking at her, and holding out his hand,
with his old kind smile.

You here ? you, of all people in the world ! "
she gasped, for she was dazed with want of sleep,
and the sudden appearance of this dearest friend
seemed to her more dream-like than real ; even
the pressure of his hand scarcely reassured her.
'' I am so stupid, I don't seem to believe it somehow,"
she said, wrinkling her brows, and looking
at him with such grave, unsmiling eyes that
Garth grew almost as grave as she.

Emmie sent for me ; she wrote such a
sweet little childish letter that I could not keep
away. Why did you not send for me if things
were as bad as this ? " looking down at her pale
face with mingled feelings of pity and love.
Worn and jaded and weary as she looked, withall
her brightness quenched, he felt it was the
dearest face in the world to him.

Emmie sent for you, and I never knew it !
then it is you she has been expecting these two
days. Oh, Mr. Clayton, do you know that she

EMMIE's LETTER. 285

is dying ; that I shall soon be without her, the
only thing that belongs to me in. the whole
world?" and moved by the sympathy of his face,
Queene sank down on the couch, and covered
her face with her hands.

Yes, T know all about it, and Langley and
I are more sorry for you than I can say. Cathy
wanted to come with me, but she could not leave
Langley."

But you came. Oh, it is so good of you ; and
this is such a poor welcome," trying to smile at
him through her tears.

I could not expect otherwise," he returned, in
an odd, constrained voice, for he was just then
restraining with difficulty the longing to take
her in his arms and comfort her like a child.
Did she understand his feelings ? he wondered,
for there was a little flush in her face as she
moved away, saying that she would tell
Emmie.

May I come with you ? " he asked ; but he
followed her without permission, and so caught
the child's first look of ecstasy.

'' Oh, Mr. Garth, Mr. Garth ! " was all she

said, and then she nestled down contentedly in
his strong arms, and laid her head on his shoulder,
and the weak hands went up and stroked
his face.

You see I have come, dear Emmie," he said
at last, very gently. " I have answered your
letter in person. You were sure of me, were you
not?"

** Yes, I was sure," she answered, doubtfully.
But last night I got unhappy, for I feared it
would be too late. And now you are going to
promise me to take care of Queene ? "

Emmie, my dear one, hush ! " exclaimed
poor Queene, for her cheeks were flaming at
this.

'* Let the child speak," he returned very quietly,
but firmly ; "we must not let her have anything
on her mind. And she wrote to me, you know.
Emmie has always had faith in me," with an
intonation that made Queene droop her head
and be ashamed of her doubts.

** Yes ; do let me speak, Queen ; I have been
so dreadfully unhappy, and I have not much
breath for this odd catching in my throat. Mr.

Garth, I am not wrong ; you do love Queene,
do you not ? "

"Yes, dearly," was the unexpected response,
very gravely made.

"Oh, I am so glad ! " trying to clap her hands
in her old way ; but they dropped heavily, and
he caught them. " And you will promise me to
take care of her, and try and make her happy all
her life ? "

*' Yes, by God's help, and if she will have it
so," in a low but very distinct tone. And now
his hand sought hers, and kept it.

Let him go now, my darling," exclaimed
Queene, wildly, and hardly knowing what she
would say, and only conscious of the strong
pressure of the hand that held hers. " All this
is making you worse." And oh, what would he
think of them both ?

*'No ; it makes me happy," returned the child,
faintly. '' Now I am quite ready to go to sleep
as Nan did. You have not kissed her, Mr.
Garth. And is there not something else that
people always do ? " a little restlessly. '' I
thought they wore a ring, or something ? '

He half smiled at that, and drew off the heavy
seal ring from his little finger. " Let us humor
her' his eyes seemed to say to Queene; and
weak and confused, she hardly knew how to
resist. The ring was on her finger before she
knew it, and he had lightly touched her cheek
with his lips. " What does it matter, dear ? we
understood each other before this," she heard
him say ; 'eat least you must have understood
me." And then he rose from his seat and placed
the child in her arms.

The rest of the day was a dream to Queene ;
she never stirred from Emmie's side. Garth
came in and out in a quiet, business-like way,
but he never stayed long. Once or twice he
brought some refreshment to her, and remained
beside her until she had taken it. " You must
eat it, or you will be ill," he said, very gravely,
when she would have refused it. After the first,
Emmie seemed hardly conscious of his presence ;
a fainting fit had followed the excitement of the
morning, and there had been only a partial rally.
She lay through the remainder of the day motionless
and speechless, with her hand in her sister s.

and a faint flicker of her old innocent smile
round her lips. Once only she brightened visibly
when Garth stooped and kissed her. " Now I
am happy' Queene heard her say. '* Dear Mr.
Garth, I know he will take care of her ! "

It was late in the evening when she roused to
full consciousness. The day had been sultry, and
the folding doors had been flung open, and now
a pleasant breeze swept from the sea and blew
refreshingly through the room. Garth was pacing
up and down on the balcony. The moon had
already risen, and a broken pathway of light
seemed to stretch over the dark water. By-and-bye
a star trembled on the edge of a long fleecy
cloud. Through the .open window he could catch
a glimpse of the little fair form propped up with
pillows, with the patient figure beside it ; now
and then a low tone reached his ears.

"Are we alone, Queen? Where is Mr. Garth?"

He is out there, looking at the sea ; it is so
beautiful to-night. Shall I call him, dear ? "

*' No ; I like to feel that we are alone together
once more, just you and I. We have always been
so happy together, have we not, Queen ? "
III. 58

*' Yes, yes, my darling."

*' There will be so many waiting for me there —
mamma and papa, and Uncle Andrew, and Nan,
and Captain Fawcett's little girl ; but sometimes
I am afraid that I shall miss you very badly,
dear. I hope it is not wicked to feel that."

^*No, of course not, my pet; but God will
take care of that; He will not let you miss me
too much."

"Never to be tired again, how strange that
will be ! " continued the dying child.

Queene softly repeated the words, " Come
tito Me, all ye that are weary and heavy laden,
and I will give you rest."

Ah, that sounds nice. You always say such
comforting things. I know I have tired you
dreadfully, Queen, and made you very unhappy,
but you will soon be better, will you not ? "

I will try," in a faint voice, striving to
repress her agitation, for a strange, indefinable
expression seemed stealing over the child's face.

When you are sad you must say to yourself,
Emmie likes me to be happy,' and then you will
feel better, you know ; but I can't talk any more.

the sea sounds so close. Kiss me and say goodnight,
Queen."

A little while afterwards, when Garth stole
softly to the door of the sick room, the sisters
were still clinging together ; but going still closer,
he saw that Queene was unconsciously rocking
a dead face upon her bosom.

He had taken the child from her arms, and
then led her gently from the room, and she had
not resisted him ; she only laid her face down on
the arm of the chair where he had placed her,
and wept as though the very flood-gates of her
being were unloosed.

Yes, cry, dear, it will do you good," was all
he said to her, but for a long time he stood
beside her ; just smoothing her soft hair with his
hand, but tenderly, as though she were a child,
until the first bitterness of her anguish was past,
and then she said quietly that she must go back
to Emmie.

But not to-night, dear, surely not to-night ! "
looking down with infinite pity at her poor
drowned face and half-extinguished eyes.

58 *

*' Yes ; to-night. No one must do anything
for her but me ; it is only putting her to bed for
the last time, you know," in so pitiful a voice
that it broke his resolution.

"Ah, well, I must not hinder you, I suppose,
but I only wish I knew what was right in such a
case. If only Langley or Cathy were here ! "

"I will not stay long, I will promise you that."

Then I will trust you. Remember you belong
to me now, Emmie gave you to me," and
then he took her in his arms and kissed her
forehead, and let her go.

But he did not see her again for three whole
days. Her work was finished, and the brave,
bright spirit had given way at last. The next
day she was too ill to rise, and lay looking at the
flowers he sent her, and some locks of fair hair
that she had cut from Emmie's head. It was
not until the evening of the second day that she
crept for an hour to Emmie's room. Garth was
out, but on his return they showed him the
results of her handiwork.

The child looked fair as a sculptured angel,
laid under a perfect quilt of flowers — roses white

and creamy, and delicate cape-jessamine. A
cross of frail white blossoms lay on her breast ;
some half opened rose-buds had been pushed
into her dead hand, but on the sweet lips lay
Emmie^s own smile.

'' Never to be tired more ! " could one look at
that perfect rest, that marble calm, and wish the
worn-out child back to suffer again ? Queene
could not, though she wept, and wept as though
her heart were broken, though at night she
stretched out her empty arms in the darkness,
and no light form nestled into them. 'rit is
well with my darling now," she would sob.

It was in the evening of the third day when
Garth saw her again ; he had sent her a little
note, telling her of some necessary arrangements
that he had made, and she had come down to
him in her black dress, and with the palest face
he had ever seen.

How ill — how dreadfully ill you look," he
said in a shocked voice, as he sprang to meet her.
My dear Queene, this is not right ; they ought
not to have permitted you to rise."

Mrs. Bennet thought the change down-stairs

might do me good," she returned, in a weak,
hollow voice that scarcely seemed to belong to
her ; '' and I — I wanted to see you, and thank
you for what you have done."

*' And my arrangements have satisfied you ? "

"Perfectly and entirely."

That is well," smiling at her ; '' then I have
not worked in vain. And you" — hesitating a
little, " you will be guided by my advice about
the day after tomorrow."

*^ Oh no, I cannot," clasping her hands with a
little sob. " Dr. Bennet says it will not really
hurt me, if I have set my heart on going, and I
am stronger — much stronger now."

But you will faint — something will surely
happen to you ; you are unfit to move," he
remonstrated.

No, I will be very good, if you will only take
me," she implored. " If you refuse, I shall lose
heart altogether, and then indeed I shall be
worse ; please give way to me in this ; " and he
reluctantly consented.

But he need not have feared for her. Queene
went through the painful ordeal with a calmness

that surprised him. True she trembled a good
deal, and the brown eyes looked cloudy with
unshed tears, and once she quitted his arm, and
knelt down and kissed the sods that covered her
darling; but there was no undue manifestation
of grief, and he left her quiet and outwardly
calm when he walked back to his hotel.

But the next evening he found her looking
worn and ill ; she was sitting by the window with
a little old Bible of Emmie's in her lap. She laid
it aside as she greeted him.

"Do you know that I must be going back to
Hepshaw, and that you and I must have some
conversation together ? " he said in a meaning
voice, as he took the chair beside her. She
changed color at that, and then he saw her
nervously pulling off the seal ring from her
finger.

*' I must not forget that this is your property,"
she said, not looking at him, but straight out of
the window ; and he saw that her face and even
her throat were suffused with crimson. *' I know
how kindly you meant it, and I ought to have
given it back before."

"It is certainly a shabby old ring, but you
might have kept it until I had replaced it by
another' taking possession of the hand and the
ring too.

But — but it all meant nothing," she stammered.
" It was good of you to quiet my
darling, and give in to her fancy, but of course I
understood that it all meant nothing."

*' Did it mean nothing when I took you in may
arms and kissed you the other night ? "

'' Oh, Mr. Clayton, how can you ? " turning
away and covering her face with her hand ; he
had still possession of the other.

*did it mean nothing that I told Emmie that
I loved you dearly, and would care for you, God
helping mCj all my life ? did you say a dissenting
word then ? "

No ; I was too stunned, too overwhelmed.
1 could say or do nothing at all."

*' Do you mean to tell me now that you will
have nothing to do with my love ? that it is
valueless to you, Queene ? Surely you can care
for me a little ! " with such a loving glance that
she could not meet it.

EMMIES LETTER. 297

It is not that — that I cannot care, I mean ;
you know that there are other things in the
way."

'* Do you mean your money ? I have been
thinking over that all these months, and I have
come to the conclusion that I have been a sorry
coward in the matter. Things somehow look tome
quite different. If we love each other — if
you can care for me as your words seem to
imply — why should this trumpery money part
us ? I would rather have you without it," after
a pause, during which she had not spoken. ^'I
would prefer your being our schoolmistress still ;
but it can't be helped. Besides, I am in a better
position myself, and business is flourishing ; and,
whatever people say, I shall never need to live
on my wife's money. You see I am speaking
openly to you, dear, and as though things were
already settled between us."

Yes ; but Dora ! how about Dora ? " and now
he felt the trembling of the hand he held.

He became grave at that, all the more that
he read the unspoken anxiety in her eyes.

*' I will tell you all about that if you are sure

you can listen." And as she signified her assent,
he told her briefly of his old connection with
Dora, and his intentions concerning her ; and
how she had repulsed him and kept him at bay
until he had risen against her tyranny, and had
at last freed himself. " It was not love that I
felt for her at all ; I found that out in time to
save us from a life-time of misery. I never
knew what love was till I came that night in the
gloaming and saw you kneeling on the hearth,
my darling, with the plate of cakes in your
hand."

Did you love me then ? " very shyly.

Then and ever afterwards. Do not let Dora
be mentioned again between us, she is only my
old playmate and friend. She never has been,
she never can be, the one woman in the world tome
; you only can be that."

And Queene believed him. And so Garth
replaced the old seal ring on her finger. *' Only
until I can find one more worthy of your acceptance,"
as he said to her.

"But I never mean to part with this," she
returned tearfully. 'you put it on to please

EMMIES LETTER. 299

dear Emmie, and it made her happy to see it.
Oh, Garth, was it not good of my darling to
Lriog us together ? " And Queene hid her face
on his arm and wept with mingled sorrow and

CHAPTER XY.
garth's wife.

Sole partner, and sole part of all these joys,
Dearer thyself than all." — Milton.

It cost Garth a severe struggle to leave his
betrothed and go back to his business at Hep-shaw
; but his presence was imperatively needed
at the quarry, and Queene, with her usual unselfishness
and good sense, was the first to perceive
the necessity.

*how can I find it in my heart to leave you
just now ? ^' he said the next morning, when he
had walked up from his hotel to spend an hour
or two with her. Perhaps her deep mourning
made her seem so thin and pale ; but there was
certainly a wasted look about her, as though she
had passed through a long illness.

^'But you must leave me," she replied gently.

*' You are wanted at Warstdale ; and then Langley
needs you. I will not have you neglect your
duties for me; you have been here already ten
days, have you not 1 "

'' Yes ; but Langley has Cathy, and you are
all alone," he remonstrated. dear Queene,
could you not rouse yourself and come back with
me ? and we would all nurse you well again."

She shook her head sadly.

No, no ; Cathy has enough on her hands, you
do not want another invalid afc Church-Stile
House ; besides, I am not fit to travel just now,
Dr. Bennet said so only yesterday. He told me I
must have quiet and rest."

*you know he and his wife have offered to
take care of you. What good Samaritans they
are ! "

Yes, indeed, they are everything that is
kind; but. Garth," hesitating shyly over his
name, '' you will not ask me to do that. They
are very good, dear people, but they are comparative
strangers. I could not bear to leave
this place ; I am only just fit to lie and look at
the sea all day, and think of you and Emmie."

I know it will be bad for you ; but I don't
see what else is to be done," he returned despondingly.
" Warstdale won't do without me ;
but I shall not have a moment's peace until I
have you safely in my own keeping. Will you
promise to be well in a fortnight, if I come back
and fetch you ? "

A fortnight is too short a time, I shall hardly
be strong then," with a sigh of mental and bodily
weakness that was sad to hear.

Dear as his presence was to her, and sweet the
knowledge of their mutual love, it taxed her
over-wrought strength sorely to sit and talk to
him.

'three weeks, then ? I cannot be longer without
seeing you."

I will try to be ready for you then," she
answered, with one of her rare, sweet smiles.
Then, as she read the, unspoken anxiety in his
eyes, '' Indeed, you must not be troubled about
me ; I will not fret more than I can help, and 1
have such sweet, happy thoughts about my
darling ; and then I cannot feel really lonely when
I have you. Oh, Garth, if you only knew how

different life looks to me now I " and for a little
while she clung to him.

But though she sent him away half comforted
she knew that she never needed him so sorely as
during the miserable days of prostration and
nervous depression that followed his departure ;
and but for very shame she would have recalled
him.

Por a little time she was utterly broken , and
could only lie and weep, and pray that strength
might be given her to bear her trouble. For ever
through the lonely days and in the darkness of
her sleepless nights Emmie's plaintive voice
seemed sounding in her ears — " We have been
so happy together,, have we not, Queen ? " The
last clasp of the weak arms round her — she could
feel their touch still ; and the heavy drop of the
head that Garth had lifted so tenderly from her
bosom. Was she dead ? She had not known it ;
even now she never thought of her as dead.
During the brief snatches of slumber that came
to her she was for ever carrying the light figure
to and fro ; there were the fair curls, the great,
solemn blue eyes, the innocent smile playing

round her mouth. ^' Am I very heavy ? do I tire
your arms, Queen ? Oh, it is so nice to be
together, just you and I ! "

But Queene bravely battled with her sorrow ;
and she was not without her consolation. Letters
came to her from Church-Stile House — sweet,
loving ones from Langley and Cathy, and others
that she read with a happy smile, and hid under
her pillow.

Garth's letters were very short and kind. They
were not specially lover-like, there was no protestation
of affection in them ; but the whole
breathed a spirit of quiet, watchful tenderness —
the tenderness that a good man gives to the
woman who has entrusted her future to him.

How Queene loved these letters; they seemed
to give fresh life to her.

You have had good news, I can see," Dr.
Bennet would say to her when he came in, and
found her a little less languid, and with a faint
color in her cheeks.

He was very watchful over the girl, and almost
fatherly in his manner to her ; he drove her himself
to the cemetery when she craved for another

sight of the little green mound. There was to
be a marble cross at the head, and the little
garden ground was to be planted with all the
flowers that Emmie loved — her favorite roses,
and in the spring time snowdrops and violets and
lilies of the valley. Kind-hearted Mrs. Bennet
promised to look after it when Queene should
be away in her northern home.

Garth's secret source of uneasiness when he
had reached Hepshaw, and had received his
sisters' delighted congratulations, was how he
should break the news to Dora, and how she
would receive it ? He had made a clean breast
of the whole thing to Queene, as in duty bound,
and then had bade her dismiss the matter from
her mind. Dora and he were unsuited for each
other ; they were just old playmates and friends,
that was all. He had no idea that Dora in her
jealous desperation had appealed to Queene, nor
was Queene ever likely to inform him.

Should he send Cathy over to Crossgill Vicarage
to break the news, or should he write a little
note to the Vicar ? Somehow he shrank from
III. 59

writing to the girl herself, but before he could
make up his mind the difficulty was solved for
him.

One of those endless little notes, inviting him
to a business consultation with Mr. Cunningham,
reached him about three days after his arrival,
but this time Flo had written it. Dora had hurt
her hand, but she sent her kind regards to Mr.
Clayton, and would he do them the pleasure, as
papa wanted him so badly, and so on ? Of
course Dora had dictated the clever little letter.

Garth winced and reddened over' it, and
something like "Confound these clever women "
sounded through his moustache ; but, all the
same, he told himself that he must go. " I have
been a fool for my pains, and I suppose I must
pay the penalty for being a fool," he thought,
with a shrug of his shoulders ; but the idea of
that drawing-room at Crossgill Vicarage was
odious to him.

No one need have envied him when he got
into his dog-cart and drove along the familiar
road. He had resolved to breve it out, and had
written a very friendly and facetious answer to

Flo. Nevertheless, he was very nervous and
confused when he followed old nurse across the
little hall.

By some accident he was unusually late, and
they were all in the drawing-room, even Mr.
Cunningham, who gently scolded him for his
want of punctuality.

He is not so very late, papa ; and cook can
easily put back the dinner a quarter of an hour,"
observed Dora, placidly. She had met Garth ina
perfectly friendly manner. " Mr. Clayton, will
you go up-stairs at once, please, it does not matter
in the least, only papa is so methodical in his
ways. Our dinner hour ought to have been
enrolled among the laws of the Modes and
Persians."

** As I ought to have known by this time,"
returned Garth, with a nervous laugh, and then
he took himself off, and found old nurse unpacking
his portmanteau.

Dinner passed over pretty comfortably. He
could talk with the girls, and, as he was a favorite
with them, they found plenty to say to him.

Dora was rather quiet, but she was perfectly

59*

good-humored, though perhaps a trifle dignified ;
but in her white dress she looked almost as
young and girlish as her sisters.

Still it was a relief when he and Mr. Cunningham
were left to their business tete-astute, and he
could relax a little from his company manners.
When they had disposed of their business the
Vicar seemed inclined to settle himself to his
usual nap, but Garth began to fidget.

I won't keep you a moment, and I must go
into the drawing-room. But you are such an old
friend, Mr. Cunningham, that I thought — "rand
then he managed to blurt it out.

The Vicar was wide awake enough now.

*^ Dear, dear," he observed, in a perplexed
and slightly annoyed voice, ^'who would have
thought of this ? Does Dora — do the girls
know ? "

Not at present ; but I am going in to tell
them."

*'Do so, do so by all means," with a glance
towards the door. ^' They will be surprised, of
course ; I am. Who would have dreamed you
were such a deep fellow. Garth, and taking us all

in like this ? And the young woman has money,
eh?"

I am sorry to say Miss Marriott has a large
fortune," returned Garth, stiffly. '' Neither of
us wanted it."

'^ Of course not ; but, all the same, you have
managed to do a good thing for yourself. Young
and rich and good-looking. Well, my dear fellow,
I congratulate you, though I own I never was
more surprised in my life." And Mr. Cunningham
sighed as he stretched out his white hands to
the fireless grate. Evidently the news had not
pleased him.

I am in for it now," thought Garth, as he
opened the drawing-room door. Of course Dora
was alone, he expected that ; but he could seethe
slim figures of the girls passing to and fro
between the flower-beds. To his surprise Dora
bade him call them in. *f^

"Unless you would like to go out and join
them," she said, just lifting her eyes from her
work, but not inviting him by word or gesture
to sit down.

*^I hope you don't mean to dismiss me like

this' he returned lightly. *' We will go out to
the girls by-and-bye, but just now I have something
I want to tell you."

'^I thought you never wanted to tell me things
now," she answered, plaintively, and her bosom
heaved a little, and her blue eyes began to soften
and gleam dangerously.

Oh yes, I do ; you must not say such unkind
things to me, Dora. 1 hope I may tell my old
playmate of a piece of good fortune that has
befallen me. I wonder whether it will be news
to you, or whether my visit south will have
enlightened you. Do you know I am going to
be married ? "

To whom ? " she asked. But she did not
flinch, neither did her voice change in the
least.

To Miss Marriott."

Of course I knew it," she returned, taking
up her work and sewing hurriedly. '' You know
you told me on your last visit that Miss Marriott
had come into a large fortune. I congratulate
you, Mr. Clayton, you have done exceedingly
well for yourself."

If she had wished to mortify and exasperate
him she had entirely succeeded.

"Why do you and your father speak as though
Miss Marriott's fortune was any inducement?" he
returned, hotly. " Surely you know me better
than that ! It is the money that has been the
stumbling - block all these months. I would
marry her gladly and proudly if she had not a
penny, and were still the school - mistress of
Hepshaw."

''Ah, you always were Quixotic," was the
repressive answer.

Garth was silent. He was inwardly provoked
that she chose to misunderstand him ; and he
had a sore feeling that, after all their friendship,
she should not have a kind word for him. But,
looking at her, he saw that she had grown
strangely pale, and that her hand was trembling;
and then his heart grew very soft.

'' Don't let us quarrel," he implored. " We
have always been such good friends, have we
not, Dora ? You know there is no one except
Miss Marriott and my sisters whom I can compare
with you, I have always so trusted and

respected you. You will wish me God-speed in
my new life, will you not ? "

'eyes, Mr. Clayton, I will wish you that," she
returned, very calmly, as she took up her work
again. " Now you must go and call in the girls,
as Flo is delicate and the dews are falling."

But Garth did a strange thing before he went,
for, as he stood looking at his old playmate a little
sadly and tenderly, he suddenly stooped over her
and touched the little hands with his lips. He
had had a sort of tenderness for her, and now the
tie was broken between them. But whatever
she thought of the liberty Dora never spoke or
raised her head, and for the rest of the evening
she was very quiet.

Garth breathed more freely after this ; but
time hung heavily on his hands until the stipulated
three weeks were over, and he could start
for St. Leonardss. He and his sisters held long
consultations together about the future. Queene
was to pay them a long, long visit, and was to
recover her strength ; and early in the spring he
would persuade her, in spite of her deep mourning,
to marry him quietly.

'• She is all alone, and there k plenty of room
for us," as both he and Langley agreed.

But he grumbled sadly over her looks when he
saw her again : the beautiful eyes had not regained
their old brightness, though they looked
so lovingly at him.

''I have wanted you ! how I have wanted
you ! " she whispered, as she came, oh, so gladly,
into his out-stretched arms.

Not more than I have wanted you, my
darling."

Oh, yes ; more, a great deal more ; but now
you are here all will be well with me. I am
very weak still, but I know you will take care of
me, and be patient until I get bright again."

"My dearest, can you doubt it?" he returned
very gravely. And indeed he was good to her,
too good she sometimes thought.

But it needed all his support and tenderness
to make the long journey even bearable to her ;
and she was sadly exhausted when they drove
over the little bridge and under the dark plane-trees,
and he lifted her down and placed her in
Langley's arms.

She and Cathy almost wept over the girl's
altered looks.

'' Oh, my dear, my dear, how shall wo comfort
yon ! " cried poor Cathy, kneeling down
beside her, and trying not to burst into tears.

We must leave that to time and Garth, and
only be as good to her as we can," returned her
sister gently, and then she took the tired face
between her hands and kissed it tenderly and
laid it on her breast.

But it was not in human nature to resist all
the sweet, wholesome sympathy that surrounded
her ; and Queene was young and beloved, besides
loving with all her heart. As the clays and weeks
passed away courage and strength returned to
her. It was not that Emmie was forgotten, — deep
in her inmost soul lay the image of that dearly-loved
sister, — but that her glorious young vitality
asserted itself.

How can I remain so dreadfully unhappy
when I have you ? " she would whisper to Garth
when they paced up and down their favorite
plane-tree walk in the sunset ; and indeed any
girl might have been proud of such a lover.

They had no reserves, these two. Queene
would tell him all her innocent thoughts — how
lonely she had felt when she had seen him and
Dora together, and how she had watched, night
after night, for the red flicker of his cigar as he
walked underneath the plane-trees; and Garth
listened to her, and though he said very little in
reply Queene was perfectly content.

For day by day the sweet conviction came to
her that she was growing deeper into her lover's
heart, that the sympathy between them was ever
greater ; their delight in each other's presence
was quiet but intense; speech seemed unnecessary
to them, they understood each other without a
word.

When two months had passed, and Queene
announced her intention of going to Carlisle and
taking up her abode for the present with Caleb
Runciman, he let her go almost without a word,
though the sunshine seemed to die out of the old
house with her presence ; and when Langley would
have remonstrated he silenced her at once.

*' She thinks it will be best, and perhaps she is
right. Of course we shall have a dull winter, but

it will be worse for her, shut up with that old
man ; but in the spring she has promised things
shall be as I wish." And a flush crossed Garth's
handsome face as he spoke, for the thought 'of
bringing home his wife was very sweet and sacred
to the young man.

So Queene spent the long winter months in
the narrow little house in the High Street, with
only Caleb and Molly. But it was not such a
dull life after all. Friends came over from Hep-shaw
to see her — Faith Stewart, and Miss Cosie,
and now and then Langley and Cathy, and
every week brought Garth. Queene and he
would take long walks together. How she loved
to show him her old haunts — Granite-Lodge, and
the Close, and her favorite nook in the Cathedral !
Now and then they would walk over to the
castle where poor Mary Queen of Scots had been
incarcerated, and gaze up at the little window
out of which Fergus Rich Ian Voir used to look.
The sentries would look after them as they
strolled across the place — the tall, good-looking
fellow, with the slight girl wrapped in furs beside
him.

What a color you have, my Queen ! and how
bright your eyes are ! " he would say, for, half in
jest and half in loving reality, he often called her
my Queen," and she would look up and smile,
well pleased that she had found favor in his
eyes.

And so one day in the early spring, when the
violets and crocuses were Stowing; on Emmie's
grave, there was a quiet wedding at Carlisle, and
Queene became Garth Clayton's wife.

It was a very quiet wedding, only Langley
and Cathy and Ted were there, and Mr. Logan
came over to marry them. She had worn bridal-white,
but after the ceremony she had resumed
her mourning;.

"Garth did not mind," she said, '' and she was
unwilling to put it off unless he wished it."

Garth was too perfectly happy to find fault
with anything. A holiday was a rare thing with
him, and he and Queene had planned it to the
best advantage, in a tour through Normandy.
Queene had never been abroad, and Garth had
only once left England. The change of scene
would be good for both of them.

When May was over they came back to Hep-saw,
and settled down quietly, 'ras sober married
people," Garth would say, with a proud look at
his young wife.

It was a happy household at Church-Stile
House. Queenie^s good sense and sweetness of
temper averted even the ordinary jars that are
liable to occur in the most united family. In
her husband's eyes she was simply faultless.

*' Where is my wife ? " was always his first
question if she were not in the porch to meet
him. '' My wife " — he seemed never weary of
saying it. •

'' How can you spoil any man so, Mrs. Clayton,"
Dora said to her once, on one of her rare
visits to Church-Stile House.

Garth had taken his wife more than once to
Crossgill Vicarage, but Dora's ponies seldom
drove now through the Hepshaw lanes. ''Be-
strix was going to be married, and she was so
busy." There was always some excuse ; but she
was quite pleasant and friendly to Queene when
they met, though there was no special sympathy
between them. But Queene could never rid herself

of a secret feeling of embarrassment in Dora's
presence. That conversation lay as a barrier
between them ; she even felt a little self-reproach
when Garth once hinted that Dora looked older
and more worn than she used to look. Was it
possible that she had really cared for him so
much after all ?

If she had she kept her secret well and
fulfilled all her duties admirably. She married
both her sisters, becoming the most inveterate
matchmaker for their sakes ; and she soothed
her father's declining years with the utmost
dutifulness.

When he was dead, and she was no longer
young, she took a step that surprised her friends
considerably, for she married a wealthy widower
with three middle-aged daughters, who had come
to live lately at a grand old place called Dingle
Hall.

*' They are only nouveaux richesses, my dear,"
as an ill-natured widow remarked, " and he has
made all his money in trade ; but Dora Cunningham
cannot live without managing somebody."

If she managed him she did it admirably, for

he and her step-daughters almost worshipped her.
She was a young-looking woman still, and knew
how to make the best of herself; and Dingle
Hall was soon famed for its hospitality and the
good taste of its mistress.

But long before that time there had been
many and great changes at Church-Stile House,
first the new house had been built on the little
piece of sloping meadow-land looking over Hep-shaw
— Warstdale Manor, as it was called, and
the master of Warstdale had taken up his abode
there, but not until Langley had left them to
become Harry Chester's wife.

And by-and-bye there was another wedding.

What do you think Cathy has told me ? "
exclaimed Garth one day, when he found his wife
sitting alone in their favorite room — a handsome
library, with a side window commanding a view
of Church-Stile House and the church. "I really
think the girl must be clean daft to dream of
such a thing, but she declares that with or without
my consent she means to marry Logan."

"Well ? " and Queene laid down her work and
smiled placidly in his face.

*swell, how can you sit there in that provokingly
unconcerned way, you very tiresome
woman, and looking exactly as though it were
no news to you at all ? our Cathy, too ! "

"Because I have expected it all along," returned
his wife calmly. ''I knew, however
much she might resist it, that in the end she
would be true to herself and him."

Why, if this is not enough to try a man's
patience," exclaimed Garth, quite irritably foi
him. " You talk as though you approve of this
monstrous match."

So I do. Mr. Logan is a good man ; and
then he loves Cathy so dearly."

But he is double her age ; he is fortyfive
if he is a day, and Cathy not more than
three-and-twenty. Why, they will look like
a father and daughter ! The very idea is
absurd ! "

** The discrepancy between their ages is a pity
of course," returned Queen ie, with an admiring-look
at her own 'gude-man." Garth was handsomer
than ever, every one said so. " But I know
one thing, that Cathy will never fancy any one
III. 60

else." And, as usual, Garth soon discovered that
his wife's surmises were correct.

So you are going to stand on tiptoe all your
life, trying to get a peep at your husband's
excellences ? " Queene said to her, with a lively
recollection of a conversation between them.
"Oh, you foolish Cathy ! "

No ; I am the wise Catherine now," returned
her friend. " You see we poor women can't escape
our fate after all. I am tired of running away
from myself and him, and pretending not to care
for his liking me ; so I just told him that he
must put up with me, faults and all, for I won't
promise to mend ; but if 1 am not the better for
being with him — " and then she stopped suddenly,
and her eyes were full of tears. "Oh, Queene,
don't laugh at me, and don't let Garth say a
word against it ; for, though he were as old as
my father, I love and honor and venerate him,
and I mean to take care of him, and make him
happy all his life long."

And Cathy kept her v ord. Garth grumbled
a good deal, and would not be reconciled, and
turned sulky when he met them strolling up the

lane together ; but even he was driven at last
to confess that it had made a woman of Cathy,
and that it had not turned out amiss after all.

Mr. Logan was no longer poor when they
married, and it was by her brother's advice that
they left Miss Cosie to take care of the vicarage,
and came to live at Church-Stile House, where
Ted was holding solitary state.

But before that migration was accomplished,
there was a new arrival at Warstdale JNIanor.
Queene's boy was now two years old, and this
time it was a small, fair girl that they placed in
Garth's arms.

Our little daughter," he whispered tenderly.
'' What shall we call her, my wife ?

But though no word crossed Queene's lip the
look in the brown eves were all-sufficient, and
he hastened to answer — •

It shall be as you wish, Queene dearest. Of
course I knew what you would say ; we will call
our little darling Emmie."

FINIS.

O^
